ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
Each tablet contains 2.5 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 74 mg lactose. 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
Each tablet contains 5 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 149 mg lactose. 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
Each tablet contains 10 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each tablet contains 297 mg lactose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Tablet. 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
White to slightly yellow, elongated tablets of approximately 10.1 mm in length and 4.1 mm in width, 
with a bevelled edge and no score, engraved with “LCL” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
White to slightly yellow, elongated tablets of approximately 12.1 mm in length and 4.9 mm in width, 
with a bevelled edge and no score, engraved with “5” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
White to slightly yellow, elongated tablets of approximately 15.1 mm in length and 6.0 mm in width, 
with a bevelled edge and no score, engraved with “UHE” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Renal angiomyolipoma associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with renal angiomyolipoma associated with 
TSC who are at risk of complications (based on factors such as tumour size or presence of aneurysm, 
or presence of multiple or bilateral tumours) but who do not require immediate surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in sum of angiomyolipoma volume. 
Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with TSC 
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients with SEGA associated with TSC 
who require therapeutic intervention but are not amenable to surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in SEGA volume. Further clinical benefit, such as 
improvement in disease-related symptoms, has not been demonstrated. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Votubia should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients 
with TSC and therapeutic drug monitoring. 
Posology 
Renal angiomyolipoma associated with TSC 
The recommended dose is 10 mg of everolimus once daily. Treatment should continue as long as 
clinical benefit is observed or until unacceptable toxicity occurs. 
If a dose is missed, the patient should not take an additional dose, but take the usual prescribed next 
dose. 
SEGA associated with TSC 
Careful titration may be required to obtain the optimal therapeutic effect. Doses that will be tolerated 
and effective vary between patients. Concomitant antiepileptic therapy may affect the metabolism of 
everolimus and may contribute to this variance (see section 4.5). 
Dosing is individualised based on Body Surface Area (BSA) using the Dubois formula, where weight 
(W) is in kilograms and height (H) is in centimetres: 
BSA = (W0.425 x H0.725) x 0.007184 
The recommended starting dose for Votubia for the treatment of patients with SEGA is 4.5 mg/m2. A 
higher starting dose of 7 mg/m2 is recommended for patients 1 to less than 3 years of age based on 
pharmacokinetic simulations (see section 5.2). Different strengths of Votubia tablets can be combined 
to attain the desired dose. 
Everolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be assessed at least 1 week after commencing 
treatment. Dosing should be titrated to attain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng/ml. The dose may be 
increased to attain a higher trough concentration within the target range to obtain optimal efficacy, 
subject to tolerability. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Individualised dosing should be titrated by increasing the dose by increments of 2.5 mg to attain the 
target trough concentration for optimal clinical response. Efficacy, safety, concomitant therapy, and 
the current trough concentration should be considered when planning for dose titration. Individualised 
dose titration can be based on simple proportion: 
New everolimus dose = current dose x (target concentration / current concentration) 
For example, a patient’s current dose based on BSA is 2.5 mg with a steady state concentration of 
4 ng/ml. In order to achieve a target concentration above the lower Cmin limit of 5 ng/ml, e.g. 8 ng/ml, 
the new everolimus dose would be 5 mg (an increase of 2.5 mg from the current daily dose). In cases 
where the revised dose is not a multiple of 2.5 mg, it should be rounded to the next available tablet 
strength. 
Dosing recommendations for paediatric patients with SEGA are consistent with those for the adult 
SEGA population, except for patients in the range from 1 year to less than 3 years of age, and those 
with hepatic impairment (see section “Hepatic impairment” below and section 5.2). 
SEGA volume should be evaluated approximately 3 months after commencing Votubia therapy, with 
subsequent dose adjustments taking changes in SEGA volume, corresponding trough concentration, 
and tolerability into consideration. 
Once a stable dose is attained, trough concentrations should be monitored every 3 to 6 months in 
patients with changing BSA, or every 6 to 12 months in patients with stable BSA, for the duration of 
treatment. 
Treatment should continue as long as clinical benefit is observed or until unacceptable toxicity occurs. 
If a dose is missed, the patient should not take an additional dose, but take the usual prescribed next 
dose. 
Dose adjustments due to adverse reactions 
Management of severe and/or intolerable suspected adverse reactions may require dose reduction 
and/or temporary interruption of Votubia therapy. For adverse reactions of Grade 1, dose adjustment is 
usually not required. If dose reduction is required, the recommended dose is approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. For dose reductions below the lowest available strength, 
alternate day dosing should be considered. 
Table 1 summarises dose adjustment recommendations for specific adverse reactions (see also 
section 4.4). 
Table 1 
Votubia dose adjustment recommendations 
Adverse reaction 
Non-infectious 
pneumonitis 
Severity1 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Votubia dose adjustment 
Consider interruption of therapy until symptoms improve to 
Grade 1. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue treatment if failure to recover within 4 weeks. 
Interrupt Votubia until symptoms resolve to Grade 1. 
Consider re-initiating Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. If toxicity 
recurs at Grade 3, consider discontinuation. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stomatitis 
Grade 2 
Other 
non-haematological 
toxicities 
(excluding metabolic 
events) 
Metabolic events 
(e.g. 
hyperglycaemia, 
dyslipidaemia) 
Thrombocytopenia 
Neutropenia 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
(<75, ≥50x109/l) 
Grade 3 & 4 
(<50x109/l) 
Grade 2 
(≥1x109/l) 
Grade 3 
(<1, ≥0.5x109/l) 
Grade 4 
(<0.5x109/l) 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1. 
Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
If stomatitis recurs at Grade 2, interrupt dose until recovery 
to Grade 1. Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% 
lower than the daily dose previously administered. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
If toxicity is tolerable, no dose adjustment required. 
If toxicity becomes intolerable, temporary dose interruption 
until recovery to Grade 1. Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
If toxicity recurs at Grade 2, interrupt Votubia until recovery 
to Grade 1. Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% 
lower than the daily dose previously administered. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1. 
Consider re-initiating Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. If toxicity 
recurs at Grade 3, consider discontinuation. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
No dose adjustment required. 
Temporary dose interruption. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1 
(≥75x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1 
(≥75x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. 
No dose adjustment required. 
Febrile neutropenia 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 2 
(≥1x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 2 
(≥1x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 2 
(≥1.25x109/l) and no fever. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
Grading based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse 
Events (CTCAE) v3.0 
Grade 4 
Grade 3 
1 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Therapeutic drug monitoring 
Therapeutic drug monitoring of everolimus blood concentrations, using a validated assay, is required 
for patients treated for SEGA. Trough concentrations should be assessed at least 1 week after the 
initial dose, after any change in dose or pharmaceutical form, after initiation of or change in 
co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors (see sections 4.4 and 4.5) or after any change in hepatic status 
(Child-Pugh) (see section “Hepatic impairment” below and section 5.2). Trough concentrations should 
be assessed 2 to 4 weeks after initiation of or change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.5) since the natural degradation time of the induced enzymes has to be taken into 
account. 
Therapeutic drug monitoring of everolimus blood concentrations, using a validated assay, is an option 
to be considered for patients treated for renal angiomyolipoma associated with TSC (see section 5.1) 
after initiation of or change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers or inhibitors (see sections 4.4 
and 4.5) or after any change in hepatic status (Child-Pugh) (see section “Hepatic impairment” below 
and section 5.2). 
When possible, the same assay and laboratory for therapeutic drug monitoring should be used 
throughout the treatment. 
Switching pharmaceutical forms 
Votubia is available in two pharmaceutical forms: tablets and dispersible tablets. Votubia tablets and 
Votubia dispersible tablets are not to be used interchangeably. The two pharmaceutical forms must not 
be combined to achieve the desired dose. The same pharmaceutical form must be used consistently, as 
appropriate for the indication being treated. 
When switching pharmaceutical forms, the dose should be adjusted to the closest milligram strength of 
the new pharmaceutical form and the everolimus trough concentration should be assessed at least 
1 week later (see section “Therapeutic drug monitoring” above). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Patients with renal angiomyolipoma associated with TSC: 
• 
• 
• 
Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): The recommended dose is 7.5 mg daily. 
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): The recommended dose is 5 mg daily. 
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Votubia is only recommended if the desired benefit 
outweighs the risk. In this case, a dose of 2.5 mg daily must not be exceeded (see sections 4.4 
and 5.2). 
Dose adjustments should be made if a patient’s hepatic (Child-Pugh) status changes during treatment. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with SEGA associated with TSC: 
Patients <18 years of age: 
Votubia is not recommended for patients <18 years of age with SEGA and hepatic impairment. 
Patients ≥18 years of age: 
• 
• 
• 
Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): 75% of the recommended starting dose calculated 
based on BSA (rounded to the nearest strength) 
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): 50% of the recommended starting dose 
calculated based on BSA (rounded to the nearest strength) 
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Votubia is only recommended if the desired benefit 
outweighs the risk. In this case, 25% of the dose calculated based on BSA (rounded to the 
nearest strength) must not be exceeded. 
Everolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be assessed at least 1 week after any change in 
hepatic status (Child-Pugh). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Votubia in children aged 0 to 18 years with renal angiomyolipoma 
associated with TSC in the absence of SEGA have not been established. No data are available. 
The safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetic profile of Votubia in children below the age of 1 year with 
TSC who have SEGA have not been established. No data are available (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Clinical study results did not show an impact of Votubia on growth and pubertal development. 
Method of administration 
Votubia must be administered orally once daily at the same time every day, consistently either with or 
without food (see section 5.2). Votubia tablets are to be swallowed whole with a glass of water. The 
tablets must not be chewed or crushed. For patients with TSC who have SEGA and are unable to 
swallow tablets, Votubia tablet(s) can be dispersed completely in a glass with approximately 30 ml of 
water by gently stirring until the tablet(s) is(are) fully disintegrated (approximately 7 minutes), 
immediately prior to drinking. After the dispersion has been swallowed, any residue must be 
re-dispersed in the same volume of water and swallowed (see section 5.2). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to other rapamycin derivatives or to any of the excipients 
listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Non-infectious pneumonitis 
Non-infectious pneumonitis is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives, including everolimus. 
Non-infectious pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease) was described very commonly in 
patients taking everolimus in the advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) setting (see section 4.8). Some 
cases were severe and on rare occasions, a fatal outcome was observed. A diagnosis of non-infectious 
pneumonitis should be considered in patients presenting with non-specific respiratory signs and 
symptoms such as hypoxia, pleural effusion, cough or dyspnoea, and in whom infectious, neoplastic 
and other non-medicinal causes have been excluded by means of appropriate investigations. 
Opportunistic infections such as pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) should be 
ruled out in the differential diagnosis of non-infectious pneumonitis (see section “Infections” below). 
Patients should be advised to report promptly any new or worsening respiratory symptoms. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients who develop radiological changes suggestive of non-infectious pneumonitis and have few or 
no symptoms may continue Votubia therapy without dose adjustments. If symptoms are moderate, 
consideration should be given to interruption of therapy until symptoms improve. The use of 
corticosteroids may be indicated. Votubia may be reinitiated at a daily dose approximately 50% lower 
than the dose previously administered. 
For cases where symptoms of non-infectious pneumonitis are severe, Votubia therapy should be 
discontinued and the use of corticosteroids may be indicated until clinical symptoms resolve. Votubia 
may be reinitiated at a daily dose approximately 50% lower than the dose previously administered 
depending on the individual clinical circumstances. 
For patients who require use of corticosteroids for treatment of non-infectious pneumonitis, 
prophylaxis for pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) may be considered. 
Infections 
Everolimus has immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to bacterial, fungal, viral 
or protozoal infections, including infections with opportunistic pathogens (see section 4.8). Localised 
and systemic infections, including pneumonia, other bacterial infections, invasive fungal infections 
such as aspergillosis, candidiasis or pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) and viral 
infections including reactivation of hepatitis B virus, have been described in patients taking 
everolimus. Some of these infections have been severe (e.g. leading to sepsis [including septic shock], 
respiratory or hepatic failure) and occasionally fatal in adult and paediatric patients (see section 4.8). 
Physicians and patients should be aware of the increased risk of infection with Votubia. Pre-existing 
infections should be treated appropriately and should have resolved fully before starting treatment 
with Votubia. While taking Votubia, be vigilant for symptoms and signs of infection; if a diagnosis of 
infection is made, institute appropriate treatment promptly and consider interruption or discontinuation 
of Votubia. 
If a diagnosis of invasive systemic fungal infection is made, Votubia treatment should be promptly and 
permanently discontinued and the patient treated with appropriate antifungal therapy. 
Cases of pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP), some with fatal outcome, have been 
reported in patients who received everolimus. PJP/PCP may be associated with concomitant use of 
corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents. Prophylaxis for PJP/PCP should be considered 
when concomitant use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents are required. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions manifested by symptoms including, but not limited to, anaphylaxis, 
dyspnoea, flushing, chest pain or angioedema (e.g. swelling of the airways or tongue, with or without 
respiratory impairment) have been observed with everolimus (see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors 
Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor (e.g. ramipril) therapy may be at increased risk for 
angioedema (e.g. swelling of the airways or tongue, with or without respiratory impairment) (see 
section 4.5). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stomatitis 
Stomatitis, including mouth ulcerations and oral mucositis, is the most commonly reported adverse 
reaction in patients treated with Votubia (see section 4.8). Stomatitis mostly occurs within the first 
8 weeks of treatment. A single-arm study in postmenopausal breast cancer patients treated with 
Afinitor (everolimus) plus exemestane suggested that an alcohol-free corticosteroid oral solution, 
administered as a mouthwash during the initial 8 weeks of treatment, may decrease the incidence and 
severity of stomatitis (see section 5.1). Management of stomatitis may therefore include prophylactic 
(in adults) and/or therapeutic use of topical treatments, such as an alcohol-free corticosteroid oral 
solution as a mouthwash. However products containing alcohol, hydrogen peroxide, iodine and thyme 
derivatives should be avoided as they may exacerbate the condition. Monitoring for and treatment of 
fungal infection is recommended, especially in patients being treated with steroid-based medicinal 
products. Antifungal agents should not be used unless fungal infection has been diagnosed (see 
section 4.5). 
Haemorrhage 
Serious cases of haemorrhage, some with a fatal outcome, have been reported in patients treated with 
everolimus in the oncology setting. No serious cases of renal haemorrhage were reported in the TSC 
setting. 
Caution is advised in patients taking Votubia, particularly during concomitant use with active 
substances known to affect platelet function or that can increase the risk of haemorrhage as well as in 
patients with a history of bleeding disorders. Healthcare professionals and patients should be vigilant 
for signs and symptoms of bleeding throughout the treatment period, especially if risk factors for 
haemorrhage are combined. 
Renal failure events 
Cases of renal failure (including acute renal failure), some with a fatal outcome, have been observed in 
patients treated with Votubia (see section 4.8). Renal function of patients should be monitored 
particularly where patients have additional risk factors that may further impair renal function. 
Laboratory tests and monitoring 
Renal function 
Elevations of serum creatinine, usually mild, and proteinuria have been reported in patients treated 
with Votubia (see section 4.8). Monitoring of renal function, including measurement of blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN), urinary protein or serum creatinine, is recommended prior to the start of Votubia 
therapy and periodically thereafter. 
Blood glucose 
Hyperglycaemia has been reported in patients taking Votubia (see section 4.8). Monitoring of fasting 
serum glucose is recommended prior to the start of Votubia therapy and periodically thereafter. More 
frequent monitoring is recommended when Votubia is co-administered with other medicinal products 
that may induce hyperglycaemia. When possible optimal glycaemic control should be achieved before 
starting a patient on Votubia. 
Blood lipids 
Dyslipidaemia (including hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia) has been reported in 
patients taking Votubia. Monitoring of blood cholesterol and triglycerides prior to the start of Votubia 
therapy and periodically thereafter, as well as management with appropriate medical therapy, is also 
recommended. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematological parameters 
Decreased haemoglobin, lymphocytes, neutrophils and platelets have been reported in patients treated 
with Votubia (see section 4.8). Monitoring of complete blood count is recommended prior to the start 
of Votubia therapy and periodically thereafter. 
Interactions 
Co-administration with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 and/or the multidrug efflux pump 
P-glycoprotein (PgP) should be avoided. If co-administration of a moderate CYP3A4 and/or PgP 
inhibitor or inducer cannot be avoided, the clinical condition of the patient should be monitored 
closely. Monitoring of everolimus through concentrations and dose adjustments of Votubia may be 
required (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant treatment with potent CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors result in dramatically increased blood 
concentrations of everolimus (see section 4.5). There are currently not sufficient data to allow dosing 
recommendations in this situation. Hence, concomitant treatment of Votubia and potent inhibitors is 
not recommended. 
Caution should be exercised when Votubia is taken in combination with orally administered CYP3A4 
substrates with a narrow therapeutic index due to the potential for drug interactions. If Votubia is 
taken with orally administered CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. pimozide, 
terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, quinidine, ergot alkaloid derivatives or carbamazepine), the patient 
should be monitored for undesirable effects described in the product information of the orally 
administered CYP3A4 substrate (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic impairment 
Votubia is not recommended for use in patients: 
• 
≥18 years of age and concomitant severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) unless the 
potential benefit outweighs the risk (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
<18 years of age with SEGA and concomitant hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A, B and C) 
(see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
• 
Vaccinations 
The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with Votubia (see section 4.5). For 
paediatric patients with SEGA who do not require immediate treatment, completion of the 
recommended childhood series of live virus vaccinations is advised prior to the start of therapy 
according to local treatment guidelines. 
Wound healing complications 
Impaired wound healing is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives, including Votubia. Caution should 
therefore be exercised with the use of Votubia in the peri-surgical period. 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radiation therapy complications 
Serious and severe radiation reactions (such as radiation oesophagitis, radiation pneumonitis and 
radiation skin injury), including fatal cases, have been reported when everolimus was taken during, or 
shortly after, radiation therapy. Caution should therefore be exercised for the potentiation of 
radiotherapy toxicity in patients taking everolimus in close temporal relationship with radiation 
therapy. 
Additionally, radiation recall syndrome (RRS) has been reported in patients taking everolimus who 
had received radiation therapy in the past. In the event of RRS, interrupting or stopping everolimus 
treatment should be considered. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4, and also a substrate and moderate inhibitor of PgP. Therefore, 
absorption and subsequent elimination of everolimus may be influenced by products that affect 
CYP3A4 and/or PgP. In vitro, everolimus is a competitive inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a mixed inhibitor 
of CYP2D6. 
Known and theoretical interactions with selected inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 and PgP are 
listed in Table 2 below. 
CYP3A4 and PgP inhibitors increasing everolimus concentrations 
Substances that are inhibitors of CYP3A4 or PgP may increase everolimus blood concentrations by 
decreasing metabolism or the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells. 
CYP3A4 and PgP inducers decreasing everolimus concentrations 
Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 or PgP may decrease everolimus blood concentrations by 
increasing metabolism or the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells. 
Table 2 
Effects of other active substances on everolimus 
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration 
Concomitant treatment of Votubia 
and potent inhibitors is not 
recommended. 
Interaction – Change in 
Everolimus AUC/Cmax 
Geometric mean ratio 
(observed range) 
AUC ↑15.3-fold 
(range 11.2-22.5) 
Cmax ↑4.1-fold 
(range 2.6-7.0) 
Not studied. Large increase in 
everolimus concentration is 
expected. 
Active substance by 
interaction 
Potent CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors 
Ketoconazole 
Itraconazole, posaconazole, 
voriconazole 
Telithromycin, 
clarithromycin 
Nefazodone 
Ritonavir, atazanavir, 
saquinavir, darunavir, 
indinavir, nelfinavir 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors 
Erythromycin 
Imatinib 
Verapamil 
AUC ↑4.4-fold 
(range 2.0-12.6) 
Cmax ↑2.0-fold 
(range 0.9-3.5) 
AUC ↑ 3.7-fold 
Cmax ↑ 2.2-fold 
AUC ↑3.5-fold 
(range 2.2-6.3) 
Cmax ↑2.3-fold 
(range1.3-3.8) 
AUC ↑2.7-fold 
(range 1.5-4.7) 
Cmax ↑1.8-fold 
(range 1.3-2.6) 
Cannabidiol (PgP inhibitor)  AUC ↑2.5-fold 
Cmax ↑2.5-fold 
Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected. 
Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected. 
Fluconazole 
Diltiazem 
Dronedarone 
Ciclosporin oral 
Amprenavir, fosamprenavir  Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected. 
Grapefruit juice or other 
food affecting CYP3A4/PgP 
Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected (the effect varies 
widely). 
12 
Use caution when co-administration 
of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or 
PgP inhibitors cannot be avoided. 
For patients with renal 
angiomyolipoma associated with 
TSC: 
If patients require co-administration 
of a moderate CYP3A4 or PgP 
inhibitor, dose reduction to 5 mg or 
2.5 mg daily may be considered. 
However, there are no clinical data 
with this dose adjustment. Due to 
between subject variability the 
recommended dose adjustments may 
not be optimal in all individuals, 
therefore close monitoring of side 
effects is recommended. If the 
moderate inhibitor is discontinued, 
consider a washout period of at least 
2 to 3 days (average elimination time 
for most commonly used moderate 
inhibitors) before the Votubia dose is 
returned to the dose used prior to 
initiation of the co-administration 
(see also Therapeutic drug 
monitoring in section 4.2). 
For patients with SEGA associated 
with TSC: 
If patients require co-administration 
of a moderate CYP3A4 or PgP 
inhibitor, reduce the daily dose by 
approximately 50%. Further dose 
reduction may be required to manage 
adverse reactions (see sections 4.2 
and 4.4). Everolimus trough 
concentrations should be assessed at 
least 1 week after the addition of a 
moderate CYP3A4 or PgP inhibitor. 
If the moderate inhibitor is 
discontinued, consider a washout 
period of at least 2 to 3 days 
(average elimination time for most 
commonly used moderate inhibitors) 
before the Votubia dose is returned 
to the dose used prior to initiation of 
the co-administration. The 
everolimus trough concentration 
should be assessed at least 1 week 
later (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Combination should be avoided. 
 
 
Potent and moderate CYP3A4 inducers 
Rifampicin 
Dexamethasone 
Antiepileptics (e.g. 
carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, phenytoin) 
Efavirenz, nevirapine 
AUC ↓63% 
(range 0-80%) 
Cmax ↓58% 
(range 10-70%) 
Not studied. Decreased 
exposure expected. 
Not studied. Decreased 
exposure expected. 
Not studied. Decreased 
exposure expected. 
13 
Avoid the use of concomitant potent 
CYP3A4 inducers. 
For patients with renal 
angiomyolipoma associated with 
TSC: 
If patients require co-administration 
of a potent CYP3A4 inducer, a 
Votubia dose increase from 10 mg 
daily up to 20 mg daily should be 
considered using 5 mg increments or 
less applied on Day 4 and 8 
following start of the inducer. This 
dose of Votubia is predicted to adjust 
the AUC to the range observed 
without inducers. However, there are 
no clinical data with this dose 
adjustment. If treatment with the 
inducer is discontinued, consider a 
washout period of at least 3 to 5 days 
(reasonable time for significant 
enzyme de-induction) before the 
Votubia dose is returned to the dose 
used prior to initiation of the 
co-administration (see also 
Therapeutic drug monitoring in 
section 4.2). 
For patients with SEGA associated 
with TSC: 
Patients receiving concomitant 
potent CYP3A4 inducers may 
require an increased Votubia dose to 
achieve the same exposure as 
patients not taking potent inducers. 
Dosing should be titrated to attain 
trough concentrations of 5 to 
15 ng/ml. If concentrations are 
below 5 ng/ml, the daily dose may 
be increased by 2.5 mg every 
2 weeks, checking the trough level 
and assessing tolerability before 
increasing the dose. 
The addition of another concomitant 
strong CYP3A4 inducer may not 
require additional dose adjustment. 
Assess the everolimus trough level 
2 weeks after initiating the additional 
inducer. Adjust the dose by 
increments of 2.5 mg as necessary to 
maintain the target trough 
concentration. 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation of one of multiple 
strong CYP3A4 inducers may not 
require additional dose adjustment. 
Assess the everolimus trough level 
2 weeks after discontinuation of one 
of multiple strong CYP3A4 
inducers. If all potent inducers are 
discontinued, consider a washout 
period of at least 3 to 5 days 
(reasonable time for significant 
enzyme de-induction) before the 
Votubia dose is returned to the dose 
used prior to initiation of the 
co-administration. The everolimus 
trough concentrations should be 
assessed 2 to 4 weeks later since the 
natural degradation time of the 
induced enzymes has to be taken into 
account (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Preparations containing St John’s 
Wort should not be used during 
treatment with everolimus 
St John’s Wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
Not studied. Large decrease in 
exposure expected. 
Agents whose plasma concentration may be altered by everolimus 
Based on in vitro results, the systemic concentrations obtained after oral daily doses of 10 mg make 
inhibition of PgP, CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 unlikely. However, inhibition of CYP3A4 and PgP in the 
gut cannot be excluded. An interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that co-administration 
of an oral dose of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate probe, with everolimus resulted in a 25% 
increase in midazolam Cmax and a 30% increase in midazolam AUC(0-inf). The effect is likely to be due 
to inhibition of intestinal CYP3A4 by everolimus. Hence everolimus may affect the bioavailability of 
orally co-administered CYP3A4 substrates. However, a clinically relevant effect on the exposure of 
systemically administered CYP3A4 substrates is not expected (see section 4.4). 
In EXIST-3 (Study CRAD001M2304), everolimus increased pre-dose concentrations of the 
antiepileptics carbamazepine, clobazam, and the clobazam metabolite N-desmethylclobazam by about 
10%. The increase in the pre-dose concentrations of these antiepileptics may not be clinically 
significant but dose adjustments for antiepileptics with a narrow therapeutic index, e.g carbamazepine, 
may be considered. Everolimus had no impact on pre-dose concentrations of antiepileptics that are 
substrates of CYP3A4 (clonazepam, diazepam, felbamate and zonisamide). 
Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors 
Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor (e.g. ramipril) therapy may be at increased risk for 
angioedema (see section 4.4). 
Vaccinations 
The immune response to vaccination may be affected and, therefore, vaccination may be less effective 
during treatment with Votubia. The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with 
Votubia. Examples of live vaccines are: intranasal influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, 
BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin), yellow fever, varicella, and TY21a typhoid vaccines. 
Radiation treatment 
Potentiation of radiation treatment toxicity has been reported in patients receiving everolimus (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential must use a highly effective method of contraception (e.g. oral, 
injected, or implanted non-oestrogen-containing hormonal method of birth control, progesterone-based 
contraceptives, hysterectomy, tubal ligation, complete abstinence, barrier methods, intrauterine device 
[IUD], and/or female/male sterilisation) while receiving everolimus, and for up to 8 weeks after 
ending treatment. 
Male patients should not be prohibited from attempting to father children. 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of everolimus in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity effects including embryotoxicity and foetotoxicity (see section 5.3). The 
potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Everolimus is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether everolimus is excreted in human breast milk. However, in rats, everolimus 
and/or its metabolites readily pass into the milk (see section 5.3). Therefore, women taking everolimus 
should not breast-feed during treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose. 
Fertility 
The potential for everolimus to cause infertility in male and female patients is unknown, however 
secondary amenorrhoea and associated luteinising hormone (LH)/follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) 
imbalance has been observed in female patients (see also section 5.3 for preclinical observations on 
the male and female reproductive systems). Based on non-clinical findings, male and female fertility 
may be compromised by treatment with everolimus (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Votubia has minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
advised to be cautious when driving or using machines if they experience fatigue during treatment 
with Votubia. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Three randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled pivotal phase III studies, including double-blind 
and open label treatment periods, and a non-randomised, open-label, single-arm phase II study 
contribute to the safety profile of Votubia (n=612, including 409 patients <18 years of age; median 
duration of exposure 36.8 months [range 0.5 to 83.2]). 
• 
EXIST-3 (CRAD001M2304): This was a randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III trial 
comparing adjunctive treatment of low and high everolimus exposure (low trough [LT] range of 
3-7 ng/ml [n=117] and high trough [HT] range of 9-15 ng/ml [n=130]) versus placebo (n=119), 
in patients with TSC and refractory partial-onset seizures receiving 1 to 3 antiepileptics. The 
median duration of the double-blind period was 18 weeks. The cumulative median duration 
exposure to Votubia (361 patients who took at least one dose of everolimus) was 30.4 months 
(range 0.5 to 48.8). 
EXIST-2 (CRAD001M2302): This was a randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III trial of 
everolimus (n=79) versus placebo (n=39) in patients with either TSC plus renal 
angiomyolipoma (n=113) or sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) plus renal 
angiomyolipoma (n=5). The median duration of blinded study treatment was 48.1 weeks (range 
2 to 115) for patients receiving Votubia and 45.0 weeks (range 9 to 115) for those receiving 
placebo. The cumulative median duration of exposure to Votubia (112 patients who took at least 
one dose of everolimus) was 46.9 months (range 0.5 to 63.9). 
EXIST-1 (CRAD001M2301): This was a randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III trial of 
everolimus (n=78) versus placebo (n=39) in patients with TSC who have SEGA, irrespective of 
age. The median duration of blinded study treatment was 52.2 weeks (range 24 to 89) for 
patients receiving Votubia and 46.6 weeks (range 14 to 88) for those receiving placebo. The 
cumulative median duration of exposure to Votubia (111 patients who took at least one dose of 
everolimus) was 47.1 months (range 1.9 to 58.3). 
CRAD001C2485: This was a prospective, open-label, single-arm phase II study of everolimus 
in patients with SEGA (n=28). The median duration of exposure was 67.8 months (range 4.7 to 
83.2). 
• 
• 
• 
The adverse events considered to be associated with the use of Votubia (adverse reactions), based 
upon the review and medical assessment of all adverse events reported in the above studies, are 
described below. 
The most frequent adverse reactions (incidence ≥1/10) from the pooled safety data are (in decreasing 
order): stomatitis, pyrexia, nasopharyngitis, diarrhoea, upper respiratory tract infection, vomiting, 
cough, rash, headache, amenorrhoea, acne, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, sinusitis, menstruation 
irregular, pharyngitis, decreased appetite, fatigue, hypercholesterolaemia, and hypertension. 
The most frequent grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence ≥1%) were pneumonia, stomatitis, 
amenorrhoea, neutropenia, pyrexia, menstruation irregular, hypophosphataemia, diarrhoea, and 
cellulitis. The grades follow CTCAE Version 3.0 and 4.03. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 3 shows the incidence of adverse reactions based on pooled data of patients receiving 
everolimus in the three TSC studies (including both the double-blind and open-label extension phase, 
where applicable). Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class. Frequency 
categories are defined using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to 
<1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 
Adverse reactions reported in TSC studies 
Infections and infestations 
Very common  Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia a, urinary tract 
infection, sinusitis, pharyngitis 
Otitis media, cellulitis, pharyngitis streptococcal, gastroenteritis viral, gingivitis 
Herpes zoster, sepsis, bronchitis viral 
Anaemia, neutropenia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia 
Hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperlipidaemia, hypophosphataemia, hyperglycaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Insomnia, aggression, irritability 
Common 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common  Decreased appetite, hypercholesterolaemia 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common  Headache 
Uncommon 
Dysgeusia 
Vascular disorders 
Very common  Hypertension 
Common 
Lymphoedema 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common  Cough 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common  Stomatitis b, diarrhoea, vomiting 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common  Rash c, acne 
Common 
Uncommon 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Rhabdomyolysis 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Proteinuria 
Common 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Very common  Amenorrhoea d, menstruation irregular d 
Menorrhagia, ovarian cyst, vaginal haemorrhage 
Common 
Menstruation delayed d 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common  Pyrexia, fatigue 
Investigations 
Common 
Dry skin, acneiform dermatitis, pruritus, alopecia 
Angioedema 
Epistaxis, pneumonitis 
Blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood luteinising hormone increased, 
weight decreased 
Blood follicle stimulating hormone increased 
Uncommon 
Constipation, nausea, abdominal pain, flatulence, oral pain, gastritis 
17 
 
Radiation recall syndrome, potentiation of radiation reaction 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Not knowne 
a 
b 
Includes pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) 
Includes (very common) stomatitis, mouth ulceration, aphthous ulcer; (common) tongue 
ulceration, lip ulceration and (uncommon) gingival pain, glossitis 
Includes (very common) rash; (common) rash erythematous, erythema and (uncommon) rash 
generalised, rash maculo-papular, rash macular 
Frequency based upon number of women from 10 to 55 years of age while on treatment in the 
pooled data 
Adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. 
c 
d 
e 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In clinical studies, everolimus has been associated with serious cases of hepatitis B reactivation, 
including fatal outcome. Reactivation of infection is an expected reaction during periods of 
immunosuppression. 
In clinical studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports, everolimus has been associated with renal 
failure events (including fatal outcome), proteinuria and increased serum creatinine. Monitoring of 
renal function is recommended (see section 4.4). 
In clinical studies, everolimus has been associated with haemorrhage events. On rare occasions, fatal 
outcomes were observed in the oncology setting (see section 4.4). No serious cases of renal 
haemorrhage were reported in the TSC setting. 
In clinical studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports, everolimus has been associated with cases 
of pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP), some with fatal outcome (see section 4.4). 
Additional adverse reactions of relevance observed in oncology clinical studies and post-marketing 
spontaneous reports, were cardiac failure, pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, impaired 
wound healing and hyperglycaemia. 
In clinical studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports, angioedema has been reported with and 
without concomitant use of ACE inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
In the pivotal phase II study, 22 of the 28 SEGA patients studied were below the age of 18 years and 
in the pivotal phase III study, 101 of the 117 SEGA patients studied were below the age of 18 years. In 
the pivotal phase III study in patients with TSC and refractory seizures, 299 of the 366 patients studied 
were below the age of 18 years. The overall type, frequency and severity of adverse reactions observed 
in children and adolescents have been generally consistent with those observed in adults, with the 
exception of infections which were reported at a higher frequency and severity in children below the 
age of 6 years. A total of 49 out of 137 patients (36%) aged <6 years had Grade 3/4 infections, 
compared to 53 out of 272 patients (19%) aged 6 to <18 years and 27 out of 203 patients (13%) aged 
≥18 years. Two fatal cases due to infection were reported in 409 patients aged <18 years receiving 
everolimus. 
Elderly 
In the oncology safety pooling, 37% of the patients treated with everolimus were ≥65 years of age. 
The number of oncology patients with an adverse reaction leading to discontinuation of everolimus 
was higher in patients ≥65 years of age (20% versus 13%). The most common adverse reactions 
leading to discontinuation were pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease), fatigue, dyspnoea, 
and stomatitis. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Reported experience with overdose in humans is very limited. Single doses of up to 70 mg have been 
given with acceptable acute tolerability in the adult population. 
It is essential to assess everolimus blood levels in cases of suspected overdose. General supportive 
measures should be initiated in all cases of overdose. Everolimus is not considered dialysable to any 
relevant degree (less than 10% was removed within 6 hours of haemodialysis). 
Paediatric population 
A limited number of paediatric patients have been exposed to doses higher than 10 mg/m2/day. No 
signs of acute toxicity have been reported in these cases. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01EG02 
Mechanism of action 
Everolimus is a selective mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor. mTOR is a key 
serine-threonine kinase, the activity of which is known to be upregulated in a number of human 
cancers. Everolimus binds to the intracellular protein FKBP-12, forming a complex that inhibits 
mTOR complex-1 (mTORC1) activity. Inhibition of the mTORC1 signalling pathway interferes with 
the translation and synthesis of proteins by reducing the activity of S6 ribosomal protein kinase 
(S6K1) and eukaryotic elongation factor 4E-binding protein (4EBP-1) that regulate proteins involved 
in the cell cycle, angiogenesis and glycolysis. Everolimus can reduce levels of vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF). In patients with TSC, treatment with everolimus increases VEGF-A and 
decreases VEGF-D levels. Everolimus is a potent inhibitor of the growth and proliferation of tumour 
cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and blood-vessel-associated smooth muscle cells and has been 
shown to reduce glycolysis in solid tumours in vitro and in vivo. 
Two primary regulators of mTORC1 signalling are the oncogene suppressors tuberin-sclerosis 
complexes 1 & 2 (TSC1, TSC2). Loss of either TSC1 or TSC2 leads to elevated rheb-GTP levels, a 
ras family GTPase, which interacts with the mTORC1 complex to cause its activation. mTORC1 
activation leads to a downstream kinase signalling cascade, including activation of the S6 kinases. In 
TSC syndrome, inactivating mutations in the TSC1 or the TSC2 gene lead to hamartoma formation 
throughout the body. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Renal angiomyolipoma associated with TSC 
EXIST-2 (study CRAD001M2302), a randomised, controlled phase III study was conducted to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of Votubia in patients with TSC plus renal angiomyolipoma. Presence 
of at least one angiomyolipoma ≥3 cm in longest diameter using CT/MRI (based on local radiology 
assessment) was required for entry. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy endpoint was angiomyolipoma response rate based on independent central 
radiology review. The analysis was stratified by use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptics at 
randomisation (yes/no). 
Key secondary endpoints included time to angiomyolipoma progression and skin lesion response rate. 
A total of 118 patients were randomised, 79 to Votubia 10 mg daily and 39 to placebo. Median age 
was 31 years (range: 18 to 61 years; 46.6% were <30 years at enrolment), 33.9% were male, and 
89.0% were Caucasian. Of the enrolled patients, 83.1% had angiomyolipomas ≥4 cm (28.8% ≥8 cm), 
78.0% had bilateral angiomyolipomas, and 39.0% had undergone prior renal 
embolisation/nephrectomy; 96.6% had skin lesions at baseline and 44.1% had target SEGAs (at least 
one SEGA ≥1 cm in longest diameter). 
Results showed that the primary objective related to best overall angiomyolipoma response was met 
with best overall response rates of 41.8% (95% CI: 30.8, 53.4) for the Votubia arm compared with 0% 
(95% CI: 0.0, 9.0) for the placebo arm (p<0.0001) (Table 4). 
Patients initially treated with placebo were allowed to cross over to everolimus at the time of 
angiomyolipoma progression and upon recognition that treatment with everolimus was superior to 
treatment with placebo. At the time of the final analysis (4 years following the last patient 
randomisation), the median duration of exposure to everolimus was 204.1 weeks (range 2 to 278). The 
angiomyolipoma best overall response rate had increased to 58.0% (95% CI: 48.3, 67.3), with a rate of 
stable disease of 30.4% (Table 4). 
Among patients treated with everolimus during the study, no cases of angiomyolipoma-related 
nephrectomy and only one case of renal embolisation were reported. 
Table 4 
EXIST-2 - Angiomyolipoma response 
Primary analysis3 
Votubia 
n=79 
Placebo 
n=39 
p-value 
Final 
analysis4 
Votubia 
n=112 
Primary analysis 
  Angiomyolipoma response rate1,2 – % 
95% CI 
41.8 
30.8, 53.4 
0 
0.0, 9.0 
<0.0001 
58.0 
48.3, 67.3 
Best overall angiomyolipoma response – % 
  Response 
  Stable disease 
  Progression 
  Not evaluable 
1 
2 
41.8 
40.5 
1.3 
16.5 
0 
79.5 
5.1 
15.4 
58.0 
30.4 
0.9 
10.7 
According to independent central radiology review 
Angiomyolipoma responses were confirmed with a repeat scan. Response was defined as: 
≥50% reduction in the sum of angiomyolipoma volume relative to baseline, plus absence of 
new angiomyolipoma ≥1.0 cm in longest diameter, plus no increase in renal volume >20% 
from nadir, plus absence of grade ≥2 angiomyolipoma-related bleeding. 
Primary analysis for double blind period 
Final analysis includes patients who crossed over from the placebo group; median duration of 
exposure to everolimus of 204.1 weeks 
3 
4 
Consistent treatment effects on angiomyolipoma response rate were observed across all subgroups 
evaluated (i.e. enzyme-inducing antiepileptic use versus enzyme-inducing antiepileptic non-use, sex, 
age and race) at the primary efficacy analysis. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the final analysis, reduction in angiomyolipoma volume improved with longer term treatment with 
Votubia. At weeks 12, 96 and 192, ≥ 30% reductions in volume were observed in 75.0%, 80.6%, and 
85.2% of the treated patients, respectively. Similarly, at the same timepoints, ≥50% reductions in 
volume were observed in 44.2%, 63.3%, and 68.9% of the treated patients, respectively. 
Median time to angiomyolipoma progression was 11.4 months in the placebo arm and was not reached 
in the everolimus arm (HR 0.08; 95% CI: 0.02, 0.37; p<0.0001). Progressions were observed in 3.8% 
of patients in the everolimus arm compared with 20.5% in the placebo arm. Estimated progression-free 
rates at 6 months were 98.4% for the everolimus arm and 83.4% for the placebo arm. At the final 
analysis, median time to angiomyolipoma progression was not reached. Angiomyolipoma progressions 
were observed in 14.3% of the patients. The estimated angiomyolipoma progression-free rates at 
24 months and 48 months were 91.6% and 83.1%, respectively. 
At the primary analysis, skin lesion response rates of 26.0% (95% CI: 16.6, 37.2) for the Votubia arm 
and 0% (95% CI: 0.0, 9.5) for the placebo arm were observed (p=0.0002). At the final analysis, the 
skin lesion response rate had increased to 68.2% (95% CI: 58.5, 76.9), with one patient reporting a 
confirmed complete clinical skin lesion response and no patients experiencing progressive disease as 
their best response. 
In an exploratory analysis of patients with TSC with angiomyolipoma who also had SEGA, the SEGA 
response rate (proportion of patients with ≥50% reduction from baseline in target lesion volumes in 
the absence of progression) was 10.3% in the everolimus arm in the primary analysis (versus no 
responses reported in the 13 patients randomised to placebo with a SEGA lesion at baseline) and 
increased to 48.0% in the final analysis. 
Post-hoc sub-group analysis of EXIST-2 (study CRAD001M2302) carried out at time of primary 
analysis demonstrated that angiomyolipoma response rate is reduced below the threshold of 5 ng/ml 
(Table 5). 
Table 5 
EXIST-2 - Angiomyolipoma response rates by time-averaged Cmin category, at 
primary analysis 
Time-averaged Cmin 
category 
≤5 ng/ml 
>5 ng/ml 
Difference1 
Number of 
patients 
20 
42 
1 Difference is “≤5 ng/ml” minus “>5 ng/ml” 
Response rate 
95% confidence interval 
0.300 
0.524 
-0.224 
0.099, 0.501 
0.373, 0.675 
-0.475, 0.027 
SEGA associated with TSC 
Phase III study in SEGA patients 
EXIST-1 (Study CRAD001M2301), a randomised, double-blind, multicentre phase III study of 
Votubia versus placebo, was conducted in patients with SEGA, irrespective of age. Patients were 
randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive either Votubia or matching placebo. Presence of at least one 
SEGA lesion ≥1.0 cm in longest diameter using MRI (based on local radiology assessment) was 
required for entry. In addition, serial radiological evidence of SEGA growth, presence of a new SEGA 
lesion ≥1 cm in longest diameter, or new or worsening hydrocephalus was required for entry. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was SEGA response rate based on independent central radiology 
review. The analysis was stratified by use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptics at randomisation 
(yes/no). 
Key secondary endpoints in hierarchal order of testing included the absolute change in frequency of 
total seizure events per 24-hour EEG from baseline to week 24, time to SEGA progression, and skin 
lesion response rate. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A total of 117 patients were randomised, 78 to Votubia and 39 to placebo. The two treatment arms 
were generally well balanced with respect to demographic and baseline disease characteristics and 
history of prior anti-SEGA therapies. In the total population, 57.3% of patients were male and 93.2% 
were Caucasian. The median age for the total population was 9.5 years (age range for the Votubia arm: 
1.0 to 23.9; age range for the placebo arm: 0.8 to 26.6), 69.2% of the patients were aged 3 to <18 years 
and 17.1% were <3 years at enrolment. 
Of the enrolled patients, 79.5% had bilateral SEGAs, 42.7% had ≥2 target SEGA lesions, 25.6% had 
inferior growth, 9.4% had evidence of deep parenchymal invasion, 6.8% had radiographic evidence of 
hydrocephalus, and 6.8% had undergone prior SEGA-related surgery. 94.0% had skin lesions at 
baseline and 37.6% had target renal angiomyolipoma lesions (at least one angiomyolipoma ≥1 cm in 
longest diameter). 
The median duration of blinded study treatment was 9.6 months (range: 5.5 to 18.1) for patients 
receiving Votubia and 8.3 months (range: 3.2 to 18.3) for those receiving placebo. 
Results showed that Votubia was superior to placebo for the primary endpoint of best overall SEGA 
response (p<0.0001). Response rates were 34.6% (95% CI: 24.2, 46.2) for the Votubia arm compared 
with 0% (95% CI: 0.0, 9.0) for the placebo arm (Table 6). In addition, all 8 patients on the Votubia 
arm who had radiographic evidence of hydrocephalus at baseline had a decrease in ventricular volume. 
Patients initially treated with placebo were allowed to cross over to everolimus at the time of SEGA 
progression and upon recognition that treatment with everolimus was superior to treatment with 
placebo. All patients receiving at least one dose of everolimus were followed until medicinal product 
discontinuation or study completion. At the time of the final analysis, the median duration of exposure 
among all such patients was 204.9 weeks (range: 8.1 to 253.7). The best overall SEGA response rate 
had increased to 57.7% (95% CI: 47.9, 67.0) at the final analysis. 
No patient required surgical intervention for SEGA during the entire course of the study. 
Table 6 
EXIST-1 – SEGA response 
SEGA response rate1,2 - (%) 
95% CI 
Best overall SEGA response - (%) 
Response 
Stable disease 
Progression 
Not evaluable 
Primary analysis3 
Placebo 
Votubia 
N=39 
N=78 
0 
34.6 
0.0, 9.0 
24.2, 46.2 
p-value 
<0.0001 
Final analysis4 
Votubia 
N=111 
57.7 
47.9, 67.0 
34.6 
62.8 
0 
2.6 
0 
92.3 
7.7 
0 
57.7 
39.6 
0 
2.7 
1  according to independent central radiology review 
2  SEGA responses were confirmed with a repeat scan. Response was defined as: ≥50% reduction in 
the sum of SEGA volume relative to baseline, plus no unequivocal worsening of non-target SEGA 
lesions, plus absence of new SEGA ≥1 cm in longest diameter, plus no new or worsening 
hydrocephalus 
3  Primary analysis for double blind period 
4  Final analysis includes patients who crossed over from the placebo group; median duration of 
exposure to everolimus of 204.9 weeks 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consistent treatment effects were observed across all subgroups evaluated (i.e. enzyme-inducing 
antiepileptic use versus enzyme-inducing antiepileptic non-use, sex and age) at the primary analysis. 
During the double-blind period, reduction of SEGA volume was evident within the initial 12 weeks of 
Votubia treatment: 29.7% (22/74) of patients had ≥50% reductions in volume and 73.0% (54/74) had 
≥30% reductions in volume. Sustained reductions were evident at week 24, 41.9% (31/74) of patients 
had ≥50% reductions and 78.4% (58/74) of patients had ≥30% reductions in SEGA volume. 
In the everolimus treated population (N=111) of the study, including patients who crossed over from 
the placebo group, tumour response, starting as early as after 12 weeks on everolimus, was sustained 
at later time points. The proportion of patients achieving at least 50% reductions in SEGA volume was 
45.9% (45/98) and 62.1% (41/66) at weeks 96 and 192 after start of everolimus treatment. Similarly, 
the proportion of patients achieving at least 30% reductions in SEGA volume was 71.4% (70/98) and 
77.3% (51/66) at weeks 96 and 192 after start of everolimus treatment. 
Analysis of the first key secondary endpoint, change in seizure frequency, was inconclusive; thus, 
despite the fact that positive results were observed for the two subsequent secondary endpoints (time 
to SEGA progression and skin lesion response rate), they could not be declared formally statistically 
significant. 
Median time to SEGA progression based on central radiology review was not reached in either 
treatment arm. Progressions were only observed in the placebo arm (15.4%; p=0.0002). Estimated 
progression-free rates at 6 months were 100% for the Votubia arm and 85.7% for the placebo arm. The 
long-term follow-up of patients randomised to everolimus and patients randomised to placebo who 
thereafter crossed over to everolimus demonstrated durable responses. 
At the time of the primary analysis, Votubia demonstrated clinically meaningful improvements in skin 
lesion response (p=0.0004), with response rates of 41.7% (95% CI: 30.2, 53.9) for the Votubia arm 
and 10.5% (95% CI: 2.9, 24.8) for the placebo arm. At the final analysis, the skin lesion response rate 
increased to 58.1% (95% CI: 48.1, 67.7). 
Phase II study in patients with SEGA 
A prospective, open-label, single-arm phase II study (Study CRAD001C2485) was conducted to 
evaluate the safety and efficacy of Votubia in patients with SEGA. Radiological evidence of serial 
SEGA growth was required for entry. 
Change in SEGA volume during the core 6-month treatment phase, as assessed via an independent 
central radiology review, was the primary efficacy endpoint. After the core treatment phase, patients 
could be enrolled into an extension phase where SEGA volume was assessed every 6 months. 
In total, 28 patients received treatment with Votubia; median age was 11 years (range 3 to 34), 61% 
male, 86% Caucasian. Thirteen patients (46%) had a secondary smaller SEGA, including 12 in the 
contralateral ventricle. 
Primary SEGA volume was reduced at month 6 compared to baseline (p<0.001 [see Table 7]). No 
patient developed new lesions, worsening hydrocephalus or increased intracranial pressure, and none 
required surgical resection or other therapy for SEGA. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
Change in primary SEGA volume over time 
Independent central review 
SEGA 
volume 
(cm3) 
Baseline 
n=28 
Month 6 
n=27 
Month 12 
n=26 
Month 24 
n=24 
Month 36 
n=23 
Month 48 
n=24 
Month 60 
n=23 
2.45 
(2.813) 
Primary tumour volume 
Mean 
(standard 
deviation) 
Median 
  Range 
1.74 
0.49 - 14.
23 
Reduction from baseline 
Mean 
(standard 
deviation) 
Median 
  Range 
1.33 
(1.497) 
1.26 
(1.526) 
1.19 
(1.042) 
1.26 
(1.298) 
1.16 
(0.961) 
1.24 
(0.959) 
0.93 
0.31 - 7.9
8 
0.84 
0.29 - 8.1
8 
0.94 
0.20 - 4.6
3 
1.12 
0.22 - 6.5
2 
1.02 
0.18 - 4.1
9 
1.17 
0.21 - 4.3
9 
1.19 
(1.433) 
1.07 
(1.276) 
1.25 
(1.994) 
1.41 
(1.814) 
1.43 
(2.267) 
1.44 
(2.230) 
0.83 
0.06 - 6.2
5 
0.85 
0.02 - 6.0
5 
Percentage reduction from baseline, n (%) 
  ≥50% 
  ≥30% 
  >0% 
9 (33.3) 
21 (77.8) 
27 
(100.0) 
0 
9 (34.6) 
20 (76.9) 
26 
(100.0) 
0 
0.71 
-0.55 - 9.6
0 
0.71 
0.15 - 7.7
1 
0.83 
0.00 - 10.
96 
0.50 
-0.74 - 9.8
4 
12 (50.0) 
19 (79.2) 
23 
(95.8) 
0 
10 (43.5) 
18 (78.3) 
23 
(100.0) 
0 
14 (58.3) 
19 (79.2) 
23 
(95.8) 
1 (4.2) 
12 (52.2) 
14 (60.9) 
21 
(91.3) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (4.2) 
0 
0 
2 (8.7) 
  No 
change 
Increase 
The robustness and consistency of the primary analysis were supported by the: 
− 
change in primary SEGA volume as per local investigator assessment (p<0.001), with 75.0% 
and 39.3% of patients experiencing reductions of ≥30% and ≥50%, respectively 
change in total SEGA volume as per independent central review (p<0.001) or local investigator 
assessment (p<0.001). 
− 
One patient met the pre-specified criteria for treatment success (>75% reduction in SEGA volume) 
and was temporarily taken off trial therapy; however, SEGA re-growth was evident at the next 
assessment at 4.5 months and treatment was restarted. 
Long-term follow-up to a median duration of 67.8 months (range: 4.7 to 83.2) demonstrated sustained 
efficacy. 
Other studies 
Stomatitis is the most commonly reported adverse reaction in patients treated with Votubia (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). In a post-marketing single-arm study in postmenopausal women with advanced 
breast cancer (N=92), topical treatment with dexamethasone 0.5 mg/5 ml alcohol-free oral 
solution was administered as a mouthwash (4 times daily for the initial 8 weeks of treatment) to 
patients at the time of initiating treatment with Afinitor (everolimus, 10 mg/day) plus exemestane 
(25 mg/day) to reduce the incidence and severity of stomatitis. The incidence of Grade ≥2 
stomatitis at 8 weeks was 2.4% (n=2/85 evaluable patients) which was lower than historically 
reported. The incidence of Grade 1 stomatitis was 18.8% (n=16/85) and no cases of Grade 3 or 4 
stomatitis were reported. The overall safety profile in this study was consistent with that 
established for everolimus in the oncology and TSC settings, with the exception of a slightly 
increased frequency of oral candidiasis which was reported in 2.2% (n=2/92) of patients. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Votubia in all subsets of the paediatric population in angiomyolipoma (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use). 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Votubia in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in refractory epilepsy associated with TSC 
(see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
In patients with advanced solid tumours, peak everolimus concentrations (Cmax) are reached at a 
median time of 1 hour after daily administration of 5 and 10 mg everolimus under fasting conditions 
or with a light fat-free snack. Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 and 10 mg. Everolimus is a substrate 
and moderate inhibitor of PgP. 
Food effect 
In healthy subjects, high fat meals reduced systemic exposure to Votubia 10 mg tablets (as measured 
by AUC) by 22% and the peak blood concentration Cmax by 54%. Light fat meals reduced AUC by 
32% and Cmax by 42%. 
In healthy subjects taking a single 9 mg dose (3 x 3 mg) of Votubia dispersible tablets in suspension, 
high fat meals reduced AUC by 11.7% and the peak blood concentration Cmax by 59.8%. Light fat 
meals reduced AUC by 29.5% and Cmax by 50.2%. 
Food, however, had no apparent effect on the post absorption phase concentration-time profile 
24 hours post-dose of either dosage form. 
Relative bioavailability/bioequivalence 
In a relative bioavailability study, AUC0-inf of 5 x 1 mg everolimus tablets when administered as 
suspension in water was equivalent to 5 x 1 mg everolimus tablets administered as intact tablets, and 
Cmax of 5 x 1 mg everolimus tablets in suspension was 72% of 5 x 1 mg intact everolimus tablets. 
In a bioequivalence study, AUC0-inf of the 5 mg dispersible tablet when administered as suspension in 
water was equivalent to 5 x 1 mg intact everolimus tablets, and Cmax of the 5 mg dispersible tablet in 
suspension was 64% of 5 x 1 mg intact everolimus tablets. 
Distribution 
The blood-to-plasma ratio of everolimus, which is concentration-dependent over the range of 5 to 
5,000 ng/ml, is 17% to 73%. Approximately 20% of the everolimus concentration in whole blood is 
confined to plasma of cancer patients given Votubia 10 mg/day. Plasma protein binding is 
approximately 74% both in healthy subjects and in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. In 
patients with advanced solid tumours, Vd was 191 l for the apparent central compartment and 517 l for 
the apparent peripheral compartment. 
Nonclinical studies in rats indicate: 
• 
• 
A rapid uptake of everolimus in the brain followed by a slow efflux. 
The radioactive metabolites of [3H]everolimus do not significantly cross the blood-brain 
barrier. 
A dose-dependent brain penetration of everolimus, which is consistent with the hypothesis of 
saturation of an efflux pump present in the brain capillary endothelial cells. 
The co-administration of the PgP inhibitor, cyclosporine, enhances the exposure of everolimus 
in the brain cortex, which is consistent with the inhibition of PgP at the blood-brain barrier. 
• 
• 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no clinical data on the distribution of everolimus in the human brain. Non-clinical studies in 
rats demonstrated distribution into the brain following administration by both the intravenous and oral 
routes. 
Biotransformation 
Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 and PgP. Following oral administration, everolimus is the main 
circulating component in human blood. Six main metabolites of everolimus have been detected in 
human blood, including three monohydroxylated metabolites, two hydrolytic ring-opened products, 
and a phosphatidylcholine conjugate of everolimus. These metabolites were also identified in animal 
species used in toxicity studies and showed approximately 100 times less activity than everolimus 
itself. Hence, everolimus is considered to contribute the majority of the overall pharmacological 
activity. 
Elimination 
Mean CL/F of everolimus after 10 mg daily dose in patients with advanced solid tumours was 24.5 l/h. 
The mean elimination half-life of everolimus is approximately 30 hours. 
No specific excretion studies have been undertaken in cancer patients; however, data are available 
from the studies in transplant patients. Following the administration of a single dose of radiolabelled 
everolimus in conjunction with ciclosporin, 80% of the radioactivity was recovered from the faeces, 
while 5% was excreted in the urine. The parent substance was not detected in urine or faeces. 
Steady-state pharmacokinetics 
After administration of everolimus in patients with advanced solid tumours, steady-state AUC0-τ was 
dose-proportional over the range of 5 to 10 mg daily dose. Steady-state was achieved within 2 weeks. 
Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 and 10 mg. tmax occurs at 1 to 2 hours post-dose. There was a 
significant correlation between AUC0-τ and pre-dose trough concentration at steady-state. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of Votubia were evaluated in two single oral dose 
studies of Votubia tablets in 8 and 34 adult subjects with impaired hepatic function relative to subjects 
with normal hepatic function. 
In the first study, the average AUC of everolimus in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh B) was twice that found in 8 subjects with normal hepatic function. 
In the second study of 34 subjects with different impaired hepatic function compared to normal 
subjects, there was a 1.6-fold, 3.3-fold and 3.6-fold increase in exposure (i.e. AUC0-inf) for subjects 
with mild (Child-Pugh A), moderate (Child-Pugh B) and severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment, 
respectively. 
Simulations of multiple dose pharmacokinetics support the dosing recommendations in subjects with 
hepatic impairment based on their Child-Pugh status. 
Based on the results of the two studies, dose adjustment is recommended for patients with hepatic 
impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Renal impairment 
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of 170 patients with advanced solid tumours, no significant 
influence of creatinine clearance (25-178 ml/min) was detected on CL/F of everolimus. Post-transplant 
renal impairment (creatinine clearance range 11-107 ml/min) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of 
everolimus in transplant patients. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
In patients with SEGA, everolimus Cmin was approximately dose-proportional within the dose range 
from 1.35 mg/m2 to 14.4 mg/m2. 
In patients with SEGA, the geometric mean Cmin values normalised to mg/m2 dose in patients aged 
<10 years and 10-18 years were lower by 54% and 40%, respectively, than those observed in adults 
(>18 years of age), suggesting that everolimus clearance was higher in younger patients. Limited data 
in patients <3 years of age (n=13) indicate that BSA-normalised clearance is about two-fold higher in 
patients with low BSA (BSA of 0.556 m2) than in adults. Therefore it is assumed that steady-state 
could be reached earlier in patients <3 years of age (see section 4.2 for dosing recommendations). 
The pharmacokinetics of everolimus have not been studied in patients younger than 1 year of age. It is 
reported, however, that CYP3A4 activity is reduced at birth and increases during the first year of life, 
which could affect the clearance in this patient population. 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis including 111 patients with SEGA who ranged from 1.0 to 
27.4 years (including 18 patients 1 to less than 3 years of age with BSA 0.42 m2 to 0.74 m2) showed 
that BSA-normalised clearance is in general higher in younger patients. Population pharmacokinetic 
model simulations showed that a starting dose of 7 mg/m2 would be necessary to attain Cmin within the 
5 to 15 ng/ml range in patients younger than 3 years of age. A higher starting dose of 7 mg/m2 is 
therefore recommended for patients 1 to less than 3 years of age with SEGA (see section 4.2). 
Elderly 
In a population pharmacokinetic evaluation in cancer patients, no significant influence of age 
(27-85 years) on oral clearance of everolimus was detected. 
Ethnicity 
Oral clearance (CL/F) is similar in Japanese and Caucasian cancer patients with similar liver 
functions. Based on analysis of population pharmacokinetics, oral clearance (CL/F) is on average 20% 
higher in black transplant patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The non-clinical safety profile of everolimus was assessed in mice, rats, minipigs, monkeys and 
rabbits. The major target organs were male and female reproductive systems (testicular tubular 
degeneration, reduced sperm content in epididymides and uterine atrophy) in several species; lungs 
(increased alveolar macrophages) in rats and mice; pancreas (degranulation and vacuolation of 
exocrine cells in monkeys and minipigs, respectively, and degeneration of islet cells in monkeys), and 
eyes (lenticular anterior suture line opacities) in rats only. Minor kidney changes were seen in the rat 
(exacerbation of age-related lipofuscin in tubular epithelium, increases in hydronephrosis) and mouse 
(exacerbation of background lesions). There was no indication of kidney toxicity in monkeys or 
minipigs. 
Everolimus appeared to spontaneously exacerbate background diseases (chronic myocarditis in rats, 
coxsackie virus infection of plasma and heart in monkeys, coccidian infestation of the gastrointestinal 
tract in minipigs, skin lesions in mice and monkeys). These findings were generally observed at 
systemic exposure levels within the range of therapeutic exposure or above, with the exception of the 
findings in rats, which occurred below therapeutic exposure due to a high tissue distribution. 
In a male fertility study in rats, testicular morphology was affected at 0.5 mg/kg and above, and sperm 
motility, sperm head count, and plasma testosterone levels were diminished at 5 mg/kg, which is 
within the range of therapeutic exposure and which caused a reduction in male fertility. There was 
evidence of reversibility. 
In animal reproductive studies female fertility was not affected. However, oral doses of everolimus in 
female rats at ≥ 0.1 mg/kg (approximately 4% of the AUC0-24h in patients receiving the 10 mg daily 
dose) resulted in increases in pre-implantation loss. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Everolimus crossed the placenta and was toxic to the foetus. In rats, everolimus caused 
embryo/foetotoxicity at systemic exposure below the therapeutic level. This was manifested as 
mortality and reduced foetal weight. The incidence of skeletal variations and malformations (e.g. 
sternal cleft) was increased at 0.3 and 0.9 mg/kg. In rabbits, embryotoxicity was evident in an increase 
in late resorptions. 
In juvenile rat toxicity studies, systemic toxicity included decreased body weight gain, food 
consumption, and delayed attainment of some developmental landmarks, with full or partial recovery 
after cessation of dosing. With the possible exception of the rat-specific lens finding (where young 
animals appeared to be more susceptible), it appears that there is no significant difference in the 
sensitivity of juvenile animals to the adverse reactions of everolimus as compared to adult animals. 
Toxicity study with juvenile monkeys did not show any relevant toxicity. 
Genotoxicity studies covering relevant genotoxicity endpoints showed no evidence of clastogenic or 
mutagenic activity. Administration of everolimus for up to 2 years did not indicate any oncogenic 
potential in mice and rats up to the highest doses, corresponding respectively to 4.3 and 0.2 times the 
estimated clinical exposure. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Butylated hydroxytoluene (E321) 
Magnesium stearate 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose 
Crospovidone type A 
Lactose anhydrous 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/polyamide/aluminium/PVC perforated unit-dose blister containing 10 x 1 tablets. 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
Packs containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 tablets. 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
Packs containing 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 tablets. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
Packs containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The extent of absorption of everolimus through topical exposure is not known. Therefore caregivers 
are advised to avoid contact with the suspension. Hands should be washed thoroughly before and after 
preparation of the suspension. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
EU/1/11/710/001-003 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
EU/1/11/710/004-005 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
EU/1/11/710/006-008 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 02 September 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 23 July 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
Each dispersible tablet contains 1 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each dispersible tablet contains 0.98 mg lactose. 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
Each dispersible tablet contains 2 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each dispersible tablet contains 1.96 mg lactose. 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
Each dispersible tablet contains 3 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each dispersible tablet contains 2.94 mg lactose. 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
Each dispersible tablet contains 5 mg everolimus. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each dispersible tablet contains 4.90 mg lactose. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Dispersible tablet. 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
White to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets of approximately 7.1 mm in diameter, with a bevelled 
edge and no score, engraved with “D1” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
White to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets of approximately 9.1 mm in diameter, with a bevelled 
edge and no score, engraved with “D2” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
White to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets of approximately 10.1 mm in diameter, with a bevelled 
edge and no score, engraved with “D3” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
White to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets of approximately 12.1 mm in diameter, with a bevelled 
edge and no score, engraved with “D5” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Refractory seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) 
Votubia is indicated as adjunctive treatment of patients aged 2 years and older whose refractory 
partial-onset seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, are associated with TSC. 
Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with TSC 
Votubia is indicated for the treatment of adult and paediatric patients with SEGA associated with TSC 
who require therapeutic intervention but are not amenable to surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in SEGA volume. Further clinical benefit, such as 
improvement in disease-related symptoms, has not been demonstrated. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment with Votubia should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients 
with TSC and therapeutic drug monitoring. 
Posology 
Careful titration may be required to obtain the optimal therapeutic effect. Doses that will be tolerated 
and effective vary between patients. Concomitant antiepileptic therapy may affect the metabolism of 
everolimus and may contribute to this variance (see section 4.5). 
Dosing is individualised based on Body Surface Area (BSA) using the Dubois formula, where weight 
(W) is in kilograms and height (H) is in centimetres: 
BSA = (W0.425 x H0.725) x 0.007184 
Starting dose and target trough concentrations in SEGA associated with TSC 
The recommended starting dose for Votubia for the treatment of patients with SEGA is 4.5 mg/m2. A 
higher starting dose of 7 mg/m2 is recommended for patients 1 to less than 3 years of age based on 
pharmacokinetic simulations (see section 5.2). Different strengths of Votubia dispersible tablets can be 
combined to attain the desired dose. 
Dosing recommendations for paediatric patients with SEGA are consistent with those for the adult 
SEGA population, except for patients in the range from 1 year to less than 3 years of age, and those 
with hepatic impairment (see section “Hepatic impairment” below and section 5.2). 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starting dose and target trough concentrations in TSC with refractory seizures 
The recommended starting dose for Votubia for the treatment of patients with seizures is shown in 
Table 1. Different strengths of Votubia dispersible tablets can be combined to attain the desired dose. 
Table 1 
Votubia starting dose for patients with TSC and refractory seizures 
Age 
<6 years 
≥6 years 
Starting dose without 
co-administration of 
CYP3A4/PgP inducer 
6 mg/m2 
5 mg/m2 
Starting dose with 
co-administration of 
CYP3A4/PgP inducer 
9 mg/m2 
8 mg/m2 
Dosing recommendations for paediatric patients with seizures are consistent with those for the adult 
population, except for patients in the range from 2 years to less than 6 years of age (see Table 1 
above), and those with hepatic impairment (see section “Hepatic impairment” below and section 5.2). 
Dose monitoring 
Everolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be assessed at least 1 week after commencing 
treatment. Dosing should be titrated to attain trough concentrations of 5 to 15 ng/ml. The dose may be 
increased to attain a higher trough concentration within the target range to obtain optimal efficacy, 
subject to tolerability. 
Titration 
Individualised dosing should be titrated by increasing the dose by increments of 1 to 4 mg to attain the 
target trough concentration for optimal clinical response. Efficacy, safety, concomitant therapy, and 
the current trough concentration should be considered when planning for dose titration. Individualised 
dose titration can be based on simple proportion: 
New everolimus dose = current dose x (target concentration / current concentration) 
For example, a patient’s current dose based on BSA is 4 mg with a steady-state concentration of 
4 ng/ml. In order to achieve a target concentration above the lower Cmin limit of 5 ng/ml, e.g. 8 ng/ml, 
the new everolimus dose would be 8 mg (an increase of 4 mg from the current daily dose). 
Long-term monitoring 
For patients with TSC who have SEGA, SEGA volume should be evaluated approximately 3 months 
after commencing Votubia therapy, with subsequent dose adjustments taking changes in SEGA 
volume, corresponding trough concentration, and tolerability into consideration. 
For patients with TSC who have SEGA and patients with TSC and refractory seizures, once a stable 
dose is attained, trough concentrations should be monitored every 3 to 6 months in patients with 
changing BSA, or every 6 to 12 months in patients with stable BSA, for the duration of treatment. 
Treatment should continue as long as clinical benefit is observed or until unacceptable toxicity occurs. 
If a dose is missed, the patient should not take an additional dose, but take the usual prescribed next 
dose. 
Dose adjustments due to adverse reactions 
Management of severe and/or intolerable suspected adverse reactions may require dose reduction 
and/or temporary interruption of Votubia therapy. For adverse reactions of Grade 1, dose adjustment is 
usually not required. If dose reduction is required, the recommended dose is approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. For dose reductions below the lowest available strength, 
alternate day dosing should be considered. 
Table 2 summarises dose adjustment recommendations for specific adverse reactions (see also 
section 4.4). 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 
Votubia dose adjustment recommendations 
Adverse reaction 
Non-infectious 
pneumonitis 
Severity1 
Grade 2 
Stomatitis 
Other 
non-haematological 
toxicities 
(excluding metabolic 
events) 
Metabolic events 
(e.g. 
hyperglycaemia, 
dyslipidaemia) 
Thrombocytopenia 
Neutropenia 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
Grade 3 
Grade 4 
Grade 2 
(<75, ≥50x109/l) 
Grade 3 & 4 
(<50x109/l) 
Grade 2 
(≥1x109/l) 
Grade 3 
(<1, ≥0.5x109/l) 
Grade 4 
(<0.5x109/l) 
Votubia dose adjustment 
Consider interruption of therapy until symptoms improve to 
Grade 1. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue treatment if failure to recover within 4 weeks. 
Interrupt Votubia until symptoms resolve to Grade 1. 
Consider re-initiating Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. If toxicity 
recurs at Grade 3, consider discontinuation. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1. 
Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
If stomatitis recurs at Grade 2, interrupt dose until recovery 
to Grade 1. Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% 
lower than the daily dose previously administered. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
If toxicity is tolerable, no dose adjustment required. 
If toxicity becomes intolerable, temporary dose interruption 
until recovery to Grade 1. Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
If toxicity recurs at Grade 2, interrupt Votubia until recovery 
to Grade 1. Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% 
lower than the daily dose previously administered. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1. 
Consider re-initiating Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. If toxicity 
recurs at Grade 3, consider discontinuation. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
No dose adjustment required. 
Temporary dose interruption. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1 
(≥75x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 1 
(≥75x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. 
No dose adjustment required. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 2 
(≥1x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at same dose. 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 2 
(≥1x109/l). Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower 
than the daily dose previously administered. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Febrile neutropenia 
Grade 3 
Temporary dose interruption until recovery to Grade 2 
(≥1.25x109/l) and no fever. 
Re-initiate Votubia at approximately 50% lower than the 
daily dose previously administered. 
Discontinue Votubia. 
Grading based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse 
Events (CTCAE) v3.0 
Grade 4 
1 
Therapeutic drug monitoring 
Therapeutic drug monitoring of everolimus blood concentrations, using a validated assay, is required. 
Trough concentrations should be assessed at least 1 week after the initial dose, after any change in 
dose or pharmaceutical form, after initiation of or change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inhibitors 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.5) or after any change in hepatic status (Child-Pugh) (see “Hepatic 
impairment” below and section 5.2). Trough concentrations should be assessed 2 to 4 weeks after 
initiation of or change in co-administration of CYP3A4 inducers (see sections 4.4 and 4.5) since the 
natural degradation time of the induced enzymes has to be taken into account. When possible, the 
same assay and laboratory for therapeutic drug monitoring should be used throughout the treatment. 
Switching pharmaceutical forms 
Votubia is available in two pharmaceutical forms: tablets and dispersible tablets. Votubia tablets and 
Votubia dispersible tablets are not to be used interchangeably. The two pharmaceutical forms must not 
be combined to achieve the desired dose. The same pharmaceutical form must be used consistently, as 
appropriate for the indication being treated. 
When switching pharmaceutical forms, the dose should be adjusted to the closest milligram strength of 
the new pharmaceutical form and the everolimus trough concentration should be assessed at least 
1 week later (see section “Therapeutic drug monitoring” above). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Patients <18 years of age: 
Votubia is not recommended for patients <18 years of age with SEGA or refractory seizures and 
hepatic impairment. 
Patients ≥18 years of age: 
• 
• 
• 
Mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A): 75% of the recommended starting dose calculated 
based on BSA (rounded to the nearest strength) 
Moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh B): 50% of the recommended starting dose 
calculated based on BSA (rounded to the nearest strength) 
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C): Votubia is only recommended if the desired benefit 
outweighs the risk. In this case, 25% of the dose calculated based on BSA (rounded to the 
nearest strength) must not be exceeded. 
Everolimus whole blood trough concentrations should be assessed at least 1 week after any change in 
hepatic status (Child-Pugh). 
Paediatric population 
The safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetic profile of Votubia in children below the age of 1 year with 
TSC who have SEGA have not been established. No data are available (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetic profile of Votubia has not been established in children below 
the age of 2 years with TSC and refractory seizures. Currently available data are described in 
section 5.2, but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Clinical study results did not show an impact of Votubia on growth and pubertal development. 
Method of administration 
Votubia must be administered orally once daily at the same time every day, consistently either with or 
without food (see section 5.2). 
Votubia dispersible tablets are to be taken as a suspension only and must not be swallowed whole, 
chewed, or crushed. The suspension can be prepared either in an oral syringe or in a small glass. Care 
should be taken to ensure the entire dose is ingested. 
The suspension must be administered immediately after preparation. If not administered within 
30 minutes of preparation when using an oral syringe or 60 minutes when using a small glass, the 
suspension must be discarded and a new suspension must be prepared (see section 6.3). Only water 
should be used as the vehicle. 
For further details on handling, see section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to other rapamycin derivatives or to any of the excipients 
listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Non-infectious pneumonitis 
Non-infectious pneumonitis is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives, including everolimus. 
Non-infectious pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease) was described very commonly in 
patients taking everolimus in the advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) setting (see section 4.8). Some 
cases were severe and on rare occasions, a fatal outcome was observed. A diagnosis of non-infectious 
pneumonitis should be considered in patients presenting with non-specific respiratory signs and 
symptoms such as hypoxia, pleural effusion, cough or dyspnoea, and in whom infectious, neoplastic 
and other non-medicinal causes have been excluded by means of appropriate investigations. 
Opportunistic infections such as pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) should be 
ruled out in the differential diagnosis of non-infectious pneumonitis (see section “Infections” below). 
Patients should be advised to report promptly any new or worsening respiratory symptoms. 
Patients who develop radiological changes suggestive of non-infectious pneumonitis and have few or 
no symptoms may continue Votubia therapy without dose adjustments. If symptoms are moderate, 
consideration should be given to interruption of therapy until symptoms improve. The use of 
corticosteroids may be indicated. Votubia may be reinitiated at a daily dose approximately 50% lower 
than the dose previously administered. 
For cases where symptoms of non-infectious pneumonitis are severe, Votubia therapy should be 
discontinued and the use of corticosteroids may be indicated until clinical symptoms resolve. Votubia 
may be reinitiated at a daily dose approximately 50% lower than the dose previously administered 
depending on the individual clinical circumstances. 
For patients who require use of corticosteroids for treatment of non-infectious pneumonitis, 
prophylaxis for pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) may be considered. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Everolimus has immunosuppressive properties and may predispose patients to bacterial, fungal, viral 
or protozoal infections, including infections with opportunistic pathogens (see section 4.8). Localised 
and systemic infections, including pneumonia, other bacterial infections, invasive fungal infections 
such as aspergillosis, candidiasis or pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) and viral 
infections including reactivation of hepatitis B virus, have been described in patients taking 
everolimus. Some of these infections have been severe (e.g. leading to sepsis [including septic shock], 
respiratory or hepatic failure) and occasionally fatal in adult and paediatric patients (see section 4.8). 
Physicians and patients should be aware of the increased risk of infection with Votubia. Pre-existing 
infections should be treated appropriately and should have resolved fully before starting treatment 
with Votubia. While taking Votubia, be vigilant for symptoms and signs of infection; if a diagnosis of 
infection is made, institute appropriate treatment promptly and consider interruption or discontinuation 
of Votubia. 
If a diagnosis of invasive systemic fungal infection is made, Votubia treatment should be promptly and 
permanently discontinued and the patient treated with appropriate antifungal therapy. 
Cases of pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP), some with fatal outcome, have been 
reported in patients who received everolimus. PJP/PCP may be associated with concomitant use of 
corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents. Prophylaxis for PJP/PCP should be considered 
when concomitant use of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents are required. 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
Hypersensitivity reactions manifested by symptoms including, but not limited to, anaphylaxis, 
dyspnoea, flushing, chest pain or angioedema (e.g. swelling of the airways or tongue, with or without 
respiratory impairment) have been observed with everolimus (see section 4.3). 
Concomitant use of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors 
Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor (e.g. ramipril) therapy may be at increased risk for 
angioedema (e.g. swelling of the airways or tongue, with or without respiratory impairment) (see 
section 4.5). 
Stomatitis 
Stomatitis, including mouth ulcerations and oral mucositis, is the most commonly reported adverse 
reaction in patients treated with Votubia (see section 4.8). Stomatitis mostly occurs within the first 
8 weeks of treatment. A single-arm study in postmenopausal breast cancer patients treated with 
Afinitor (everolimus) plus exemestane suggested that an alcohol-free corticosteroid oral solution, 
administered as a mouthwash during the initial 8 weeks of treatment, may decrease the incidence and 
severity of stomatitis (see section 5.1). Management of stomatitis may therefore include prophylactic 
(in adults) and/or therapeutic use of topical treatments, such as an alcohol-free corticosteroid oral 
solution as a mouthwash. However products containing alcohol, hydrogen peroxide, iodine and thyme 
derivatives should be avoided as they may exacerbate the condition. Monitoring for and treatment of 
fungal infection is recommended, especially in patients being treated with steroid-based medicinal 
products. Antifungal agents should not be used unless fungal infection has been diagnosed (see 
section 4.5). 
Haemorrhage 
Serious cases of haemorrhage, some with a fatal outcome, have been reported in patients treated with 
everolimus in the oncology setting. No serious cases of renal haemorrhage were reported in the TSC 
setting. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Caution is advised in patients taking Votubia, particularly during concomitant use with active 
substances known to affect platelet function or that can increase the risk of haemorrhage as well as in 
patients with a history of bleeding disorders. Healthcare professionals and patients should be vigilant 
for signs and symptoms of bleeding throughout the treatment period, especially if risk factors for 
haemorrhage are combined. 
Renal failure events 
Cases of renal failure (including acute renal failure), some with a fatal outcome, have been observed in 
patients treated with Votubia (see section 4.8). Renal function of patients should be monitored 
particularly where patients have additional risk factors that may further impair renal function. 
Laboratory tests and monitoring 
Renal function 
Elevations of serum creatinine, usually mild, and proteinuria have been reported in patients treated 
with Votubia (see section 4.8). Monitoring of renal function, including measurement of blood urea 
nitrogen (BUN), urinary protein or serum creatinine, is recommended prior to the start of Votubia 
therapy and periodically thereafter. 
Blood glucose 
Hyperglycaemia has been reported in patients taking Votubia (see section 4.8). Monitoring of fasting 
serum glucose is recommended prior to the start of Votubia therapy and periodically thereafter. More 
frequent monitoring is recommended when Votubia is co-administered with other medicinal products 
that may induce hyperglycaemia. When possible optimal glycaemic control should be achieved before 
starting a patient on Votubia. 
Blood lipids 
Dyslipidaemia (including hypercholesterolaemia and hypertriglyceridaemia) has been reported in 
patients taking Votubia. Monitoring of blood cholesterol and triglycerides prior to the start of Votubia 
therapy and periodically thereafter, as well as management with appropriate medical therapy, is also 
recommended. 
Haematological parameters 
Decreased haemoglobin, lymphocytes, neutrophils and platelets have been reported in patients treated 
with Votubia (see section 4.8). Monitoring of complete blood count is recommended prior to the start 
of Votubia therapy and periodically thereafter. 
Interactions 
Co-administration with inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 and/or the multidrug efflux pump 
P-glycoprotein (PgP) should be avoided. If co-administration of a moderate CYP3A4 and/or PgP 
inhibitor or inducer cannot be avoided, the clinical condition of the patient should be monitored 
closely. Monitoring of everolimus through concentrations and dose adjustments of Votubia may be 
required (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant treatment with potent CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors result in dramatically increased blood 
concentrations of everolimus (see section 4.5). There are currently not sufficient data to allow dosing 
recommendations in this situation. Hence, concomitant treatment of Votubia and potent inhibitors is 
not recommended. 
Caution should be exercised when Votubia is taken in combination with orally administered CYP3A4 
substrates with a narrow therapeutic index due to the potential for drug interactions. If Votubia is 
taken with orally administered CYP3A4 substrates with a narrow therapeutic index (e.g. pimozide, 
terfenadine, astemizole, cisapride, quinidine, ergot alkaloid derivatives or carbamazepine), the patient 
should be monitored for undesirable effects described in the product information of the orally 
administered CYP3A4 substrate (see section 4.5). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Votubia is not recommended for use in patients: 
• 
≥18 years of age with SEGA or refractory seizures and concomitant severe hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh C) unless the potential benefit outweighs the risk (see sections 4.2 and 
5.2). 
<18 years of age with SEGA or refractory seizures and concomitant hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh A, B and C) (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
• 
Vaccinations 
The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with Votubia (see section 4.5). For 
paediatric patients who do not require immediate treatment, completion of the recommended 
childhood series of live virus vaccinations is advised prior to the start of therapy according to local 
treatment guidelines. 
Wound healing complications 
Impaired wound healing is a class effect of rapamycin derivatives, including Votubia. Caution should 
therefore be exercised with the use of Votubia in the peri-surgical period. 
Lactose 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
Radiation therapy complications 
Serious and severe radiation reactions (such as radiation oesophagitis, radiation pneumonitis and 
radiation skin injury), including fatal cases, have been reported when everolimus was taken during, or 
shortly after, radiation therapy. Caution should therefore be exercised for the potentiation of 
radiotherapy toxicity in patients taking everolimus in close temporal relationship with radiation 
therapy. 
Additionally, radiation recall syndrome (RRS) has been reported in patients taking everolimus who 
had received radiation therapy in the past. In the event of RRS, interrupting or stopping everolimus 
treatment should be considered. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4, and also a substrate and moderate inhibitor of PgP. Therefore, 
absorption and subsequent elimination of everolimus may be influenced by products that affect 
CYP3A4 and/or PgP. In vitro, everolimus is a competitive inhibitor of CYP3A4 and a mixed inhibitor 
of CYP2D6. 
Known and theoretical interactions with selected inhibitors and inducers of CYP3A4 and PgP are 
listed in Table 3 below. 
CYP3A4 and PgP inhibitors increasing everolimus concentrations 
Substances that are inhibitors of CYP3A4 or PgP may increase everolimus blood concentrations by 
decreasing metabolism or the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CYP3A4 and PgP inducers decreasing everolimus concentrations 
Substances that are inducers of CYP3A4 or PgP may decrease everolimus blood concentrations by 
increasing metabolism or the efflux of everolimus from intestinal cells. 
Table 3 
Effects of other active substances on everolimus 
Active substance by 
interaction 
Interaction – Change in 
Everolimus AUC/Cmax 
Geometric mean ratio 
(observed range) 
Potent CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors 
Ketoconazole 
AUC ↑15.3-fold 
(range 11.2-22.5) 
Cmax ↑4.1-fold 
(range 2.6-7.0) 
Not studied. Large increase in 
everolimus concentration is 
expected. 
Itraconazole, posaconazole, 
voriconazole 
Telithromycin, 
clarithromycin 
Nefazodone 
Ritonavir, atazanavir, 
saquinavir, darunavir, 
indinavir, nelfinavir 
Moderate CYP3A4/PgP inhibitors 
Erythromycin 
Imatinib 
Verapamil 
AUC ↑4.4-fold 
(range 2.0-12.6) 
Cmax ↑2.0-fold 
(range 0.9-3.5) 
AUC ↑ 3.7-fold 
Cmax ↑ 2.2-fold 
AUC ↑3.5-fold 
(range 2.2-6.3) 
Cmax ↑2.3-fold 
(range1.3-3.8) 
AUC ↑2.7-fold 
(range 1.5-4.7) 
Cmax ↑1.8-fold 
(range 1.3-2.6) 
Cannabidiol (PgP inhibitor)  AUC ↑2.5-fold 
Cmax ↑2.5-fold 
Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected. 
Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected. 
Fluconazole 
Diltiazem 
Dronedarone 
Ciclosporin oral 
Amprenavir, fosamprenavir  Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected. 
Grapefruit juice or other 
food affecting CYP3A4/PgP 
Not studied. Increased exposure 
expected (the effect varies 
widely). 
39 
Recommendations concerning 
co-administration 
Concomitant treatment of Votubia 
and potent inhibitors is not 
recommended. 
Use caution when co-administration 
of moderate CYP3A4 inhibitors or 
PgP inhibitors cannot be avoided. 
If patients require co-administration 
of a moderate CYP3A4 or PgP 
inhibitor, reduce the daily dose by 
approximately 50%. Further dose 
reduction may be required to manage 
adverse reactions (see sections 4.2 
and 4.4). Everolimus trough 
concentrations should be assessed at 
least 1 week after the addition of a 
moderate CYP3A4 or PgP inhibitor. 
If the moderate inhibitor is 
discontinued, consider a washout 
period of at least 2 to 3 days 
(average elimination time for most 
commonly used moderate inhibitors) 
before the Votubia dose is returned 
to the dose used prior to initiation of 
the co-administration. The 
everolimus trough concentration 
should be assessed at least 1 week 
later (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Combination should be avoided. 
 
 
 
 
 
Avoid the use of concomitant potent 
CYP3A4 inducers. 
SEGA patients receiving 
concomitant potent CYP3A4 
inducers may require an increased 
Votubia dose to achieve the same 
exposure as patients not taking 
potent inducers. Dosing should be 
titrated to attain trough 
concentrations of 5 to 15 ng/ml as 
described below. 
Patients with seizures receiving 
concomitant strong CYP3A4 
inducers (e.g., enzyme inducing 
antiepileptics carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, and phenytoin) at the 
start of treatment with everolimus 
require an increased starting dose to 
attain trough concentrations of 5 to 
15 ng/ml (see Table 1). 
For patients not receiving 
concomitant strong inducers at the 
start of everolimus treatment, the 
co-administration may require an 
increased Votubia dose. If 
concentrations are below 5 ng/ml, 
the daily dose may be increased by 
increments of 1 to 4 mg, checking 
the trough level and assessing 
tolerability before increasing the 
dose. 
The addition of another concomitant 
strong CYP3A4 inducer may not 
require additional dose adjustment. 
Assess the everolimus trough level 
2 weeks after initiating the additional 
inducer. Adjust the dose by 
increments of 1 to 4 mg as necessary 
to maintain the target trough 
concentration. 
Potent and moderate CYP3A4 inducers 
Rifampicin 
Dexamethasone 
Antiepileptics (e.g. 
carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, phenytoin) 
Efavirenz, nevirapine 
AUC ↓63% 
(range 0-80%) 
Cmax ↓58% 
(range 10-70%) 
Not studied. Decreased 
exposure expected. 
Not studied. Decreased 
exposure expected. 
Not studied. Decreased 
exposure expected. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation of one of multiple 
strong CYP3A4 inducers may not 
require additional dose adjustment. 
Assess the everolimus trough level 
2 weeks after discontinuation of one 
of multiple strong CYP3A4 
inducers. If all potent inducers are 
discontinued, consider a washout 
period of at least 3 to 5 days 
(reasonable time for significant 
enzyme de-induction) before the 
Votubia dose is returned to the dose 
used prior to initiation of the 
co-administration. The everolimus 
trough concentrations should be 
assessed 2 to 4 weeks later since the 
natural degradation time of the 
induced enzymes has to be taken into 
account (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Preparations containing St John’s 
Wort should not be used during 
treatment with everolimus 
St John’s Wort (Hypericum 
perforatum) 
Not studied. Large decrease in 
exposure expected. 
Agents whose plasma concentration may be altered by everolimus 
Based on in vitro results, the systemic concentrations obtained after oral daily doses of 10 mg make 
inhibition of PgP, CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 unlikely. However, inhibition of CYP3A4 and PgP in the 
gut cannot be excluded. An interaction study in healthy subjects demonstrated that co-administration 
of an oral dose of midazolam, a sensitive CYP3A substrate probe, with everolimus resulted in a 25% 
increase in midazolam Cmax and a 30% increase in midazolam AUC(0-inf). The effect is likely to be due 
to inhibition of intestinal CYP3A4 by everolimus. Hence everolimus may affect the bioavailability of 
orally co-administered CYP3A4 substrates. However, a clinically relevant effect on the exposure of 
systemically administered CYP3A4 substrates is not expected (see section 4.4). 
In EXIST-3 (Study CRAD001M2304), everolimus increased pre-dose concentrations of the 
antiepileptics carbamazepine, clobazam, and the clobazam metabolite N-desmethylclobazam by about 
10%. The increase in the pre-dose concentrations of these antiepileptics may not be clinically 
significant but dose adjustments for antiepileptics with a narrow therapeutic index, e.g carbamazepine, 
may be considered. Everolimus had no impact on pre-dose concentrations of antiepileptics that are 
substrates of CYP3A4 (clonazepam, diazepam, felbamate and zonisamide). 
Concomitant use of ACE inhibitors 
Patients taking concomitant ACE inhibitor (e.g. ramipril) therapy may be at increased risk for 
angioedema (see section 4.4). 
Concomitant ketogenic diet 
The effect of a ketogenic diet may be mediated through mTOR inhibition. In the absence of clinical 
data, the possibility of an additive effect on adverse events cannot be excluded when everolimus is 
given in conjunction with a ketogenic diet. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vaccinations 
The immune response to vaccination may be affected and, therefore, vaccination may be less effective 
during treatment with Votubia. The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment with 
Votubia. Examples of live vaccines are: intranasal influenza, measles, mumps, rubella, oral polio, 
BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin), yellow fever, varicella, and TY21a typhoid vaccines. 
Radiation treatment 
Potentiation of radiation treatment toxicity has been reported in patients receiving everolimus (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Women of childbearing potential must use a highly effective method of contraception (e.g. oral, 
injected, or implanted non-oestrogen-containing hormonal method of birth control, progesterone-based 
contraceptives, hysterectomy, tubal ligation, complete abstinence, barrier methods, intrauterine device 
[IUD], and/or female/male sterilisation) while receiving everolimus, and for up to 8 weeks after 
ending treatment. 
Male patients should not be prohibited from attempting to father children. 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the use of everolimus in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity effects including embryotoxicity and foetotoxicity (see section 5.3). The 
potential risk for humans is unknown. 
Everolimus is not recommended during pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether everolimus is excreted in human breast milk. However, in rats, everolimus 
and/or its metabolites readily pass into the milk (see section 5.3). Therefore, women taking everolimus 
should not breast-feed during treatment and for 2 weeks after the last dose. 
Fertility 
The potential for everolimus to cause infertility in male and female patients is unknown, however 
secondary amenorrhoea and associated luteinising hormone (LH)/follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) 
imbalance has been observed in female patients (see also section 5.3 for preclinical observations on 
the male and female reproductive systems). Based on non-clinical findings, male and female fertility 
may be compromised by treatment with everolimus (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Votubia has minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
advised to be cautious when driving or using machines if they experience fatigue during treatment 
with Votubia. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Three randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled pivotal phase III studies, including double-blind 
and open label treatment periods, and a non-randomised, open-label, single-arm phase II study 
contribute to the safety profile of Votubia (n=612, including 409 patients <18 years of age; median 
duration of exposure 36.8 months [range 0.5 to 83.2]). 
• 
EXIST-3 (CRAD001M2304): This was a randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III trial 
comparing adjunctive treatment of low and high everolimus exposure (low trough [LT] range of 
3-7 ng/ml [n=117] and high trough [HT] range of 9-15 ng/ml [n=130]) versus placebo (n=119), 
in patients with TSC and refractory partial-onset seizures receiving 1 to 3 antiepileptics. The 
median duration of the double-blind period was 18 weeks. The cumulative median duration 
exposure to Votubia (361 patients who took at least one dose of everolimus) was 30.4 months 
(range 0.5 to 48.8). 
EXIST-2 (CRAD001M2302): This was a randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III trial of 
everolimus (n=79) versus placebo (n=39) in patients with either TSC plus renal 
angiomyolipoma (n=113) or sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis (LAM) plus renal 
angiomyolipoma (n=5). The median duration of blinded study treatment was 48.1 weeks (range 
2 to 115) for patients receiving Votubia and 45.0 weeks (range 9 to 115) for those receiving 
placebo. The cumulative median duration of exposure to Votubia (112 patients who took at least 
one dose of everolimus) was 46.9 months (range 0.5 to 63.9). 
EXIST-1 (CRAD001M2301): This was a randomised, double-blind, controlled, phase III trial of 
everolimus (n=78) versus placebo (n=39) in patients with TSC who have SEGA, irrespective of 
age. The median duration of blinded study treatment was 52.2 weeks (range 24 to 89) for 
patients receiving Votubia and 46.6 weeks (range 14 to 88) for those receiving placebo. The 
cumulative median duration of exposure to Votubia (111 patients who took at least one dose of 
everolimus) was 47.1 months (range 1.9 to 58.3). 
CRAD001C2485: This was a prospective, open-label, single-arm phase II study of everolimus 
in patients with SEGA (n=28). The median duration of exposure was 67.8 months (range 4.7 to 
83.2). 
• 
• 
• 
The adverse events considered to be associated with the use of Votubia (adverse reactions), based 
upon the review and medical assessment of all adverse events reported in the above studies, are 
described below. 
The most frequent adverse reactions (incidence ≥1/10) from the pooled safety data are (in decreasing 
order): stomatitis, pyrexia, nasopharyngitis, diarrhoea, upper respiratory tract infection, vomiting, 
cough, rash, headache, amenorrhoea, acne, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, sinusitis, menstruation 
irregular, pharyngitis, decreased appetite, fatigue, hypercholesterolaemia, and hypertension. 
The most frequent grade 3-4 adverse reactions (incidence ≥1%) were pneumonia, stomatitis, 
amenorrhoea, neutropenia, pyrexia, menstruation irregular, hypophosphataemia, diarrhoea, and 
cellulitis. The grades follow CTCAE Version 3.0 and 4.03. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 4 shows the incidence of adverse reactions based on pooled data of patients receiving 
everolimus in the three TSC studies (including both the double-blind and open-label extension phase, 
where applicable). Adverse reactions are listed according to MedDRA system organ class. Frequency 
categories are defined using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to 
<1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare (<1/10,000); not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 4 
Adverse reactions reported in TSC studies 
Infections and infestations 
Very common  Nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia a, urinary tract 
infection, sinusitis, pharyngitis 
Otitis media, cellulitis, pharyngitis streptococcal, gastroenteritis viral, gingivitis 
Herpes zoster, sepsis, bronchitis viral 
Anaemia, neutropenia, leucopenia, thrombocytopenia, lymphopenia 
Hypertriglyceridaemia, hyperlipidaemia, hypophosphataemia, hyperglycaemia 
Hypersensitivity 
Insomnia, aggression, irritability 
Common 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common  Decreased appetite, hypercholesterolaemia 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common  Headache 
Dysgeusia 
Uncommon 
Vascular disorders 
Very common  Hypertension 
Common 
Lymphoedema 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common  Cough 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common  Stomatitis b, diarrhoea, vomiting 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common  Rash c, acne 
Common 
Uncommon 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Rhabdomyolysis 
Uncommon 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common 
Proteinuria 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Very common  Amenorrhoea d, menstruation irregular d 
Common 
Uncommon 
Epistaxis, pneumonitis 
Menorrhagia, ovarian cyst, vaginal haemorrhage 
Menstruation delayed d 
Dry skin, acneiform dermatitis, pruritus, alopecia 
Angioedema 
44 
Constipation, nausea, abdominal pain, flatulence, oral pain, gastritis 
 
 
 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common  Pyrexia, fatigue 
Investigations 
Common 
Blood lactate dehydrogenase increased, blood luteinising hormone increased, 
weight decreased 
Blood follicle stimulating hormone increased 
Uncommon 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Not knowne 
a 
b 
Radiation recall syndrome, potentation of radiation reaction 
Includes pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP) 
Includes (very common) stomatitis, mouth ulceration, aphthous ulcer; (common) tongue 
ulceration, lip ulceration and (uncommon) gingival pain, glossitis 
Includes (very common) rash; (common) rash erythematous, erythema, and (uncommon) rash 
generalised, rash maculo-papular, rash macular 
Frequency based upon number of women from 10 to 55 years of age while on treatment in the 
pooled data 
Adverse reaction identified in the post-marketing setting. 
c 
d 
e 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In clinical studies, everolimus has been associated with serious cases of hepatitis B reactivation, 
including fatal outcome. Reactivation of infection is an expected reaction during periods of 
immunosuppression. 
In clinical studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports, everolimus has been associated with renal 
failure events (including fatal outcome), proteinuria and increased serum creatinine. Monitoring of 
renal function is recommended (see section 4.4). 
In clinical studies, everolimus has been associated with haemorrhage events. On rare occasions, fatal 
outcomes were observed in the oncology setting (see section 4.4). No serious cases of renal 
haemorrhage were reported in the TSC setting. 
In clinical studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports, everolimus has been associated with cases 
of pneumocystis jirovecii (carinii) pneumonia (PJP, PCP), some with fatal outcome (see section 4.4). 
Additional adverse reactions of relevance observed in oncology clinical studies and post-marketing 
spontaneous reports, were cardiac failure, pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, impaired 
wound healing and hyperglycaemia. 
In clinical studies and post-marketing spontaneous reports, angioedema has been reported with and 
without concomitant use of ACE inhibitors (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
In the pivotal phase II study, 22 of the 28 SEGA patients studied were below the age of 18 years and 
in the pivotal phase III study, 101 of the 117 SEGA patients studied were below the age of 18 years. In 
the pivotal phase III study in patients with TSC and refractory seizures, 299 of the 366 patients studied 
were below the age of 18 years. The overall type, frequency and severity of adverse reactions observed 
in children and adolescents have been generally consistent with those observed in adults, with the 
exception of infections which were reported at a higher frequency and severity in children below the 
age of 6 years. A total of 49 out of 137 patients (36%) aged <6 years had Grade 3/4 infections, 
compared to 53 out of 272 patients (19%) aged 6 to <18 years and 27 out of 203 patients (13%) aged 
≥18 years. Two fatal cases due to infection were reported in 409 patients aged <18 years receiving 
everolimus. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
In the oncology safety pooling, 37% of the patients treated with everolimus were ≥65 years of age. 
The number of oncology patients with an adverse reaction leading to discontinuation of everolimus 
was higher in patients ≥65 years of age (20% versus 13%). The most common adverse reactions 
leading to discontinuation were pneumonitis (including interstitial lung disease), fatigue, dyspnoea, 
and stomatitis. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Reported experience with overdose in humans is very limited. Single doses of up to 70 mg have been 
given with acceptable acute tolerability in the adult population. 
It is essential to assess everolimus blood levels in cases of suspected overdose. General supportive 
measures should be initiated in all cases of overdose. Everolimus is not considered dialysable to any 
relevant degree (less than 10% was removed within 6 hours of haemodialysis). 
Paediatric population 
A limited number of paediatric patients have been exposed to doses higher than 10 mg/m2/day. No 
signs of acute toxicity have been reported in these cases. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors, ATC code: L01EG02 
Mechanism of action 
Everolimus is a selective mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor. mTOR is a key 
serine-threonine kinase, the activity of which is known to be upregulated in a number of human 
cancers. Everolimus binds to the intracellular protein FKBP-12, forming a complex that inhibits 
mTOR complex-1 (mTORC1) activity. Inhibition of the mTORC1 signalling pathway interferes with 
the translation and synthesis of proteins by reducing the activity of S6 ribosomal protein kinase 
(S6K1) and eukaryotic elongation factor 4E-binding protein (4EBP-1) that regulate proteins involved 
in the cell cycle, angiogenesis and glycolysis. Everolimus can reduce levels of vascular endothelial 
growth factor (VEGF). In patients with TSC, treatment with everolimus increases VEGF-A and 
decreases VEGF-D levels. Everolimus is a potent inhibitor of the growth and proliferation of tumour 
cells, endothelial cells, fibroblasts and blood-vessel-associated smooth muscle cells and has been 
shown to reduce glycolysis in solid tumours in vitro and in vivo. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two primary regulators of mTORC1 signalling are the oncogene suppressors tuberin-sclerosis 
complexes 1 & 2 (TSC1, TSC2). Loss of either TSC1 or TSC2 leads to elevated rheb-GTP levels, a 
ras family GTPase, which interacts with the mTORC1 complex to cause its activation. mTORC1 
activation leads to a downstream kinase signalling cascade, including activation of the S6 kinases. In 
TSC syndrome, inactivating mutations in the TSC1 or the TSC2 gene lead to hamartoma formation 
throughout the body. Besides pathological changes in brain tissue (such as cortical tubers) which may 
cause seizures, the mTOR pathway is also implicated in the pathogenesis of epilepsy in TSC. The 
mTOR regulates protein synthesis and multiple downstream cellular functions that may influence 
neuronal excitability and epileptogenesis. Overactivation of mTOR results in neuronal dysplasia, 
aberrant axonogenesis and dendrite formation, increased excitatory synaptic currents, reduced 
myelination, and disruption of the cortical laminar structure causing abnormalities in neuronal 
development and function. Preclinical studies in models of mTOR dysregulation in the brain 
demonstrated that treatment with an mTOR inhibitor such as everolimus could prolong survival, 
suppress seizures, prevent the development of new-onset seizures and prevent premature death. In 
summary, everolimus is highly active in this neuronal model of TSC, with benefit apparently 
attributable to effects on mTORC1 inhibition. However, the exact mechanism of action in the 
reduction of seizures associated with TSC is not fully elucidated. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Phase III study in patients with TSC and refractory seizures 
EXIST-3 (Study CRAD001M2304), a randomised, double-blind, multicentre, three-arm, 
parallel-group phase III study of Votubia versus placebo as adjunctive therapy was conducted in TSC 
patients with refractory partial-onset seizures. In the study, partial-onset seizures were defined as all 
electroencephalogram (EEG)-confirmed sensory seizures or motor seizures in which a generalised 
onset had not been demonstrated on a past EEG. Patients were treated with concomitant and stable 
dose of 1 to 3 antiepileptics prior to study entry. The study consisted of three phases: an 8-week 
baseline observation phase; an 18-week double-blind, placebo-controlled core treatment phase 
(composed of titration and maintenance periods), an extension phase of ≥48 weeks in which all 
patients received Votubia and a post-extension phase of ≤48 weeks in which all patients received 
Votubia. 
The study independently tested two different primary endpoints: 1) response rate defined as at least a 
50% reduction from baseline in frequency of partial-onset seizures during the maintenance period of 
the core phase; and 2) percentage reduction from baseline in frequency of partial-onset seizures during 
the maintenance period of the core phase. 
Secondary endpoints included seizure freedom, proportion of patients with >25% seizure frequency 
reduction from baseline, distribution of reduction from baseline in seizure frequency (≤-25%, >-25% 
to <25%; ≥25% to <50%; ≥50% to <75%; ≥75% to <100%; 100%), long-term evaluation of seizure 
frequency and overall quality of life. 
A total of 366 patients were randomised in a 1:1.09:1 ratio to Votubia (n=117) low trough (LT) range 
(3 to 7 ng/ml), Votubia (n=130) high trough (HT) range (9 to 15 ng/ml) or placebo (n=119). The 
median age for the total population was 10.1 years (range: 2.2-56.3; 28.4% <6 years, 30.9% 6 to 
<12 years, 22.4% 12 to <18 years and 18.3% >18 years). Median duration of treatment was 18 weeks 
for all three arms in the core phase and 90 weeks (21 months) when considering both the core and 
extension phases. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At baseline, 19.4% of patients had focal seizures with retained awareness (sensory previously 
confirmed on EEG or motor), 45.1% had focal seizures with impaired awareness (predominantly 
non-motor), 69.1% had focal motor seizures (i.e. focal motor seizures with impaired awareness and/or 
secondary generalised seizures), and 1.6% had generalised onset seizures (previously confirmed by 
EEG). The median baseline seizure frequency across the treatment arms was 35, 38, and 42 seizures 
per 28 days for the Votubia LT, Votubia HT, and placebo groups, respectively. The majority of 
patients (67%) failed 5 or more antiepileptics prior to the study and 41.0% and 47.8% of patients were 
taking 2 and ≥3 antiepileptics during the study. The baseline data indicated mild to moderate mental 
retardation in patients 6-18 years of age (scores of 60-70 on the Adaptive Behavior Composite and 
Communication, Daily Living Skills, and Socialization Domain Scores). 
The efficacy results for the primary endpoint are summarised in Table 5. 
Table 5 
EXIST-3 – Seizure frequency response rate (primary endpoint) 
Statistic 
Responders – n (%) 
  Response rate 95% CI a 
Odds ratio (versus placebo) b 
95% CI 
p-value (versus placebo) c 
  Statistically significant per Bonferroni-Holm 
procedure d 
Votubia 
Placebo 
LT target of 
3-7 ng/ml 
N=117 
33 (28.2) 
20.3, 37.3 
2.21 
1.16, 4.20 
0.008 
Yes 
HT target of 
9-15 ng/ml 
N=130 
52 (40.0) 
31.5, 49.0 
3.93 
2.10, 7.32 
<0.001 
Yes 
N=119 
18 (15.1) 
9.2, 22.8 
Non-responders – n (%) 
a Exact 95% CI obtained using Clopper-Pearson method 
b Odds ratio and its 95% CI obtained using logistic regression stratified by age subgroup. Odds ratio 
>1 favours everolimus arm. 
c p-values computed from the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by age subgroup 
d Family-wise error rate of 2.5% one-sided 
101 (84.9) 
84 (71.8) 
78 (60.0) 
Consistent results were found for the supportive analysis of the median percentage reduction from 
baseline in seizure frequency (other primary endpoint): 29.3% (95% CI: 18.8, 41.9) in the Votubia LT 
arm, 39.6% (95% CI: 35.0, 48.7) in the Votubia HT arm and 14.9% (95% CI: 0.1, 21.7) in the placebo 
arm. The p-values for superiority versus placebo were 0.003 (LT) and <0.001 (HT). 
The seizure-free rate (the proportion of patients who became seizure-free during the maintenance 
period of the core phase) was 5.1% (95% CI: 1.9, 10.8) and 3.8% (95% CI: 1.3, 8.7) in the Votubia LT 
and HT arms, respectively, versus 0.8% (95% CI: 0.0, 4.6) of patients in the placebo arm. 
Higher proportions of responders were evident for all response categories in the Votubia LT and HT 
arms relative to placebo (Figure 1). Furthermore, almost twice as many patients in the placebo arm 
experienced seizure exacerbation relative to the Votubia LT and HT arms. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1  EXIST-3 – Distribution of reduction from baseline in seizure frequency 
41.2 
35.0 
30.0 
23.9 
22.7 
20.8 
17.1 
20.2 
18.5 
12.8 
11.5 
)
%
(
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
p
f
o
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
P
50 
40 
30 
20 
10 
0 
Votubia 3-7 ng/ml 
Votubia 9-15 ng/ml 
Placebo 
15.4 
9.2 
6.0 
5.0 
5.1 
3.8 
0.8 
0.8 
Exacerbation 
≤-25 
No change 
>-25 to <25 
25% resp. 
25 to <50 
50% resp. 
50 to <75 
75% resp. 
75 to <100 
Seizure-free 
100 
Missing 
Reduction from baseline in seizure frequency (%) 
A homogeneous and consistent everolimus effect was observed across all subgroups evaluated for the 
primary efficacy endpoints by: age categories (Table 6), gender, race and ethnicity, seizure types, 
seizure frequency at baseline, number and name of concomitant antiepileptics, and TSC features 
(angiomyolipoma, SEGA, cortical tuber status). The effect of everolimus on infantile/epileptic spasms 
or on seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome has not been studied and is not established 
for generalised-onset seizures and subjects without cortical tubers. 
Table 6 
EXIST-3 – Seizure frequency response rate by age 
Votubia 
Placebo 
Age category 
<6 years 
  Response rate (95% CI) a 
6 to <12 years 
  Response rate (95% CI) a 
12 to <18 years 
  Response rate (95% CI) a 
≥18 years b 
  Response rate (95% CI) a 
a Exact 95% CI obtained using Clopper-Pearson method 
b No efficacy data available in elderly patients 
LT target of 
3-7 ng/ml 
N=117 
n=33 
30.3 (15.6, 48.7) 
n=37 
29.7 (15.9, 47.0) 
n=26 
23.1 (9.0, 43.6) 
n=21 
28.6 (11.3, 52.2) 
HT target of 
9-15 ng/ml 
N=130 
n=37 
59.5 (42.1, 75.2) 
n=39 
28.2 (15.0, 44.9) 
n=31 
32.3 (16.7, 51.4) 
n=23 
39.1 (19.7, 61.5) 
N=119 
n=34 
17.6 (6.8, 34.5) 
n=37 
10.8 (3.0, 25.4) 
n=25 
16.0 (4.5, 36.1) 
n=23 
17.4 (5.0, 38.8) 
At the end of the core phase, overall quality of life in patients aged 2 to <11 years (as measured by the 
mean change from baseline in overall Quality Of Life score [total score] in the Childhood Epilepsy 
Questionnaire [QOLCE]) was maintained in each Votubia treatment arm as well as in the placebo arm. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
Reduction in seizure frequency was sustained over an evaluation period of approximately 2 years. 
Based on a sensitivity analysis considering patients who prematurely discontinued everolimus as 
non-responders, response rates of 38.4% (95% CI: 33.4, 43.7) and 44.4% (95% CI: 38.2, 50.7) were 
observed after 1 and 2 years of exposure to everolimus, respectively. 
Phase III study in SEGA patients 
EXIST-1 (Study CRAD001M2301), a randomised, double-blind, multicentre phase III study of 
Votubia versus placebo, was conducted in patients with SEGA, irrespective of age. Patients were 
randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive either Votubia or matching placebo. Presence of at least one 
SEGA lesion ≥1.0 cm in longest diameter using MRI (based on local radiology assessment) was 
required for entry. In addition, serial radiological evidence of SEGA growth, presence of a new SEGA 
lesion ≥1 cm in longest diameter, or new or worsening hydrocephalus was required for entry. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was SEGA response rate based on independent central radiology 
review. The analysis was stratified by use of enzyme-inducing antiepileptics at randomisation 
(yes/no). 
Key secondary endpoints in hierarchal order of testing included the absolute change in frequency of 
total seizure events per 24-hour EEG from baseline to week 24, time to SEGA progression, and skin 
lesion response rate. 
A total of 117 patients were randomised, 78 to Votubia and 39 to placebo. The two treatment arms 
were generally well balanced with respect to demographic and baseline disease characteristics and 
history of prior anti-SEGA therapies. In the total population, 57.3% of patients were male and 93.2% 
were Caucasian. The median age for the total population was 9.5 years (age range for the Votubia arm: 
1.0 to 23.9; age range for the placebo arm: 0.8 to 26.6), 69.2% of the patients were aged 3 to <18 years 
and 17.1% were <3 years at enrolment. 
Of the enrolled patients, 79.5% had bilateral SEGAs, 42.7% had ≥2 target SEGA lesions, 25.6% had 
inferior growth, 9.4% had evidence of deep parenchymal invasion, 6.8% had radiographic evidence of 
hydrocephalus, and 6.8% had undergone prior SEGA-related surgery. 94.0% had skin lesions at 
baseline and 37.6% had target renal angiomyolipoma lesions (at least one angiomyolipoma ≥1 cm in 
longest diameter). 
The median duration of blinded study treatment was 9.6 months (range: 5.5 to 18.1) for patients 
receiving Votubia and 8.3 months (range: 3.2 to 18.3) for those receiving placebo. 
Results showed that Votubia was superior to placebo for the primary endpoint of best overall SEGA 
response (p<0.0001). Response rates were 34.6% (95% CI: 24.2, 46.2) for the Votubia arm compared 
with 0% (95% CI: 0.0, 9.0) for the placebo arm (Table 7). In addition, all 8 patients on the Votubia 
arm who had radiographic evidence of hydrocephalus at baseline had a decrease in ventricular volume. 
Patients initially treated with placebo were allowed to cross over to everolimus at the time of SEGA 
progression and upon recognition that treatment with everolimus was superior to treatment with 
placebo. All patients receiving at least one dose of everolimus were followed until medicinal product 
discontinuation or study completion. At the time of the final analysis, the median duration of exposure 
among all such patients was 204.9 weeks (range: 8.1 to 253.7). The best overall SEGA response rate 
had increased to 57.7% (95% CI: 47.9, 67.0) at the final analysis. 
No patient required surgical intervention for SEGA during the entire course of the study. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7 
EXIST-1 – SEGA response 
SEGA response rate1,2 - (%) 
95% CI 
Best overall SEGA response - (%) 
Response 
Stable disease 
Progression 
Not evaluable 
Primary analysis3 
Placebo 
Votubia 
N=39 
N=78 
0 
34.6 
0.0, 9.0 
24.2, 46.2 
p-value 
<0.0001 
Final analysis4 
Votubia 
N=111 
57.7 
47.9, 67.0 
34.6 
62.8 
0 
2.6 
0 
92.3 
7.7 
0 
57.7 
39.6 
0 
2.7 
1  according to independent central radiology review 
2  SEGA responses were confirmed with a repeat scan. Response was defined as: ≥50% reduction in 
the sum of SEGA volume relative to baseline, plus no unequivocal worsening of non-target SEGA 
lesions, plus absence of new SEGA ≥1 cm in longest diameter, plus no new or worsening 
hydrocephalus 
3  Primary analysis for double blind period 
4  Final analysis includes patients who crossed over from the placebo group; median duration of 
exposure to everolimus of 204.9 weeks 
Consistent treatment effects were observed across all subgroups evaluated (i.e. enzyme-inducing 
antiepileptic use versus enzyme-inducing antiepileptic non-use, sex and age) at the primary analysis. 
During the double-blind period, reduction of SEGA volume was evident within the initial 12 weeks of 
Votubia treatment: 29.7% (22/74) of patients had ≥50% reductions in volume and 73.0% (54/74) had 
≥30% reductions in volume. Sustained reductions were evident at week 24, 41.9% (31/74) of patients 
had ≥50% reductions and 78.4% (58/74) of patients had ≥30% reductions in SEGA volume. 
In the everolimus treated population (N=111) of the study, including patients who crossed over from 
the placebo group, tumour response, starting as early as after 12 weeks on everolimus, was sustained 
at later time points. The proportion of patients achieving at least 50% reductions in SEGA volume was 
45.9% (45/98) and 62.1% (41/66) at weeks 96 and 192 after start of everolimus treatment. Similarly, 
the proportion of patients achieving at least 30% reductions in SEGA volume was 71.4% (70/98) and 
77.3% (51/66) at weeks 96 and 192 after start of everolimus treatment. 
Analysis of the first key secondary endpoint, change in seizure frequency, was inconclusive; thus, 
despite the fact that positive results were observed for the two subsequent secondary endpoints (time 
to SEGA progression and skin lesion response rate), they could not be declared formally statistically 
significant. 
Median time to SEGA progression based on central radiology review was not reached in either 
treatment arm. Progressions were only observed in the placebo arm (15.4%; p=0.0002). Estimated 
progression-free rates at 6 months were 100% for the Votubia arm and 85.7% for the placebo arm. The 
long-term follow-up of patients randomised to everolimus and patients randomised to placebo who 
thereafter crossed over to everolimus demonstrated durable responses. 
At the time of the primary analysis, Votubia demonstrated clinically meaningful improvements in skin 
lesion response (p=0.0004), with response rates of 41.7% (95% CI: 30.2, 53.9) for the Votubia arm 
and 10.5% (95% CI: 2.9, 24.8) for the placebo arm. At the final analysis, the skin lesion response rate 
increased to 58.1% (95% CI: 48.1, 67.7). 
Phase II study in patients with SEGA 
A prospective, open-label, single-arm phase II study (Study CRAD001C2485) was conducted to 
evaluate the safety and efficacy of Votubia in patients with SEGA. Radiological evidence of serial 
SEGA growth was required for entry. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in SEGA volume during the core 6-month treatment phase, as assessed via an independent 
central radiology review, was the primary efficacy endpoint. After the core treatment phase, patients 
could be enrolled into an extension phase where SEGA volume was assessed every 6 months. 
In total, 28 patients received treatment with Votubia; median age was 11 years (range 3 to 34), 61% 
male, 86% Caucasian. Thirteen patients (46%) had a secondary smaller SEGA, including 12 in the 
contralateral ventricle. 
Primary SEGA volume was reduced at month 6 compared to baseline (p<0.001 [see Table 8]). No 
patient developed new lesions, worsening hydrocephalus or increased intracranial pressure, and none 
required surgical resection or other therapy for SEGA. 
Table 8 
Change in primary SEGA volume over time 
Independent central review 
SEGA 
volume 
(cm3) 
Baseline 
n=28 
Month 6 
n=27 
Month 12 
n=26 
Month 24 
n=24 
Month 36 
n=23 
Month 48 
n=24 
Month 60 
n=23 
2.45 
(2.813) 
Primary tumour volume 
Mean 
(standard 
deviation) 
Median 
  Range 
1.74 
0.49 - 14.
23 
Reduction from baseline 
Mean 
(standard 
deviation) 
Median 
  Range 
1.33 
(1.497) 
1.26 
(1.526) 
1.19 
(1.042) 
1.26 
(1.298) 
1.16 
(0.961) 
1.24 
(0.959) 
0.93 
0.31 - 7.9
8 
0.84 
0.29 - 8.1
8 
0.94 
0.20 - 4.6
3 
1.12 
0.22 - 6.5
2 
1.02 
0.18 - 4.1
9 
1.17 
0.21 - 4.3
9 
1.19 
(1.433) 
1.07 
(1.276) 
1.25 
(1.994) 
1.41 
(1.814) 
1.43 
(2.267) 
1.44 
(2.230) 
0.83 
0.06 - 6.2
5 
0.85 
0.02 - 6.0
5 
Percentage reduction from baseline, n (%) 
  ≥50% 
  ≥30% 
  >0% 
9 (33.3) 
21 (77.8) 
27 
(100.0) 
0 
9 (34.6) 
20 (76.9) 
26 
(100.0) 
0 
0.71 
-0.55 - 9.6
0 
0.71 
0.15 - 7.7
1 
0.83 
0.00 - 10.
96 
0.50 
-0.74 - 9.8
4 
12 (50.0) 
19 (79.2) 
23 
(95.8) 
0 
10 (43.5) 
18 (78.3) 
23 
(100.0) 
0 
14 (58.3) 
19 (79.2) 
23 
(95.8) 
1 (4.2) 
12 (52.2) 
14 (60.9) 
21 
(91.3) 
0 
0 
0 
1 (4.2) 
0 
0 
2 (8.7) 
  No 
change 
Increase 
The robustness and consistency of the primary analysis were supported by the: 
− 
change in primary SEGA volume as per local investigator assessment (p<0.001), with 75.0% 
and 39.3% of patients experiencing reductions of ≥30% and ≥50%, respectively 
change in total SEGA volume as per independent central review (p<0.001) or local investigator 
assessment (p<0.001). 
− 
One patient met the pre-specified criteria for treatment success (>75% reduction in SEGA volume) 
and was temporarily taken off trial therapy; however, SEGA re-growth was evident at the next 
assessment at 4.5 months and treatment was restarted. 
Long-term follow-up to a median duration of 67.8 months (range: 4.7 to 83.2) demonstrated sustained 
efficacy. 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other studies 
Stomatitis is the most commonly reported adverse reaction in patients treated with Votubia (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). In a post-marketing single-arm study in postmenopausal women with advanced 
breast cancer (N=92), topical treatment with dexamethasone 0.5 mg/5 ml alcohol-free oral solution 
was administered as a mouthwash (4 times daily for the initial 8 weeks of treatment) to patients at the 
time of initiating treatment with Afinitor (everolimus, 10 mg/day) plus exemestane (25 mg/day) to 
reduce the incidence and severity of stomatitis. The incidence of Grade ≥2 stomatitis at 8 weeks was 
2.4% (n=2/85 evaluable patients) which was lower than historically reported. The incidence of 
Grade 1 stomatitis was 18.8% (n=16/85) and no cases of Grade 3 or 4 stomatitis were reported. The 
overall safety profile in this study was consistent with that established for everolimus in the oncology 
and TSC settings, with the exception of a slightly increased frequency of oral candidiasis which was 
reported in 2.2% (n=2/92) of patients. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Votubia in all subsets of the paediatric population in angiomyolipoma (see section 4.2 for information 
on paediatric use). 
The marketing authorisation holder has completed the Paediatric Investigation Plans for Votubia for 
refractory seizures associated with TSC. This summary of product characteristics has been updated to 
include the results of studies with Votubia in the paediatric population (see section 5.2). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
In patients with advanced solid tumours, peak everolimus concentrations (Cmax) are reached at a 
median time of 1 hour after daily administration of 5 and 10 mg everolimus under fasting conditions 
or with a light fat-free snack. Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 and 10 mg. Everolimus is a substrate 
and moderate inhibitor of PgP. 
Food effect 
In healthy subjects, high fat meals reduced systemic exposure to Votubia 10 mg tablets (as measured 
by AUC) by 22% and the peak blood concentration Cmax by 54%. Light fat meals reduced AUC by 
32% and Cmax by 42%. 
In healthy subjects taking a single 9 mg dose (3 x 3 mg) of Votubia dispersible tablets in suspension, 
high fat meals reduced AUC by 11.7% and the peak blood concentration Cmax by 59.8%. Light fat 
meals reduced AUC by 29.5% and Cmax by 50.2%. 
Food, however, had no apparent effect on the post absorption phase concentration-time profile 
24 hours post-dose of either dosage form. 
Relative bioavailability/bioequivalence 
In a relative bioavailability study, AUC0-inf of 5 x 1 mg everolimus tablets when administered as 
suspension in water was equivalent to 5 x 1 mg everolimus tablets administered as intact tablets, and 
Cmax of 5 x 1 mg everolimus tablets in suspension was 72% of 5 x 1 mg intact everolimus tablets. 
In a bioequivalence study, AUC0-inf of the 5 mg dispersible tablet when administered as suspension in 
water was equivalent to 5 x 1 mg intact everolimus tablets, and Cmax of the 5 mg dispersible tablet in 
suspension was 64% of 5 x 1 mg intact everolimus tablets. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The blood-to-plasma ratio of everolimus, which is concentration-dependent over the range of 5 to 
5,000 ng/ml, is 17% to 73%. Approximately 20% of the everolimus concentration in whole blood is 
confined to plasma of cancer patients given Votubia 10 mg/day. Plasma protein binding is 
approximately 74% both in healthy subjects and in patients with moderate hepatic impairment. In 
patients with advanced solid tumours, Vd was 191 l for the apparent central compartment and 517 l for 
the apparent peripheral compartment. 
Nonclinical studies in rats indicate: 
• 
• 
• 
A rapid uptake of everolimus in the brain followed by a slow efflux. 
The radioactive metabolites of [3H]everolimus do not significantly cross the blood-brain barrier. 
A  dose-dependent  brain  penetration  of  everolimus,  which  is  consistent  with  the  hypothesis  of 
saturation of an efflux pump present in the brain capillary endothelial cells. 
The co-administration of the PgP inhibitor, cyclosporine, enhances the exposure of everolimus in 
the brain cortex, which is consistent with the inhibition of PgP at the blood-brain barrier. 
• 
There are no clinical data on the distribution of everolimus in the human brain. Non-clinical studies in 
rats demonstrated distribution into the brain following administration by both the intravenous and oral 
routes. 
Biotransformation 
Everolimus is a substrate of CYP3A4 and PgP. Following oral administration, everolimus is the main 
circulating component in human blood. Six main metabolites of everolimus have been detected in 
human blood, including three monohydroxylated metabolites, two hydrolytic ring-opened products, 
and a phosphatidylcholine conjugate of everolimus. These metabolites were also identified in animal 
species used in toxicity studies and showed approximately 100 times less activity than everolimus 
itself. Hence, everolimus is considered to contribute the majority of the overall pharmacological 
activity. 
Elimination 
Mean CL/F of everolimus after 10 mg daily dose in patients with advanced solid tumours was 24.5 l/h. 
The mean elimination half-life of everolimus is approximately 30 hours. 
No specific excretion studies have been undertaken in cancer patients; however, data are available 
from the studies in transplant patients. Following the administration of a single dose of radiolabelled 
everolimus in conjunction with ciclosporin, 80% of the radioactivity was recovered from the faeces, 
while 5% was excreted in the urine. The parent substance was not detected in urine or faeces. 
Steady-state pharmacokinetics 
After administration of everolimus in patients with advanced solid tumours, steady-state AUC0-τ was 
dose-proportional over the range of 5 to 10 mg daily dose. Steady-state was achieved within 2 weeks. 
Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 and 10 mg. tmax occurs at 1 to 2 hours post-dose. There was a 
significant correlation between AUC0-τ and pre-dose trough concentration at steady-state. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of Votubia were evaluated in two single oral dose 
studies of Votubia tablets in 8 and 34 adult subjects with impaired hepatic function relative to subjects 
with normal hepatic function. 
In the first study, the average AUC of everolimus in 8 subjects with moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh B) was twice that found in 8 subjects with normal hepatic function. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the second study of 34 subjects with different impaired hepatic function compared to normal 
subjects, there was a 1.6-fold, 3.3-fold and 3.6-fold increase in exposure (i.e. AUC0-inf) for subjects 
with mild (Child-Pugh A), moderate (Child-Pugh B) and severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment, 
respectively. 
Simulations of multiple dose pharmacokinetics support the dosing recommendations in subjects with 
hepatic impairment based on their Child-Pugh status. 
Based on the results of the two studies, dose adjustment is recommended for patients with hepatic 
impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Renal impairment 
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of 170 patients with advanced solid tumours, no significant 
influence of creatinine clearance (25-178 ml/min) was detected on CL/F of everolimus. Post-transplant 
renal impairment (creatinine clearance range 11-107 ml/min) did not affect the pharmacokinetics of 
everolimus in transplant patients. 
Paediatric population 
In patients with SEGA, everolimus Cmin was approximately dose-proportional within the dose range 
from 1.35 mg/m2 to 14.4 mg/m2. 
In patients with SEGA, the geometric mean Cmin values normalised to mg/m2 dose in patients aged 
<10 years and 10-18 years were lower by 54% and 40%, respectively, than those observed in adults 
(>18 years of age), suggesting that everolimus clearance was higher in younger patients. Limited data 
in patients <3 years of age (n=13) indicate that BSA-normalised clearance is about two-fold higher in 
patients with low BSA (BSA of 0.556 m2) than in adults. Therefore it is assumed that steady-state 
could be reached earlier in patients <3 years of age (see section 4.2 for dosing recommendations). 
The pharmacokinetics of everolimus have not been studied in patients younger than 1 year of age. It is 
reported, however, that CYP3A4 activity is reduced at birth and increases during the first year of life, 
which could affect the clearance in this patient population. 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis including 111 patients with SEGA who ranged from 1.0 to 
27.4 years (including 18 patients 1 to less than 3 years of age with BSA 0.42 m2 to 0.74 m2) showed 
that BSA-normalised clearance is in general higher in younger patients. Population pharmacokinetic 
model simulations showed that a starting dose of 7 mg/m2 would be necessary to attain Cmin within the 
5 to 15 ng/ml range in patients younger than 3 years of age. A higher starting dose of 7 mg/m2 is 
therefore recommended for patients 1 to less than 3 years of age with SEGA (see section 4.2). 
In patients with TSC and refractory seizures receiving Votubia dispersible tablets, a trend was 
observed toward lower Cmin normalised to dose (as mg/m2) in younger patients. Median Cmin 
normalised to mg/m2 dose was lower for the younger age groups, indicating that everolimus clearance 
(normalised to BSA) was higher in younger patients. 
In patients with TSC and refractory seizures Votubia concentrations were investigated in 9 patients in 
the age between 1 and<2 years. Doses of 6 mg/m2 (absolute doses range 1-5 mg) were administered 
and resulted in minimal concentrations between 2 and 10 ng/ml (median of 5 ng/ml; total of 
>50 measurements). No data are available in patients with TSC-seizures below the age of 1 year. 
Elderly 
In a population pharmacokinetic evaluation in cancer patients, no significant influence of age 
(27-85 years) on oral clearance of everolimus was detected. 
Ethnicity 
Oral clearance (CL/F) is similar in Japanese and Caucasian cancer patients with similar liver 
functions. Based on analysis of population pharmacokinetics, oral clearance (CL/F) is on average 20% 
higher in black transplant patients. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship(s) 
In patients with TSC and refractory seizures, a conditional logistic regression analysis based on the 
core phase of Study CRAD001M2304 to estimate the probability of seizure response versus Time 
Normalised (TN)-Cmin stratified by age sub-group, indicated that a 2-fold increase in TN-Cmin was 
associated with a 2.172-fold increase (95% CI: 1.339, 3.524) in the odds for a seizure response over 
the observed TN-Cmin ranges of 0.97 ng/ml to 16.40 ng/ml. Baseline seizure frequency was a 
significant factor in the seizure response (with an odds ratio of 0.978 [95% CI: 0.959, 0.998]). This 
outcome was consistent with the results of a linear regression model predicting the log of absolute 
seizure frequency during the maintenance period of the core phase, which indicated that for a 2-fold 
increase in TN-Cmin there was a statistically significant 28% reduction (95% CI: 12%, 42%) in 
absolute seizure frequency. Baseline seizure frequency and TN-Cmin were both significant factors 
(α=0.05) in predicting the absolute seizure frequency in the linear regression model. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
The non-clinical safety profile of everolimus was assessed in mice, rats, minipigs, monkeys and 
rabbits. The major target organs were male and female reproductive systems (testicular tubular 
degeneration, reduced sperm content in epididymides and uterine atrophy) in several species; lungs 
(increased alveolar macrophages) in rats and mice; pancreas (degranulation and vacuolation of 
exocrine cells in monkeys and minipigs, respectively, and degeneration of islet cells in monkeys), and 
eyes (lenticular anterior suture line opacities) in rats only. Minor kidney changes were seen in the rat 
(exacerbation of age-related lipofuscin in tubular epithelium, increases in hydronephrosis) and mouse 
(exacerbation of background lesions). There was no indication of kidney toxicity in monkeys or 
minipigs. 
Everolimus appeared to spontaneously exacerbate background diseases (chronic myocarditis in rats, 
coxsackie virus infection of plasma and heart in monkeys, coccidian infestation of the gastrointestinal 
tract in minipigs, skin lesions in mice and monkeys). These findings were generally observed at 
systemic exposure levels within the range of therapeutic exposure or above, with the exception of the 
findings in rats, which occurred below therapeutic exposure due to a high tissue distribution. 
In a male fertility study in rats, testicular morphology was affected at 0.5 mg/kg and above, and sperm 
motility, sperm head count, and plasma testosterone levels were diminished at 5 mg/kg, which is 
within the range of therapeutic exposure and which caused a reduction in male fertility. There was 
evidence of reversibility. 
In animal reproductive studies female fertility was not affected. However, oral doses of everolimus in 
female rats at ≥ 0.1 mg/kg (approximately 4% of the AUC0-24h in patients receiving the 10 mg daily 
dose) resulted in increases in pre-implantation loss. 
Everolimus crossed the placenta and was toxic to the foetus. In rats, everolimus caused 
embryo/foetotoxicity at systemic exposure below the therapeutic level. This was manifested as 
mortality and reduced foetal weight. The incidence of skeletal variations and malformations (e.g. 
sternal cleft) was increased at 0.3 and 0.9 mg/kg. In rabbits, embryotoxicity was evident in an increase 
in late resorptions. 
In juvenile rat toxicity studies, systemic toxicity included decreased body weight gain, food 
consumption, and delayed attainment of some developmental landmarks, with full or partial recovery 
after cessation of dosing. With the possible exception of the rat-specific lens finding (where young 
animals appeared to be more susceptible), it appears that there is no significant difference in the 
sensitivity of juvenile animals to the adverse reactions of everolimus as compared to adult animals. 
Toxicity study with juvenile monkeys did not show any relevant toxicity. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity studies covering relevant genotoxicity endpoints showed no evidence of clastogenic or 
mutagenic activity. Administration of everolimus for up to 2 years did not indicate any oncogenic 
potential in mice and rats up to the highest doses, corresponding respectively to 4.3 and 0.2 times the 
estimated clinical exposure. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Butylated hydroxytoluene (E321) 
Magnesium stearate 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose 
Crospovidone type A 
Mannitol 
Cellulose microcrystalline 
Silica colloidal anhydrous 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
2 years. 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
3 years. 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
3 years. 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
3 years. 
The stability of the ready to use suspension has been demonstrated for 30 minutes when using an oral 
syringe or 60 minutes when using a small glass. The suspension must be administered immediately 
after preparation. If not administered within 30 minutes of preparation when using an oral syringe or 
60 minutes when using a small glass, the suspension must be discarded and a new suspension must be 
prepared. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Aluminium/polyamide/aluminium/PVC perforated unit-dose blister containing 10 x 1 dispersible 
tablets. 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
Packs containing 30 x 1 dispersible tablets. 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
Packs containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 dispersible tablets. 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
Packs containing 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
Packs containing 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Instructions for use and handling 
Using an oral syringe 
The prescribed dose of Votubia dispersible tablets should be placed in a 10 ml oral dosing syringe 
graduated in 1 ml increments. A total of 10 mg of Votubia dispersible tablets per syringe using a 
maximum of 5 dispersible tablets must not be exceeded. If a higher dose or number of tablets is 
required, an additional syringe must be prepared. The dispersible tablets must not be broken or 
crushed. Approximately 5 ml of water and 4 ml of air should be drawn into the syringe. The filled 
syringe should be placed into a container (with the tip pointing up) for 3 minutes, until the Votubia 
dispersible tablets are in suspension. The syringe should be gently inverted 5 times immediately prior 
to administration. After administration of the prepared suspension, approximately 5 ml of water and 
4 ml of air should be drawn into the same syringe, and the contents should be swirled to suspend 
remaining particles. The entire contents of the syringe should be administered. 
Using a small glass 
The prescribed dose of Votubia dispersible tablets should be placed in a small glass (maximum size 
100 ml) containing approximately 25 ml of water. A total of 10 mg of Votubia dispersible tablets per 
glass using a maximum of 5 dispersible tablets must not be exceeded. If a higher dose or number of 
tablets is required, an additional glass must be prepared. The dispersible tablets must not be broken or 
crushed. Three minutes must be allowed for suspension to occur. The contents should be gently stirred 
with a spoon and then administered immediately. After administration of the prepared suspension, 
25 ml of water should be added and be stirred with the same spoon to re-suspend any remaining 
particles. The entire contents of the glass should be administered. 
A complete and illustrated set of instructions for use is provided at the end of the package leaflet 
“Instructions for use”. 
Important information for caregivers 
The extent of absorption of everolimus through topical exposure is not known. Therefore caregivers 
are advised to avoid contact with the suspension. Hands should be washed thoroughly before and after 
preparation of the suspension. 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
EU/1/11/710/016 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
EU/1/11/710/009-011 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
EU/1/11/710/012-013 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
EU/1/11/710/014-015 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 02 September 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 23 July 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 2.5 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Tablet 
10 x 1 tablets 
30 x 1 tablets 
100 x 1 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/001 
EU/1/11/710/002 
EU/1/11/710/003 
10 x 1 tablets 
30 x 1 tablets 
100 x 1 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 5 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Tablet 
30 x 1 tablets 
100 x 1 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/004 
EU/1/11/710/005 
30 x 1 tablets 
100 x 1 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each tablet contains 10 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Tablet 
10 x 1 tablets 
30 x 1 tablets 
100 x 1 tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/006 
EU/1/11/710/007 
EU/1/11/710/008 
30 x 1 tablets 
100 x 1 tablets 
10 x 1 tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dispersible tablet contains 1 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersible tablet 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
The tablets must be dispersed in water before administration. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/016 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dispersible tablet contains 2 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersible tablet 
10 x 1 dispersible tablets 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
The tablets must be dispersed in water before administration. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/009 
EU/1/11/710/010 
EU/1/11/710/011 
10 x 1 dispersible tablets 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dispersible tablet contains 3 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersible tablet 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
The tablets must be dispersed in water before administration. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/012 
EU/1/11/710/013 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each dispersible tablet contains 5 mg everolimus. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Dispersible tablet 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
The tablets must be dispersed in water before administration. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/710/014 
EU/1/11/710/015 
30 x 1 dispersible tablets 
100 x 1 dispersible tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets, abbreviated form accepted, if required for technical reasons 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets 
Votubia 5 mg tablets 
Votubia 10 mg tablets 
everolimus 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Votubia is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Votubia 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Votubia 
Possible side effects 
How to store Votubia 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Votubia is and what it is used for 
Votubia is an anti-tumour medicine which can block certain cells in the body from growing. It 
contains an active substance called everolimus which may reduce the size of kidney tumours called 
renal angiomyolipomas and brain tumours called subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGA). 
These tumours are caused by a genetic disorder called tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC). 
Votubia tablets are used to treat: 
− 
− 
TSC with angiomyolipoma of the kidney in adults who do not require immediate surgery. 
SEGA associated with TSC in adults and children for whom surgery is not appropriate. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Votubia 
If you are being treated for TSC with angiomyolipoma of the kidney, Votubia will only be prescribed 
for you by a doctor with experience in treating patients with TSC. 
If you are being treated for SEGA associated with TSC, Votubia will only be prescribed by a doctor 
with experience in treating patients with SEGA and with access to blood tests which will measure how 
much Votubia is in your blood. 
Follow all the doctor’s instructions carefully. They may differ from the general information contained 
in this leaflet. If you have any questions about Votubia or why it has been prescribed for you, ask your 
doctor. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Do not take Votubia 
− 
if you are allergic to everolimus, to related substances such as sirolimus or temsirolimus, or to 
any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you had allergic reactions before, please ask your doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Votubia: 
− 
if you have any problems with your liver or if you have ever had any disease which may have 
affected your liver. If this is the case, your doctor may need to prescribe a different dose of 
Votubia or stop treatment, either for a short time or permanently. 
if you have diabetes (high level of sugar in your blood). Votubia may increase blood sugar 
levels and worsen diabetes mellitus. This may result in the need for insulin and/or oral 
antidiabetic agent therapy. Tell your doctor if you experience any excessive thirst or increased 
frequency of urination. 
if you need to receive a vaccine while taking Votubia as vaccination may be less effective. For 
children with SEGA, it is important to have a discussion with the doctor about the childhood 
vaccination program before treatment with Votubia. 
if you have high cholesterol. Votubia may elevate cholesterol and/or other blood fats. 
if you have had recent major surgery, or if you still have an unhealed wound following surgery. 
Votubia may increase the risk of problems with wound healing. 
if you have an infection. It may be necessary to treat your infection before starting Votubia. 
if you have previously had hepatitis B, because this may occur again during treatment with 
Votubia (see section 4 ‘Possible side effects’). 
if you have received or are about to receive radiation therapy. 
Votubia may also: 
− 
− 
cause mouth sores (oral ulcerations). 
weaken your immune system. Therefore, you may be at risk of getting an infection while you 
are taking Votubia. If you have fever or other signs of an infection, consult with your doctor. 
Some infections may be severe and may have fatal consequences in adults and children. 
impact your kidney function. Therefore, your doctor will monitor your kidney function while 
you are taking Votubia. 
cause shortness of breath, cough and fever (see section 4 ‘Possible side effects’). 
cause complications of radiation therapy. Severe complications of radiotherapy (such as 
shortness of breath, nausea, diarrhoea, skin rashes and soreness in mouth, gums and throat), 
including fatal cases, have been observed in some patients who were taking everolimus at the 
same time as radiation therapy or who were taking everolimus shortly after they had radiation 
therapy. In addition, so-called radiation recall syndrome (comprising skin redness or lung 
inflammation at the site of previous radiation therapy) has been reported in patients who had 
radiation therapy in the past. 
Tell your doctor if you are planning to have radiation therapy in the near future, or if you have 
had radiation therapy before. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience these symptoms. 
You will have blood tests before and periodically during treatment. These will check the amount of 
blood cells (white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets) in your body to see if Votubia is having an 
unwanted effect on these cells. Blood tests will also be carried out to check your kidney function 
(levels of creatinine, blood urea nitrogen or urinary protein), liver function (level of transaminases) 
and your blood sugar and lipid levels. This is because these can also be affected by Votubia. 
If you receive Votubia for the treatment of SEGA associated with TSC, regular blood tests are also 
necessary to measure how much Votubia is in your blood since this will help your doctor decide how 
much Votubia you need to take. 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Votubia can be used in children and adolescents SEGA associated with TSC. 
Votubia is not to be used in children or adolescents with TSC who have angiomyolipoma of the 
kidney in the absence of SEGA, as it has not been studied in such patients. 
Other medicines and Votubia 
Votubia may affect the way some other medicines work. If you are taking other medicines at the same 
time as Votubia, your doctor may need to change the dose of Votubia or the other medicines. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
The following may increase the risk of side effects with Votubia: 
− 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, or fluconazole and other antifungals used to treat 
fungal infections. 
clarithromycin, telithromycin or erythromycin, antibiotics used to treat bacterial infections. 
ritonavir, and other medicines used to treat HIV infection/AIDS. 
verapamil or diltiazem, used to treat heart conditions or high blood pressure. 
dronedarone, a medicine used to help regulate your heart beat. 
ciclosporin, a medicine used to stop the body from rejecting organ transplants. 
imatinib, used to inhibit the growth of abnormal cells. 
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (such as ramipril) used to treat high blood 
pressure or other cardiovascular problems. 
cannabidiol (uses amongst others include treatment of seizures). 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
The following may reduce the effectiveness of Votubia: 
− 
rifampicin, used to treat tuberculosis (TB). 
− 
efavirenz or nevirapine, used to treat HIV infection/AIDS. 
− 
St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used to treat depression and other 
conditions. 
dexamethasone, a corticosteroid used to treat a wide variety of conditions including 
inflammatory or immune problems. 
phenytoin, carbamazepine or phenobarbital and other anti-epileptics used to stop seizures or fits. 
− 
− 
All medicines listed above should be avoided during your treatment with Votubia. If you are taking 
any of them, your doctor may switch you to a different medicine, or may change your dose of Votubia. 
If you are taking an anti-seizure medicine, a change in the dose of the anti-seizure medicine (increase 
or decrease) may make a change in the Votubia dose necessary. Your doctor will decide this. If the 
dose of your anti-seizure medicine changes, please inform your doctor. 
Votubia with food and drink 
Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while you are on Votubia. It may increase the amount of Votubia 
in the blood, possibly to a harmful level. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
Votubia could harm an unborn baby and is not recommended during pregnancy. Tell your doctor if 
you are pregnant or think that you may be pregnant. 
Women who could potentially become pregnant must use highly effective contraception during 
treatment, and for up to 8 weeks after ending treatment. If, despite these measures, you think you may 
have become pregnant, ask your doctor for advice before taking any more Votubia. 
Breast-feeding 
Votubia could harm a breast-fed baby. You should not breast-feed during treatment and for 2 weeks 
after the last dose of Votubia. Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
Votubia may affect male and female fertility. Talk to your doctor if you wish to have children. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel unusually tired (fatigue is a common side effect), take special care when driving or using 
machines. 
Votubia contains lactose 
Votubia contains lactose (milk sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an 
intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Votubia 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Votubia exists as tablets 
and dispersible tablets. Consistently take only the tablets or only the dispersible tablets, and never a 
combination of both. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much Votubia to take 
If you receive Votubia for the treatment of TSC with angiomyolipoma of the kidney, the usual dose is 
10 mg, to be taken once daily. 
A higher or lower dose may be recommended by your doctor based on your individual treatment 
needs, for example if you have problems with your liver or if you are taking certain other medicines in 
addition to Votubia. 
If you receive Votubia for the treatment of TSC with SEGA, your doctor will determine the dose of 
Votubia you need to take depending on: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
your age 
your body size 
the health of your liver 
other medicines you are taking. 
You will have blood tests during treatment with Votubia. This is to measure the amount of Votubia in 
your blood and find the best daily dose for you. 
If you experience certain side effects (see section 4) while you are taking Votubia, your doctor may 
lower your dose or stop treatment, either for a short time or permanently. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to take this medicine 
− 
− 
− 
Take Votubia tablets once a day. 
Take them at the same time every day. 
You can take them either with or without food, but you need to do this in the same way each 
day. 
Swallow the tablets whole with a glass of water. Do not chew or crush the tablets. If you are taking 
Votubia tablets for the treatment of TSC with SEGA and if you are unable to swallow the tablets, you 
can stir them into a glass of water: 
− 
− 
Put the required number of tablets into a glass of water (approximately 30 ml). 
Gently stir the contents of the glass until the tablets break apart (approximately 7 minutes) and 
then drink the contents immediately. 
Refill the glass with the same amount of water (approximately 30 ml), gently stir the remaining 
content and drink the whole amount to make sure that you get the full dose of Votubia tablets. 
If necessary, drink additional water to wash out any residues in your mouth. 
− 
− 
Special information for caregivers 
Caregivers are advised to avoid contact with suspensions of Votubia tablets. Wash hands thoroughly 
before and after preparation of the suspension. 
If you take more Votubia than you should 
− 
If you have taken too much Votubia, or if someone else accidentally takes your tablets, see a 
doctor or go to a hospital immediately. Urgent treatment may be necessary. 
Take the carton and this leaflet, so that the doctor knows what has been taken. 
− 
If you forget to take Votubia 
If you miss a dose, take your next dose as scheduled. Do not take a double dose to make up for the 
forgotten tablets. 
If you stop taking Votubia 
Do not stop taking Votubia tablets unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
STOP taking Votubia and seek medical help immediately if you or your child experiences any of the 
following signs of an allergic reaction: 
• 
• 
• 
difficulty breathing or swallowing 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue or throat (signs of angioedema) 
severe itching of the skin, with a red rash or raised bumps 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious side effects of Votubia include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
− 
Fever, cough, difficulty breathing, wheezing (signs of inflammation of the lung due to infection, 
also known as pneumonia) 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
− 
Swelling, feeling of heaviness or tightness, pain, limited mobility of body parts (this could occur 
anywhere in the body and is a potential sign of an abnormal build-up of fluid in soft tissue due 
to a blockage in the lymphatic system, also known as lymphoedema) 
Rash, itching, hives, difficulty breathing or swallowing, dizziness (signs of serious allergic 
reaction, also known as hypersensitivity) 
Fever, cough, difficulty breathing, wheezing (signs of inflammation of the lung, also known as 
pneumonitis) 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
− 
Rash of small fluid-filled blisters, appearing on reddened skin (signs of viral infection that can 
be potentially severe, also known as herpes zoster) 
Fever, chills, rapid breathing and heart rate, rash, and possibly confusion and disorientation 
(signs of serious infection, also known as sepsis) 
− 
− 
− 
If you experience any of these side effects, tell your doctor immediately as this might have 
life-threatening consequences. 
Other possible side effects of Votubia include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
− 
− 
− 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Sore throat and runny nose (nasopharyngitis) 
Headache, pressure in the eyes, nose or cheek area (signs of inflammation of the sinuses and 
nasal passages, also known as sinusitis) 
− 
Urinary tract infection 
− 
High level of lipids (fats) in the blood (hypercholesterolaemia) 
− 
Decreased appetite 
− 
Headache 
− 
Cough 
−  Mouth ulcers 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
−  Menstruation disorders such as absence of periods (amenorrhoea) or irregular periods 
− 
− 
Diarrhoea 
Being sick (vomiting) 
Acne 
Skin rash 
Feeling tired 
Fever 
Sore throat (pharyngitis) 
Headache, dizziness, signs of high blood pressure (hypertension) 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
−  Middle ear infection 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Swollen, bleeding gums (signs of gum inflammation, also known as gingivitis) 
Skin inflammation (cellulitis) 
High level of lipids (fats) in the blood (hyperlipidaemia, raised triglycerides) 
Low level of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphataemia) 
High level of sugar in the blood (hyperglycaemia) 
Tiredness, breathlessness, dizziness, pale skin (signs of low level of red blood cells, also known 
as anaemia) 
Fever, sore throat or mouth ulcers due to infections (signs of low level of white blood cells, also 
known as leucopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia) 
Spontaneous bleeding or bruising (signs of low level of platelets, also known as 
thrombocytopenia) 
− 
− 
−  Mouth pain 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Nose bleeds (epistaxis) 
Stomach upset like feeling sick (nausea) 
Abdominal pain 
Severe pain in the lower abdomen and pelvic area that may be sharp, with menstrual 
irregularities (ovarian cyst) 
Excess amount of gas in the bowels (flatulence) 
Constipation 
Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, swelling and bloating of the abdomen (signs of 
inflammation of the stomach lining, also known as gastritis or gastroenteritis viral) 
Dry skin, itching (pruritus) 
An inflammatory condition of the skin characterised by redness, itching, and oozing 
liquid-filled cysts which become scaly, crusted, or hardened (dermatitis acneiform) 
Loss of hair (alopecia) 
Protein in the urine 
− 
− 
−  Menstruation disorders such as heavy periods (menorrhagia) or vaginal bleeding 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
Irritability 
Aggression 
High level of an enzyme called blood lactate dehydrogenase that gives information about the 
health of certain organs 
High level of the hormone that triggers ovulation (blood luteinising hormone increased) 
− 
−  Weight loss 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
−  Muscle spasms, fever, red-brown urine which may be symptoms of a muscle disorder 
− 
(rhabdomyolysis) 
Cough with phlegm, chest pain, fever (signs of inflammation of airways, also known as 
bronchitis viral) 
Disturbed taste (dysgeusia) 
− 
−  Menstruation disorders such as delayed periods 
− 
Higher level of female reproductive hormone (blood follicle stimulating hormone increased) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
− 
Reaction at the site of previous radiation therapy, e.g. skin redness or lung inflammation 
(so-called radiation recall syndrome) 
−  Worsening of radiation treatment side effects 
If these side effects get severe please tell your doctor and/or pharmacist. Most of the side effects 
are mild to moderate and will generally disappear if your treatment is interrupted for a few 
days. 
92 
 
 
 
 
The following side effects have been reported in patients taking everolimus for the treatment of 
conditions other than TSC: 
− 
Kidney disorders: altered frequency or absence of urination may be symptoms of kidney failure 
and have been observed in some patients receiving everolimus. Other symptoms may include 
altered kidney function test (increase in creatinine). 
Symptoms of heart failure such as breathlessness, difficulty breathing when lying down, 
swelling of the feet or legs 
Blockage or obstruction of a blood vessel (vein) in the leg (deep vein thrombosis). Symptoms 
may include swelling and/or pain in one of your legs, usually in the calf, redness or warm skin 
in the affected area 
Problems with wound healing 
High levels of sugar in the blood (hyperglycaemia) 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Hepatitis B reactivation has been observed in some patients taking everolimus. Tell your doctor if you 
experience symptoms of hepatitis B during treatment with everolimus. The first symptoms may 
include fever, skin rash, joint pain and inflammation. Other symptoms may include fatigue, loss of 
appetite, nausea, jaundice (yellowing of the skin), and pain in the upper right abdomen. Pale stools or 
dark urine may also be signs of hepatitis. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Votubia 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister foil. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 25°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Open the blister just before taking the Votubia tablets. 
Do not use this medicine if the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Votubia tablets contain 
− 
The active substance is everolimus. 
Each Votubia 2.5 mg tablet contains 2.5 mg of everolimus. 
Each Votubia 5 mg tablet contains 5 mg of everolimus. 
Each Votubia 10 mg tablet contains 10 mg of everolimus. 
The other ingredients are butylated hydroxytoluene (E321), magnesium stearate, lactose 
monohydrate, hypromellose, crospovidone type A and lactose anhydrous (see section 2 
“Votubia contains lactose”). 
− 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Votubia tablets looks like and contents of the pack 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets are white to slightly yellowish, elongated tablets. They are engraved with 
“LCL” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 5 mg tablets are white to slightly yellowish, elongated tablets. They are engraved with “5” on 
one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 10 mg tablets are white to slightly yellowish, elongated tablets. They are engraved with 
“UHE” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 2.5 mg tablets are available in packs containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 tablets in perforated 
unit-dose blisters of 10 x 1 tablets each. 
Votubia 5 mg tablets are available in packs containing 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 tablets in perforated unit-dose 
blisters of 10 x 1 tablets each. 
Votubia 10 mg tablets are available in packs containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 tablets in perforated 
unit-dose blisters of 10 x 1 tablets each. 
Not all pack sizes or strengths may be marketed in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 555 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets 
everolimus 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Votubia is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Votubia 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Votubia 
Possible side effects 
How to store Votubia 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Votubia is and what it is used for 
Votubia dispersible tablets contain an active substance called everolimus. It is used to treat children 
aged 2 years and above and adults with partial seizures with or without secondary generalisation 
(epilepsy) associated with a genetic disorder called tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) and which are 
not controlled by other antiepileptic medicines. Partial seizures start by only affecting one side of the 
brain but can spread and extend to larger areas on both sides of the brain (called a “secondary 
generalisation”). Votubia dispersible tablets are given together with other medicines for epilepsy. 
Votubia is also an anti-tumour medicine which can block certain cells in the body from growing. It 
may reduce the size of brain tumours called subependymal giant cell astrocytomas (SEGA) which are 
also caused by TSC. 
Votubia dispersible tablets are used to treat SEGA associated with TSC in adults and children for 
whom surgery is not appropriate. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Votubia 
Votubia will only be prescribed by a doctor with experience in treating patients with SEGA or seizures 
and with access to blood tests which will measure how much Votubia is in your blood. 
Follow all the doctor’s instructions carefully. They may differ from the general information contained 
in this leaflet. If you have any questions about Votubia or why it has been prescribed for you, ask your 
doctor. 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Do not take Votubia 
− 
if you are allergic to everolimus, to related substances such as sirolimus or temsirolimus, or to 
any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you had allergic reactions before, please ask your doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before taking Votubia: 
− 
if you have any problems with your liver or if you have ever had any disease which may have 
affected your liver. If this is the case, your doctor may need to prescribe a different dose of 
Votubia or stop treatment, either for a short time or permanently. 
if you have diabetes (high level of sugar in your blood). Votubia may increase blood sugar 
levels and worsen diabetes mellitus. This may result in the need for insulin and/or oral 
antidiabetic agent therapy. Tell your doctor if you experience any excessive thirst or increased 
frequency of urination. 
if you need to receive a vaccine while taking Votubia as vaccination may be less effective. For 
children with SEGA or seizures, it is important to have a discussion with the doctor about the 
childhood vaccination program before treatment with Votubia. 
if you have high cholesterol. Votubia may elevate cholesterol and/or other blood fats. 
if you have had recent major surgery, or if you still have an unhealed wound following surgery. 
Votubia may increase the risk of problems with wound healing. 
if you have an infection. It may be necessary to treat your infection before starting Votubia. 
if you have previously had hepatitis B, because this may occur again during treatment with 
Votubia (see section 4 ‘Possible side effects’). 
if you have received or are about to receive radiation therapy. 
Votubia may also: 
− 
− 
cause mouth sores (oral ulcerations). 
weaken your immune system. Therefore, you may be at risk of getting an infection while you 
are taking Votubia. If you have fever or other signs of an infection, consult with your doctor. 
Some infections may be severe and may have fatal consequences in adults and children. 
impact your kidney function. Therefore, your doctor will monitor your kidney function while 
you are taking Votubia. 
cause shortness of breath, cough and fever (see section 4 ‘Possible side effects’). 
cause complications of radiation therapy. Severe complications of radiotherapy (such as 
shortness of breath, nausea, diarrhoea, skin rashes and soreness in mouth, gums and throat), 
including fatal cases, have been observed in some patients who were taking everolimus at the 
same time as radiation therapy or who were taking everolimus shortly after they had radiation 
therapy. In addition, so-called radiation recall syndrome (comprising skin redness or lung 
inflammation at the site of previous radiation therapy) has been reported in patients who had 
radiation therapy in the past. 
Tell your doctor if you are planning to have radiation therapy in the near future, or if you have 
had radiation therapy before. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience these symptoms. 
You will have blood tests before and periodically during treatment. These will check the amount of 
blood cells (white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets) in your body to see if Votubia is having an 
unwanted effect on these cells. Blood tests will also be carried out to check your kidney function 
(levels of creatinine, blood urea nitrogen or urinary protein), liver function (level of transaminases) 
and your blood sugar and lipid levels. This is because these can also be affected by Votubia. 
Regular blood tests are also necessary to measure how much Votubia is in your blood since this will 
help your doctor decide how much Votubia you need to take. 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Votubia can be used in children and adolescents with SEGA associated with TSC. 
Votubia is not to be used in children below the age of 2 years with TSC and seizures. 
Other medicines and Votubia 
Votubia may affect the way some other medicines work. If you are taking other medicines at the same 
time as Votubia, your doctor may need to change the dose of Votubia or the other medicines. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
The following may increase the risk of side effects with Votubia: 
− 
ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, or fluconazole and other antifungals used to treat 
fungal infections. 
clarithromycin, telithromycin or erythromycin, antibiotics used to treat bacterial infections. 
ritonavir, and other medicines used to treat HIV infection/AIDS. 
verapamil or diltiazem, used to treat heart conditions or high blood pressure. 
dronedarone, a medicine used to help regulate your heart beat. 
ciclosporin, a medicine used to stop the body from rejecting organ transplants. 
imatinib, used to inhibit the growth of abnormal cells. 
angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors (such as ramipril) used to treat high blood 
pressure or other cardiovascular problems. 
cannabidiol (uses amongst others include treatment of seizures). 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
The following may reduce the effectiveness of Votubia: 
− 
rifampicin, used to treat tuberculosis (TB). 
− 
efavirenz or nevirapine, used to treat HIV infection/AIDS. 
− 
St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used to treat depression and other 
conditions. 
dexamethasone, a corticosteroid used to treat a wide variety of conditions including 
inflammatory or immune problems. 
phenytoin, carbamazepine or phenobarbital and other anti-epileptics used to stop seizures or fits. 
− 
− 
All medicines listed above should be avoided during your treatment with Votubia. If you are taking 
any of them, your doctor may switch you to a different medicine, or may change your dose of Votubia. 
If you are taking an anti-seizure medicine, a change in the dose of the anti-seizure medicine (increase 
or decrease) may make a change in the Votubia dose necessary. Your doctor will decide this. If the 
dose of your anti-seizure medicine changes, please inform your doctor. 
If you are following a specific diet to reduce the frequency of your seizures, please inform your doctor 
before taking Votubia. 
Votubia with food and drink 
Avoid grapefruit and grapefruit juice while you are on Votubia. It may increase the amount of Votubia 
in the blood, possibly to a harmful level. 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Pregnancy 
Votubia could harm an unborn baby and is not recommended during pregnancy. Tell your doctor if 
you are pregnant or think that you may be pregnant. 
Women who could potentially become pregnant must use highly effective contraception during 
treatment, and for up to 8 weeks after ending treatment. If, despite these measures, you think you may 
have become pregnant, ask your doctor for advice before taking any more Votubia. 
Breast-feeding 
Votubia could harm a breast-fed baby. You should not breast-feed during treatment and for 2 weeks 
after the last dose of Votubia. Tell your doctor if you are breast-feeding. 
Fertility 
Votubia may affect male and female fertility. Talk to your doctor if you wish to have children. 
Driving and using machines 
If you feel unusually tired (fatigue is a common side effect), take special care when driving or using 
machines. 
Votubia contains lactose 
Votubia contains lactose (milk sugar). If you have been told by your doctor that you have an 
intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to take Votubia 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Votubia exists as tablets 
and dispersible tablets. Consistently take only the tablets or only the dispersible tablets, and never a 
combination of both. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much Votubia to take 
Your doctor will determine the dose of Votubia you need to take depending on: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
your age 
your body size 
the health of your liver 
other medicines you are taking. 
You will have blood tests during treatment with Votubia. This is to measure the amount of Votubia in 
your blood and find the best daily dose for you. 
If you experience certain side effects (see section 4) while you are taking Votubia, your doctor may 
lower your dose or stop treatment, either for a short time or permanently. 
How to take this medicine 
− 
− 
− 
Take Votubia dispersible tablets once a day. 
Take them at the same time every day. 
You can take them either with or without food, but you need to do this in the same way each 
day. 
Take Votubia dispersible tablets as an oral suspension only 
Do not chew or crush the dispersible tablets. Do not swallow them whole. You must mix the 
dispersible tablets with water to create a cloudy liquid (known as an oral suspension). 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How to prepare and take the oral suspension 
Prepare the oral suspension by mixing the dispersible tablets with water either in an oral syringe or in 
a small glass. You must drink the suspension immediately after preparing it. If you do not drink it 
within 30 minutes when using an oral syringe or within 60 minutes when using a small glass, throw it 
away and prepare a new suspension. Please read the detailed instructions at the end of this leaflet to 
find out how to do this. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Special information for caregivers 
Caregivers are advised to avoid contact with suspensions of Votubia dispersible tablets. Wash hands 
thoroughly before and after preparation of the suspension. 
If you take more Votubia than you should 
− 
If you have taken too much Votubia, or if someone else accidentally takes your dispersible 
tablets, see a doctor or go to a hospital immediately. Urgent treatment may be necessary. 
Take the carton and this leaflet, so that the doctor knows what has been taken. 
− 
If you forget to take Votubia 
If you miss a dose, take your next dose as scheduled. Do not take a double dose to make up for the 
forgotten dispersible tablets. 
If you stop taking Votubia 
Do not stop taking Votubia dispersible tablets unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
STOP taking Votubia and seek medical help immediately if you or your child experiences any of the 
following signs of an allergic reaction: 
• 
• 
• 
difficulty breathing or swallowing 
swelling of the face, lips, tongue or throat (signs of angioedema) 
severe itching of the skin, with a red rash or raised bumps 
Serious side effects of Votubia include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
− 
Fever, cough, difficulty breathing, wheezing (signs of inflammation of the lung due to infection, 
also known as pneumonia) 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
− 
Swelling, feeling of heaviness or tightness, pain, limited mobility of body parts (this could occur 
anywhere in the body and is a potential sign of an abnormal build-up of fluid in soft tissue due 
to a blockage in the lymphatic system, also known as lymphoedema) 
Rash, itching, hives, difficulty breathing or swallowing, dizziness (signs of serious allergic 
reaction, also known as hypersensitivity) 
Fever, cough, difficulty breathing, wheezing (signs of inflammation of the lung, also known as 
pneumonitis) 
− 
− 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
− 
Rash of small fluid-filled blisters, appearing on reddened skin (signs of viral infection that can 
be potentially severe, also known as herpes zoster) 
Fever, chills, rapid breathing and heart rate, rash, and possibly confusion and disorientation 
(signs of serious infection, also known as sepsis) 
− 
If you experience any of these side effects, tell your doctor immediately as this might have 
life-threatening consequences. 
Other possible side effects of Votubia include: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
− 
− 
− 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Sore throat and runny nose (nasopharyngitis) 
Headache, pressure in the eyes, nose or cheek area (signs of inflammation of the sinuses and 
nasal passages, also known as sinusitis) 
− 
Urinary tract infection 
− 
High level of lipids (fats) in the blood (hypercholesterolaemia) 
− 
Decreased appetite 
− 
Headache 
− 
Cough 
−  Mouth ulcers 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
−  Menstruation disorders such as absence of periods (amenorrhoea) or irregular periods 
− 
− 
Diarrhoea 
Being sick (vomiting) 
Acne 
Skin rash 
Feeling tired 
Fever 
Sore throat (pharyngitis) 
Headache, dizziness, signs of high blood pressure (hypertension) 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
−  Middle ear infection 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Swollen, bleeding gums (signs of gum inflammation, also known as gingivitis) 
Skin inflammation (cellulitis) 
High level of lipids (fats) in the blood (hyperlipidaemia, raised triglycerides) 
Low level of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphataemia) 
High level of sugar in the blood (hyperglycaemia) 
Tiredness, breathlessness, dizziness, pale skin (signs of low level of red blood cells, also known 
as anaemia) 
Fever, sore throat or mouth ulcers due to infections (signs of low level of white blood cells, also 
known as leucopenia, lymphopenia, neutropenia) 
Spontaneous bleeding or bruising (signs of low level of platelets, also known as 
thrombocytopenia) 
− 
− 
−  Mouth pain 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Nose bleeds (epistaxis) 
Stomach upset like feeling sick (nausea) 
Abdominal pain 
Severe pain in the lower abdomen and pelvic area that may be sharp, with menstrual 
irregularities (ovarian cyst) 
Excess amount of gas in the bowels (flatulence) 
Constipation 
Abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, swelling and bloating of the abdomen (signs of 
inflammation of the stomach lining, also known as gastritis or gastroenteritis viral) 
Dry skin, itching (pruritus) 
An inflammatory condition of the skin characterised by redness, itching, and oozing 
liquid-filled cysts which become scaly, crusted, or hardened (dermatitis acneiform) 
Loss of hair (alopecia) 
Protein in the urine 
− 
− 
−  Menstruation disorders such as heavy periods (menorrhagia) or vaginal bleeding 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Trouble sleeping (insomnia) 
Irritability 
Aggression 
High level of an enzyme called blood lactate dehydrogenase that gives information about the 
health of certain organs 
High level of the hormone that triggers ovulation (blood luteinising hormone increased) 
− 
−  Weight loss 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
−  Muscle spasms, fever, red-brown urine which may be symptoms of a muscle disorder 
− 
(rhabdomyolysis) 
Cough with phlegm, chest pain, fever (signs of inflammation of airways, also known as 
bronchitis viral) 
Disturbed taste (dysgeusia) 
− 
−  Menstruation disorders such as delayed periods 
− 
Higher level of female reproductive hormone (blood follicle stimulating hormone increased) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
− 
Reaction at the site of previous radiation therapy, e.g. skin redness or lung inflammation 
(so-called radiation recall syndrome) 
−  Worsening of radiation treatment side effects 
If these side effects get severe please tell your doctor and/or pharmacist. Most of the side effects 
are mild to moderate and will generally disappear if your treatment is interrupted for a few 
days. 
102 
 
 
 
 
The following side effects have been reported in patients taking everolimus for the treatment of 
conditions other than TSC: 
− 
Kidney disorders: altered frequency or absence of urination may be symptoms of kidney failure 
and have been observed in some patients receiving everolimus. Other symptoms may include 
altered kidney function test (increase in creatinine). 
Symptoms of heart failure such as breathlessness, difficulty breathing when lying down, 
swelling of the feet or legs 
Blockage or obstruction of a blood vessel (vein) in the leg (deep vein thrombosis). Symptoms 
may include swelling and/or pain in one of your legs, usually in the calf, redness or warm skin 
in the affected area 
Problems with wound healing 
High levels of sugar in the blood (hyperglycaemia) 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Hepatitis B reactivation has been observed in some patients taking everolimus. Tell your doctor if you 
experience symptoms of hepatitis B during treatment with everolimus. The first symptoms may 
include fever, skin rash, joint pain and inflammation. Other symptoms may include fatigue, loss of 
appetite, nausea, jaundice (yellowing of the skin), and pain in the upper right abdomen. Pale stools or 
dark urine may also be signs of hepatitis. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Votubia 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister foil. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
Open the blister just before taking Votubia dispersible tablets. 
The stability of the ready to use suspension has been demonstrated for 60 minutes. After 
preparation the suspension must be taken straight away. If you do not use it within 60 minutes, 
throw it away and prepare a new suspension. 
Do not use this medicine if the pack is damaged or shows signs of tampering. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Votubia dispersible tablets contain 
− 
The active substance is everolimus. 
Each Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablet contains 1 mg of everolimus. 
Each Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablet contains 2 mg of everolimus. 
Each Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablet contains 3 mg of everolimus. 
Each Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablet contains 5 mg of everolimus. 
The other ingredients are butylated hydroxytoluene (E321), magnesium stearate, lactose 
monohydrate, hypromellose, crospovidone type A, mannitol, cellulose microcrystalline and 
silica colloidal anhydrous (see section 2 “Votubia contains lactose”). 
− 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Votubia dispersible tablets looks like and contents of the pack 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets are white to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets with a bevelled 
edge and no score. They are engraved with “D1” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets are white to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets with a bevelled 
edge and no score. They are engraved with “D2” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 3 mg dispersible tablets are white to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets with a bevelled 
edge and no score. They are engraved with “D3” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets are white to slightly yellowish, round, flat tablets with a bevelled 
edge and no score. They are engraved with “D5” on one side and “NVR” on the other. 
Votubia 1 mg dispersible tablets are available in packs containing 30 dispersible tablets in perforated 
unit-dose blisters of 10 x 1 tablets each. 
Votubia 2 mg dispersible tablets are available in packs containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 100 x 1 dispersible 
tablets in perforated unit-dose blisters of 10 x 1 tablets each. 
Votubia 3 mg and Votubia 5 mg dispersible tablets are available in packs containing 30 x 1 or 
100 x1 dispersible tablets in perforated unit-dose blisters of 10 x 1 tablets each. 
Not all pack sizes or strengths may be marketed in your country. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Farmacéutica SA 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstrasse 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел.: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 306 42 00 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 555 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Novartis Farma - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 000 8600 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
Read and follow these instructions carefully so that you know how to correctly prepare the 
medicine. This will look like a cloudy liquid (known as an oral suspension). 
Use an oral syringe or a small glass for preparing and taking the Votubia suspension only – do 
not use it for anything else. 
Important information: 
Take Votubia dispersible tablets as a suspension only. 
These instructions are for taking a dose between 1 mg and 10 mg. 
• 
The most you can take at one time using the oral syringe or small glass is 10 mg, using a 
maximum of 5 dispersible tablets. 
If you need to take a higher dose or need to use more than 5 dispersible tablets, split the dose 
and repeat the steps using the same oral syringe or small glass. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist about how to split the dose if you are not sure. 
• 
• 
Caregivers should try to avoid skin contact with the oral suspension. Keep the medicine out of the 
reach of children. 
Only use water (drinkable tap water or non-sparkling bottled water) to prepare the oral suspension. Do 
not use juice or any other liquids. 
The patient must drink the suspension immediately after it is prepared. If the patient does not drink it 
within 30 minutes if an oral syringe has been used or within 60 minutes if a small glass has been used, 
throw it away and prepare a new suspension. 
Instructions for caregivers preparing the suspension using an oral syringe: 
You will need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The blister with Votubia dispersible tablets 
Scissors to open the blister 
10 ml oral syringe with 1 ml increments (for single use): see figure below 
2 clean glasses 
Approximately 30 ml of water 
Barrel 
Volume 
indicators 
Plunger 
Tip 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Getting ready 
1.  Wash and dry your hands. 
2. 
Take the 10 ml oral syringe and pull out the plunger, 
removing it completely from the barrel of the syringe. 
Adding the dispersible tablets 
3. 
Use scissors to open the blister along the dotted line. Remove 
the dispersible tablets from the blister. Place them into the 
barrel of the oral syringe straight away. 
4. 
Re-insert the plunger into the barrel of the oral syringe. Push 
the plunger in until it touches the dispersible tablets. 
Adding water 
5. 
Fill a small glass with water (drinkable tap water or 
non-sparkling bottled water). Put the tip of the syringe into 
the water. Draw up about 5 ml of water by slowly pulling the 
plunger out until it is at the 5 ml mark on the syringe. 
Note: The amount of water in the oral syringe does not need 
to be exact but all the tablets should be covered. If any 
tablets get stuck in the dry upper part of the oral syringe, 
gently tap the oral syringe until they fall down into the water. 
Mixing the medicine 
6. 
7. 
Hold the oral syringe with the tip pointing up. Pull the 
plunger slowly down to draw in air until it is at the 9 ml 
mark on the syringe. 
Put the filled oral syringe in the clean, empty glass with the 
tip pointing up. Wait for 3 minutes – until the dispersible 
tablets have completely broken apart. 
3 Min 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Mix the medicine by slowly turning the oral syringe upside 
down and back again five times just before using the dose. 
Do not shake it. Use the oral suspension immediately. If you 
do not use it within 30 minutes, throw it away and prepare a 
new suspension. 
Removing air 
9. 
Hold the oral syringe with the tip pointing upwards. Push the 
plunger up slowly to remove most of the air (it is okay for a 
small amount of air to remain around the tip). 
5x 
Taking the medicine 
10.  Put the oral syringe into the patient’s mouth. Push the 
plunger in slowly to release the full contents of the oral 
syringe. 
11.  Carefully remove the oral syringe from the patient’s mouth. 
Making sure all of the medicine has been taken 
12. 
Insert the tip of the oral syringe into the glass filled with 
water. Draw up 5 ml of water by slowly pulling the plunger 
up. 
13.  Hold the oral syringe with the tip pointing up. Pull the 
plunger slowly down to draw in air until it is at the 9 ml 
mark on the syringe. 
14.  With the tip of the oral syringe pointing upwards, swirl the 
water around to collect any medicine that is left inside. 
15.  Hold the oral syringe with the tip pointing upward. Push the 
plunger up slowly to remove most of the air. 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16.  Put the oral syringe into the patient’s mouth. Push the 
plunger in slowly to release the full contents of the oral 
syringe. 
17.  Carefully remove the oral syringe from the patient’s mouth. 
If the total prescribed dose is more than 10 mg or has to 
be prepared using more than 5 dispersible tablets, repeat 
steps 2 to 17 to finish giving the dose. 
Cleaning up 
18.  Ask your pharmacist how to throw away the oral syringe. 
19.  Wash and dry your hands. 
Instructions for patients or caregivers preparing the suspension using a small glass: 
You will need: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Blister with Votubia dispersible tablets 
Scissors to open the blister 
1 small glass (maximum size 100 ml) 
30 ml dose cup for measuring water 
Approximately 50 ml of water to prepare the suspension 
Spoon for stirring 
Getting ready 
1.  Wash and dry your hands. 
Adding water 
2. 
Add about 25 ml of water to the 30 ml dose cup. The amount 
of water added does not need to be exact. 
25 ml 
of water 
3. 
Pour the water from the dose cup into the small glass. 
Adding the dispersible tablets 
4. 
5. 
Use scissors to open the blister along the dotted line. Remove 
the dispersible tablets from the blister. 
Add the dispersible tablets into the water. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mixing the medicine 
6.  Wait for 3 minutes until the dispersible tablets have 
completely broken apart. 
3 Min 
7. 
Gently stir the contents of the glass with a spoon and then 
proceed immediately to step 8. 
Taking the medicine 
8. 
The patient must immediately drink all of the oral suspension 
from the glass. If the suspension is not used within 
60 minutes, throw it away and prepare a new suspension. 
Making sure all of the medicine has been taken 
9. 
Refill the glass with the same amount of water (about 25 ml). 
Stir the contents with the spoon to remove any medicine left 
on the glass and spoon. 
10 
The patient must drink all of the oral suspension from the 
glass. 
If the total prescribed dose is more than 10 mg or has to 
be prepared using more than 5 dispersible tablets, repeat 
steps 2 to 10 to finish taking the dose. 
Cleaning up 
11.  Wash the glass and the spoon thoroughly with clean water. 
Wipe the glass and spoon with a clean paper towel. Store 
them in a dry and clean place until next time. 
12.  Wash and dry your hands. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
