24 September 2015 
EMA/817353/2015 
Procedure Management and Committees Support Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Votubia  
(everolimus) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002311/P46/026 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
On July 08, 2015 the MAH submitted a Post-Marketing Surveillance (PMS) Study comprising also 
paediatric data in order to comply with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Information on the development program 
Following the MAH the newly submitted study CRAD001MKR20 was a local Korean Post-Marketing 
Surveillance (PMS) Study for everolimus in patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-associated 
subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and/or Renal Angiomyolipoma (AML). As this was a 
noninterventional study, efficacy evaluation was not mandatory, and the results were only collected if 
efficacy evaluation was performed under clinical practice conditions. 
1.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
The study report is written in Korean language. Following the synopsis in Englihs, Everolimus was 
formulated as tablets of 2.5mg, 5mg, and 10mg strengths for oral administration. Commercial product 
available on the local Korean market was used. 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
1.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final CSR in Korean language. Following the synopsis in English language, the 
study report is for: 
•  Phase IV study CRAD001MKR20 entitled “Post-Marketing Surveillance (PMS) Study for Afinitor 
(everolimus) in patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-associated subependymal 
giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) and/or Renal Angiomyolipoma (AML)” with the study dates first 
patient enrolled 14-Oct-2014 and last patient completed 26-Jan-2015. 
1.3.2.  Clinical study 
study CRAD001MKR20 “Post-Marketing Surveillance (PMS) Study for Afinitor (everolimus) 
in patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-associated subependymal giant cell 
astrocytoma (SEGA) and/or Renal Angiomyolipoma (AML)” 
Description 
Study CRAD001MKR20 was an open-label, single center (Seoul National University Hospital, South 
Korea), single-arm, observational post-marketing surveillance (PMS) study. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
According to the synopsis, the objectives were to evaluate the safety and efficacy of everolimus in real-
life conditions in its registered TSC indication(s) as requested by Ministry of Food and Drug Safety 
(MFDS), especially to identify the problems and questions associated with the following: 
Votubia P46 026 FAR 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Unknown adverse reactions, especially serious adverse reactions 
(2) Incidence of adverse reactions under routine drug use 
(3) Factors that may affect the safety of the drug 
(4) Factors that may affect the effectiveness of the drug 
Study design 
This was an open-label, single centre study. 
Study population /Sample size 
Main inclusion criteria were: 
•  Patients with TSC-associated SEGA and/or with AML who require therapeutic intervention but are 
not candidates for curative surgical resection, and are designated the administration of the study 
drug in accordance with the locally approved “Dose & Administration” and “Precautions for Use” 
•  Patients who signed the informed consent form 
Main exclusion criteria were: 
•  Patients with hypersensitivity to everolimus, to other rapamycin derivatives, or to any of the 
excipients 
•  Patients with hereditary problem of galactose intolerance, of Lapp lactase deficiency or of 
glucosegalactose 
Following the synopsis, as to the sample size it was planned to include 5 patients, 3 analyzed patients 
out of which one patient was below 18 years old. Nor more details on sample size estimation can be 
derived from the documents (in English) submitted. 
Treatments 
Everolimus was formulated as 
tablets of 2.5mg, 5mg, and 10mg strengths for oral administration. Commercial product available on 
the local Korean market was used. For treatment of TSC-associated SEGA, starting dose was 
determined based on Body Surface Area (see table below), dosing was to be titrated to attain trough 
blood concentrations of 5-10 ng/mL. Recommended initial dose of the study drug for TSC-associated 
AML was 10 mg once daily. Planned duration of treatment (and duration of study) was 12 weeks. 
Assessor’s comment: 
Principles of the recommended initial dose as well as the method of dose titration of this trial are 
nearly identical with sec. 4.2 of the SmPC of Votubia after granting the first MA to Votubia in 2011. The 
current recommendation, however, provides a starting dose of 4.5 mg/m2, thus, a higher and more 
individualised starting dose compared to the table above. The same has just been discussed within 
procedure EMEA/H/C/002311 P46 022. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Following the synopsis (+/- the clinical overview) submitted, efficacy, safety and PK endpoints were as 
follows: 
Efficacy: 
Votubia P46 026 FAR 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As this was a non-interventional study, efficacy evaluation was not mandatory, and the results were 
only collected if efficacy evaluation was performed under clinical practice conditions. 
SEGA response was defined as: 
•  Post-dose reduction of ≥ 30% in SEGA volume measured on brain image compared to baseline 
AML response was defined as: 
•  Post-dose reduction of ≥ 50% in AML volume measured on renal image compared to baseline 
Safety: 
The safety evaluation consisted of monitoring and recording all adverse events including serious 
adverse events reported during study. If the study drug was discontinued during the study, adverse 
events/serious adverse events occurring within 4 weeks after discontinuation were to be reported. If 
the study drug continued to be used after the study period, patients were to be followed up for safety 
for up to 12 weeks after the study period, and only suspected serious adverse events in the 
investigator’s judgment were to be reported to Novartis. 
Bioanalytics: 
As this was a non-interventional study, blood everolimus concentration and laboratory test was not 
mandatory, and the results were collected only if the blood everolimus concentration and laboratory 
test was performed under clinical practice conditions. 
Statistical Methods 
Analysis population consisted of all patients whose CRF had been completed and retrieved. Patients in 
the safety population consisted of all patients with CRF retrieved, who had received at least one dose 
of study drug and had completed at least one follow-up for safety (including phone, letter or e-mail). 
Patients in the efficacy population consisted of patients, among those in safety population, who had 
efficacy endpoint(s) measured. In this post-marketing surveillance, for TSC indication, only three 
patients (including one pediatric patient) were included in the safety population and one patient was 
included in the efficacy population. Therefore, statistical analysis for safety or efficacy was not 
conducted. The result of safety and efficacy evaluation and patient information including demographic 
information, medical/medication history and study drug administration status were presented in a 
narrative format. 
Of the three patients included in safety evaluation, two patients who did not complete SEGA response 
and AML response were excluded and one patient was used for efficacy evaluation. For this patient, 
efficacy was evaluated by response of SEGA that was measured on post-dose brain image compared to 
pre-dose brain image (brain MRI or brain CT). Efficacy rate by factor was calculated, and factors that 
may have affected the efficacy rate were analyzed using categorical data analysis method (Chisquare 
test or Fisher’s Exact test), etc. 
As this observational study did not have a specific hypothesis to test, formal sample size calculation 
was not performed. No interim analysis was performed. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Three patients (2 adult males, 1 pediatric female) diagnosed with TSC-associated SEGA and/or with AML 
were treated at 1 center in South Korea. All 3 patients completed the 12-week study treatment. 
Baseline data 
Table 2-1 below as of the clinical summary provides some information on base-line demographic data 
as follows: 
Votubia P46 026 FAR 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
Of the 3 patients included in the safety evaluation, two patients who did not complete SEGA response 
and AML response were excluded and one patient was included in the efficacy evaluation. For this 
patient, brain imaging for SEGA response from 8 weeks to 12 weeks after the administration of study 
drug indicated that the patient had ‘SEGA response’ as defined per the study protocol. Brain or kidney 
imaging was not conducted during that timeframe and AML response was not assessed. 
PK (PD) results 
One patient had a dose increase based on their blood concentration level. 
Safety results 
During the study period, all patients received uninterrupted study drug for 12 weeks and no dose 
reductions occurred. 
The safety results were consistent with the known safety profile of everolimus in TSC and no new 
safety concerns or unexpected findings were identified. 
Overall, one patient reported an AE. The AE was Grade 1 stomatitis and the causality of study drug 
was ‘possibly related’ in the judgment of the investigator. Onset of this AE was on day 52 of treatment. 
The investigator treated the AE with Vitamin C and did not the change the patient’s dose of everolimus. 
No Adverse Event was reported for the 16 years old pediatric patient enrolled in the study. 
There were no SAEs or deaths reported during the study or during the follow up period. 
1.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The MAH/clinical overview discusses the clinical aspects of the submission of CSR MIC02: 
“A total of 3 patients were treated in the study, 2 adult patients and 1 paediatric patient. 
The results of this study confirm the acceptable safety profile of everolimus as shown by the 
absence of serious adverse events and Grade 3 or 4 adverse events, albeit the small number of 
patients in this study. The reported event of stomatitis was consistent with the known safety 
profile of everolimus; it was medically managed by investigator. Furthermore, no 
discontinuations due to adverse events were reported and no deaths occurred during the study 
or the 12 week follow-up period. 
Votubia P46 026 FAR 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No changes to the paediatric information of the current Afinitor/Votubia (everolimus) Core Data 
Sheet are proposed as a result of this study, and no regulatory consequences of the submitted 
study are anticipated for the paediatric information in the European Summary of Product 
Characteristics (EU SmPC). 
In conclusion, the benefit to risk relationship for everolimus remains positive for the currently 
approved indications and justifies continuation of the development program in paediatric 
patients.” 
The assessor agrees with this overall conclusion – and considers the overall paediatric information 
content of this CSR as minimal. 
2.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
Safety and efficacy finding of newly submitted study CRAD001MKR20 in (adult and paediatric) TSC 
patients with SEGA and/or AML are fully in accordance with result of study C2485 and M2301 already 
labelled. The benefit-risk of Votubia remains positive. 
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
3.  Additional clarifications requested 
n/a 
4.  Assessment of responses 
n/a 
Votubia P46 026 FAR 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
