Summary of the risk management plan for Afinitor and
Votubia (everolimus)
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Afinitor  and  Votubia.  The  RMP 
details  important  risks  of  Votubia,  how  these  risks  can  be  minimized,  and  how  more 
information will be obtained. There are no important identified risks, important potential risks 
and missing information for Afinitor.
Afinitor  and  Votubia’s  summary  of  product  characteristics(s)  (SmPCs)  and  their  package 
leaflets  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Afinitor 
and Votubia should be used.
This summary of the RMP for Afinitor and Votubia should be  read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, 
of all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Afinitor 
and Votubia’s RMP
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Afinitor and Votubia contains everolimus as the active substance and is it used in the following 
indications:
 Oncology setting
 Renal cell carcinoma [RCC], which is for the treatment of patients with advanced renal 
cell  carcinoma  whose  disease  has  progressed  on  or  after  treatment  with  VEGF-
targeted therapy
 Neuroendocrine  tumors  of  pancreatic  origin  [pNET],  which  is  for  the  treatment  of 
patients  with  unresectable  or  metastatic,  well- or  moderately-differentiated 
neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin in adults with progressive disease
 Hormone  receptor-positive  advance  breast  cancer  [BREAST],  which  is  for  the 
treatment of hormone receptor-positive, HER2/neu negative advanced breast cancer, 
in  combination  with  exemestane,  in  postmenopausal  women  without  symptomatic 
visceral disease after recurrence or progression following a non-steroidal aromatase 
inhibitor
 Neuroendocrine tumors of gastrointestinal (GI) or lung origin [NET], which is for the 
treatment of unresectable or metastatic, well-differentiated (Grade 1 or Grade 2) non-
functional  neuroendocrine  tumors  of  GI  or  lung  origin  in  adults  with  progressive 
disease
TSC setting
 Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) associated with TSC [TSC-SEGA], which 
is for the treatment of patients with SEGA associated with TSC who require therapeutic 
intervention but are not amendable to surgery. The evidence is based on analysis of 
change  in  SEGA  volume.  Further  clinical  benefit,  such  as  improvement  in  disease-
related symptoms, has not been demonstrated
 Renal angiomyolipoma associated with TSC [TSC-AML], which is for the treatment of 
adult  patients  with  renal  angiomyolipoma  associated  with  TSC  who  are  at  risk  of 
complications  (based  on  factors  such  as  tumor  size  or  presence  of  aneurysm,  or 
presence of multiple or bilateral tumors), but who do not require immediate surgery. 
The evidence is based on analysis of change in sum of angiomyolipoma volume

 Refractory seizures associated with TSC [TSC-Seizures], which is for the adjunctive 
treatment of patients aged 2 years and older whose refractory partial-onset 
seizures, with or without secondary generalization, are associated with TSC
Further information about the  evaluation of Afinitor and Votubia’s benefits can be found in 
Afinitor and Votubia’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/afinitor
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/votubia
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or further 
characterize the risks
Important risks of Afinitor and Votubia, together with measures to minimize such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Afinitor and Votubia’s risks are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;



Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment - so that immediate action can be taken 
as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  Afinitor  and Votubia is  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Afinitor and Votubia are risks that need special risk management activities 
to further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. 
Important risks  can be  regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are  concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Afinitor and Votubia. Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). There are no 
important  identified/potential  risks  for  Afinitor.  A  list  of  safety  concerns  for  Votubia  is 
presented in Table -1.
Table 1
secondary amenorrhea) (TSC setting only)
Important identified risk: Female Infertility (including 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
The  risk  difference  between  Double-blind  Everolimus  and 
placebo/active  comparator  was  12.6%  in  the  pooled  TSC 
datasets.
The review of the clinical database and safety database produced 
similar results. The analyses conducted in female patients with 
TSC  who  were  aged  10  to  55  years,  confirm  that  menstrual 
disorders,  namely  secondary  amenorrhea  and 
irregular 
menstruation  are  the  main  AEs  seen  while  on  treatment  with 
everolimus. Most, if not all of these events, resolve while still on 
treatment  with  everolimus  and  without  requiring  intervention. 
There is no evidence of a delay in menarche among young female 
patients who were treated with everolimus.
The preclinical data (pre-implantation loss, atrophic changes in 
uterus) and the clinical data evidence of everolimus treatment in 
association  with  menstrual  disorders,  including  secondary 
that 
amenorrhea  and 
everolimus could impair female infertility.
However, to date, there is no direct clinical evidence to suggest 
an  effect  of  everolimus  on  hormonal  imbalance  or  female 
infertility.  Of  note,  all  patients  are  required  to  take  highly 
effective  contraception  while  under  treatment  with  everolimus 
and for at least eight weeks after stopping treatment.
The terms of female infertility disorders are categorized as ADRs 
in TSC setting with appropriate frequency
irregular  menstruation,  suggests 
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Female patients of developmental or reproductive age receiving 
everolimus.
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
Fertility in SmPC Section 4.6
Listed in SmPC Section 4.8.
Additional risk minimization measures
Not deemed necessary
Table 2
Important potential risk: Postnatal developmental toxicity 
(TSC setting only)
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
The  risk  difference  between  Double-blind  Everolimus  and 
placebo/active comparator was 0.6% in the pooled TSC datasets. 
There were no SAEs, only non-serious AEs. The AEs reported also 
included  terms  suggestive  of  female  fertility  disorders  and  are 
included as ADRs.
Non-clinical setting
In  neonates  and  juvenile  rats,  everolimus  caused  systemic 
toxicity  at  systemic  exposure  below  the  therapeutic  level.  This 
was  manifested  as  reduced  body  weight  gains,  reduced  food 
consumption, and delayed developmental features (e.g. delayed 
eye  opening,  delayed  reproductive  development  in  both  males 
and  females)  that  were  at  least  partially  reversed  after  dosing 
cessation.  Increased  latency  time  during  learning  and  memory 
phases  in  male  rats  were  observed  at  doses  as  low  as 
0.5 mg/kg/day.  These  observations  are  considered  a  general 
delay  of  growth  and  development  and  not  specifically 
neurodevelopmental  toxicity.  In  juvenile  monkeys  dosed  up  to 
0.5 mg/kg  for  4 weeks,  everolimus  treatment  did  not  cause 
relevant  toxicity.  A  pre- and  post-natal  development  study  in 
rats revealed slight body weight differences with survival of the 
F1 at ≥ 0.1 mg/kg. (Afinitor and Votubia EU-RMP V13.0 / V13.0-
Section 13.1)
TSC population
Although  no  information  has  been  identified  specifically  for 
SEGA, ANGIO, and TSC-Seizures patients, neurodevelopmental 
disorders are common in TSC. Developmental delay or learning 
difficulties were reported for 80% of 300 cases of TSC surveyed 
by postal questionnaire and reported by Hunt (1993). Joinson et 
al (2003) in a study of 108 individuals with TSC found 44% with 
an IQ <70.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Male  and  female  patients  of  developmental  age  receiving 
everolimus (Yanchar et al 1996).
Risk minimization
measures
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Routine risk minimization measures
Preclinical safety data in SmPC section 5.3
Breast-feeding in Package Leaflet Information for the Patients
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Stated additional PV activity for TSC-SEGA setting only: Study 
CRAD001M2305.
Table 3
Important potential risk: Male infertility (TSC setting)
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
The  risk  difference  between  Double-blind  Everolimus  and 
placebo/active comparator was 2.5% in the pooled TSC datasets.
Non-clinical setting
Reversible testicular tubular degeneration, reduced sperm count 
in  epididymides;  or,  testicular  morphology,  sperm  motility, 
sperm  head  count,  and  plasma  testosterone  levels  were 
impacted  in  multiple  animal  species.  Reproductive  toxicology 
studies were conducted in rats and rabbits. In fertility studies in 
rats,  everolimus  caused  testicular  morphology  change  and  a 
decrease in male fertility (with evidence of reversibility) but had 
no effect on female fertility.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Male  and  female  patients  who  are  receiving  everolimus  and 
attempting to conceive a child.
Risk minimization
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
Contraception in SmPC Section 4.6
Fertility in SmPC Section 4.6.
Preclinical safety data in SmPC Section 5.3.
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Table 4
Missing information: Long-term safety (TSC setting only)
Risk minimization measures Routine risk minimization measures
None
Additional risk minimization measures
None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Stated additional PV activity for Long-term safety in TSC 
setting only: Study CRAD001M2305.
Table 5
Missing information: Neurocognitive and sexual development 
in pediatric patients (TSC setting only)
Risk minimization measures Routine risk minimization measures
Section 4.2 of the SmPC
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Stated additional PV activity for Neurocognitive and sexual 
development in pediatric patients in TSC setting: 
CRAD001M2305.
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
Table 6
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
Study 
Purpose of the study
Clinical study / 
CRAD001M2305
The primary  objective is to monitor the growth and development  of 
pediatric  patients  with  TSC  associated  SEGA  previously  enrolled  in 
CRAD001M2301,  who  had  received  everolimus  as  part  of  study 
CRAD001M2301  and  may  or  may not  be  continuing  treatment  with 
everolimus.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Table 7
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Study 
Rationale and study objectives
Clinical study / 
CRAD001M2305
The primary  objective is to monitor the growth and development  of 
pediatric  patients  with  TSC-associated  SEGA  previously  enrolled  in 
CRAD001M2301,  who  had  received  everolimus  as  part  of  study 
CRAD001M2301  and  may  or  may  not  be  continuing  treatment  with 
everolimus.
