EMA/229443/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002311 
Votubia (everolimus) 
An overview of Votubia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Votubia and what is it used for? 
Votubia is a medicine used to treat the following benign (non-cancerous) tumours caused by the 
genetic disease tuberous sclerosis: 
• 
• 
subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA), a benign tumour of the brain, where it is used in 
adults and children whose brain tumour cannot be surgically removed; 
renal angiomyolipoma, a benign tumour of the kidneys, where it is used in adults who are at risk of 
complications but who do not require immediate surgery. 
The medicine is also used as an add-on treatment in patients from 2 years of age with seizures (fits) 
related to tuberous sclerosis that have not responded to other treatments. Votubia is used for partial-
onset seizures (seizures that start in one part of the brain), which may or may not spread to affect the 
whole brain (secondary generalisation). 
Votubia contains the active substance everolimus.  
Tuberous sclerosis is rare, and Votubia was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 4 August 2010. 
How is Votubia used? 
Votubia treatment should be started by a doctor experienced in treating tuberous sclerosis and in 
monitoring levels of medicine in the blood. It is available as tablets (2.5, 5 and 10 mg) and as 
dispersible tablets (1, 2, 3 and 5 mg) and is taken by mouth once a day at the same time every day, 
consistently either with or without food. 
For SEGA, and for use as add-on treatment of seizures, the starting dose depends on the body surface 
area (calculated using the patient’s height and weight) and the patient’s age, but the doctor will adjust 
the dose based on the patient’s blood levels of the medicine and how well the patient tolerates the 
medicine. 
In patients with renal angiomyolipoma, the recommended dose is 10 mg once a day. If patients 
experience severe side effects the doctor may need to reduce the dose or interrupt treatment 
temporarily. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Starting doses may need to be reduced, or treatment avoided, in patients with reduced liver function, 
depending on how severe this is and on the patient’s age and the condition they are being treated for. 
When used together with other medicines, e.g. as an add-on treatment for seizures, the dosage may 
also be affected by the other medicines being taken.  
For more information about using Votubia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Votubia work? 
The active substance in Votubia, everolimus, is an anti-tumour medicine that acts by blocking an 
enzyme called ‘mammalian target of rapamycin’ (mTOR), which has increased activity in tumour cells 
of patients with SEGA or renal angiomyolipoma. In the body, everolimus first attaches to a protein 
called FKBP-12 that is found inside cells to make a ‘complex’. This complex then blocks mTOR. Since 
mTOR is involved in the control of cell division and the growth of blood vessels, Votubia prevents the 
division of tumour cells and reduces their blood supply. mTOR is also thought to play a role in the 
seizures that occur in patients with tuberous sclerosis but it is not fully understood how the medicine 
acts to prevent them. 
What benefits of Votubia have been shown in studies? 
Votubia has been shown to be effective at treating patients with SEGA and renal angiomyolipoma by 
shrinking the volume of the tumours. It has also shown to be effective at reducing partial-onset 
seizures associated with tuberous sclerosis. 
SEGA 
In SEGA caused by tuberous sclerosis, Votubia has been studied in two main studies: the first study 
involved 28 adults and children aged three years and above. The main measure of effectiveness was 
based on how much the patient’s main brain tumour shrank after six months of treatment: the main 
brain tumour shrank by half in approximately 30% of patients and by about a third in around 70% of 
patients. The second study involved 117 patients (including 20 children aged below 3 years) and 
compared Votubia with placebo (a dummy treatment). The main measure of effectiveness was the 
proportion of patients who responded to treatment and whose brain tumour shrank by at least half 
after six months of treatment. This occurred in 35% of patients (27 out of 78 patients) treated with 
Votubia, compared with none of the 39 patients who received placebo. 
Renal angiomyolipoma  
In renal angiomyolipoma caused by tuberous sclerosis, Votubia has been compared with placebo in one 
study involving 118 adults. The main measure of effectiveness was the proportion of patients who 
responded to treatment and whose kidney tumour shrank by at least half, which was seen in 42% of 
patients (33 out of 79) treated with Votubia, compared with none of the 39 patients who received 
placebo. 
Partial onset seizures  
The benefits of Votubia as an add-on treatment of partial onset seizures related to tuberous sclerosis 
that have not been sufficiently controlled by other treatments have been shown in one main study. It 
involved 366 adults and children 2 years of age and over. Two different dosage regimens of add-on 
treatment with Votubia (tailored to give lower or higher levels in the blood) were compared with 
Votubia (Votubia (everolimus)  
EMA/229443/2018  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
placebo. Before treatment, patients had 16 to 17 seizures per week on average and response was 
considered to be shown by a reduction in seizures of at least 50%. This response was seen in 28% (33 
of 117 patients) in the lower blood level group and 40% (52 of 130 patients) in the higher blood level 
group, compared with 15% (18 of 119) of patients taking placebo. Overall, the patients given Votubia 
had a 29 and 40% reduction respectively in the number of seizures during treatment, compared with a 
15% reduction in those given placebo.  
What are the risks associated with Votubia? 
The most common side effects with Votubia (seen in more than 1 in 10 patients) are acne, stomatitis 
(inflammation of the lining of the mouth), upper respiratory tract infections (colds), nasopharyngitis 
(inflammation of the nose and throat), sinusitis (inflammation of the sinuses), cough, pneumonia 
(infection of the lung), urinary tract infection, increased blood levels of cholesterol, irregular 
menstruation (periods), amenorrhoea (absence of periods), headache, diarrhoea, vomiting, rash, 
tiredness, fever and decreased appetite. For the full list of all side effects reported with Votubia, see 
the package leaflet. 
Votubia must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to everolimus, to related 
medicines such as sirolimus and temsirolimus or to any of the other ingredients. 
Why is Votubia authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that Votubia has been shown to reduce the size of the brain 
tumours in adults and children with tuberous sclerosis and that this is expected to reduce the signs and 
symptoms of SEGA such as seizures, hydrocephalus (accumulation of fluid in the brain), and increased 
pressure within the brain. Although surgery remains the standard treatment for this condition, Votubia 
is expected to benefit patients whose tumour cannot be operated on. Votubia has also been shown to 
reduce the size of kidney tumours in patients with renal angiomyolipoma and has been shown to be 
beneficial as an add-on treatment in the management of partial-onset seizures related to tuberous 
sclerosis that have not sufficiently responded to other therapy. The side effects of the medicine were 
considered to be manageable and were generally mild or moderate. The Agency therefore concluded 
that the benefits of Votubia outweigh its risks and recommended that it be given marketing 
authorisation. 
Votubia was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come 
about the medicine, in particular its long-term effects. As the company has supplied the additional 
information necessary, the authorisation has been switched from conditional to full authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Votubia? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Votubia have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Votubia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Votubia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Votubia (Votubia (everolimus)  
EMA/229443/2018  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Votubia 
Votubia received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 2 September 2011. 
This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 16 November 2015. 
Further information on Votubia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Votubia, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Votubia can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designations. 
This overview was last updated in 04-2018.  
Votubia (Votubia (everolimus)  
EMA/229443/2018  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
