ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vumerity 231 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each gastro-resistant hard capsule contains 231 mg diroximel fumarate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Gastro-resistant hard capsule 
White capsule, size 0 (approximately 18 mm in length), printed with ‘DRF 231 mg’ in black ink. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Vumerity is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis 
(see section 5.1 for important information on the populations for which efficacy has been established). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated under supervision of a physician experienced in the treatment of 
multiple sclerosis. 
Posology 
The starting dose is 231 mg twice a day. After 7 days, the dose should be increased to the 
recommended maintenance dose of 462 mg twice a day (see section 4.4). 
Temporary dose reductions to 231 mg twice a day may reduce the occurrence of flushing and 
gastrointestinal adverse reactions. Within 1 month, the recommended dose of 462 mg twice a day 
should be resumed. 
If a patient misses a dose, a double dose should not be taken. The patient may take the missed dose 
only if they leave 4 hours between doses. Otherwise, the patient should wait until the next scheduled 
dose. 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Based on uncontrolled study data, the safety profile of diroximel fumarate in patients ≥55 years of age 
seems to be comparable to patients <55 years of age. Clinical studies with diroximel fumarate had 
limited exposure to patients aged 65 years and above and did not include sufficient numbers of 
patients aged 65 years and above to determine whether they respond differently than younger patients 
(see section 5.2). Based on the mechanism of action of the active substance there are no theoretical 
reasons for any requirement for dose adjustments in the elderly. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). Long-term safety 
of diroximel fumarate has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is necessary for patients with hepatic impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Diroximel fumarate has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Vumerity in children and adolescents aged 10 to less than 18 years have not 
yet been established. 
There is no relevant use of Vumerity in children aged less than 10 years for the indication of relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis. 
Method of administration 
For oral use. 
Vumerity should be swallowed whole and intact. The capsules should not be crushed or chewed and 
the contents should not be sprinkled on food because the enteric-coating of the capsule contents 
prevents irritant effects on the gut. 
Vumerity can be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). For those patients who may experience 
flushing or gastrointestinal adverse reactions, taking with food may improve tolerability (see sections 
4.4 and 4.8). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 or other fumaric 
acid esters (see section 4.5). 
Suspected or confirmed Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Diroximel fumarate and dimethyl fumarate are metabolised to monomethyl fumarate upon oral 
administration (see section 5.2). The risks associated with diroximel fumarate are expected to be 
similar to those reported for dimethyl fumarate even though not all the risks listed below have been 
observed specifically for diroximel fumarate. 
Blood/laboratory tests 
Changes in renal laboratory tests have been seen in clinical trials in patients treated with dimethyl 
fumarate (see section 4.8). The clinical implications of these changes are unknown. Assessment of 
renal function (e.g. creatinine, blood urea nitrogen and urinalysis) is recommended prior to treatment 
initiation with Vumerity, after 3 and 6 months of treatment, every 6 to 12 months thereafter and as 
clinically indicated. 
Drug-induced liver injury, including liver enzyme increase (≥ 3 x upper limit of normal (ULN)) and 
elevation of total bilirubin levels (≥ 2 x ULN) can result from treatment with dimethyl fumarate. The 
time to onset can be directly, several weeks or longer. Resolution of the adverse reactions has been 
observed after treatment was discontinued. Assessment of serum aminotransferases (e.g. alanine 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST)) and total bilirubin levels are 
recommended prior to treatment initiation and during treatment as clinically indicated. 
Patients treated with diroximel fumarate may develop lymphopenia (see section 4.8). Prior to initiating 
treatment, a current complete blood count, including lymphocytes, must be performed. If the 
lymphocyte count is found to be below the normal range, a thorough assessment of possible causes 
should be completed prior to initiation of treatment. Vumerity has not been studied in patients with 
pre-existing low lymphocyte counts and caution should be exercised when treating these patients. 
Treatment should not be initiated in patients with severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts 
<0.5 x 109/L). 
After starting therapy, complete blood counts, including lymphocytes, must be performed every 
3 months. 
Enhanced vigilance due to an increased risk for Progressive Multifocal Leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
is recommended in patients with lymphopenia as follows: 
• 
Treatment should be discontinued in patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte 
counts < 0.5 x 109/L) persisting for more than 6 months. 
In patients with sustained moderate reductions of absolute lymphocyte counts ≥ 0.5 x 109/L to 
< 0.8 x 109/L for more than 6 months, the benefit/risk of treatment should be re-assessed. 
In patients with lymphocyte counts below LLN, as defined by local laboratory reference range, 
regular monitoring of absolute lymphocyte counts is recommended. Additional factors that 
might further augment the individual PML risk should be considered (see subsection on PML). 
• 
• 
Lymphocyte counts should be followed until recovery (see section 5.1). Upon recovery and in the 
absence of alternative treatment options, decisions about whether or not to restart Vumerity after 
treatment discontinuation should be based on clinical judgement. 
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
Before initiating treatment, a baseline MRI should be available (usually within 3 months) as a 
reference. The need for further MRI scanning should be considered in accordance with national and 
local recommendations. MRI imaging may be considered as part of increased vigilance in patients 
considered at increased risk of PML. In case of clinical suspicion of PML, MRI should be performed 
immediately for diagnostic purposes. 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) 
PML has been reported in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.8). PML is an 
opportunistic infection caused by John Cunningham virus (JCV), which may be fatal or result in 
severe disability. 
PML cases have occurred with dimethyl fumarate and other medicinal products containing fumarates 
in the setting of lymphopenia (lymphocyte counts below lower limit of normal [LLN]). Prolonged 
moderate to severe lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with dimethyl fumarate, 
however, risk cannot be excluded in patients with mild lymphopenia. 
Additional factors that might contribute to an increased risk for PML in the setting of lymphopenia 
are: 
• 
duration of Vumerity therapy. Cases of PML have occurred after approximately 1 to 5 years of 
dimethyl fumarate treatment, although the exact relationship with duration of treatment is 
unknown. 
profound decreases in CD4+ and especially in CD8+ T cell counts, which are important for 
immunological defense (see section 4.8), and 
prior immunosuppressive or immunomodulatory therapy (see below). 
• 
• 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Physicians should evaluate their patients to determine if the symptoms are indicative of neurological 
dysfunction and, if so, whether these symptoms are typical of MS or possibly suggestive of PML. 
At the first sign or symptom suggestive of PML, Vumerity should be withheld and appropriate 
diagnostic evaluations, including determination of JCV DNA in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methodology, need to be performed. The symptoms of 
PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Typical symptoms associated with PML are diverse, progress 
over days to weeks, and include progressive weakness on one side of the body or clumsiness of limbs, 
disturbance of vision, and changes in thinking, memory, and orientation leading to confusion and 
personality changes. Physicians should be particularly alert to symptoms suggestive of PML that the 
patient may not notice. Patients should also be advised to inform their partner or caregivers about their 
treatment, since they may notice symptoms that the patient is not aware of. 
PML can only occur in the presence of a JCV infection. It should be considered that the influence of 
lymphopenia on the accuracy of serum anti-JCV antibody testing has not been studied in dimethyl 
fumarate or Vumerity treated patients. It should also be noted that a negative anti-JCV antibody test 
(in the presence of normal lymphocyte counts) does not preclude the possibility of subsequent JCV 
infection. 
If a patient develops PML, Vumerity must be permanently discontinued. 
Prior treatment with immunosuppressive or immunomodulating therapies 
No studies have been performed evaluating the efficacy and safety of diroximel fumarate when 
switching patients from other disease modifying therapies. The contribution of prior 
immunosuppressive therapy to the development of PML is possible. 
PML cases have occurred in patients who had previously been treated with natalizumab, for which 
PML is an established risk. Physicians should be aware that cases of PML occurring following recent 
discontinuation of natalizumab may not have lymphopenia. 
In addition, a majority of confirmed PML cases with dimethyl fumarate occurred in patients with prior 
immunomodulatory treatment. 
When switching patients from another disease modifying therapy to Vumerity, the half-life and 
mechanism of action of the other therapy should be considered in order to avoid an additive immune 
effect while at the same time, reducing the risk of reactivation of MS. A complete blood count is 
recommended prior to treatment initiation and regularly during treatment (see Blood/laboratory tests 
above). 
Severe renal impairment 
The long-term safety of diroximel fumarate has not been studied in patients with moderate or severe 
renal impairment. Therefore, caution should be used when considering treatment in these patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Severe hepatic impairment 
Diroximel fumarate has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Therefore, 
caution should be used when considering treatment in these patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Severe active gastrointestinal disease 
Diroximel fumarate has not been studied in patients with severe active gastrointestinal disease. 
Therefore, caution should be used when considering treatment in these patients. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flushing 
In dimethyl fumarate pivotal clinical trials, 3 patients out of a total of 2,560 patients treated with 
dimethyl fumarate experienced serious flushing symptoms that were probable hypersensitivity or 
anaphylactoid reactions. These adverse reactions were not life-threatening but led to hospitalisation. 
Prescribers and patients should be alert to this possibility in the event of severe flushing reactions with 
Vumerity (see sections 4.2, 4.5 and 4.8). 
Data from healthy volunteer studies suggest that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely to be 
prostaglandin mediated. A short course of treatment with 75 mg non-enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid 
may be beneficial in patients affected by intolerable flushing (see section 4.5). In two healthy 
volunteer studies, the occurrence and severity of flushing over the dosing period was reduced. 
Anaphylactic reactions 
Cases of anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reaction have been reported following dimethyl fumarate 
administration in the post-marketing setting. Symptoms may include dyspnoea, hypoxia, hypotension, 
angioedema, rash or urticaria. The mechanism of dimethyl fumarate induced anaphylaxis is unknown. 
Reactions generally occur after the first dose, but may also occur at any time during treatment, and 
may be serious and life threatening. Patients should be instructed to discontinue Vumerity and seek 
immediate medical care if they experience signs or symptoms of anaphylaxis. Treatment should not be 
restarted (see section 4.8). 
Infections 
In the phase 3 placebo-controlled studies with dimethyl fumarate, the incidence of infections (60% 
versus 58%) and serious infections (2% versus 2%) was similar in patients treated with dimethyl 
fumarate or placebo, respectively. 
Diroximel fumarate exerts immunomodulatory properties (see section 5.1). 
Patients receiving Vumerity should be instructed to report symptoms of infections to a physician. If a 
patient develops a serious infection, suspending treatment should be considered and the benefits and 
risks should be reassessed prior to re-initiation of therapy. Patients with serious infections should not 
start treatment until the infection(s) is resolved. 
There was no increased incidence of serious infections observed in patients treated with dimethyl 
fumarate with lymphocyte counts < 0.8 x 109/L or < 0.5 x 109/L. If Vumerity therapy is continued in 
the presence of moderate to severe prolonged lymphopenia, the risk of an opportunistic infection, 
including PML, cannot be ruled out (see subsection on PML). 
Herpes zoster infections 
Cases of herpes zoster have occurred with diroximel fumarate and dimethyl fumarate. The majority of 
cases with dimethyl fumarate were non-serious, however, serious cases, including disseminated herpes 
zoster, herpes zoster ophthalmicus, herpes zoster oticus, herpes zoster infection neurological, herpes 
zoster meningoencephalitis and herpes zoster meningomyelitis have been reported. These events may 
occur at any time during treatment. Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of herpes 
zoster especially when concurrent lymphocytopenia is reported. If herpes zoster occurs, appropriate 
treatment for herpes zoster should be administered. Withholding treatment should be considered in 
patients with serious infections until the infection has resolved (see section 4.8). 
Treatment initiation 
Treatment should be started gradually to reduce the occurrence of flushing and gastrointestinal adverse 
reactions (see section 4.2). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fanconi syndrome 
Cases of Fanconi syndrome have been reported for a medicinal product containing dimethyl fumarate 
in combination with other fumaric acid esters. Early diagnosis of Fanconi syndrome and 
discontinuation of Vumerity treatment are important to prevent the onset of renal impairment and 
osteomalacia, as the syndrome is usually reversible. The most important signs are proteinuria, 
glucosuria (with normal blood sugar levels), hyperaminoaciduria and phosphaturia (possibly 
concurrent with hypophosphatemia). Progression might involve symptoms such as polyuria, 
polydipsia and proximal muscle weakness. In rare cases hypophosphataemic osteomalacia with 
non-localised bone pain, elevated alkaline phosphatase in serum and stress fractures may occur. 
Importantly, Fanconi syndrome can occur without elevated creatinine levels or low glomerular 
filtration rate. In case of unclear symptoms Fanconi syndrome should be considered and appropriate 
examinations should be performed. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
During treatment, simultaneous use of other fumaric acid esters (topical or systemic) should be 
avoided. 
Vumerity should not be administered concomitantly with dimethyl fumarate. 
Potential interaction risks were not identified from in vitro and/or in vivo inhibition studies of 
transporters, from in vitro CYP-inhibition and induction studies, or studies of the protein binding of 
diroximel fumarate and its major metabolites, active metabolite monomethyl fumarate (MMF) and 
inactive metabolite 2-hydroxyethyl succinimide (HES). 
Although not studied with diroximel fumarate, in vitro CYP induction studies did not demonstrate an 
interaction between dimethyl fumarate and oral contraceptives. In an in vivo study, co-administration 
of dimethyl fumarate with a combined oral contraceptive (norgestimate and ethinyl estradiol) did not 
elicit any relevant change in oral contraceptive exposure. No interaction studies have been performed 
with oral contraceptives containing other progestogens, however an effect of diroximel fumarate on 
their exposure is not expected. 
Diroximel fumarate has not been studied in combination with anti-neoplastic or immunosuppressive 
therapies and caution should, therefore, be used during concomitant administration. In MS clinical 
studies, the concomitant treatment of relapses with a short course of intravenous corticosteroids was 
not associated with a clinically relevant increase of infection. 
Concomitant administration of non-live vaccines according to national vaccination schedules may be 
considered during Vumerity therapy. In a clinical study involving a total of 71 patients with relapsing 
remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS), patients on dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily for at least 
6 months (n=38) or non-pegylated interferon for at least 3 months (n=33), mounted a comparable 
immune response (defined as ≥ 2-fold increase from pre- to post-vaccination titre) to tetanus toxoid 
(recall antigen) and a conjugated meningococcal C polysaccharide vaccine (neoantigen), while the 
immune response to different serotypes of an unconjugated 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccine (T-cell independent antigen) varied in both treatment groups. A positive immune response 
defined as a ≥ 4-fold increase in antibody titre to the three vaccines, was achieved by fewer patients in 
both treatment groups. Small numerical differences in the response to tetanus toxoid and 
pneumococcal serotype 3 polysaccharide were noted in favour of non-pegylated interferon. 
No clinical data are available on the efficacy and safety of live attenuated vaccines in patients taking 
Vumerity. Live vaccines might carry an increased risk of clinical infection and should not be given to 
patients unless, in exceptional cases, this potential risk is considered to be outweighed by the risk to 
the individual of not vaccinating. 
Evidence from healthy volunteer studies suggests that dimethyl fumarate-associated flushing is likely 
to be prostaglandin mediated. In two healthy volunteer studies with dimethyl fumarate, the 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration of 325 mg (or equivalent) non enteric coated acetylsalicylic acid, 30 minutes prior to 
dimethyl fumarate, dosing over 4 days and over 4 weeks, respectively, did not alter the 
pharmacokinetic profile of dimethyl fumarate. Potential risks associated with acetylsalicylic acid 
therapy should be considered prior to co-administration with Vumerity in patients with relapsing 
remitting MS. Long term (> 4 weeks) continuous use of acetylsalicylic acid has not been studied (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Concurrent therapy with nephrotoxic medicinal products (such as aminoglycosides, diuretics, 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or lithium) may increase the potential of renal adverse reactions 
(e.g. proteinuria see section 4.8) in patients taking Vumerity (see section 4.4). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited amount of data from the use of diroximel fumarate in pregnant women. Animal 
studies have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Vumerity is not recommended during 
pregnancy and in women of childbearing potential not using appropriate contraception (see 
section 4.5). Vumerity should be used during pregnancy only if clearly needed and if the potential 
benefit justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether diroximel fumarate or its metabolites are excreted in human milk. A risk to the 
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding 
or to discontinue Vumerity therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and 
the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of Vumerity on human fertility. Data from animal studies with 
diroximel fumarate showed no impairment of male or female fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Vumerity has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Upon oral administration, diroximel fumarate and dimethyl fumarate are rapidly metabolised to 
monomethyl fumarate before they reach the systemic circulation, adverse reactions are similar once 
metabolised. 
The most common adverse reactions for dimethyl fumarate were flushing (35%) and gastrointestinal 
events (i.e. diarrhoea 14%, nausea 12%, abdominal pain 10% and abdominal pain upper 10%). The 
most commonly reported adverse reactions leading to discontinuation in patients treated with dimethyl 
fumarate were flushing (3%) and gastrointestinal events (4%). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The adverse reactions which were more frequently reported in dimethyl fumarate-treated patients as 
compared to placebo-treated patients from two pivotal phase 3 placebo controlled clinical trials and 
post marketing experience are presented in Table 1. 
The adverse reactions are presented as MedDRA preferred terms under the MedDRA system organ 
class (SOC). The incidence of the adverse reactions below is expressed according to the following 
categories: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), 
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), and not known (frequency cannot be estimated 
from the available data). 
Table 1:  Adverse reactions 
MedDRA System Organ Class 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Immune system disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Adverse reaction 
Gastroenteritis 
Progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML)1 
Herpes zoster1 
Lymphopenia1, 2 
Leukopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylaxis 
Dyspnoea 
Hypoxia 
Hypotension 
Angioedema 
Burning sensation 
Flushing1 
Hot flush 
Rhinorrhoea 
Frequency category 
Common 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Not known 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Not known 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Abdominal pain upper 
Abdominal pain 
Vomiting 
Dyspepsia 
Gastritis 
Gastrointestinal disorder 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased1 
Alanine aminotransferase increased1  Common 
Drug-induced liver injury 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Erythema 
Alopecia 
Proteinuria 
Not known 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Feeling hot 
Common 
9 
 
 
 
 
MedDRA System Organ Class 
Investigations 
Adverse reaction 
Ketones measured in urine 
Albumin urine present 
White blood cell count decreased 
Frequency category 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
1  See ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ for further information 
2  Lymphopenia was reported with the frequency “very common” in a phase 3, open-label, uncontrolled study 
with diroximel fumarate 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Flushing 
In the placebo-controlled dimethyl fumarate studies, the incidence of flushing (34% versus 5%) and 
hot flush (7% versus 2%) was increased in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily 
compared to placebo, respectively. Flushing is usually described as flushing or hot flush, but can 
include other events (e.g. warmth, redness, itching, and burning sensation). Flushing events tend to 
begin early in the course of treatment (primarily during the first month) and in patients who experience 
flushing, these events may continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with dimethyl 
fumarate. In patients with flushing, the majority had flushing events that were mild or moderate in 
severity. Overall, 3% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate discontinued due to flushing. The 
incidence of serious flushing, which may be characterised by generalised erythema, rash and/or 
pruritus, was seen in less than 1% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see sections 4.2, 4.4 
and 4.5). 
In the diroximel fumarate phase 3 double-blind trial (see section 5.1), flushing and hot flush were 
reported in 32.8% and 1.6% of diroximel fumarate-treated patients and in 40.6% and 0.8% of dimethyl 
fumarate-treated patients. There were no serious events of flushing or discontinuations due to flushing. 
Gastrointestinal 
The incidence of gastrointestinal events (e.g. diarrhoea [14% versus 10%], nausea [12% versus 9%], 
upper abdominal pain [10% versus 6%], abdominal pain [9% versus 4%], vomiting [8% versus 5%] 
and dyspepsia [5% versus 3%]) was increased in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate compared to 
placebo, respectively. Gastrointestinal events tend to begin early in the course of treatment (primarily 
during the first month) and in patients who experience gastrointestinal events, these events may 
continue to occur intermittently throughout treatment with dimethyl fumarate. In the majority of 
patients who experienced gastrointestinal events, it was mild or moderate in severity. Four per cent 
(4%) of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate discontinued due to gastrointestinal events. The 
incidence of serious gastrointestinal events, including gastroenteritis and gastritis, was seen in 1% of 
patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (see section 4.4). 
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions reported in the clinical study with diroximel fumarate and dimethyl 
fumarate are presented in section 5.1. 
Hepatic function 
Based on data from placebo-controlled studies with dimethyl fumarate, the majority of patients with 
elevations had hepatic transaminases that were < 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN). The 
increased incidence of elevations of hepatic transaminases in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 
relative to placebo was primarily seen during the first 6 months of treatment. Elevations of alanine 
aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase ≥ 3 x ULN, respectively, were seen in 5% and 2% of 
patients treated with placebo and 6% and 2% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate. 
Discontinuations due to elevated hepatic transaminases were < 1% and similar in patients treated with 
dimethyl fumarate or placebo. Elevations in transaminases ≥ 3 x ULN with concomitant elevations in 
total bilirubin > 2 x ULN indicative of drug-induced liver injury were not observed during placebo-
controlled studies, but have been reported in post marketing experience following dimethyl fumarate 
administration, which resolved upon treatment discontinuation. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lymphopenia 
In the diroximel fumarate phase 3, open-label, uncontrolled trial, treatment was discontinued in 
patients with confirmed lymphocyte counts < 0.5 x 109/L which persisted for ≥ 4 weeks. 
In the placebo-controlled studies for dimethyl fumarate, most patients (> 98%) had normal lymphocyte 
values prior to initiating treatment. Upon treatment with dimethyl fumarate, mean lymphocyte counts 
decreased over the first year with a subsequent plateau. On average, lymphocyte counts decreased by 
approximately 30% of baseline value. Mean and median lymphocyte counts remained within normal 
limits. Lymphocyte counts < 0.5 x 109/L were observed in < 1% of patients treated with placebo and 
6% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate. A lymphocyte count < 0.2 x 109/L was observed in 
1 patient treated with dimethyl fumarate and in no patients treated with placebo. 
In clinical studies (both controlled and uncontrolled), 41% of patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 
had lymphopenia (defined in these studies as < 0.91 x 109/L). Mild lymphopenia (counts ≥ 0.8 x 109/L 
to < 0.91 x 109/L) was observed in 28% of patients; moderate lymphopenia (counts ≥ 0.5 x 109/L to 
< 0.8 x 109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 11% of patients; severe lymphopenia 
(counts < 0.5 x 109/L) persisting for at least six months was observed in 2% of patients. In the group 
with severe lymphopenia, the majority of lymphocyte counts remained < 0.5 x 109/L with continued 
therapy. 
In addition, in an uncontrolled, prospective, post-marketing study, at week 48 of treatment with 
dimethyl fumarate (n=185) CD4+ T cells were moderately (counts ≥ 0.2 x 109/L to < 0.4 x 109/L) or 
severely (< 0.2 x 109/L) decreased in up to 37% or 6% of patients, respectively, while CD8+ T cells 
were more frequently reduced with up to 59% of patients at counts < 0.2 x 109/L and 25% of patients 
at counts < 0.1 x 109/L. 
In controlled and uncontrolled clinical studies, patients who discontinued dimethyl fumarate therapy 
with lymphocyte counts below the lower limit of normal (LLN) were monitored for recovery of 
lymphocyte count to the LLN (see section 5.1). 
Infections, including PML and opportunistic infections 
Cases of infections with JCV causing PML have been reported with dimethyl fumarate (see 
section 4.4). PML may be fatal or result in severe disability. In one of the clinical trials, one patient 
taking dimethyl fumarate developed PML in the setting of prolonged severe lymphopenia (lymphocyte 
counts predominantly < 0.5 x 109/L for 3.5 years), with a fatal outcome. In the post-marketing setting, 
PML has also occurred in the presence of moderate and mild lymphopenia (> 0.5 x 109/L to <LLN, as 
defined by local laboratory reference range). 
In several PML cases with determination of T cell subsets at the time of diagnosis of PML, CD8+ 
T cell counts were found to be decreased to < 0.1 x 109/L, whereas reductions in CD4+ T cells counts 
were variable (ranging from < 0.05 to 0.5 x 109/L) and correlated more with the overall severity of 
lymphopenia (< 0.5 x 109/L to <LLN). Consequently, the CD4+/CD8+ ratio was increased in these 
patients. 
Prolonged moderate to severe lymphopenia appears to increase the risk of PML with dimethyl 
fumarate and likewise diroximel fumarate, however, PML also occurred in patients treated with 
dimethyl fumarate with mild lymphopenia. Additionally, the majority of PML cases in the post-
marketing setting have occurred in patients > 50 years. 
Herpes zoster infections have been reported with dimethyl fumarate use. In the long-term extension 
study, in which 1,736 MS patients were treated with dimethyl fumarate, 5% experienced one or more 
events of herpes zoster, the majority of which were mild to moderate in severity. Most patients, 
including those who experienced a serious herpes zoster infection, had lymphocyte counts above the 
lower limit of normal. In a majority of patients with concurrent lymphocyte counts below the LLN, 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
lymphopenia was rated moderate or severe. In the post-marketing setting most cases of herpes zoster 
infection were non-serious and resolved with treatment. Limited data is available on absolute 
lymphocyte count (ALC) in patients with herpes zoster infection in the post-marketing setting. 
However, when reported, most patients experienced moderate (≥ 0.5 x 109/L to < 0.8 x 109/L) or 
severe (< 0.5 x 109/L to 0.2 x 109/L) lymphopenia (see section 4.4). 
Laboratory abnormalities 
In the placebo-controlled studies for dimethyl fumarate, measurement of urinary ketones (1+ or 
greater) was higher in patients treated with dimethyl fumarate (45%) compared to placebo (10%). No 
untoward clinical consequences were observed in clinical trials. 
Levels of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D decreased in dimethyl fumarate treated patients relative to placebo 
(median percentage decrease from baseline at 2 years of 25% versus 15%, respectively) and levels of 
parathyroid hormone (PTH) increased in dimethyl fumarate treated patients relative to placebo 
(median percentage increase from baseline at 2 years of 29% versus 15%, respectively). Mean values 
for both parameters remained within normal range. 
A transient increase in mean eosinophil counts was seen during the first 2 months of dimethyl 
fumarate therapy. 
Paediatric population 
The safety of Vumerity in paediatric patients has not yet been established. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In reported cases of overdose, the symptoms described were consistent with the known adverse 
reaction profile of the product. There are no known therapeutic interventions to enhance elimination of 
diroximel fumarate nor is there a known antidote. In the event of overdose, it is recommended that 
symptomatic supportive treatment be initiated as clinically indicated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, other immunosuppressants. ATC code: L04AX09 
Mechanism of action 
The mechanism by which diroximel fumarate exerts therapeutic effects in MS is not fully understood. 
Diroximel fumarate acts via the major active metabolite, monomethyl fumarate. Preclinical studies 
indicate that the pharmacodynamic responses of monomethyl fumarate appears to be mediated, at least 
in part, through activation of the Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) transcriptional 
pathway. Dimethyl fumarate has been shown to up regulate Nrf2-dependent antioxidant genes in 
patients. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Effects on Immune System 
In clinical studies, dimethyl fumarate demonstrated anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory 
properties. Dimethyl fumarate and monomethyl fumarate (the active metabolite of diroximel fumarate 
and dimethyl fumarate) significantly reduce immune cell activation and subsequent release of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines in response to inflammatory stimuli and moreover affect lymphocyte 
phenotypes through a down-regulation of pro-inflammatory cytokine profiles (TH1, TH17), and biased 
towards anti-inflammatory production (TH2). In phase 3 studies in MS patients (DEFINE, CONFIRM 
and ENDORSE), upon treatment with dimethyl fumarate mean lymphocyte counts decreased on 
average by approximately 30% of their baseline value over the first year with a subsequent plateau. In 
these studies, patients who discontinued dimethyl fumarate therapy with lymphocyte counts below the 
lower limit of normal (LLN, 910 cells/mm3) were monitored for recovery of lymphocyte counts to the 
LLN. 
Figure 1 shows the proportion of patients estimated to reach the LLN based on the Kaplan-Meier 
method without prolonged severe lymphopenia. The recovery baseline (RBL) was defined as the last 
on-treatment ALC prior to dimethyl fumarate discontinuation. The estimated proportion of patients 
recovering to LLN (ALC ≥ 0.9 x 109/L) at Week 12 and Week 24, who had mild, moderate, or severe 
lymphopenia at RBL are presented in Table 2, Table 3, and Table 4 with 95% pointwise confidence 
intervals. The standard error of the Kaplan-Meier estimator of the survival function is computed using 
Greenwood’s formula. 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of Patients with Recovery to ≥ 910 cells/mm3 LLN 
from the Recovery Baseline (RBL) 
Table 2: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, mild 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with mild 
Week 24 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
N=4 
Proportion reaching 
0.90 
LLN (95% CI) 
(0.81, 0.96) 
a Patients with ALC < 910 and ≥ 800 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Week 12 
N=12 
0.81 
(0.71, 0.89) 
Baseline 
N=86 
13 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, moderate 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with moderate 
Week 24 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
N=17 
Proportion reaching 
0.70 
LLN (95% CI) 
(0.60, 0.80) 
a Patients with ALC < 800 and ≥ 500 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia. 
Week 12 
N=33 
0.57 
(0.46, 0.67) 
Baseline 
N=124 
Table 4: Kaplan-Meier Method; Proportion of patients estimated to reach LLN, severe 
lymphopenia at the recovery baseline (RBL), excluding patients with prolonged severe 
lymphopenia 
Number of patients with severe 
lymphopeniaa at risk 
Proportion reaching 
LLN (95% CI) 
a Patients with ALC < 500 cells/mm3 at RBL, excluding patients with prolonged severe lymphopenia. 
Week 12 
N=6 
0.43 
(0.20, 0.75) 
Week 24 
N=4 
0.62 
(0.35, 0.88) 
Baseline 
N=18 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Diroximel fumarate and dimethyl fumarate are rapidly metabolised by esterases before they reach the 
systemic circulation to the same active metabolite, monomethyl fumarate, upon oral administration. 
The PK comparability of diroximel fumarate to dimethyl fumarate through the analysis of 
monomethyl fumarate exposure has been demonstrated (see section 5.2), thus efficacy profiles are 
expected to be similar. 
Clinical studies with dimethyl fumarate 
Two, 2-year, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies (DEFINE with 1,234 patients and 
CONFIRM with 1,417 patients) of patients with RRMS were performed. Patients with progressive 
forms of MS were not included in these studies. 
Efficacy (see table below) and safety were demonstrated in patients with Expanded Disability Status 
Scale (EDSS) scores ranging from 0 to 5 inclusive, who had experienced at least 1 relapse during the 
year prior to randomisation, or, in the 6 weeks before randomisation had a brain Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging (MRI) demonstrating at least one gadolinium-enhancing (Gd+) lesion. Study CONFIRM 
contained a rater-blinded (i.e. study physician/ investigator assessing the response to study treatment 
was blinded) reference comparator of glatiramer acetate. 
In DEFINE, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 39 years, disease duration 
7.0 years, EDSS score 2.0. In addition, 16% of patients had an EDSS score > 3.5, 28% had 
≥ 2 relapses in the prior year and 42% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the 
MRI cohort 36% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of 
Gd+ lesions 1.4). 
In CONFIRM, patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 37 years, disease 
duration 6.0 years, EDSS score 2.5. In addition, 17% of patients had an EDSS score > 3.5, 32% had 
≥ 2 relapses in the prior year and 30% had previously received other approved MS treatments. In the 
MRI cohort 45% of patients entering the study had Gd+ lesions at baseline (mean number of Gd+ 
lesions 2.4). 
Compared to placebo, patients treated with dimethyl fumarate had a clinically meaningful and 
statistically significant reduction on the primary endpoint in study DEFINE, proportion of patients 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
relapsed at 2 years; and the primary endpoint in study CONFIRM, annualised relapse rate (ARR) at 
2 years. 
The ARR for glatiramer acetate and placebo was 0.286 and 0.401 respectively in study CONFIRM, 
corresponding to a reduction of 29% (p=0.013). 
Placebo 
408 
0.364 
0.461 
0.271 
0.169 
165 
16.5 
(7.0) 
1.8 
(0) 
5.7 
(2.0) 
Clinical Endpointsa 
No. patients 
Annualised relapse rate 
Rate ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion relapsed 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion with 12-week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
Proportion with 24 week 
confirmed disability 
progression 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
MRI Endpointsb 
No. patients 
Mean (median) number of 
new or newly enlarging 
T2 lesions over 2 years 
Lesion mean ratio  
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number of 
Gd lesions at 2 years  
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
Mean (median) number of 
new T1 hypointense 
lesions over 2 years 
Lesion mean ratio  
(95% CI) 
DEFINE 
Placebo 
363 
0.401 
0.410 
0.169 
0.125 
dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
twice a day 
410 
0.172*** 
0.47 
(0.37, 0.61) 
0.270*** 
0.51 
(0.40, 0.66) 
0.164** 
0.62 
(0.44, 0.87) 
0.128# 
0.77 
(0.52, 1.14) 
CONFIRM 
dimethyl 
fumarate 
240 mg 
twice a day 
Glatiramer 
acetate 
359 
0.224*** 
0.56 
(0.42, 0.74) 
0.291** 
0.66 
(0.51, 0.86) 
0.128# 
350 
0.286* 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.93) 
0.321** 
0.71 
(0.55, 0.92) 
0.156# 
0.79 
(0.52, 1.19) 
0.078# 
0.93 
(0.63, 1.37) 
0.108# 
0.62 
(0.37, 1.03) 
0.87 
(0.55, 1.38) 
152 
3.2 
(1.0)*** 
144 
19.9 
(11.0) 
147 
5.7 
(2.0)*** 
161 
9.6 
(3.0)*** 
0.15 
(0.10, 0.23) 
0.1 
(0)*** 
0.10 
(0.05, 0.22) 
2.0 
(1.0)*** 
0.28 
(0.20, 0.39) 
2.0 
(0.0) 
8.1 
(4.0) 
0.29 
(0.21, 0.41) 
0.5 
(0.0)*** 
0.26 
(0.15, 0.46) 
3.8 
(1.0)*** 
0.46 
(0.33, 0.63) 
0.7 
(0.0)** 
0.39 
(0.24, 0.65) 
4.5 
(2.0)** 
0.43 
(0.30, 0.61) 
0.59 
(0.42, 0.82) 
aAll analyses of clinical endpoints were intent-to-treat; bMRI analysis used MRI cohort 
*P-value < 0.05; **P-value < 0.01; ***P-value < 0.0001; #not statistically significant 
An open non-controlled 8-year extension study (ENDORSE) enrolled 1,736 eligible RRMS patients 
from the pivotal studies (DEFINE and CONFIRM). The primary objective of the study was to assess 
the long-term safety of dimethyl fumarate in patients with RRMS. Of the 1,736 patients, 
approximately half (909, 52%) were treated for 6 years or longer. 501 patients were continuously 
treated with dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice daily across all 3 studies and 249 patients who were 
previously treated with placebo in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM received treatment 240 mg twice 
daily in study ENDORSE. Patients who received treatment twice daily continuously were treated for 
up to 12 years. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During study ENDORSE, more than half of all patients treated with dimethyl fumarate 240 mg twice 
daily did not have a relapse. For patients continuously treated twice daily across all 3 studies, the 
adjusted ARR was 0.187 (95% CI: 0.156, 0.224) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM and 0.141 (95% 
CI: 0.119, 0.167) in study ENDORSE. For patients previously treated with placebo, the adjusted ARR 
decreased from 0.330 (95% CI: 0.266, 0.408) in studies DEFINE and CONFIRM to 0.149 (95% CI: 
0.116, 0.190) in study ENDORSE. 
In study ENDORSE, the majority of patients (> 75%) did not have confirmed disability progression 
(measured as 6-month sustained disability progression). Pooled results from the three studies 
demonstrated dimethyl fumarate treated patients had consistent and low rates of confirmed disability 
progression with slight increase in mean EDSS scores across ENDORSE. MRI assessments (up to 
year 6, including 752 patients who had previously been included in the MRI cohort of studies DEFINE 
and CONFIRM showed that the majority of patients (approximately 90%) had no Gd-enhancing 
lesions. Over the 6 years, the annual adjusted mean number of new or newly enlarging T2 and new 
T1 lesions remained low. 
Efficacy in patients with high disease activity: 
In Studies DEFINE and CONFIRM, consistent treatment effect on relapses in a subgroup of patients 
with high disease activity was observed, whilst the effect on time to 3-month sustained disability 
progression was not clearly established. Due to the design of the studies, high disease activity was 
defined as follows: 
- 
Patients with 2 or more relapses in one year, and with one or more Gd-enhancing lesions on 
brain MRI (n=42 in DEFINE; n=51 in CONFIRM) or, 
Patients who have failed to respond to a full and adequate course (at least one year of treatment) 
of beta-interferon, having had at least 1 relapse in the previous year while on therapy, and at 
least 9 T2-hyperintense lesions in cranial MRI or at least 1 Gd-enhancing lesion, or patients 
having an unchanged or increased relapse rate in the prior year as compared to the previous 
2 years (n=177 in DEFINE; n=141 in CONFIRM). 
- 
Clinical studies with Vumerity 
The gastrointestinal tolerability of diroximel fumarate was evaluated in a randomised, multi-centre, 
phase 3 study (EVOLVE-MS-2) in 504 adult patients with RRMS. The study included a 5-week, 
double-blind treatment period with two treatment arms. Patients had a 1-week titration period and 
were randomised (1:1) to receive diroximel fumarate 462 mg twice daily (n=253) or dimethyl 
fumarate 240 mg twice daily (n=251). Patients had the following median baseline characteristics: age 
44 years, disease duration 6.0 years and EDSS score 2.5. In this study, GI tolerability was investigated 
using the Individual GI Symptom and Impact Scale (IGISIS), which evaluated the incidence, intensity, 
onset, duration, and functional impact of five individual GI symptoms: nausea, vomiting, upper 
abdominal pain, lower abdominal pain, and diarrhoea. 
Overall gastrointestinal adverse reactions were observed in 34.8% of diroximel fumarate-treated 
patients and in 49.0% of dimethyl fumarate-treated patients. Treatment discontinuations were in total 
1.6% and 6.0%, for diroximel fumarate and dimethyl fumarate, respectively. The discontinuations for 
gastrointestinal tolerability reasons were 0.8% and 4.8%, for diroximel fumarate and dimethyl 
fumarate, respectively. Treatment-emergent gastrointestinal adverse reactions of ≥ 5% for diroximel 
fumarate and dimethyl fumarate, respectively, were diarrhoea (15.4% and 22.3%), nausea (14.6% and 
20.7%), upper abdominal pain (6.7% and 15.5%), abdominal pain (6.3% and 9.6%), lower abdominal 
pain (5.9% and 6.8%), and vomiting (3.6% and 8.8%).  
Paediatric population 
The efficacy of Vumerity in paediatric patients has not been established. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Vumerity in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of MS (see section 4.2 
for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Orally administered diroximel fumarate undergoes rapid presystemic hydrolysis by esterases and is 
primarily converted to the active metabolite, monomethyl fumarate, and the major inactive metabolite 
HES. Diroximel fumarate is not quantifiable in plasma following oral administration. Therefore, all 
pharmacokinetic analyses related to diroximel fumarate were performed with plasma monomethyl 
fumarate concentrations. Pharmacokinetic data were obtained from 10 clinical studies with healthy 
volunteers, 2 studies with MS patients and population PK analyses. Pharmacokinetic assessment has 
demonstrated that the exposure of monomethyl fumarate after oral administration of 462 mg diroximel 
fumarate and 240 mg dimethyl fumarate in adults is bioequivalent; therefore, diroximel fumarate is 
expected to provide a similar overall efficacy and safety profile to dimethyl fumarate. 
Absorption 
The median Tmax of monomethyl fumarate is 2.5 to 3 hours. The peak plasma concentration (Cmax) and 
overall exposure (AUC) increased dose proportionally in the dose range studied (49 mg to 980 mg). 
Following administration of diroximel fumarate 462 mg twice a day in MS patients in EVOLVE-MS-
1, the mean Cmax of monomethyl fumarate was 2.11 mg/L. The mean AUClast after a morning dose was 
4.15 mg.h/L. The mean steady state daily AUC (AUCss) of monomethyl fumarate was estimated to be 
8.32 mg.h/L in MS patients. 
Co-administration of diroximel fumarate with a high-fat, high-calorie meal did not affect the AUC of 
monomethyl fumarate but resulted in an approximately 44% reduction in Cmax compared to fasted 
state. The monomethyl fumarate Cmax with low-fat and medium-fat meals was reduced by 
approximately 12% and 25%, respectively. 
Food does not have a clinically significant effect on exposure of monomethyl fumarate. Therefore, 
Vumerity may be taken with or without food (see section 4.2). 
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution (Vd) for monomethyl fumarate is between 72 L and 83 L in 
healthy subjects after administration of diroximel fumarate. Human plasma protein binding of 
monomethyl fumarate was less than 25% and was not concentration dependent. 
Biotransformation 
In humans, diroximel fumarate is extensively metabolised by esterases, which are ubiquitous in the 
gastrointestinal tract, blood, and tissues, before it reaches the systemic circulation. Esterase 
metabolism of diroximel fumarate produces predominantly both monomethyl fumarate, the active 
metabolite, and HES, an inactive metabolite. 
Further metabolism of monomethyl fumarate occurs through esterases followed by the tricarboxylic 
acid (TCA) cycle, with no involvement of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Fumaric and citric 
acid, and glucose are the resulting metabolites of monomethyl fumarate in plasma. 
Elimination 
Monomethyl fumarate is mainly eliminated as carbon dioxide in the expired air with only trace 
amounts recovered in urine. The terminal half-life (t1/2) of monomethyl fumarate is approximately 
1 hour, and no accumulation in monomethyl fumarate plasma exposures occurred with multiple doses 
of diroximel fumarate. In a study with dimethyl fumarate, exhalation of CO2 was determined to be the 
primary route of elimination accounting for approximately 60% of the dose. Renal and faecal 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
elimination are secondary routes of elimination, accounting for 15.5% and 0.9% of the dose, 
respectively. 
HES is eliminated from plasma with a t1/2 of 10.7 hours to 14.8 hours. HES is mainly eliminated in 
urine. 
Linearity 
Monomethyl fumarate exposure increases in an approximately dose proportional manner with single 
and multiple doses in the 49 to 980 mg dose range studied. 
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups 
Body weight is the main covariate with monomethyl fumarate exposure increasing in Cmax and AUC in 
participants with lower body weight after administration of diroximel fumarate. No effect was seen on 
safety and efficacy measures evaluated in the clinical studies. Therefore, no dose adjustments based on 
body weight are required. 
Gender and age did not have a statistically significant impact on Cmax and AUC of diroximel fumarate. 
The pharmacokinetics in patients aged 65 and over has not been studied. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetic profile of monomethyl fumarate after administration of diroximel fumarate has 
not been studied. The pharmacokinetic parameters of monomethyl fumarate after administration of 
diroximel fumarate are correlated to body weight. Therefore, it is anticipated that the same dose leads 
to a higher exposure in paediatric patients with lower body weight compared to adults. The 
pharmacokinetic profile of 240 mg dimethyl fumarate twice a day was evaluated in a small, 
open-label, uncontrolled study in patients with RRMS aged 13 to 17 years (n=21). The 
pharmacokinetics of dimethyl fumarate in these adolescent patients was similar with that previously 
observed in adult patients. 
Race and ethnicity 
Race and ethnicity have no effect on the pharmacokinetic profile of monomethyl fumarate or HES 
after administration of diroximel fumarate. 
Renal impairment 
In a study investigating the effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetic profile of diroximel 
fumarate, participants with mild (eGFR 60-89 mL/min/1.73cm3), moderate renal impairment (eGFR 
30-59 mL/min/1.73cm3) or severe renal impairment (eGFR < 30 mL/min/1.73cm3) had no clinically 
relevant changes in MMF exposure. However, HES exposure increased by 1.3-, 1.8-, and 2.7-fold with 
mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively (see section 4.8). There are no data 
available on long-term use of diroximel fumarate in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Hepatic impairment 
As diroximel fumarate and monomethyl fumarate are metabolised by esterases, without the 
involvement of the CYP450 system, evaluation of pharmacokinetics in individuals with hepatic 
impairment was not conducted (see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Toxicology 
Kidney toxicity in rats and monkeys included tubular degeneration/necrosis with regeneration, tubular 
hypertrophy and/or interstitial fibrosis, increased kidney weights, and changes in clinical pathology 
parameters (urine volume, specific gravity, and biomarkers of kidney injury). In chronic toxicology 
studies, adverse renal findings occurred at monomethyl fumarate exposure that equalled the AUC at 
the maximum recommended human dose (MRHD) of diroximel fumarate. 
Gastrointestinal toxicity in mice and rats consisted of mucosal hyperplasia and hyperkeratosis in the 
non-glandular stomach (forestomach) and duodenum. In monkeys, the poor gastrointestinal tolerability 
was characterised by dose-dependent emesis/vomitus, stomach irritation, haemorrhage and 
inflammation as well as diarrhoea. These findings developed at monomethyl fumarate exposure at 
least 2× the AUC at the MRHD of diroximel fumarate. 
Cardiac inflammation and necrosis was seen in three male rats in the 91-day toxicity study at 
monomethyl fumarate exposure that was 4× the AUC at the MRHD of diroximel fumarate. These 
cardiac findings were also detected in other toxicity studies in rats including untreated controls, but not 
in monkeys. These cardiac inflammations therefore likely represent the exacerbation of common 
background lesions in rats without human relevance. 
Partially-reversible physeal dysplasia of proximal and distal femur and proximal tibia was seen in 
monkeys in the 91-day toxicity study at monomethyl fumarate exposure that was 15× the AUC at the 
MRHD of diroximel fumarate. Bone toxicity might be related to the pre-pupertal age of the monkeys, 
because bone development was also impaired in juvenile rats (see below), but not affected at lower 
doses in the chronic monkey study or in mature adult rats. The bone findings are of limited relevance 
for adult patients at the therapeutic dose. 
Testicular toxicity consisting of minimal germinal epithelial degeneration, increased incidence of giant 
spermatids, slight decrease in spermatids in the tubular epithelium, and decrease in testes weight was 
observed in wild type littermates of rasH2 mice. These findings occurred at monomethyl fumarate 
exposure that was 15× the AUC at the MRHD of diroximel fumarate, indicating limited human 
relevance at the therapeutic dose. 
Genotoxicity 
In vitro and in vivo studies with diroximel fumarate did not provide evidence for a clinically relevant 
genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenesis 
Diroximel fumarate was tested in a transgenic bioassay in transgenic rasH2 mice and a 2 year bioassay 
in rats. Diroximel fumarate was not carcinogenic in transgenic mice and in female rats, but increased 
the incidence of testicular Leydig cell adenomas at 150 mg/kg/day in male rats (monomethyl fumarate 
exposure was approximately 2× higher than the AUC at the MRHD). The relevance of these findings 
to human risk is unknown. 
Reproduction and developmental toxicity 
Diroximel fumarate did not impair male or female fertility in rats at monomethyl fumarate exposure 
that was approximately 7× the AUC at the MRHD of diroximel fumarate. 
In rats administered diroximel fumarate orally during the period of organogenesis at doses of 40, 100 
and 400 mg/kg/day lower fetal body weights and fetal skeletal ossification variations were observed at 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a maternally toxic diroximel fumarate dose of 400 mg/kg/day. The exposure at the NOAEL was 
approximately 2× the AUC of monomethyl fumarate at the MRHD of diroximel fumarate. 
In rabbits administered diroximel fumarate orally throughout organogenesis at doses of 50, 150 and 
350 mg/kg/day, increases in skeletal malformations (vertebral centra anomaly, severely malaligned 
sternebra[e] and vertebral anomaly with associated rib anomaly) were observed at ≥ 150 mg/kg/day. 
At 350 mg/kg/day, increases in skeletal variations, abortions, higher post-implantation loss and 
corresponding decreases in fetal viability also occurred, possibly associated with maternal toxicity . 
The exposure at the NOAEL was approximately 2× the AUC of monomethyl fumarate at the MRHD 
of diroximel fumarate. The relevance of the skeletal malformations for humans is currently unknown. 
In a pre- and post-natal development study in pregnant rats administered diroximel fumarate at oral 
doses of 40, 100, or 400 mg/kg/day during gestation through delivery and lactation reduced maternal 
body weight/weight gains and food consumption associated with reduced pup birth weights and body 
weight/weight gains were observed. The exposure at the NOAEL was approximately 3× the AUC of 
monomethyl fumarate at the MRHD of diroximel fumarate. 
Toxicity in juvenile animals 
In a juvenile rat toxicity study, diroximel fumarate was administered orally from postnatal day 
(PND) 25 through PND 63, equivalent to approximately 2-3 years old through to puberty in humans. 
In addition to the target organ toxicities in the kidney and non-glandular stomach, adverse effects in 
the bone were observed including decreased femur size, mass and density and changes in bone 
geometry. A relation of the bone effects to lower body weight is possible, but the involvement of a 
direct effect cannot be excluded. The exposure at the NOAEL was approximately 1.4× the AUC of 
monomethyl fumarate at the MRHD for adult patients of diroximel fumarate. The bone findings are of 
limited relevance for adult patients. The relevance for paediatric patients is not known. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer (1: 1) type A 
Crospovidone type A 
Cellulose, microcrystalline 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Triethyl citrate 
Talc 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Hypromellose 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Potassium chloride 
Carrageenan 
Capsule print (black ink) 
Shellac 
Potassium hydroxide 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
32 months 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store below 25°C. 
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
HDPE bottle with a polypropylene child-resistant closure and a silica gel desiccant. 
Pack size: 
Packs of 120 (1 bottle) or 360 (3 bottles) gastro-resistant hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1585/001 
EU/1/21/1585/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 15 November 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited 
Monksland 
Athlone 
Co. Westmeath 
Ireland 
N37 EA09 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vumerity 231 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
diroximel fumarate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 231 mg of diroximel fumarate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
120 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
360 gastro-resistant hard capsules (3x120) 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not crush or chew. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25 °C. 
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from moisture. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1585/001 120 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
EU/1/21/1585/002 360 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Vumerity 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Vumerity 231 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
diroximel fumarate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 231 mg of diroximel fumarate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
120 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Do not crush or chew. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store below 25 °C. 
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from moisture. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/21/1585/001 120 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
EU/1/21/1585/002 360 gastro-resistant hard capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Vumerity 231 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules 
diroximel fumarate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Vumerity is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Vumerity 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Vumerity 
Possible side effects 
How to store Vumerity 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Vumerity is and what it is used for 
What Vumerity is 
Vumerity contains the active substance diroximel fumarate. 
What Vumerity is used for 
Vumerity is used to treat relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS) in adult patients. 
MS is a long-term condition in which the immune system (the body’s natural defences) malfunctions 
and attacks parts of the central nervous system (the brain, spinal cord and the optic nerve of the eye) 
causing inflammation that damages the nerves and the insulation around them. Relapsing-remitting 
MS is characterised by repeated attacks (relapses) on the nervous system. Symptoms vary from patient 
to patient, but typically include walking difficulties, feeling off balance and visual difficulties (e.g. 
blurred or double vision). These symptoms may disappear completely when the relapse is over, but 
some problems may remain. 
How Vumerity works 
The medicine is thought to work by increasing the action of a protein called ‘Nrf2’ which regulates 
certain genes that produce ‘antioxidants’ involved in protecting cells from damage. This helps control 
the activity of the immune system and reduce damage to the brain and spinal cord. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Vumerity 
Do not take Vumerity 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to diroximel fumarate, related substances (called fumarates or fumaric 
acid esters) or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are suspected to suffer from a rare brain infection called progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy (PML) or if PML has been confirmed. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Vumerity may affect your white blood cell counts, your kidneys and liver. Before you start 
Vumerity, your doctor will do a blood test to count your white blood cells and will check that your 
kidneys and liver are working properly. Your doctor will test these periodically during treatment. If 
your white blood cells decrease during treatment, your doctor may consider additional tests or stop 
your treatment. 
If you believe your MS is getting worse (e.g. weakness or visual changes) or if you notice any new 
symptoms, talk to your doctor straight away because these may be the symptoms of a rare brain 
infection called progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML is a serious condition that 
may lead to severe disability or death. Read the information about ‘PML and lower lymphocyte 
counts’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
Talk to your doctor before taking Vumerity if you have: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
a serious infection (such as pneumonia) 
severe kidney disease 
severe liver disease 
a disease of the stomach or bowel 
Flushing (reddening of the face and body) is a common side effect. Serious flushing with additional 
symptoms can be a sign of a severe allergic reaction and has been seen in a small number of patients – 
see ‘Severe allergic reactions’ in section 4 of this leaflet. Talk to your doctor if flushing is causing you 
problems, as your doctor may be able to give you medicine to treat this. 
Vumerity can cause a serious allergic reaction known as a hypersensitivity reaction. You need to know 
about all of the important signs and symptoms to look out for while you are taking Vumerity. Read the 
information about ‘Severe allergic reactions’ in section 4 of this leaflet. 
Shingles (herpes zoster) may occur with Vumerity treatment. In some cases, serious complications 
have occurred. You should inform your doctor immediately if you suspect you have any symptoms 
of shingles. These are listed in section 4 of this leaflet. 
A rare but serious kidney disorder (Fanconi syndrome) has been reported for a medicine containing 
related active substances (dimethyl fumarate, in combination with other fumaric acid esters). If you 
notice you are passing more urine, are more thirsty and drinking more than normal, or if your muscles 
seem weaker, you break a bone, or just have aches and pains, talk to your doctor as soon as possible so 
that this can be investigated further. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children and adolescents because there is limited experience to know how 
safe and effective Vumerity is in this population. 
Other medicines and Vumerity 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular: 
- 
- 
medicines that contain fumaric acid esters (fumarates) 
medicines that affect the body’s immune system including chemotherapy, 
immunosuppressants or other medicines used to treat MS 
medicines that affect the kidneys including some antibiotics (such as aminoglycosides used 
to treat infections), “water tablets” (diuretics), certain types of painkillers (such as ibuprofen 
and other similar anti-inflammatories and medicines purchased without a doctor’s prescription) 
and medicines that contain lithium 
- 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
Taking Vumerity with certain types of vaccines (live vaccines) may cause you to get an 
infection and should, therefore, be avoided. Your doctor will advise whether other types of 
vaccines (non-live vaccines) should be given. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Pregnancy 
Do not use Vumerity if you are pregnant unless you have discussed this with your doctor. This is 
because Vumerity could harm your unborn baby. If you are able to get pregnant, you should use 
reliable contraception.  
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether diroximel fumarate or its metabolites pass into breast milk. Your doctor will 
help you decide whether you should stop breast-feeding or stop using Vumerity. This involves 
balancing the benefit of breast-feeding for your child, and the benefit of therapy for you. 
Driving and using machines 
Vumerity is not expected to affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
3. 
How to take Vumerity 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Starting dose 
The recommended starting dose is 231 mg (one capsule) twice a day. 
Take this starting dose for the first 7 days, then take the maintenance dose. 
Maintenance dose 
The recommended maintenance dose is 462 mg (two capsules) twice a day. 
Vumerity is for oral use. 
Swallow each capsule whole, with some water. Do not crush or chew or sprinkle the capsule contents 
on food as this may increase some side effects. 
You can take Vumerity with a meal or on an empty stomach. If you have side effects such as flushing 
or stomach problems, taking it with food may reduce these symptoms. 
If you take more Vumerity than you should 
If you have taken too many capsules, talk to your doctor straight away. You may experience side 
effects similar to those described below in section 4. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you forget to take Vumerity 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If there are still at least 4 hours until your next planned dose, you can take the missed dose. Otherwise 
skip the missed dose and take your next planned dose at the normal time. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious effects 
PML and lower lymphocyte counts 
The frequency of PML cannot be estimated from the available data (not known). 
Vumerity may lower lymphocyte counts (a type of white blood cell). Having a low white blood cell 
count can increase your risk of infection, including the risk of a rare brain infection called progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). PML may lead to severe disability or death. PML has 
occurred after 1 to 5 years of treatment with the related medicine dimethyl fumarate and so your 
physician should continue to monitor your white blood cells throughout your treatment, and you 
should remain observant of any potential symptoms of PML as described below. The risk of PML may 
be higher if you have previously taken a medicine that suppresses your body’s immune system. 
The symptoms of PML may be similar to an MS relapse. Symptoms may include new or worsening 
weakness on one side of the body, clumsiness, changes in vision, thinking, or memory, or confusion or 
personality changes, or speech and communication difficulties lasting for more than several days. 
Therefore, if you believe your MS is getting worse or if you notice any new symptoms while you are 
on Vumerity treatment, it is very important that you speak to your doctor as soon as possible. Also 
speak with your partner or caregivers and tell them about your treatment. Symptoms might develop 
that you do not notice yourself. 
 Call your doctor straight away if you experience any of these symptoms 
Severe allergic reactions 
The frequency of severe allergic reactions cannot be estimated from the available data (not known). 
Flushing is a very common side effect. However, should flushing be accompanied by a red rash or 
hives and you get any of these symptoms: 
- 
- 
- 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth or tongue (angioedema) 
wheezing, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath (dyspnoea, hypoxia) 
dizziness or loss of consciousness (hypotension) 
then this may represent a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) 
 Stop taking Vumerity and call a doctor straight away 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
reddening of the face or body feeling warm, hot, burning or itchy (flushing) 
loose stools (diarrhoea) 
feeling sick (nausea) 
stomach pain or stomach cramps 
Side effects which may show up in your blood or urine tests 
- 
substances called ketones, which are naturally produced in the body, very commonly show up in 
urine tests while taking Vumerity. 
low levels of white blood cells (lymphopenia, leukopenia) in the blood. Reduced white blood 
cells could mean your body is less able to fight an infection. If you have a serious infection 
(such as pneumonia), talk to your doctor immediately 
- 
Talk to your doctor about how to manage these side effects. Your doctor may reduce your dose. Do 
not reduce your dose unless your doctor tells you to. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
inflammation of the lining of the intestines (gastroenteritis) 
being sick (vomiting) 
indigestion (dyspepsia) 
inflammation of the lining of the stomach (gastritis) 
digestive system problems (gastrointestinal disorder) 
burning sensation 
hot flush, feeling hot 
itchy skin (pruritus) 
rash 
pink or red blotches on the skin (erythema) 
hair loss (alopecia) 
Side effects which may show up in your blood or urine tests 
- 
- 
proteins (albumin) in urine (proteinuria) 
increase in levels of liver enzymes (ALT, AST) in the blood 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
Allergic reactions (hypersensitivity) 
- 
reduction in blood platelets 
- 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
liver injury due to medication and increase in levels of liver enzymes measured in blood tests 
(ALT or AST in combination with bilirubin) 
shingles (herpes zoster) with symptoms such as blisters, burning, itching or pain of the skin, 
typically on one side of the upper body or the face, and other symptoms, like fever and 
weakness in the early stages of infection, followed by numbness, itching or red patches with 
severe pain 
runny nose (rhinorrhoea) 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Vumerity 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle and the carton after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store below 25ºC. 
Store in the original bottle in order to protect from moisture. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Vumerity contains 
The active substance is diroximel fumarate. 
Each capsule contains 231 mg of diroximel fumarate. 
The other ingredients are: capsule contents: methacrylic acid-ethyl acrylate copolymer (1:1) type A; 
crospovidone type A; cellulose, microcrystalline; silica, colloidal anhydrous; triethyl citrate; talc; 
magnesium stearate; capsule shell: hypromellose; titanium dioxide (E171); potassium chloride; 
carrageenan; capsule print: black iron oxide (E172), shellac, potassium hydroxide. 
What Vumerity looks like and contents of the pack 
Vumerity 231 mg gastro-resistant hard capsules are white and printed with ‘DRF 231 mg’ in black 
ink. 
Vumerity is available in packs containing 120 or 360 (3x120) capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Prins Mauritslaan 13 
1171 LP Badhoevedorp 
The Netherlands 
Manufacturer 
Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited 
Monksland 
Athlone 
Co. Westmeath 
Ireland 
N37 EA09 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Biogen Belgium NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 2191218 
България 
ТП ЕВОФАРМА 
Teл: +359 2 962 12 00 
Česká republika 
Biogen (Czech Republic) s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 255 706 200 
Danmark 
Biogen (Denmark) A/S 
Tlf: +45 77 41 57 57 
Deutschland 
Biogen GmbH 
Tel: +49 (0) 89 99 6170 
Eesti 
Biogen Estonia OÜ 
Tel: +372 618 9551 
Ελλάδα 
Genesis Pharma SA 
Tηλ: +30 210 8771500 
España 
Biogen Spain, S.L. 
Tel: +34 91 310 7110 
France 
Biogen France SAS 
Tél: +33 (0)1 41 37 95 95 
Hrvatska 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 (0) 1 775 73 22 
Ireland 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Ltd. 
Tel: +353 (0)1 463 7799 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf 
Sími: +354 540 8000 
Italia 
Biogen Italia s.r.l. 
Tel: +39 02 5849901 
Κύπρος 
Genesis Pharma Cyprus Ltd 
Tηλ: +357 22765715 
Lietuva 
Biogen Lithuania UAB 
Tel: +370 5 259 6176 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Biogen Belgium NV/SA 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 2191218 
Magyarország 
Biogen Hungary Kft. 
Tel: + 36 1 899 9883 
Malta 
Pharma. MT Ltd. 
Tel: +356 21337008  
Nederland 
Biogen Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: +31 20 542 2000 
Norge 
Biogen Norway AS 
Tlf: +47 23 40 01 00 
Österreich 
Biogen Austria GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 484 46 13 
Polska 
Biogen Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48 22 351 51 00 
Portugal 
Biogen Portugal Sociedade Farmacêutica, 
Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 21 318 8450 
România 
Johnson & Johnson Romania S.R.L. 
Tel: +40 21 207 18 00 
Slovenija 
Biogen Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 1 511 02 90 
Slovenská republika 
Biogen Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 323 340 08 
Suomi/Finland 
Biogen Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 207 401 200 
Sverige 
Biogen Sweden AB 
Tel: +46 8 594 113 60 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Latvija 
Biogen Latvia SIA 
Tel: +371 68 688 158 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Biogen Idec (Ireland) Limited 
Tel: +44 (0) 1628 50 1000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
38 
 
 
 
 
