EMA/231460/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005725 
Vydura (rimegepant) 
An overview of Vydura and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vydura and what is it used for? 
Vydura is a medicine used to treat migraine with or without aura (unusual visual or other sensory 
experiences) in adults. It is also used to prevent migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraines 
attacks a month.  
Vydura contains the active substance rimegepant.  
How is Vydura used? 
Vydura is available as a freeze-dried wafer to be placed on or under the tongue, where it will dissolve.  
Vydura is taken once a day for the treatment of migraine, and once every other day for prevention of 
migraine.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
For more information about using Vydura, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Vydura work? 
A chemical messenger called calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) contributes to the development of 
migraine. The active substance in Vydura, rimegepant, attaches to the receptor (target) for CGRP. By 
attaching to this receptor, the medicine prevents CGRP from binding to it. This helps treat migraine 
and also prevents migraines from occurring.  
What benefits of Vydura have been shown in studies? 
Vydura was shown to be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at treating migraine in 
three main studies involving a total of around 3,500 adults. Patients with a migraine attack causing 
moderate to severe headache recorded the level of pain two hours after treatment using a 4-point 
Likert scale (0 = no pain, 1 = mild pain, 2 = moderate pain, 3 = severe pain).  
On average across the three studies, 20% of patients taking Vydura were headache pain-free after two 
hours, compared with 12% on average for those taking placebo. Vydura was also effective at treating 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
other migraine symptoms such as photophobia (abnormal sensitivity of the eyes to light), phonophobia 
(abnormal sensitivity to sounds) or nausea (feeling sick): on average, around 36% of patients taking 
Vydura were free from one of the above symptoms two hours after treatment, compared with around 
27% of those taking placebo. 
Another study showed that Vydura is effective at reducing the number of days patients suffer from 
migraines. The study involved 747 adults who had between 4 to 18 migraine attacks a month; patients 
took Vydura or placebo every other day for up to 12 weeks. Those treated with Vydura had on average 
4.3 fewer days with migraines during the last 4 weeks of the study, compared with 3.5 fewer days for 
patients on placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Vydura? 
The most common side effect with Vydura (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) is nausea. 
Hypersensitivity (allergic reaction) including dyspnoea (difficulty breathing) and severe rash may affect 
up to 1 in 100 people. 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Vydura, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vydura authorised in the EU? 
Vydura was shown to be more effective than placebo at reducing headaches and other migraine 
symptoms and at reducing the number of days patients experienced migraine, although the size of the 
effect is considered modest. The safety profile of Vydura is considered favourable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vydura’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vydura? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vydura have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vydura are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Vydura are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vydura 
Vydura received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 25 April 2022.  
Further information on Vydura can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vydura   
This overview was last updated in 04-2022. 
Vydura (rimegepant)  
EMA/231460/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
