11 November 2021 
EMA/9446/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Vyepti  
International non-proprietary name: eptinezumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005287/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Name of the medicinal product: 
Vyepti 
Applicant: 
H. Lundbeck A/S 
Ottiliavej 9 
2500 Valby 
DENMARK 
Active substance: 
Eptinezumab 
International Non-proprietary Name/Common 
Eptinezumab 
Name: 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
antimigraine preparations, calcitonin gene-
(ATC Code): 
related peptide (cgrp) antagonists 
(N02CD) 
Therapeutic indication(s): 
migraine in adults who have at least 4 
VYEPTI is indicated for the prophylaxis of 
migraine days per month 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
Strength: 
100 mg 
Route of administration: 
Intravenous use 
Packaging: 
vial (glass) 
Package size: 
1 vial 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Legal basis, dossier content <and multiples> ......................................................... 6 
1.3. Information on Paediatric requirements ................................................................. 6 
1.4. Information relating to orphan market exclusivity ................................................... 6 
1.5. Applicant’s request(s) for consideration ................................................................. 6 
1.6. Scientific advice ................................................................................................. 7 
1.7. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 9 
2.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................. 9 
2.2. About the product ............................................................................................. 13 
2.3. Type of Application and aspects on development ................................................... 13 
2.4. Quality aspects ................................................................................................. 14 
2.5. Non-clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 27 
2.6. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................. 32 
2.7. Risk Management Plan ..................................................................................... 150 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance .......................................................................................... 153 
2.9. Product information ......................................................................................... 153 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................... 154 
3.1. Therapeutic Context ........................................................................................ 154 
3.2. Favourable effects ........................................................................................... 155 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects .......................................... 157 
3.4. Unfavourable effects ....................................................................................... 157 
3.5. Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects ....................................... 158 
3.6. Effects Table .................................................................................................. 159 
3.7. Benefit-risk assessment and discussion .............................................................. 160 
3.8. Conclusions .................................................................................................... 162 
4. Recommendations ............................................................................... 163 
5. Appendix ............................................................................................. 165 
5.1. CHMP AR on New Active Substance (NAS) dated 11 November 2021 ...................... 165 
3 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADA 
AESI 
AUC 
CCS 
CDR 
CI 
Anti-drug antibody 
Adverse event of special interest 
Area under the curve 
Container closure system 
Complementary determining region 
Confidence interval 
α-CGRP  
α-Calcitonin Gene-related Peptide 
CL 
CLcr 
CM 
Cavg 
Cmax 
Clearance 
Creatinine clearance 
Chronic migraine 
Average plasma concentration 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Ctrough 
Lowest plasma concentration before next dose 
CRL 
CV 
DLC 
DP 
ECL 
Charles River Laboratories 
Coefficient of variation 
Demonstration lot campaign 
Drug product 
Electrochemiluminescence 
ELISA   
Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay 
EM 
F 
GOF 
HC 
HRP 
IgG 
ISR 
IV 
Ka 
Kd 
LC 
MMD 
MRD 
MSD 
NAb 
PEI 
pI  
PK 
PD 
R 
RS 
RE 
RSE 
RT 
SC 
Episodic migraine 
Bioavailability 
Goodness of fit 
High concentration control 
Horse radish peroxidase 
Immunoglobulin G1 
Incurred sample analysis 
Intravenous 
Absorption constant 
Dissociation constant 
Low concentration control 
Monthly migraine days 
Minimum required dilution 
Mesoscale Discovery 
Neutralizing antibody 
Polyethylenimine 
Isoelectric point 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacodynamics 
Accumulation ratio 
Reference standard 
Residual error 
Relative standard error 
Room temperature 
Subcutaneous 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SD 
SmPC   
SPEAD   
T1/2 
TEAE 
Tmax 
TMB 
V 
VLC 
VPC 
Standard deviation 
Summary of product characteristics 
Solid phase extraction with acid dissociation 
Half-life 
Treatment emergent adverse event 
Time at which maximum plasma concentration is reached 
3,3′,5,5′-Tetramethylbenzidine 
Volume of distribution 
Validation lot campaign 
Visual predictive check 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant H. Lundbeck A/S submitted on 16 November 2020 an application for marketing authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Vyepti, through the centralised procedure falling within the Article 
3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication:  
Vyepti is indicated for the prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraine days per month. 
1.2.  Legal basis, dossier content  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC - complete and independent application  
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical and 
clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature substituting/supporting 
certain test(s) or study(ies). 
1.3.  Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision(s) on the 
agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP). 
At the time of submission of the application, the PIP EMEA-C1-002243-PIP01-17 was not yet completed as 
some measures were deferred. 
1.4.  Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
1.4.1.  Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
1.5.  Applicant’s request(s) for consideration 
1.5.1.  New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance eptinezumab contained in the above medicinal product to be 
considered as a new active substance, as the applicant claims that it is not a constituent of a medicinal 
6 
 
 
 
product previously authorised within the European Union. 
1.6.  Scientific advice 
The applicant did not seek Scientific advice from the CHMP. 
1.7.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Jan Mueller-Berghaus 
Co-Rapporteur: Bruno Sepodes 
The Rapporteur appointed by the PRAC was: 
PRAC Rapporteur: Liana Gross-Martirosyan 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
16 November 2020 
24 December 2020 
The CHMP Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
15 March 2021 
CHMP and PRAC members on 
The CHMP Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
18 March 2021 
CHMP and PRAC members on 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
29 March 2021 
PRAC and CHMP members on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
22 April 2021 
the applicant during the meeting on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of 
16 July 2021 
Questions on 
The CHMP Rapporteurs circulated the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteurs Joint 
  24 August 2021 
Assessment Report on the responses to the List of Questions to all 
CHMP and PRAC members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
02 September 2021 
CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues in writing to be sent to 
16 September 2021 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding 
12 October 2021 
Issues on  
The CHMP Rapporteurs circulated the CHMP and PRAC Rapporteurs Joint 
27 October 2021 
Assessment Report on the responses to the List of Outstanding Issues 
7 
 
 
 
 
to all CHMP and PRAC members on  
The outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant during an oral 
N/A 
explanation before the CHMP during the meeting on 
The CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the scientific 
11 November 2021 
discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to Vyepti on  
Furthermore, the CHMP adopted a report on New Active Substance 
11 November 2021 
(NAS) status of the active substance contained in the medicinal product 
(see Appendix on NAS) 
8 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Problem statement 
2.1.1.  Disease or condition 
Migraine is a complex and multifaceted brain disorder. Two main categories can be identified, based mainly 
on the frequency of attacks: episodic migraine (EM), defined as less than 15 headache days per month and 
chronic migraine (CM), defined as the patient having 15 or more headache days per month, with at least five 
attacks fulfilling criteria for migraine with or without aura. However, there is a substantial overlap in terms of 
symptoms between the two forms, as well as pathophysiology and burden of disability, which make 
preventive treatment one of the key strategies for migraine management. 
Migraine is very common and has two major subtypes based on specific features and symptoms that 
accompany each attack: migraine without aura (the most frequent form) and migraine with aura, in which 
transient focal neurological symptoms usually precede or sometimes accompany the headache. There are 
trigger factors that include hypo-hyper activity, hunger, sleep deprivation, exposure to intense or pulsatile 
light, depressed mood, cravings for particular foods, repetitive yawning, fatigue and neck stiffness and/or 
pain which migraineurs experience hours or even days before the headache, or during its resolution. Migraine 
without aura is the most common form of primary headaches. Headache typically is recurrent and lasts 4 to 
72 hours, has unilateral location, pulsating quality, moderate to severe intensity and aggravated with routine 
activity, associated or not to nausea, phono- or photophobia. Migraine with aura needs the coexistence of 
fully reversible aura symptoms spreading over at least 5 minutes with 5 to 60 minutes duration and followed 
by headache. In the early stage of an attack, the accompanying premonitory symptoms may be associated 
with hypothalamic involvement (Maniyar FH, 2014). 
2.1.2.  Epidemiology 
Including both EM and CM, migraine has a one-year prevalence of 15-18% worldwide, with extensive 
financial yearly burden on global economies, ranging from $19.6 in the United States to €27 billion in the 
European Union. It was ranked as the third most prevalent disorder and sixth-highest specific cause of 
disability worldwide by the WHO (Global Burden of Disease Study, 2013). 
Migraine predominantly affects females with a 3:1 ratio, with a peak of incidence between the ages of 25 to 
55 years, thus it may profoundly impact upon quality of life and productivity. In fact, due to the neurological 
deficits experienced in the acute phase (such as nausea, vomiting, light and/or sound sensitivity, need to be 
isolated from the outer world including workplace and school), as well as the aftermath following an attack 
that lasts for hours or days, subjects experience a condition of true restrictive lifestyle. The vast majority 
(approximately 90%) of migraine sufferers have a reduced ability to function, and one-third require bed rest 
during migraine attacks (Lipton et al. 2007). 
Migraine has a significant impact on the population, as each year, about 2.5 % of patients with EM develop 
new-onset CM (Manack et al., 2011). Demographic and comorbidity data outline some clinical differences 
among subjects with CM and EM, being EM patients more frequently overweight and younger, unemployed 
and with and anxious-depressed mood (Blumenfield et al 2010), whereas in several CM patients there are 
risk factors like painkillers abuse as well as different response to treatments, both preventive and abortive.   
9 
 
 
Comorbidities of migraines include, but are not limited to, psychiatric and medical conditions such as 
depression and vascular disorders (Buse et al, 2010; Bigal et al, 2009).   
2.1.3.  Aetiology and pathogenesis 
Over the past two decades, new theories apart from the classical neurovascular theory, have tried to 
elucidate the pathogenesis of migraine while focusing on activation of the trigeminovascular system (Goadsby 
et al., 2002), cortical hyperexcitability (Coppola et al., 2002), and dysregulation of brainstem regions 
involved in antinociception and vascular control. The so called trigeminal durovascular afferent pathway has 
undergone in-depth analyses through immunohistochemistry and functional brain imaging, starting from the 
knowledge that pain-sensitive structures such as the intracranial blood vessels and the meninges, especially 
the dura mater, are supplied with sensory nerve fibres (Pietrobon & Striessnig, 2003) by the ophthalmic 
ramus of the first branch of the trigeminal nerve. They arise from pseudounipolar neurons located in the 
trigeminal ganglion (Link et al., 2008) projecting onto second order sensory neurons in the trigeminal nucleus 
caudalis in the brain stem and its related extensions down to the C2-level called the trigeminocervical 
complex (Goadsby, 2007).   
In light of this, several experiments have tried to elucidate the details behind each of the four phases in 
which a migraine attack is classically subdivided: the premonitory, aura, headache, and postdrome phases. 
There is wide consensus over the notion that migraine attacks are the results of a cyclic disorder of brain 
sensory processing, which is influenced by genetic and environmental factors. The premonitory phase 
involves brain stem and diencephalic systems that modulate afferent signals and explain photophobia or 
phonophobia, followed by pain up to the resolution or postdromal phase. A dysfunction of central pain 
processing in the interictal state has been gathered from the hypometabolism of central pain processing 
areas including bilateral insula, bilateral anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, left premotor and prefrontal 
cortex, and left primary somatosensory cortex as revealed by 18F-FDG and BOLD-fMRI imaging studies.  
The major classes of medicines identified thus far, such as triptans, serotonin 5-HT1B/1D receptor agonists, 
calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) modulators, including receptor antagonists and monoclonal 
antibodies, gepants, ditans, 5-HT1F receptor agonists glurants, mGlu5 modulators would exert their main 
effect at this stage of the whole process. 
With regard to CGRP, this neuropeptide is abundant in perivascular trigeminal nerve fibres by which is 
activated, especially during migraine attacks, and shows the capability of dilating intracranial and extracranial 
blood vessels while modulating vascular nociception at central level. As such, CGRP may play an important 
role in the pathophysiology of migraine and, conversely, blockade of CGRP receptors as well as its own 
peripheral circulation may contribute to abort migraine. 
Elevated blood concentrations of CGRP have been associated with migraine (Edvinsson and Goadsby 1994; 
Bigal et al. 2013). In addition, CGRP infusions can induce migraine-like attacks in individuals with a history of 
migraine (Lassen et al. 2002; Hansen et al. 2010). 
CGRP peptide can directly exert excitatory effects on nociceptive neurons leading to sensitisation or activation 
of neurons in pain signalling pathways, suggesting that it can drive maladaptive processes in peripheral 
nerves that induce peripheral sensitisation and ultimately pain. It can also facilitate the effects of other pain 
transmitters including glutamate and substance P (Ma et al. 2010). 
The rationale in using CGRP mAbs stands behind the possibility to target smooth muscle cells on blood 
vessels and neurons and glial cells outside the blood–brain barrier, contributing to halt vasodilation, mast cell 
10 
 
 
degranulation, neurogenic inflammation, and possibly peripheral pain sensitization in migraine (Russel FA et 
al, 2014). 
2.1.4.  Clinical presentation, diagnosis  
Migraine is a chronic condition, albeit prolonged remissions are frequently observed. The diagnosis of 
migraine is based on patient history and follows the International Headache Society (HIS) diagnostic criteria, 
now at their ICHD-3 beta revision.  
According to the definition of common migraine (migraine without aura or hemicrania simplex, coded with 1.1 
in the ICHD-3 beta) patients must have at least 5 recurrent attacks lasting 4-72 hours (untreated or 
unsuccessfully treated) and the headache must have at least 2 of the following four characteristics: unilateral 
location, pulsating quality, moderate or severe pain intensity, aggravation by or causing avoidance of routine 
physical activity (e.g., walking or climbing stairs). In addition, during the headache the patient must have 
had at least 1 between nausea and/or vomiting, photophobia and phonophobia. These features must not 
have been attributable to another disorder. 
With regard to prognosis, migraine is a rather benign condition and is not associated with an increased risk of 
death. The natural history of migraine may slightly change according to the exact type of headache and 
usually ranges from complete resolution, to symptoms continuation with gradually less or even worsening 
intensity and frequency over time. Generally Episodic Migraine tend to convert to chronic migraine provided 
that medication overuse has taken place in the meantime. 
The presence of aura may double the risk for ischemic stroke (Kurth et al., 2012). Increase risk for migraine 
has been linked to young adult age, female gender, use of hormonal birth control, and smoking, whereas the 
absence of aura does not appear to constitute a risk factor for specific conditions. Generally, the severity and 
frequency of migraine attacks tend to diminish with increasing age.  
2.1.5.  Management 
The goals of migraine treatment are to relieve pain, restore function, reduce headache frequency, reduce 
excessive overuse of acute medications and prevent the progression of EM to CM. Pharmacological 
interventions for the treatment of migraine include acute (symptomatic) treatments and preventive 
medications. The latter are indicated for all patients with CM as well as for a subset of individuals with EM 
who have frequent or very prolonged attacks, significant disability, or contraindications to acute therapy. 
In the management of migraine, among the first steps to be taken there is the reduction or, if possible, the 
elimination of the exposure to triggers. This can be done through several ways that include diet and physical 
exercise. If control of these stimuli is ineffective in preventing the onset of the migraine crisis, and if intense 
pain prevents normal daily activities, it is possible to resort to drug therapy. 
Treatment of acute phase.   
The goal of the "acute" migraine therapy is to calm the pain once it has arisen and quickly limit the 
appearance of the associated symptomatology. The most commonly used medications to reduce migraine-
related pain are analgesics.  
Anti-inflammatory drugs. The recommended initial treatment for mild to moderate symptoms is based on 
drugs belonging to the pharmacological class of NSAIDs, such as paracetamol, acetylsalicylic acid, ibuprofen, 
11 
 
 
diclofenac and naproxen with variable pain-relieving effects over migraine symptoms intensity and duration. 
These drugs should be used only when needed, on a full stomach and for short periods, given their high 
association with side effects (such as gastritis, liver and kidney disorders) and their tendency to decrease 
their effectiveness over time. Analgesics tend to be more effective when taken at the first signs of a migraine 
attack; in this way, in fact, they can perform their analgesic effect before the most serious symptoms occur. 
NSAIDs may be prescribed in combination with antiemetics, if there is also nausea and vomiting, or with 
other molecules (for example: paracetamol, acetylsalicylic acid and caffeine). 
Triptans. If ordinary analgesics do not help alleviate migraine symptoms, triptans are the next 
pharmacological option. The triptan class consists of several drugs with different absorption and pain activity 
characteristics. Their activity takes place on serotonin receptors, preventing the propagation of pain. In 
particular, these drugs determine the contraction of blood vessels in the brain, counteracting the dilation that 
occurs during the migraine attack (and which is considered part of the process underlying the migraine). The 
effect of triptans is rapid and can significantly reduce the severity and duration of symptoms; even in this 
case, the best result is obtained if they are taken when the pain is still mild. Sumatriptan is the most 
commonly used triptan. 
Ergotamine and derivatives. Ergotamine and dihydroergotamine are old-generation drugs used only in cases 
of particularly disabling or refractory migraine. These medicines appear to be equally effective as triptans: 
they carry out a vasoconstrictive action and contrast the phase of cranial vasodilation responsible for the 
appearance of migraine. However, they can create serious side effects and can accentuate nausea. 
Other drugs include several possible pharmacological options not specific for migraine, such as analgesics, 
narcotics, opioids and barbiturates. Since these drugs can be addictive, they are less suitable for migraine 
treatment and should be taken only occasionally, when the specific basic therapy is not effective. 
Preventive Therapy 
Even though the standard of care in migraine prophylaxis can be highly variable among centers and 
countries, preventive therapy is useful if migraine occurs with a certain frequency and / or particularly severe 
symptoms. The goal is to reduce the frequency and severity of migraine attacks.   
Several classes of drugs have been successfully adopted as preventive therapies; “older” preventive 
treatments for migraine include: 
(i) anti-hypertensive agents: beta-blockers (propranolol, metoprolol and timolol) and calcium antagonists 
(verapamil) act by modulating the tone of blood vessels and regulating the mechanisms involved in pain; 
 (ii) antidepressants (amitriptyline, nortriptyline, etc.): they act at the central level acting mainly on the 
serotonin receptors, involved in the onset of migraine and through myorelaxation of districts involved in 
tension-type headache 
(iii) antiepileptics drugs (gabapentin, topiramate, valproic acid, etc.): appear to act on the threshold of pain 
and on cerebral hyperexcitability.  
(iv) onabotulinum toxin type A: the administration of this drug through several subcutaneous injections in 
specifically identified points over the head and neck muscles are useful in cases of chronic migraine only (not 
indicated for the Episodic Migraine). The effect may last up to 3 months and generally it has to be repeated. 
Each type of drug is more effective when used in conjunction with other medical recommendations, such as 
changes in diet and lifestyle, physical activity and relaxation exercises. A frequent complication of Medication 
overuse (MO) can lead to additional headache as that requires a combination of pharmacological and non-
12 
 
 
pharmacological approaches. Prophylactic treatments that reduce acute medication use may therefore reduce 
the risk of MO.  
However, these “older” treatment options in part require long titration periods with a delayed onset of 
efficacy, daily drug intake, and an often poor tolerability. 
Epidemiologic studies suggest that among patients with chronic migraine, up to 80% were no longer on their 
medication after 12 months (Hepp et al. 2015) and such a high prophylactic treatment discontinuation seems 
to be due to poor tolerability and insufficient clinical response, that calls into question acute medication 
overuse, disease progression, and increased disability.  
In this frame, and similarly to other chronic conditions, there is need for novel, more specifically target-
oriented prophylactic agents for migraine (Goadsby 2013; Diener et al. 2015; Pike et al. 2016).  
An innovative preventive treatment option has been introduced recently with the class of CGRP-targeting 
therapies. The rapid onset of treatment effect and the less frequent administration scheme, in conjunction 
with a good tolerability and safety profile are meaningful advances of these new therapies. 
2.2.  About the product 
Eptinezumab is a humanized anti-(calcitonin gene-related peptide) (CGRP) monoclonal IgG1 antibody (anti-
CGRP mAb).  
Eptinezumab binds to α- and β- forms of human calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) ligand with low 
picomolar affinity (4 and 3 pM KD, respectively). This, in combination with the 100% bioavailability following 
an IV administration, translates into fast blockage of the pharmacological effects of circulating CGRP in 
humans. As a result, eptinezumab prevents the activation of the CGRP receptors and hence the downstream 
cascade of physiological events linked to initiation, frequency and severity of migraine attacks. 
Eptinezumab commercial drug product is supplied as a sterile, non-pyrogenic, aqueous concentrate for 
solution for infusion. Each milliliter of drug product contains 100 mg of eptinezumab and the solution is 
formulated with a target pH of 5.8. Eptinezumab is administered as intravenous (IV) infusion after dilution of 
the concentrate. 
The proposed indication for eptinezumab was prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraine 
days per month. 
2.3.  Type of Application and aspects on development 
Legal basis 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
13 
 
 
2.4.  Quality aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The finished product (FP) Vyepti is presented as a concentrate for solution for infusion containing 100mg of 
eptinezumab as active substance per mL (1mL per vial).  
Other ingredients are: sorbitol (E420), L-histidine, L-histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, polysorbate 80, 
and water for injections (WfI). 
Eptinezumab is administered as intravenous (IV) infusion after dilution of the concentrate. The product is 
presented as a single-use preservative-free solution and is supplied in Type I glass vials with chlorobutyl 
rubber stopper. 
2.4.2.  Active Substance 
2.4.2.1.  General information 
Eptinezumab is a recombinant humanised anti-(calcitonin gene-related peptide) (CGRP) monoclonal IgG1 
antibody (anti-CGRP mAb).  
Eptinezumab is a soluble protein consisting of four polypeptide chains, two identical heavy chains and two 
identical light chains. The light and heavy chain variable regions are comprised of both human and 
humanised rabbit sequences. The expected molecular weight is 143283 Daltons.  
Eptinezumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to α- and β- forms of human calcitonin gene-related peptide 
(CGRP) ligand with low picomolar affinity (4 and 3 pM KD, respectively). Blockage of α-CGRP leads can lead 
to attenuated pain transmission and induction of the nociceptive state in the brain, thereby being a good 
target for the treatment of migraine. There are several monoclonal antibodies already approved in the EU for 
the treatment of migraine targeting α-CGRP or its receptor, which supports the proposed mode of action for 
eptinezumab.   
2.4.2.2.  Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacturer(s) 
Eptinezumab is manufactured at Sandoz GmbH, Biochemiestrasse 10, Kundl 6250, Austria. Testing sites and 
responsibilities have been included and provided. The GMP documentation is available either by GMP-
certificates and/or by the EudraGMDP document reference numbers indicated in the application form. The 
GMP documentation for US sites is considered sufficient. Master cell bank (MCB) and working cell banks 
(WCB) have been established under GMP conditions.  
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
A narrative description of the active substance manufacturing process has been provided, consisting of an 
upstream and a downstream part. Eptinezumab is produced in a yeast-based (Pichia pastoris) expression 
system using conventional fermentation and downstream purification processes.  
14 
 
 
The upstream process of eptinezumab bulk drug substance (BDS) comprises 3 individual steps, which are all 
related to the Pichia pastoris-based microbial fermentation procedure: the inoculum preparation step, the 
seed fermentation step, and the production fermentation step. In-process controls (IPCs) have been defined 
for the inoculum and production fermentation step. Adequate acceptance criteria have been provided.  
The downstream process of the eptinezumab manufacture for commercial use is conducted at the bulk drug 
substance (BDS) manufacturer’s production facility and consists of 7 steps, which can be divided into 2 
process units: isolation (first centrifugation/flocculation, second centrifugation/filtration, and capture) and 
purification. 
Pichia pastoris cells are first removed by centrifugation, and the supernatant is treated with a flocculating 
agent resulting in the flocculation of impurities. These are removed by a second centrifugation step followed 
by filtration of the resulting supernatant. Capture of the monoclonal antibody by protein A purification 
represents the final isolation step in the manufacturing process of eptinezumab BDS.  
Further purification of eptinezumab is accomplished by the use of 2 additional, consecutive chromatography 
stepsFinally, the resulting solution is ultrafiltered/diafiltered followed by eptinezumab bulk drug substance 
(BDS) filled into bottles and stored frozen.   
The description of the manufacturing process steps is accompanied by flow charts indicating the process 
parameters and process controls. Target operating set points are defined for several process parameters at 
each step as either critical or non-critical. In-process controls (IPCs) have been defined for all steps. 
Adequate acceptance criteria have been provided.  
Reprocessing and/or reworking of manufacturing process steps is not permitted as part of the manufacturing 
process. 
The batch numbering system is considered adequate. A unique number is generated for each individual 
batch. The unique batch number is included in all issued records for this batch to ensure traceability. 
Control of materials 
Raw materials used for the cell culture and purification process are listed together with their quality standard 
(in-house, Ph. Eur., USP/NF) and their intended use. Safety information for biologically sourced materials has 
been provided. No starting material of animal or human origin is used during inoculum preparation or 
fermentation of eptinezumab. A comprehensive description of all raw materials used during the manufacture 
of eptinezumab BDS and their corresponding quality requirements have been provided. 
Raw materials used for cell bank generation or used in the active substance manufacturing process have 
been provided in a tabular format. The compendial or non-compendial materials are sourced from qualified 
and approved sources inspected, sampled and tested under appropriate conditions and according to the 
respective acceptance criteria. Based on a risk assessment, raw materials are either considered critical or 
non-critical. Non-critical materials may be sourced from different manufacturers upon appropriate source 
qualification measures. Critical materials will not be replaced without further assessment. All chromatographic 
resins, the bottle used for storage as well as the final filter cartridge used for filtration of BDS prior to filling 
are defined as critical. 
A traditional two-tiered cell banking system was established. The cell banks were sufficiently characterised. 
No evidence of microbial contamination was observed. 
Stability of the cell banks and the genetic integrations were demonstrated through End of Production (EOP) 
and Limit of In Vitro Cell Age End-of-Production Cell (LIVCA) testing.  
15 
 
 
The validated LIVCA duration includes pilot scale fermentation process duration plus a duplicated seed 
expansion process. The validated limit of in vitro cell age for the MCB and is population doublings from the 
thaw of a vial from MCB through the end of production has been established.  
New eptinezumab WCBs will be manufactured from the same MCB in accordance with approved 
manufacturing records and using the same process steps. For future WCBs, the number of cells in the cell 
banks should be based on the quantity of cells used to manufacture the supportive batches and current 
commercial batches. The Applicant is recommended, to revise the variability of the cell counting. Taking the 
new method variability into account, the cell number for new cell banks should be recalculated and the 
suitability of the LIVCA justified.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
Process Parameters (PP) and In-Process Controls (IPC), which have the potential to affect Critical Quality 
Attributes (CQAs) of eptinezumab BDS are classified as critical and are thus has to be monitored/controlled to 
ensure consistent quality of eptinezumab BDS. 
The in-process control program includes process monitoring and verification activities to ensure that 
operational/performance parameters and quality attributes are maintained in a state of control with minimal 
risk to process and Process parameters represent process inputs whereas quality attributes focus on process 
outputs. Criticality determination for process parameters is based on the parameter’s ability to impact any 
identified critical quality attributes. The control strategy incorporates alert limits, action limits and acceptance 
criteria representing increased control levels for the PPs, CPPs, IPCs and CIPCs. Adequate limits or 
acceptance criteria are in place.     
CPPs and CIPCs are provided for upstream and downstream manufacturing process of eptinezumab bulk drug 
substance (BDS) in a comprehensive and clear way. Overall CPPs and CIPCs have been identified which were 
justified and supported by process characterisation data. Non-critical PPs and their acceptable ranges have 
been sufficiently described. Furthermore, maximal process intermediate storage duration based on validation 
studies have been defined. 
Process validation and/or evaluation 
The eptinezumab active substance manufacturing process has been validated by conducting several 
consecutive commercial-scale Process Performance Qualification (PPQ) batches and with the equipment 
intended for the commercial active substance manufacturing process. All CPPs/PPS as well as CIPCs/IPCs and 
process monitors met their predefined acceptance criteria or ranges.  
The upstream manufacturing process consistency and reproducibility for eptinezumab production was shown 
by time courses of performance-indicating parameters regarding the production fermentation step. No 
deviations occurred during the upstream process manufacturing steps of the PPQ BDS batches. Therefore, it 
is demonstrated that each individual upstream process steps – and thus the complete upstream 
manufacturing process – is stable and controlled. 
The downstream manufacturing process of eptinezumab BDS was evaluated for process consistency, process- 
and product-related impurity / substance clearance, as well as bioburden and endotoxin control. 
For the process consistency, critical as well as non-CPPs and IPCs defining and characterizing the entire 
downstream manufacturing process performance complied with the ranges and limits predefined in the PPQ 
protocol. Although some deviations to the validation protocol and process deviations occurred during the 
16 
 
 
downstream manufacturing process of the PPQ runs, none was assessed to negatively impact the validity of 
the PPQ study / process performance, nor the final BDS quality. This is acceptable. 
A filling homogeneity study demonstrated that the eptinezumab concentration and quality is maintained 
throughout the filling process. Protocol and process deviations were reported at several steps and sufficient 
justifications have been provided.  
Process- and product-related impurity clearance to adequate levels was also demonstrated during PPQ runs. 
Microbial control of the manufacturing process was shown to be effective as all bioburden and endotoxin IPC 
limits were met. Intermediate hold periods have been adequately set based on stability data from the PPQ, 
and additional data from validation lot campaign (VLC) batches as well as a laboratory scale study performed 
during demonstration lot campaign (DLC). The stability of solutions and media used during up- and down-
stream processing has been sufficiently investigated including microbial control and adequate storage 
conditions set. 
Chromatography resin and UF/DF membrane lifetime/reuse is concurrently validated at scale using adequate 
pre-defined protocols. Initial lifetimes were set based on laboratory scale evaluations.  
Shipping validation of the active substance was performed. The distance and transportation time sufficiently 
covered normal transportation from the manufacturing site to the filling site.  
Manufacturing process development 
Three versions of the active substance manufacturing process have been used during the clinical 
development: Process 1 (C1), Process 2 (C2) (Clinical) and Process 2 (C2) (Commercial). The active 
substance manufacturing history has been described in sufficient detail.  
To support comparability between the different manufacturing processes two formal ICHQ5E compliant 
comparability evaluations were performed. An initial comparability assessed early (C1) to late phase (C2) 
processes and a commercial comparability, which assessed late phase (C2) to commercial phase process 
(C2). Furthermore, a Phase 1 clinical comparative pharmacokinetic study was also performed as part of the 
overall assessment of the comparability of the commercial finished product to the clinical finished product.  
A risk assessment has been performed to identify eptinezumab critical quality attributes. The approach has 
been sufficiently described and is considered adequate. CQAs have been defined as mandatory by default due 
to compendial requirements or regulatory expectations or as non-mandatory using a scoring scheme. Impact 
and uncertainty scores were defined for four product impact categories (PICs) including efficacy, PK/PD, 
immunogenicity, and safety. The impact score is multiplied by the uncertainty score to create a severity 
score. QAs above a defined severity limit (SL) are defined as CQAs. The final list of CQAs is considered 
acceptable.  
Process characterisation was performed using small-scale models which were sufficiently qualified. The 
upstream characterisation development justification studies were divided into fermentation process and 
clarification and harvest characterisation. Based on the prior CQA risk assessment adequate process 
parameters have been characterised. In most cases one-factor at a time (OFAT) experiments or design-of 
experiments (DOE) have been conducted.  
Based on the data and effects from the characterisation studies commercial process parameters have been 
established. The set parameter ranges are acceptable. 
17 
 
 
Down-stream process characterisation studies were performed. Based on the data and effects from the 
characterisation studies commercial process parameters have been established. The set parameter ranges 
are acceptable. 
A Host Cell Protein (HCP) assay and potency assay was developed and sufficiently validated. 
Characterisation 
Elucidation of Structure and Other Characteristics 
Characterisation of the eptinezumab BDS was performed on several C2 batches (from the demonstration lot 
campaign - pivotal and commercial scale batches) using state-of-the art methods. The selection of the BDS 
batches and methods used is considered adequate. In general, all relevant properties of eptinezumab have 
been investigated. Sufficient information on how the extinction coefficient of eptinezumab, which is used for 
the protein concentration method, has been provided.  
Impurities 
The impurities of eptinezumab were divided into process- and product-related impurities. The biological 
activity of eptinezumab was characterised. The results support the mechanism of action and clinical relevance 
of eptinezumab.  
A risk assessment of extractables and leachables was performed and no high-risk components were 
identified. Elemental impurities were investigated in line with ICH Q3D and no elemental impurity level was 
identified requiring additional controls.  
All variants are characterised and controlled at release and during stability testing, which is considered 
acceptable.    
2.4.2.3.  Specification 
The release specification for eptinezumab active substance include tests for general characteristics and 
physicochemical properties, identity, quantity, purity and impurities, process-related impurities, potency, 
microbial safety, and general attributes.  
For the compendial methods (colour, bacterial endotoxins, bioburden, pH, osmolality) reference has been 
made to the respective Ph. Eur monographs. For the internal methods, a reference to the respective in-house 
reference is provided. Overall, the set of release parameters tested complies with ICH Q6B, Ph. Eur. 2031, 
and EMA/CHMP/BWP/532517/2008. 
The specification set for the eptinezumab active substance are considered adequate and justified.  
Analytical procedures  
Compendial methods and non-compendial analytical procedures are used to control the manufacture of 
eptinezumab bulk drug substance. The analytical methods employed have been described is sufficient detail.  
18 
 
 
 
Batch analyses 
Batch release data are presented for several eptinezumab bulk drug substance batches manufactured 
according to the intended commercial manufacturing process. In addition, release data was also presented 
for eptinezumab bulk drug substance previously manufactured with C1, C2.0 or C2.1 previous process and 
from several commercial manufacturing campaign.  
Data from batch release, shows consistent and comparable quality of BDS across all batches through process 
development. All the BDS batches comply with the pre-established specifications valid at the time of testing.  
Justification of specification 
The eptinezumab specifications were established to confirm the overall quality, safety, purity, and potency of 
the eptinezumab BDS and to focus on the critical quality attributes (CQAs) that ensure the safety and efficacy 
of the resulting finished product. The selected specification tests and acceptance criteria are in agreement 
with the regulatory requirements from the Ph. Eur. and the guideline ICH Q6B. Specification acceptance 
criteria were developed and justified based on regulatory requirements, as well as accumulated batch release 
and stability data from all representative batches made at both the clinical-scale manufacturing site  and the 
commercial-scale manufacturing site. For each test parameter a discussion is provided. Sufficient and 
adequate information have been provided. 
Reference standards of materials 
A two-tiered system with primary and working reference standards (PRS and WRS) has been established for 
eptinezumab. The history of the reference standards (RS) used during development has been provided. The 
current primary RS was used for the establishment of the working RSs and is used for the annual 
requalification of working RSs. The currently used primary RS was derived from an eptinezumab source lot 
(BDS batch) that was produced using pivotal clinical (late phase) manufacturing process. Qualification data 
demonstrated its suitability as primary RS. The qualification and stability acceptance criteria for future 
primary and working standards have been provided. Both RS are re-qualified annually, which is adequate. 
Reference standard has been qualified as the initial working RS, which originates from eptinezumab BDS 
batch, which was manufactured using the commercial manufacturing process. Suitability as working RS has 
been demonstrated based on adequate qualification data.  
Protocols for the establishment of future PRS and WRS have been provided. Future PRS and WRS will be 
sourced from commercial scale eptinezumab BDS batches and will be established after qualification against 
the existing primary reference standard.  
To mitigate the risk of drifts in biological activity/potency the working RS are tested against the primary RS. 
The data of the working RS is calibrated against the primary RS results using a statistical approach. In 
conclusion, detailed information on the reference standards has been provided and overall, the strategy is 
considered adequate. 
Container closure system 
The container closure system (CCS) of eptinezumab BDS are translucent leak-proof bottle with a silicone-
lined polypropylene (PP) closure with white colourant. 
Incoming CCS batches are sufficiently inspected. The CCS shows adequate BDS protection based on available 
stability data. Durability in shipment was shown during transport validation studies. A simulated extractable 
study was performed. In conclusion no risk from extractables and leachables was identified. 
19 
 
 
The container primary closure system is in compliance to the Ph. Eur. requirements. Overall, the suitability 
and safety of the BDS CCS is described in sufficient detail and considered acceptable. 
2.4.2.4.  Stability 
The eptinezumab active substance stability program includes several primary and supportive batches.  
In line with ICH Q5C, the batches were tested under long-term and accelerated conditions. Data currently 
available for the primary and supportive batches under long-term conditions and under accelerated conditions 
support the initial claimed shelf life under long-term conditions. 
The photostability studies conducted demonstrate that the active substance is sensitive to light however the 
commercial packaging provides adequate protection from light. 
It can be concluded that the used analytical methods are sufficiently stability indicating. An adequate post-
approval stability protocol has been provided and it has been committed that all stability studies will be 
completed and that a minimum of one batch of eptinezumab AS will be put on long-term stability at the 
recommended storage condition every year that manufacturing of such batches occurs. This is acceptable. 
2.4.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
2.4.3.1.  Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Finished Medicinal Finished Product  
Eptinezumab concentrate for solution for infusion, 100 mg/mL (finished product) is a clear to slightly 
opalescent, colourless to brownish-yellow, sterile, nonpyrogenic, aqueous liquid preparation for intravenous 
administration. It is supplied in aseptically filled single use vials nominally containing 100 mg per 1 mL (1 mL 
per vial) of eptinezumab. The inactive ingredients are: L-histidine/L-histidine monohydrochloride, sorbitol, 
polysorbate 80 and water for injections. Excipients are compendial and compatibility of excipients was 
demonstrated.  
The finished product contains no antimicrobial agents or preservatives. No overage is used in the finished 
product formulation. 
Pharmaceutical development  
The active substance is diluted to final bulk finished product with a dilution buffer which composition is 
identical to the one used to formulate the active substance. The excipients are suitable for parenteral 
administration and are globally used in approved biopharmaceutical finished products. 
In accordance with ICH Q8 and ICH Q11, the Quality Target Product Profile (QTPP) were defined for 
eptinezumab active substance/ finished product development. Considerations for the QTPP include, the 
intended use, route of administration, dosage form, delivery system, dosage strength, and active substance/ 
finished product quality criteria (e.g., potency, appearance, stability, and drug release) appropriate for the 
intended marketed product.  
Different stability screening studies were conducted to support the buffer, stabilizer, pH, and surfactant 
identified for the eptinezumab finished product. 
20 
 
 
Manufacturing process development  
The finished product used for clinical trials has been manufactured at one manufacturer and the finished 
product manufacturing process was subsequently transferred as part of late stage development to a 
commercial manufacturing facility of another manufacturer for commercial finished product production. 
The comparability exercise is focused on equality of safety and efficacy of eptinezumab finished product 
manufactured at different sites. Additionally, comparability was demonstrated in a Phase 1 comparative 
pharmacokinetic clinical study by PK profile comparison. 
All finished product lots manufactured meet the proposed commercial specification limits through six months 
for long-term samples and have comparable profiles for all stability indicating parameters or have attributes 
that were assessed as comparable for all methods. 
Extensive product quality data and comparative profiles were evaluated to provide assurance that quality and 
safety of the finished products is comparable. 
Container closure system 
The container closure system for the finished product is a Type 1 glass vial closed with a chlorobutyl rubber 
stopper, and secured with a seal with a flip-off plastic cap.  
Compatibility of the primary packaging materials, the vial and stopper, with the finished product has been 
demonstrated during primary and supporting stability studies. The containers are in compliance with 
applicable requirements for Type 1 glass vials. Adsorption of the product onto container surfaces, including 
the stopper, is not evident by the consistent results of the protein concentration observed in the stability 
studies. 
Safety of container and closure is assured through certification by the manufacturer that the glass vials and 
the elastomeric closure used for the manufacture of the finished product comply with Ph. Eur. and USP 
requirements. 
An assessment of the potential impact of contact between the proposed commercial container closure system 
(vial/stopper) and the finished product was performed with respect to extractables as potential leachables. 
The proposed container closure system is adequate for the finished product. 
2.4.3.2.  Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacturer(s) 
Information on the manufacturing sites for the eptinezumab finished product and their responsibilities have 
been sufficiently provided. According GMP certification is available.  
Batch formula  
A batch formula for eptinezumab concentrate for solution for infusion finished product has been provided. 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
The finished product eptinezumab concentrate for solution for infusion, 100 mg (1 mL per vial) is 
manufactured according to a standard manufacturing process for monoclonal antibodies.  
1) Thawing eptinezumab bulk drug substance (BDS); 2) Pooling eptinezumab BDS (optional step); 3) 
Formulating finished product solution; 4) Pre-filtration for bioburden reduction; 5) Sterile filtration, aseptic 
21 
 
 
filling, and stoppering of vials; 6) Sealing, visual inspection, and labelling; and 7) Storage of vials and 
shipment. 
Sampling for finished product testing is performed. The filled and sealed vials are stored at 2-8°C. 
The filled vials are 100% visually inspected following USP and Ph. Eur. Defective vials are rejected. After 
visual inspection the vials are placed into storage at 2-8°C under quarantine. After visual inspection, vials are 
labeled and packed.  
Tabular overviews of IPCs as well as hold and processing times have been provided. IPCs have been provided 
with acceptance criteria. Filter integrity of filters for bioburden reduction filtration before and after filling is 
tested via bubble point. 
Controls of critical steps and intermediates  
Evaluation of critical process parameters was based on historical manufacturing and development data. This 
evaluation resulted in the identification of critical process parameters and in-process tests (CIPTs), and 
critical in-process controls (CIPCs). Both CIPTs and CIPCs are used to assess the process consistency and 
process performance; they are distinguished by the timing of testing. CIPTs are performed after the 
manufacture of the batch, whereas CIPCs are performed in real-time and inform the operation of the process 
to the next process step. In-line sterile filtration is controlled by filter integrity testing via bubble point and 
total aerobic microbial count (TAMC) and total yeasts and molds count (TYMC). Bioburden analysis by TAMC 
and TYMC met the established acceptance criteria. Filing is controlled by volume and in-line weighing. The 
capping is controlled automatically by a sensor. A justification for each IPC was provided.  
Holding and processing times for eptinezumab finished product have been presented and adequately justified. 
Process validation and/or evaluation 
Separate original validation reports have been provided: bacterial retention validation report and filter 
compatibility test report. Process performance qualification runs performed to validate thawing, pooling, 
compounding, filtration, filling and aseptic processing have been completed successfully.  
Several consecutive finished product batches were successfully manufactured using the proposed minimum 
and maximum manufacturing batch sizes. All in-process control and release data of the PPQ-batches fulfilled 
the predefined acceptance criteria. The finished product manufacturing control strategy (with in-process tests 
and operational ranges specified) was shown to be suitable for controlling the process and the resulting 
finished product. 
Sufficient information on the batch numbering system for the finished product bulk batch as well as for the 
finished product batch has been provided. 
Media fill runs have been performed to validate the aseptic processes. The results of these media fills show 
that the pre-defined acceptance criteria are met, and the aseptic filling process is documented to be 
validated. 
Process performance qualification of finished product manufacturing has been evaluated in full compliance 
with cGMP requirements to demonstrate the consistency and reliability of the manufacturing process of 
eptinezumab finished product. Validation of thawing, pooling, compounding, filtration, filling and aseptic 
processing has been completed successfully. All in-process control and release data of the PPQ batches 
fulfilled the predefined acceptance criteria and the release specification. PPQ confirmed the process design 
and demonstrated that the commercial manufacturing process performs as expected. 
22 
 
 
A hold and processing time verification study has been further conducted as part of the PPQ. Results of this 
study support the specified hold times as the processing and hold times did not affect the purity of the 
finished product solution. No increase in endotoxin or bioburden was observed. 
Furthermore, homogeneity within batches was determined as part of the PPQ. Samples to evaluate batch 
homogeneity were taken at the beginning, middle, and end of filling and were tested. Based on results from 
the PPQ batches, batch homogeneity was demonstrated reproducibly throughout the filling process.   
Dye leak test and vacuum decay test were used to assess effectiveness of container closure components 
(container closure integrity test, CCIT). Data from both tests demonstrate integrity of the container closure 
system. 
Bacterial retention validation and filter chemical compatibility were performed at filter membrane disc and the 
full device. Chemical compatibility evaluation has been successfully passed.  
Impact of simulated shipping stress on finished product quality was also analysed. The finished product is not 
sensitive to extreme transport stresses – no degradation or significant particle formation was observed when 
compared with data from the lot not subjected to transport stress. 
A packaging performance testing and distribution simulation has been performed additionally, demonstrating 
that the system-maintained integrity after packaging and labeling, handling, distribution and storage. 
In conclusion, the validation results demonstrate the consistency of the finished product manufacturing 
process through the evaluation of controlled parameters, in-process controls and tests, and the compliance of 
finished product batches to release specifications. The process validation demonstrates the manufacturing 
process operates in a robust and controlled manner which consistently produces finished product in 
accordance with the required product quality attributes. 
2.4.3.3.  Product specification 
The release specification for eptinezumab finished product include tests for general characteristics and 
physicochemical properties, identity, quantity, purity and impurities, potency, microbial safety, and general 
attributes.  
The specifications have been set in line with the Ph. Eur. monograph for monoclonal antibodies for human 
use and Ph. Eur. monograph for parenteral preparations. Excipients added during manufacture of the finished 
product comply with compendial monographs.  
No excipients of human or animal origin used in the manufacture of the finished product. 
The outcomes of the risk assessment for each of the potential elemental impurities source indicate that under 
the current control strategy, the worst-case theoretical concentrations for all elemental impurities are well 
below the permitted daily exposure limits and no additional routine process testing or controls are deemed 
necessary. The assumptions and worst-case theoretical calculations used in the risk assessment were 
confirmed by testing three separate batches of vialed finished product for elemental impurities content. 
A risk assessment for the presence of potential extractable and leachables from the manufacturing equipment 
used over the active substance and finished product manufacturing process has been provided. The risk 
assessment focused on the vial and stopper as these components of the primary container closure system are 
the higher risk components. This is endorsed. In respect to potential extractables and leachables originated 
23 
 
 
from the equipment used during manufacturing of the finished product, all the key elements were identified 
as potential sources and declarations from the respective suppliers presented reassuring the safety of the 
components of the equipment used in this respect.  
Analytical procedures 
The analytical procedures for the finished product are identical with those performed to analyse the BDS, with 
some exceptions e.g. container closure integrity, which are solely applicable to the finished product. These 
two non-compendial analytical methods are described with the principle of method and presentation of the 
results evaluation with sufficient detail. 
Established pharmacopoeial analytical procedures were verified for one or more parameters. The successful 
completion of the verification provides assurance that the compendial analytical procedures used to control 
eptinezumab finished product are suitable for their intended use. 
Non-compendial analytical procedures were validated following a defined protocol with pre-defined 
acceptance criteria in accordance with the principles of ICH Q2R (R1). 
Overall, the validation data presented for the analytical methods are acceptable and demonstrate the 
suitability of the analytical procedures for their intended use.  
Batch analyses 
Batch release data are presented for eptinezumab finished product PPQ batches manufactured according to 
the intended commercial manufacturing process. In addition, release data are presented for the finished 
product batches manufactured with the previous process. The results demonstrate that the different 
manufacturing processes are able to deliver eptinezumab finished product with consistent quality. All test 
results are well within acceptance criteria and complied with the specifications set at the time the batches 
were tested. No out-of-specification (OOS) results occurred. Batches derived from the different 
developmental phases are comparable with regard to release data. 
Characterisation of impurities 
For container closures extractables and leachables impurities have been presented. The product-related 
impurities present or potentially present in eptinezumab finished product are the same as those present or 
potentially present in eptinezumab active substance except for sub-visible particulates and elemental 
impurities. Sub-visible particles in eptinezumab finished product have been assessed with the principles of 
Ph. Eur. 2.9.19 and USP <787>. 
The outcome of the risk assessment for the potential elemental impurities, conducted in line with ICH Q3D, 
indicate that under the current control strategy, the worst-case theoretical concentrations for all elemental 
impurities are well below the permitted daily exposure limits and no additional routine process testing or 
controls are deemed necessary. The assumptions and worst-case theoretical calculations used in the risk 
assessment were confirmed by testing three separate batches of vialed finished product for elemental 
impurities content. 
A risk assessment concerning the potential presence of nitrosamines in the product has been provided. Based 
on this assessment the Applicant concluded that there is no risk associated with nitrosamines for the finished 
product, and this conclusion can be agreed.  
Justification of specification(s) 
24 
 
 
Adequate justifications have been provided for the finished product specifications and are endorsed.  
Reference standard  
The eptinezumab working reference standard for testing eptinezumab finished product is the same as the one 
used for testing eptinezumab active substance (see discussion on the AS section). 
Container closure system  
The primary container closure system is a Type I glass vial with a rubber stopper kept in its position by an 
aluminum seal with a flip-off plastic cap. Vial and stopper comply with compendial requirements.  
The specifications of the glass vial, rubber stopper, and flip-off seal along with the technical drawings have 
been provided. The vial complies with monograph 3.2.1 for “Glass containers for pharmaceutical use” of Ph. 
Eur. and vial stopper complies with the monograph 3.2.9 for “rubber closures” of Ph. Eur. The quality of vial, 
stopper, and seal is controlled by the manufacturer/supplier. Certificates analysis (CoA) of all the components 
of the Container Closure System have been provided. 
Suitability of the CCS has been studied by investigation of extractables and leachables potentially present in 
the finished product. 
Study details and results have been provided showing that levels of leachables emanating from the CCS 
remain at or below the analytical evaluation threshold or applicable limit.  
Container closure integrity of the CCS combination has been verified by either dye ingress testing or vacuum 
decay. 
2.4.3.4.  Stability of the product 
A shelf life of 3 years when stored at 2°C - 8°C is claimed for the finished product. 
The primary (several PPQ batches) and several supportive stability studies included long-term (5 ± 3°C) and 
accelerated (25 ± 2°C/60 ± 5% RH) conditions, in accordance with ICH Q1A(R2) and Q5C requirements. For 
the long-term storage condition (5 ± 3 °C and protected from light), stability study results for the finished 
product batches are available through 36 months and through 24 to 36 months for supportive batches. For 
the accelerated storage condition (25 ± 2°C/60 ± 5% RH), stability study results are available through 6 
months for primary batches and supportive batches.  
Forced degradation and photostability studies support the recommended storage condition at 2°C - 8°C with 
protection  from  light.  Placement  of  the  primary  finished  product  container  in  a  coated  paperboard  carton 
provides protection of the finished product from photo exposure. 
Currently, long-term data through 36 months are available for all primary lots of eptinezumab finished 
product. In addition, results of supportive stability lots are available showing similar trends. Based on the 
stability results the claimed shelf life of 3 years when stored at 2°C - 8°C for the finished product is 
considered acceptable. 
In-use stability data has been provided for the finished product diluted in 0.9% NaCl injection and supports 
storage up to 8h at 2ºC-25ºC. As stated in the SmPC following dilution, Vyepti solution for infusion must be 
infused within 8 hours. During this time, Vyepti solution for infusion may be stored at room temperature (below 
25°C) or refrigerated at 2°C - 8°C.  
25 
 
 
2.4.3.5.  Adventitious agents 
TSE compliance 
Vyepti active substance and finished product are overall manufactured without animal- or human-derived 
materials. Likewise, the raw materials used for cell banking are not of animal origin.  
TSE/BSE statements from the active substance, finished product and cell bank manufacturers have been 
provided. It is furthermore stated that any future working cell bank will also be prepared in compliance with 
the ‘Note for guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via 
human and veterinary medicinal products’ EMEA/410/01, current revision.  
There are no excipients of animal origin. Confirmation has been provided that materials used during 
manufacture of Vyepti have been evaluated regarding TSE safety and were compliant to EMA/410/01. Some 
equipment contained animal tallow-derived materials, however, they are also stated to comply with 
EMEA/410/01. In summary, Vyepti has been shown to be free of TSE risk substances and overall in 
compliance with EMA/410/01, current revision. 
Virus safety 
Vyepti is expressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris. Pichia pastoris is not a potential host for the amplification of 
viruses that are infectious for human or animal cells. Therefore, no virus safety testing on cell banks and 
unprocessed bulk has been performed and the purification process was not validated for its virus reducing 
capacity. This approach is in compliance with current guidelines.  
No materials of human or animal origin are used in the whole manufacturing process and none of the 
excipients are of human or animal origin. In summary, the viral safety of Vyepti has been sufficiently 
demonstrated. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate consistency and uniformity of 
important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the product should 
have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use. The applicant is recommended to revise the 
variability of the cell counting method and recalculate the cell number for new cell banks and the suitability of 
the LIVCA justified. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The overall quality of Vyepti is considered acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions as defined 
in the SmPC.  
The different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply with existing 
guidelines. The manufacturing process of the active substance is adequately described, controlled and 
validated. The active substance is well characterised and appropriate specifications are set. The 
manufacturing process of the finished product has been satisfactorily described and validated.  
The quality of the finished product is controlled by adequate test methods and specifications. Adventitious 
agents’ safety including TSE have been sufficiently assured. 
26 
 
 
2.4.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP recommends the following point for investigation: 
1. The Applicant is recommended to revise the variability of the cell counting method. Taking the new 
method variability into account, the cell number for new cell banks should be recalculated and the suitability 
of the LIVCA justified. 
2.5.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.5.1.  Introduction 
The Applicant submitted a comprehensive dossier of non-clinical studies in support of this application.  
2.5.2.  Pharmacology  
Primary pharmacodynamics 
The applicant has demonstrated that eptinezumab binds to human α-CGRP and β-CGRP with high affinity (pM 
range); specificity for CGRP was demonstrated based on the lack of binding to related proteins (calcitonin, 
adrenomedullin, intermedin and amylin). Binding affinity of eptinezumab to human, rat and rabbit CGRP 
forms was found to be comparable, except for a lower affinity to rabbit α-CGRP. Functional activity of 
eptinezumab was demonstrated in a cell-based assay of CGRP-induced accumulation of intracellular cAMP. In 
this assay, eptinezumab inhibited accumulation of intracellular cAMP induced by human, rat and rabbit α- and 
β-CGRP with comparable potency in the low nM range. In vitro reactivity of eptinezumab to cynomolgus CGRP 
was not assessed; this is accepted since human and cynomolgus CRGP have identical amino acid sequences. 
In vivo activity of eptinezumab was demonstrated in a model of capsaicin-induced increase in dermal blood 
flow in rats and cynomolgus monkeys and a model of vasodilation induced intradermal injection of CRGP in 
rabbits. In all studies, eptinezumab reduced the dermal vasodilation response to challenge (capsaicin or 
CGRP). There are no animal models for migraine; thus, the evidence for a therapeutic effect are derived from 
the clinical data. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The applicant has not provided data on secondary pharmacodynamics. However, the binding of eptinezumab 
to proteins related to CGRP has been assessed as part of the primary pharmacodynamics. No binding to 
related proteins was detected, confirming the specificity of eptinezumab to CGRP and indicating a low risk for 
off-target functions. 
Fc-dependent effector function by eptinezumab was addressed as part of the analytical characterisation of the 
molecule. Due to deletion of the N-glycosylation site in the heavy chain of the molecule and absence of Fc N-
glycosylation, eptinezumab has no measurable binding to low-affinity Fc gamma receptors (RIIA, RIIB/C, 
RIIIA and RIIIB) and only weak binding to the high-affinity receptor FcγRI (approx. 40x lower compared to 
human IgG). Due to this Fc modification and the soluble nature of CGRP, eptinezumab does not mediate Ab-
dependent cellular toxicity or complement-dependent cytotoxicity.  
27 
 
 
CGRP is a molecule with pleiotropic functions. While the applicant has evaluated the effect of eptinezumab in 
CGRP-mediated vasodilation, the effect of eptinezumab on other functions of CGRP has not been assessed. A 
risk assessment regarding potential consequences upon on-target blockade of such additional CGRP functions 
has not been submitted. Nevertheless, specific theoretical risks associated with blockade of CGRP-dependent 
signalling (i.e. cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing myocardial infarction, cerebro-vascular 
accident, transient ischemic attack, angina, unstable and poorly controlled hypertension; use in pregnancy 
including those at risk of pre-eclampsia) have been included in the RMP. Therefore, a discussion on secondary 
pharmacodynamic effects, i.e. blockade of CGRP-mediated functions other than vasodilation, is not 
warranted.  
Safety pharmacology 
Assessment of safety pharmacology endpoints as part of the general toxicity studies did not reveal effects of 
eptinezumab on the central nervous system, the cardiovascular and respiratory system and renal system. 
2.5.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of evinacumab were evaluated in rats and cynomolgus monkeys as part of the single-
dose toxicity and repeated-dose toxicity studies after IV administration. This reflects the proposed clinical 
route of administration (IV). 
Throughout development, different PK assays were used for detection of eptinezumab in plasma. The first 
generation ECL assay measured total eptinezumab while the second generation assay measured free or 
partially free eptinezumab. Anti-drug antibodies were measured using solid phase extraction with acid 
dissociation followed by direct ECL detection. A bridging ECL method was used in the juvenile rat study. 
Neutralising Ab were detected using a competitive ligand binding assay. All methods were appropriately 
validated.  
In both rats and cynomolgus monkeys the PK characteristics of eptinezumab after single IV administration 
were typical for a monoclonal antibody. There were no notable gender differences. Exposure to eptinezumab 
was generally dose-proportional. Plasma concentration profiles were consistent with IV administration, i.e. 
with a rapid Tmax and an apparent mono-exponential decline. Volume of distribution was low, indicating that 
eptinezumab does not distribute substantially beyond the vascular compartment. 
After repeated IV administration, limited accumulation was observed. In rats, the accumulation ratio in AUC 
was approx. 1.50 to 2.22 after once weekly dosing for 4 weeks. In cynomolgus the accumulation ratio in AUC 
was approx. 2.03 to 2.61-fold with once weekly dosing for 4 weeks and approx. 2.60 with dosing every 2 
weeks for a 26-week period.  
2.5.4.  Toxicology 
Toxicity studies with eptinezumab were conducted in rats, cynomolgus monkeys and rabbits. These species 
are considered pharmacologically relevant based on the affinity and functional activity of eptinezumab against 
CGRP from these species.  
Single- and repeat-dose toxicity 
28 
 
 
General toxicity of eptinezumab was evaluated in single-dose and repeat-dose studies in rats and cynomolgus 
monkeys. Short-term studies (up to 28 days) were conducted in both species while the chronic toxicity was 
evaluated in cynomolgus only. This is acceptable in accordance with ICH S6(R1).  
In Sprague Dawley rats, eptinezumab was well tolerated when administered once weekly at doses of up to 
100 mg/kg IV for 4 weeks. No adverse effects were observed. As calculated by the assessor, exposure in the 
high-dose group was approx. 50x greater than the maximum clinical exposure (at 300 mg IV, Q12W). 
In cynomolgus monkeys, eptinezumab at doses of up to 100 mg/kg Q1W for 4 weeks and up to 150 mg/kg 
Q2W for 6 months was well tolerated. There were no toxicological findings of importance for the safety 
assessment. Of note, there were no eptinezumab-related effects on the cardiovascular and respiratory 
system. In the chronic toxicity study, exposure in the high-dose group was > 100x greater than the 
maximum clinical exposure. One low-dose female exhibited an anaphylactoid-like reaction and died within 
approximately 30 minutes after eptinezumab administration on Day 71 (6th dose). This anaphylactoid 
reaction was associated with the presence of high levels of ADA. As immunogenicity to a human protein in 
animals is not predictive for clinical immunogenicity, the finding is not considered indicative of a clinical risk.  
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
Genotoxicity studies have not been conducted in accordance with ICH S6(R1).  
In accordance with ICH S6(R1) the applicant has provided a product-specific carcinogenicity risk assessment 
taking into account non-clinical data for eptinezumab and a literature review on the potential role of CGRP in 
tumorigenesis and its effect on the immune system. Literature data show that CGRP has a pro-angiogenic 
role and is rather immunosuppressive. Both factors would support tumour growth. Since blockade of CGRP 
would prevent these effects, the carcinogenic risk associated with eptinezumab is considered low. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity of eptinezumab was evaluated in rats and rabbits. 
In the fertility and early embryonic development study, both male and female rats were treated with 
eptinezumab at doses of up to 150 mg/kg IV Q1W, from prior to mating, throughout mating, and up to day 
3/4 post coitum (females) and up to week 9 (males). 
With regard to reproductive performance in males, there were no eptinezumab-related effects on mating, 
fertility or sperm assessment at doses up to 150 mg/kg. In females, there were no eptinezumab-related 
effects on estrous cycles, mating index or conception rate. In mated females, the numbers of corpora lutea, 
implantation sites, live embryos and resorptions were unaffected by the administration of eptinezumab. There 
appeared to be a greater percentage of pre-implantation losses in the eptinezumab-treated females (10.82% 
at 75 mg/kg, 7.46% at 150 mg/kg) compared to the control group (2.39%). However, rates of pre-
implantation losses in the eptinezumab-treated groups were close to the historical average of the test facility, 
while the average rate of the control group was lower than the historical average. Thus, the finding is not 
considered related to eptinezumab.  
The effect of eptinezumab on embryo-fetal development was assessed in SD rats and in NZW rabbits. In rats, 
eptinezumab was administered IV at 0, 75 and 150 mg/kg on GD 6, 12 and 18; animals were necropsied on 
GD21. Results from the DRF and pivotal study were consistent. There was no evidence of embryo-fetal 
mortality, alteration in growth or structural abnormalities and the maternal and the fetal NOAEL is 150 
mg/kg, the highest dose administered. At this dose, the average expected maternal Cmax value was 4473 
µg/ml, which is 36x higher than the Cmax in humans at the maximum clinical dose. In rabbits, eptinezumab 
29 
 
 
was administered IV at 0, 75 and 150 mg/kg on GD7, 13 and 20; animals were sacrificed on GD29. Again, 
results from the DRF and pivotal studies were consistent. They showed no evidence of embryo-fetal 
mortality, alteration in growth or structural abnormalities. The maternal and fetal NOAEL is 150 mg/kg. This 
corresponded to an average maternal Cmax value of 4116 µg/ml which is 33x higher than the Cmax in 
humans at the maximum clinical dose.  
In the pre-/post-natal development study, rats were treated once weekly from GD6, throughout gestation up 
to LD20 with eptinezumab at doses of 0, 75 and 150 mg/kg IV. In maternal F0 animals, no eptinezumab-
related effects were observed on delivery endpoints or pup survival. The only finding was a greater food 
consumption in lactating females at 150 mg/kg up to LD14. This coincided with greater pup body weights on 
PND 14 to 17. As these effects were small and transient, it is agreed that they are not adverse. In F1 off-
spring from eptinezumab-treated maternal animals, no eptinezumab-related effects were observed on fetal 
and post-natal development, including sexual maturation. Based on these results, the maternal and the off-
spring NOAEL is considered to be 150 mg/kg.  
Juvenile animal toxicity 
In line with the agreed PIP, juvenile animal studies were performed to assess the toxicity of eptinezumab 
treatment including its impact on bone development since literature data indicate that CGRP may play a role 
in regulation of bone metabolism (Irie et al., 2002). Juvenile rats were treated once weekly from PND 28 
through PND 43 (DRF study) or PND 91 (pivotal study) at doses up to 150 mg/kg IV. The pivotal study was 
followed by a 6-week treatment-free period. Both studies have a general repeat-dose toxicity design; 
additional assessment of developmental landmarks, behavioural performance and bone measurements were 
included in the pivotal study.  
In the pilot study, eptinezumab was well tolerated without adverse effects. In the pivotal study, there were 
two unscheduled deaths including 1 control animal. Based on a lack of an identifiable cause of death and the 
overall low incidence, none of these deaths were attributed to eptinezumab, which is agreed. There were no 
eptinezumab-related effects on developmental parameters and behavioural performance. As regards bone 
development, there were not eptinezumab-related changes in long bone measurements in vivo and ex vivo. 
There were no eptinezumab-related changes at the end of the treatment period with regard to bone mineral 
density in distal femur metaphysis, mid-femur diaphysis and lumbar vertebral body as determined by pQCT 
densitometry at doses up to 150 mg/kg. Thus, the juvenile study did not reveal an impact of eptinezumab on 
bone development in juvenile rats. Although the proposed indication includes only adult patients, the 
outcome of the study conducted in juvenile rats is communicated in section 5.3 of the SmPC.  
Local tolerance 
Local tolerance to IV administration of eptinezumab was assessed as part of the general repeat-dose toxicity 
studies in rats and cynomolgus monkeys. In both studies there were no gross- or eptinezumab-related 
microscopic lesions at the IV injection sites. Dedicated studies were performed to assess local tolerance to IM 
injection in rats and to SC injection in rats and cynomolgus monkeys. Eptinezumab was well tolerated; there 
were no gross pathology findings at the IM and SC injection sites; microscopic findings were generally 
considered to be related to the injection procedure. 
Immunotoxicity 
Immunotoxicity of eptinezumab was assessed based on immunophenotyping of PBMC in the cynomolgus 
chronic toxicity study. As there were no eptinezumab-related changes additional immunotoxicity studies are 
not warranted.  
30 
 
 
Impurities 
Polyethyleneimine (PEI) is used during manufacture of eptinezumab and some residual PEI is present in the 
eptinezumab drug substance. Thus, the potential toxicity of PEI was evaluated in rats. Animals were 
administered PEI at 80 µg/kg IV on days 1, 8 and 15; main study animals were euthanised one day after the 
last dose, recovery animals after a 2-week treatment-free period. In this 2-week study, PEI was well 
tolerated; the administered 80 µg/kg/dose is considered the NOAEL. This is agreed. 
The maximum limit for residual PEI as specified in accordance with ICH Q3A is 1 µg/mg eptinezumab. This 
translates to a maximum PEI dose of 4.3 µg/kg based on 300 mg eptinezumab/70 kg human. Thus, the PEI 
dose at NOAEL in rats is approx. 18x higher than the maximum anticipated dose in humans. However, the 
human equivalent dose to the rat NOAEL is 12.9 µg/kg which is only 3x higher than the maximum anticipated 
dose in humans. This is a rather low margin. 
In study report ALD518-001-TOX, a literature review is mentioned based on which a maximum safe PEI dose 
for a 60 kg human was calculated as 5.6 mg. This corresponds to a PEI dose of 93 µg/kg, which is approx. 
21x higher than the maximum anticipated PEI dose in humans. This literature-based review was requested to 
further support the current specification for residual PEI of "≤ 1.0 µg/mg". The Applicant responded that this 
review did not find literature reporting non-clinical NOAEL for parenteral administration of PEI and that the 
safe parenteral dose (5.6 mg for 60 kg individual) was calculated based on publicly available oral LD50 values 
for mice and rats.  
In addition, the applicant justified the specification for residual PEI, by calculating a safe human dose, based 
on the cumulative PEI dose administered in the rat toxicity study ALD518-001-Tox. This is accepted, given 
that eptinezumab will be administered every 3 months only. According to the Applicant's calculation a safety 
margin of 7.7-fold can be derived. Taken together, the limit for residual PEI (≤ 1.0 µg/mg) is sufficiently 
justified and accepted. 
2.5.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Eptinezumab is a monoclonal antibody consisting of natural amino acids, and is therefore not expected to 
pose a risk to the environment. 
2.5.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The eptinezumab primary pharmacodynamics programme is appropriate and sufficient. These study 
adequately support the use of rats, rabbits and cynomolgus for the safety assessment of eptinezumab. 
A discussion on secondary pharmacodynamics taking into account potential consequences of blocking the 
pleiotropic functions of GCRP has not been submitted. This is accepted given that specific theoretical risks 
associated with blockade of CGRP-dependent signalling (i.e. cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-
existing myocardial infarction, cerebro-vascular accident, transient ischemic attack, angina, unstable and 
poorly controlled hypertension; use in pregnancy including those at risk of pre-eclampsia) have been included 
in the RMP. 
The effects of eptinezumab on safety pharmacology endpoints were assessed as part of the general toxicity 
studies in rats and cynomolgus monkeys. Importantly, there were no effects on cardiovascular endpoints and 
respiration rate in cynomolgus monkeys. It is agreed that these studies did not identify any safety concerns. 
31 
 
 
In the repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats and cynomolgus monkeys, eptinezumab was generally well 
tolerated. In all studies the NOAEL was the highest-dose administered, resulting in sufficient exposure 
margins to the exposure in humans at the maximum anticipated clinical dose.  
A product-specific carcinogenicity risk assessment was provided taking into account non-clinical data for 
eptinezumab and a literature review on the potential role of CGRP in tumorigenesis and its effect on the 
immune system. It is agreed that the carcinogenic risk associated with eptinezumab is low. 
A comprehensive reproductive and developmental toxicity programme was conducted in rats and rabbits. 
These studies did not reveal any adverse effects on fertility, pregnancy outcome or embryo-fetal 
development. This is reflected in the SmPC, section 5.3. 
In line with the agreed PIP, juvenile animal studies were performed to assess the impact of eptinezumab on 
bone development. To this end, juvenile rats were treated from PND28 through PND 91. The study did not 
identify any eptinezumab effects on bone development. The outcome of the juvenile study is communicated 
in section 5.3 of the SmPC. 
Polyethyleneimine (PEI) is used during manufacture of eptinezumab and some residual PEI is present in the 
eptinezumab drug substance. The potential toxicity of this impurity was studied in a 2-week study in rats. PEI 
was well tolerated in this study; thus; the current specification for residual PEI in the eptinezumab drug 
substance is sufficiently supported. 
The active substance is a natural substance, the use of which will not alter the concentration or distribution of 
the substance in the environment. Therefore, eptinezumab is not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.5.7.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
From the non-clinical point of view, the marketing authorisation application for eptinezumab is considered 
approvable. 
2.6.  Clinical aspects 
2.6.1.  Introduction 
GCP aspects 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the Community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Listing of Eptinezumab Efficacy Studies in Patients with Migraine 
Study 
Number 
Diagnosis 
Objectives of 
Study 
Study Design and 
Type of Control 
Pivotal Studies 
Number of 
Subjects Treated 
(Full Analysis 
Population) 
Treatment 
Schedule 
Study 
Durationa 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
006 
Episodic 
migraine 
011 
Chronic 
migraine 
002 
005 
Episodic 
migraine 
Chronic 
migraine 
Efficacy; 
Safety; 
PK; 
Immunogenicity 
Efficacy; 
Safety; 
PK; 
Immunogenicity 
Safety; 
Efficacy; 
PK; 
Immunogenicity 
Dose response; 
Safety; 
Duration of 
effect; 
PK; 
Immunogenicity 
parallel group; 
double-blind; 
placebo controlled 
parallel group; 
double-blind; 
placebo controlled 
4 treatment groups: 
222 placebo 
223 active (30 mg) 
221 active (100 mg) 
222 active (300 mg) 
3 treatment groups: 
366 placebo 
356 active (100 mg) 
350 active (300 mg) 
4 total 
infusions: 
day 0 
week 12 
week 24 
week 36 
2 total 
infusions: 
day 0 
week 12 
56 weeks 
32 weeks 
Supportive Studies 
parallel group; 
double-blind; 
placebo controlled 
parallel group; 
double-blind; 
placebo 
controlled; 
dose-ranging 
2 treatment groups: 
82 placebo 
81 active (1000 mg) 
5 treatment groups: 
116 placebo 
123 active (10 mg) 
117 active (30 mg) 
118 active (100 mg) 
114 active (300 mg) 
Single 
infusion 
24 weeks 
Single 
infusion 
49 weeks 
  Abbreviations: PK = pharmacokinetic 
   a Duration of the study following the first treatment. 
Source: ALD403-CLIN-002 CSR, ALD403-CLIN-005 CSR, ALD403-CLIN-006 CSR, ALD403-CLIN-011   CSR. 
2.6.2.  Clinical Pharmacology 
2.6.2.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data on eptinezumab were collected in a total of 10 clinical studies 
(see Table 1; pivotal studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and ALD403-CLIN-011 are not listed, although these studies 
also contributed to PK/PD data). Single doses of 1 to 1000 mg IV and 100 mg SC and multiple doses of 30 
mg, 100 mg and 300 mg IV were investigated. 
The proposed standard dose for this application is 100 mg eptinezumab administered by intravenous infusion 
every 12 weeks, while some patients may also benefit from a dosage of 300 mg administered by intravenous 
infusion every 12 weeks. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic data analysis 
The concentrations of free eptinezumab were listed and summarized by timepoint and dose group, and 
descriptive statistics were provided. Plots of the individual concentrations of eptinezumab, and plots of the 
mean or median concentrations were presented over time (linear and log-scales). Non-compartmental 
analyses using PhoenixTM WinNonLin® (v 6.1 or higher) were carried-out to derive PK parameters such as 
Cmax, Tmax, AUC, t1/2, λZ, CL, Vd. PK parameters were summarized including arithmetic mean, standard 
deviation (SD), coefficient of variation (CV), minimum, median, maximum, geometric mean, and geometric 
CV. PK data analyses are considered appropriate. 
Population PK modelling 
Pharmacokinetics of eptinezumab were further described using a population PK modeling approach. The PK 
dataset only included PK information related to IV administration of eptinezumab. Overall, a total of 8 clinical 
studies (CLIN-001, CLIN-002, CLIN-005, CLIN-006, CLIN-010, CLIN-011, CLIN-012, and CLIN-013) 
comprising 2123 patients and healthy volunteers were included in the population PK analysis. The size of the 
database is deemed appropriate. 
The final population PK model was a 2-compartment model with linear elimination. In general, high variability 
of eptinezumab PK parameters was observed. Body weight, CLcr, disease (healthy, episodic or chronic 
migraine), sex and baseline MMD were identified as significant covariates explaining the variability of 
eptinezumab CL and/or V (Table 6).  
35 
 
 
 
The number of covariates included suggests an over-parameterization of the model. In general, it appears 
unexpected that disease state and baseline MMD are significant covariates influencing eptinezumab PK. In the 
clinical studies, healthy subjects usually presented lower Cmax and AUC when compared to migraine 
patients, while CL and V seemed to be slightly increased in the healthy. The root cause of the described 
exposure differences has not been identified, but it is assumed to be due to variability associated with study-
to-study factors and/or the bioanalytical methodology. 
PK parameters derived from the final population PK model are described in table 7. 
36 
 
 
 
Evaluation and Qualification of Models 
The quality-of-fit of the model was evaluated using a standard model discrimination process including 
statistical criteria as well as pertinent graphical representations of goodness-of-fit. The population PK model 
derived after the covariate analysis was validated using visual predictive checks on the observed time-
concentrations profiles. 
Goodness-of-fit (GOF) plots derived with the final population PK model of eptinezumab are presented in the 
figure below. 
37 
 
 
 
GOF plots reveal an overestimation of low eptinezumab concentrations and a slight underestimation of high 
eptinezumab concentrations. In general, only few data were available for doses below 10 mg. Given the 
departure from linearity detected at lower dose levels (≤ 10 mg), target-mediated drug disposition is 
suspected. Therefore, the selected population PK model does not adequately fit the low eptinezumab 
concentrations included. 
The visual predictive check (VPC) semi-log plots of eptinezumab concentrations are presented in Figure 
1.10.2. 
38 
 
 
 
Observed median and upper/lower 90th percentiles of observed eptinezumab concentrations were contained 
within the model-predicted ranges (shaded areas).  
Ultimately, it is agreed that the model provides acceptable estimations of eptinezumab exposure for the 
relevant doses (100 mg and 300 mg) of this application. 
Absorption 
In study ALD403-CLIN-001, the absolute bioavailability of SC ALD403 (100 mg) was calculated by AUC SC 
(Cohort I) /AUC IV (predicted) to be 70.33%. However, results on eptinezumab PK and bioavailability after 
SC administration are not considered relevant for this application, since eptinezumab is presently intended to 
be solely administered via the IV route. Similarly, PK data from the SC route of administration were not 
included in the population PK model. As a consequence, no estimation of Ka or F was conducted. 
Bioequivalence 
Study ALD403-CLIN-014 compared the PK of the Commercial Drug Product (Test) to the eptinezumab Clinical 
Drug Product (Reference, C2.0). In principle, in vivo comparable PK can be concluded as the 90% CI for the 
rations of the LSM for AUC0-inf and Cmax are contained inside the acceptance 80-125% interval. The 
incidence of treatment-emergent ADA-positive subjects was higher for eptinezumab commercial DP compared 
to eptinezumab clinical DP. The applicant considered that these observed differences can be related to the 
small sample size and have no clinically meaningful relevance.  
Distribution, Metabolism and Elimination 
Apparent clearance and central volume of distribution of eptinezumab estimated in the population PK analysis 
was 0.15 L/d and 3.64 L, respectively. These values correspond to typical values described for CL and Vd of 
39 
 
 
 
monoclonal antibodies and indicate minimal extravascular distribution of free eptinezumab and relatively slow 
elimination from the plasma compartment. Half-life of eptinezumab was determined to be 27 days. 
Like other therapeutic antibodies, eptinezumab is expected to be primarily metabolized via proteolytic 
catabolism. Due to its large molecular size, renal excretion of intact eptinezumab is unlikely. 
Dose proportionality and time dependency 
In study ALD403-CLIN-001, the relationship between dose and AUC(0-T) following single IV administration 
of 3, 10, 30, 100, 300, or 1000 mg eptinezumab was shown to be linear (Figure 4 below). 
In study ALD403-CLIN-005, dose proportionality for eptinezumab pharmacokinetics was evaluated by 
comparison of descriptive statistics of dose normalized parameters Cmax, AUC0-tlast, and AUC0-inf between 
dose levels (Table 15) and statistical Hummel power analysis (Table 16). 
40 
 
 
 
 
Both methods demonstrated that pharmacokinetics of IV administered eptinezumab exhibited linearity in 
response to dose increase in the tested range of 10 mg to 300 mg. 
However, at dose levels ≤ 10 mg, target mediated drug disposition is suspected, given the slight departure 
from linearity detected at the lower dose level (10 mg) in the population PK model and the higher CL values 
determined in study ALD403-CLIN-001 for eptinezumab doses of 1 – 10 mg. 
Referring to the population PK analysis, an accumulation ratio of 1.08 and 1.15 for Cmax and AUC(0-т) for 
dosing of 100 mg or 300 mg eptinezumab every 12 weeks was determined. This is in line with the 
expectation of nearly no accumulation (AR calculated = 1.13) if the estimated elimination half-life of 27 days 
in the context of the 3-monthly dosing interval is considered. 
Variability 
Moderate to high interindividual variability as assessed by %CV was observed in the clinical studies 
conducted in patients with EM and/or CM. In study ALD403-CLIN-005, variability of both AUC parameters was 
within levels of 30% to 50%. In study ALD403-CLIN-006, intersubject variability of AUC0-2016, AUC0-last, 
and Cmax after single (first) dose ranged from 36.1 to 83.4%. At steady state after multiple dosing, 
intersubject variability of AUC0-last, AUC0-τ, and Cmax was 42.8 to 66.9%. In study ALD403-CLIN-011, 
intersubject variability of AUC0-last, AUC0-2016, and Cmax ranged from 27.8% to 36.6%. In study ALD403-
CLIN-013, intersubject variability of AUC and Cmax ranged from 39 – 72%. 
Referring to the population PK analysis, variability could be explained by the covariates body weight, CLcr, 
disease (healthy, CM or EM patients), and baseline migraine days. In the final population PK model, relative 
standard error (RSE) values were less than 20% for the estimated parameters. Residual variability of the 
model was rather low (additive error = 37.5 ng/mL and proportional error = 25.2 %). 
PK in migraine patients 
Study ALD403-CLIN-005 (single dose PK) 
This was a parallel-group, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, dose-ranging study conducted in 
subjects with chronic migraine. Subjects were equally randomized to receive either eptinezumab 10, 30, 100, 
300 mg, or placebo. Blood samples for PK analysis were drawn at pre-dose, immediately post-dose (after 
infusion), and 4 hours post-end of infusion on Day 0, and during visits at Weeks 4, 8, 12, 24, 36, and 49.  
Mean (±SD) plasma concentration versus time plots for free eptinezumab in linear scale are presented in 
Figure 4 below. 
41 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic parameters for free eptinezumab are presented Table 14 below. 
42 
 
 
 
 
Study ALD403-CLIN-006 (multiple dose PK) 
This was a Phase 3, parallel group, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to assess the efficacy 
and safety of the repeat doses of eptinezumab administered intravenously compared to placebo in subjects 
with FEM. Subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 3 eptinezumab treatment groups (30, 100, or 300 mg of 
eptinezumab) or placebo treatment in a 1:1:1:1 ratio.  
Administration of study drug included 4 total IV infusions of eptinezumab or placebo on Days 0, 84 (Week 
12), 168 (Week 24), and 252 (Week 36). The PK analysis included evaluations of concentration-time profiles 
for free eptinezumab on the following days: predose on Day 0, and at Weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20, 24, 36, 48, 
and 56. 
Following single and multiple doses, after reaching peak levels, mean concentration values of free 
eptinezumab declined with a relatively slow elimination phase over an approximately 12-week period. Due to 
limited blood sampling occasions, the peak concentration levels observed did not represent a true Cmax, 
which would be expected to occur toward the end of the infusion, and Cmax and AUC were expected to 
underestimate the eptinezumab exposure. However, plasma free eptinezumab concentrations generally 
increased with increasing doses of eptinezumab. Overall, the mean plasma predose concentrations of free 
eptinezumab appeared to achieve steady state within approximately 12 weeks after dosing. 
Summaries of plasma free eptinezumab PK parameters derived for each eptinezumab dose after single and 
multiple doses are presented in Table 29 and Table 30. 
43 
 
 
 
Population PK analysis 
The PK population consisted of a total of 2123 subjects treated with eptinezumab. The population consisted 
primarily of females (83.8%) and categorized as white race sub-type (88.5%). Median (range) age and body 
weight in the PK population were 39.0 years (18 to 71 years) and 74.2 kg (39.2 to 190 kg), respectively. 
Based upon the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) prior to treatment, the majority of subjects had 
normal eGFR (55.3%) or mild decrease in eGFR (41.9%). The average monthly migraine days (MMD) during 
the 28-day screening period was approximately 14 days for subjects dosed with eptinezumab 10-300 mg 
(studies CLIN-005, -006 and -011). The majority of subjects were ADA negative (83.8%) compared to 13.1% 
of subjects who were ADA positive, and approximately 2.5% had no ADA results available. Descriptive 
statistics of PK parameters of eptinezumab following a single 30-minute to 1-hour IV infusion and following 
multiple dose 30-minute to 1-hour IV infusions are presented by dose in Table 8 and Table 11/12, 
respectively. 
44 
 
 
 
 
45 
 
 
 
 
After a single IV administration of the to be marketed 100 mg and 300 mg dose, Cmax was 37.3 µg/mL and 
114 µg/mL and AUC(0-12wk) was 17900 µgxh/mL and 54500 µgxh/mL. These values largely correspond to 
the values obtained by noncompartmental analysis in the individual studies. At steady state after 3-monthly 
dosing of eptinezumab, the population PK model predicted a Cmax of 40.9 µg/mL and 125 µg/mL and AUC(0-
т) of 20800 µgxh/mL and 63100 µgxh/mL for the 100 mg and 300 mg dose, respectively. Steady state was 
also analysed by noncompartmental analysis in study 006. However, due to infrequent sampling in this study 
the values for Cmax and AUC were underestimated, explaining the lower values (Cmax = 11.7 µg/mL and 
36.8 µg/mL and AUC(0-т) = 12941 µgxh/mL and 40737 µgxh/mL for the 100 mg and 300 mg dose) as 
compared to the population PK model derived PK parameters. Ctrough after single dosing was 2.66 µg/mL 
and 8.06 µg/mL for the 100 mg and 300 mg eptinezumab dose, respectively. Ctrough at steady state was 
3.39 µg/mL and 9.87 µg/mL for the 100 mg and 300 mg eptinezumab dose, respectively. 
Overall, PK of eptinezumab was consistent across the individual studies conducted in both healthy 
volunteers and migraine patients. Slightly higher eptinezumab exposure was observed in patients with 
chronic migraine as compared to healthy subjects (see Table 4 below). However, it is agreed that this 
difference is not considered clinically relevant, given the absence of safety results suggesting limits for 
maximum eptinezumab exposure and the relatively flat exposure response relationship seen in treatment 
with eptinezumab. 
46 
 
 
 
PK in special populations 
In general, intact monoclonal antibodies with high molecular weight of about 150 kDa are not eliminated via 
renal excretion. Furthermore, eptinezumab is expected to be primarily metabolized via proteolysis at the 
cellular level. It is therefore not anticipated that renal or hepatic impairment might significantly influence the 
exposure of eptinezumab. 
The population PK model was used to assess the impact of a variety of covariates on eptinezumab PK. 
Weight, CLcr (capped at a physiological value of 150 mL/min), disease (healthy, CM or EM patients), and 
baseline MMD were the most important covariates describing the variability of eptinezumab CL. Body weight, 
disease (healthy, CM or EM patients) and sex were the covariates describing the variability of Vc for 
eptinezumab. 
47 
 
 
 
The most prominent effect on eptinezumab exposure was observed for body weight: Depending on body 
weight compared to the standard 70-kg subject, eptinezumab AUC at steady state was up to approx. 50% 
higher or lower. Still, the applicant concludes that no dose adjustment for body weight is required, given the 
absence of safety results suggesting limits for maximum exposure, and the relatively flat exposure response 
relationship for eptinezumab. For a better understanding of the impact of body weight on eptinezumab 
exposure, the applicant provided analyses of AUC distribution across bins of body weight (≤49, 50-59, 60-69, 
70-79, 80-89, 90-99, 100-109, 110-119, 120-129, 130-139, ≥140 kg). For the 300 mg dose, and based on 
the individual clearances, the mean predicted AUCinf would vary from 82000 ug*h/L for patients with less 
than 49 kg to 41000 ug*h/L for patient with more than 140 kg. Based on these values, the individual mean 
predicted AUCinf would vary from 27000 ug.h/L for patients with less than 49 kg to 14000 ug*h/L for patient 
with more than 140 kg for the 100 mg dose. Based on the PopPK/PD analysis previously presented, the AUC 
resulting in 90% of the maximum effect would be 10700 – 13300 ug*h/L. The AUC50 is 1190 – 1480 ug*h/L. 
From this, it is predicted that the exposure in all the situations would be above the AUC90 threshold, 
meaning that no need for increasing dose by weight is anticipated.  
In addition, results were further discussed in light of the exposure-response relationships in terms of both 
efficacy and safety. The applicant provided subgroup analyses of the primary analyses for Studies 006 and 
011, and a similar ANCOVA for Study 005, based on weight quartiles. No consistent pattern of response in 
the different weight groups was obvious. Response patterns were generally not the same across studies, and 
in several cases the largest difference across weight categories was seen among the placebo groups. In part, 
the eptinezumab 100 mg and 300 mg groups appeared to have similar numerical reductions in MMDs for the 
highest weight quartile, suggesting that both doses work equally also in the highest weight quartile. Overall, 
48 
 
 
 
it seems that the 100 mg and 300 mg doses are both under the plateau area of efficacy and a weight based 
dosing approach seems not necessary. Besides, exposure-safety analysis of TEAEs by quartiles of AUC did not 
reveal a relationship between exposure and incidence of TEAEs.  
Finally, the effect of body weight on eptinezumab exposure is adequately reflected in section 5.2 of the 
SmPC. 
No other covariates were considered to be cause for clinical concern given the relatively small estimated 
effect sizes of these factors (i.e., less than 1.5-fold changes in AUC relative to the reference AUC0-τ in a 
typical patient). Since no data in patients with severe renal impairment are available, this information was 
requested to be included in section 5.2 of the SmPC. 
Race, impaired hepatic function, gender and age were studied as covariates in the population PK model but 
were not found to significantly influence eptinezumab CL or V, which was further confirmed by boxplot 
analyses of eptinezumab AUC by stage of hepatic impairment, by sex, by race, and by age group. 
Eptinezumab PK in children has not been investigated. 
Interactions 
No formal DDI studies have been performed with eptinezumab. This is acceptable considering that 
eptinezumab as monoclonal antibody is not metabolized via cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes and is not 
expected to induce or inhibit CYP enzymes. In study ALD403-CLIN-001, eptinezumab was co-administered 
with sumatriptan. Differences in exposure of eptinezumab, if co-administered with sumatriptan, were 
marginal and not considered clinically relevant. 
Similarly, sumatriptan PK was not affected by co-administration of eptinezumab. 
Exposure relevant for safety evaluation 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
At steady state after 3-monthly dosing of eptinezumab, the population PK model predicted a Cmax of 40.9 
µg/mL and 125 µg/mL and AUC(0-т) of 20800 µgxh/mL and 63100 µgxh/mL for the 100 mg and 300 mg 
dose, respectively. 
2.6.2.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
Eptinezumab is a humanized anti calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) IgG1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) 
that is being developed as an intravenous (IV) formulation for the preventive treatment of migraine with an 
early onset of effect. The CGRP is a member of the calcitonin family of peptides; eptinezumab inhibits both α-
CGRP and β-CGRP from binding to its receptor. 
Inhibiting the biological activity of CGRP to effectively prevent migraine is supported in the scientific literature 
and clinical studies with the anti-CGRP small molecule (gepant) class of drugs and anti-CGRP monoclonal 
antibodies. In migraine patients, the administration of CGRP induces migraine headaches in the majority of 
patients, whereas it induces headaches, but not migraine in healthy subjects (Lassen et al, 2002). Research 
demonstrates that α-CGRP dilates intracranial and extracranial blood vessels, and regulates mast cell 
degranulation, that during migraine, result in secretion of vasoactive, proinflammatory, and neurosensitizing 
mediators potentially contributing to migraine pathogenesis (Moskowitz, 1990; Theoharides, 2005). 
The applicant did not provide clinical pharmacodynamic studies as proof-of-concept for the mechanism of 
action of eptinezumab, unlike other anti-CGRP mAbs already approved. CGRP levels were not assessed, 
neither in Phase 1 clinical trials nor in in vivo non-clinical primary pharmacology studies. Although the 
measurement of CGRP levels would provide a more adequate PK/PD and dose/exposure-effect relationship, it 
can be accepted that CIDBF model provides an indirect relation with inhibition of CGRP-induced pain and can 
be used as surrogate PD endpoint. The joint analysis of this surrogate PD endpoint along with efficacy results 
can be considered as a valid approach. 
Skin blood flow assessment 
In study ALD403-CLIN-001, the inhibition of α-CGRP-mediated neurogenic vasodilation induced by topical 
capsaicin application following single or multiple administrations of eptinezumab in healthy subjects was 
investigated as a proof of concept and in order to help inform early dose selection. 
Dermal perfusion was evaluated following the topical application of capsaicin or vehicle solution on the right 
volar forearm of each subject prior to treatment (baseline), and on study days 2, 5, 12, 21, 28, 42, 56, 70, 
and 84. The ratio of capsaicin/vehicle dermal perfusion values post-treatment was compared to baseline 
values. A summary of the skin flow microcirculation assessment following IV dosing with eptinezumab is 
presented in Table 10 below. 
50 
 
 
Following dosing with 1, 3 or 10 mg IV eptinezumab, the median capsaicin/vehicle dermal perfusion ratios 
post-treatment were generally similar to subjects dosed with IV placebo. Following dosing with 30, 100, 300, 
and 1000 mg IV eptinezumab, the median capsaicin/vehicle ratios post-treatment were reduced by 
approximately 12 to 69 percent when compared to pre-treatment baseline values and when compared to 
placebo (Figure 6). 
This study is considered acceptable for demonstration of proof of concept. However, a clear dose-dependent 
effect on reduction of dermal vasodilation may not be construed from the data. 
51 
 
 
 
 
Immunogenicity 
The immune response to treatment with eptinezumab was investigated in 5 clinical studies (Figure 1). ADA 
results are available from 2074 subjects. Eptinezumab dose levels ranged from 10 to 1000 mg, administered 
in up to 4 doses at intervals of 12 weeks via intravenous infusion, for the preventive treatment of migraine in 
subjects with episodic or chronic migraine. The scheduled duration of ADA monitoring extended up to 56 
weeks in the Phase 3 studies, with provision to extend this with a 6-month follow-up period for subjects with 
a confirmed ADA positive result at the End-of-Study visit. 
The incidence of ADA and NAb, as well as ADA titer at each sampling time point were investigated. In 
addition, ADA specificity was determined and the impact of the presence of ADA and NAb on eptinezumab PK 
(Ctrough), efficacy (change in frequency of monthly migraine days) and safety was analysed. 
The overall incidence of treatment-emergent ADA and neutralizing antibody (NAb) detected in these studies 
was 15.9% and 6.2% respectively. The prevalence of pre-existing ADA was 0.7%. Highly consistent profiles 
were observed across all 5 clinical studies, with onset of detectable ADA at 8 weeks and maximal ADA 
frequency and ADA titer detected at the 24-week time-point, regardless of eptinezumab dose level or number 
of doses. However, considering the drug tolerance level of the ADA assay and the resulting questionable 
reliability of early ADA results (2 and 4 weeks after administration of eptinezumab), it is not unexpected that 
the onset of detectable ADA was generally observed later in time (i.e. at Week 8). After Week 24, ADA and 
NAb signals declined despite additional doses of eptinezumab.  
52 
 
 
 
ADA signals were mainly reactive with the complementary determining regions (CDRs) of eptinezumab, 
rather than the immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) framework or fragment crystallisable (Fc) region or Pichia-derived 
glycan.  
Apparent mean concentration of eptinezumab in plasma just prior to next administration (Ctrough) values at 
all time-points were lower for the ADA positive subpopulation compared to the ADA negative subpopulation 
(see Table 71 for exemplary results from study ALD403-CLIN-006). Considering that ADA interference with 
the PK assay was observed during validation of the PK assay, the apparent reduction in Ctrough may reflect a 
combination of ADA interference in the assay and enhanced clearance. It is difficult to distinguish which of 
these factors predominantly contributes to the reduction of eptinezumab trough concentrations. However, it 
is suggested that the extent of reduction of eptinezumab exposure in ADA-positive subjects is not clinically 
meaningful, given that neither ADA-positive nor NAb-positive status appeared to influence efficacy in either 
the 100 or 300 mg treatment groups. 
In both pivotal Phase 3 studies (ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), the change in monthly migraine days by ADA 
status was remarkably consistent for the ADA- and NAb-positive vs. ADA- and NAb-negative subpopulations 
at both the 100 and 300 mg eptinezumab dose levels from baseline to Week 24 (see boxplots in Figure 22 
and 24, exemplary results from study ALD403-CLIN-006). Statistical analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) taking 
53 
 
 
 
 
all dose levels into account, did not reveal any difference in efficacy for the weeks 1-12 and weeks 13-24 
treatment periods or from baseline to Week 24 (see Table 74 for exemplary results from study ALD403-CLIN-
006). 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apart from a single case of anaphylaxis reported in study -013 (but not meeting the clinical criteria defined 
by Sampson et al 2006), there was only a small number of Grade 1 or 2 adverse events that were coded to 
the preferred term (PT) of hypersensitivity observed in any of the 5 migraine studies. In the safety 
populations for studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, -011 and -013, 24 out of a total of 1995 (1.2%) 
eptinezumab-treated subjects were reported to have a treatment-emergent mild or moderate adverse event 
that was coded to the PT of hypersensitivity. The majority of these subjects were ADA negative throughout 
the treatment period. No cases of severe hypersensitivity reactions were observed.  
There was no apparent relationship to pre-existing or treatment-emergent ADA or NAb positive status, ADA 
titer category or eptinezumab dose level. There was no evidence for a risk of immune complex-related 
hypersensitivity, consistent with the relatively low ADA titers observed for all eptinezumab dose levels. There 
was no relationship between the ADA or NAb signals and incidence or severity of other Adverse Events of 
Special Interest (AESI). No clear pattern was seen for the relationship between ADA-positivity (as compared 
to ADA negative patients) and TEAE or AESI at the evaluated eptinezumab doses. 
In line with the results obtained from analyses of the impact of ADA status on efficacy and safety of 
eptinezumab, the following information is provided in the SmPC: “There was no evidence of impact of anti-
eptinezumab antibody development on efficacy or safety in the clinical studies”. A brief description of the 
effect of ADA positivity on eptinezumab exposure was added to the SmPC. 
Overall, across all studies a certain degree of variability appears to exist in terms of patients developing anti-
drug antibodies (ADA) with neutralizing capacity (neutralizing antibodies – nAbs). The applicant was asked to 
justify this variability according the study/subjects characteristics. The applicant was further asked to discuss 
the impact of ADA/nAb formation in PD/efficacy endpoints, with a post-hoc analysis of these endpoints in the 
subset of patients that developed ADA/nAbs, analysing the level of ADA/nAbs with PK/PD parameters. In 
response, the applicant adequately justified the concerns raised, not only with the consistency in timing and 
duration of immunogenicity responses but also with a statistical analysis showing no relation between ADA-
positive/Nab-positive status with efficacy. 
At the time of the initial submission, no data on ADA development after the last dosing of eptinezumab at 
week 36 were available, given that a maximum of 4 doses (Week 1, 12, 24 and 36) was given in study -006 
and results were only available for the primary treatment phase of study -013 (secondary treatment phase of 
this study is ongoing). Since eptinezumab is generally intended as long-term treatment, 1-year 
55 
 
 
 
immunogenicity data were required. In response, the applicant provided immunogenicity results from the 
secondary treatment phase of study ALD403-CLIN-013. ADA incidence during the secondary treatment phase 
further decreased as compared to the highest ADA incidence observed at Week 24. At Week 48, 5.3% (6 of 
113 patients with ADA results) were ADA positive and at Week 72, 4.0% (4 of 101 patients with ADA results) 
were ADA positive. At Week 104, ADA results were available for 96 patients and finally all patients presented 
to be ADA negative, confirming that ADA response is transient in patients treated with eptinezumab. 
Similarly, the percentage of NAb positive samples decreased during the secondary treatment phase and was 
zero already at Week 72. 
A moderate event of hypersensitivity occurred in one patient during the Week 60 infusion, however, this 
patient was found to be ADA negative. Thus, the data provided for the secondary treatment phase confirm 
that there is no relationship between ADA positivity and hypersensitivity reactions. 
In addition, there was no indication for an impact of immunogenicity or NAbs on the efficacy or on the 
maintenance of efficacy following 8 repeated infusions of eptinezumab. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
The exposure-response relationships on selected endpoints were assessed in approximately 2543 patients 
dosed with placebo or IV eptinezumab 10-300 mg in a total of 3 clinical studies (CLIN-005, -006 and -011). 
Individual PK parameters derived with the final population PK model were used to derive both individual 
exposure metrics of eptinezumab (i.e., area under the curve from time 0 to 12 weeks [AUC0-12wk], 
maximum concentration [Cmax], individual trough concentration [Ctrough], average concentration [Cavg]). 
PD endpoints included the change in frequency of monthly migraine days (MMD) (continuous variable) and 
responder rate rates (categorical variable) in 28-day intervals. 
Primary Endpoint: Change in frequency of MMD 
As shown in Figure 6, the treatment benefit defined by the change from baseline migraine days is 
pronounced at dose levels 100 mg and higher.  
56 
 
 
The number of migraines days decreased from baseline with increasing eptinezumab dose. The dose-
response relationship appeared to be steeper for study CLIN-005 compared to studies CLIN-006 and CLIN-
011.  
Subsequently, exposure-response relationships analysis was performed. The relationship between the change 
in frequency of MMD over Weeks 1-12 versus key metrics of exposure (i.e., AUC0-12wk, Cmax, Ctrough, 
Cavg) was derived. The exposure response with AUC0-12wk is presented in Figure 8. 
From the exposure-response (ER) relationship plot, it is noticed that the treatment benefit is nominal at lower 
AUC0-12wk. An AUC0-12wk of 15 000 hr*μg/mL or higher tends to present sustained decrease in migraine 
days compared to baseline. This AUC0-12wk of 15,000 hr*μg/mL corresponds to an average AUC0-12wk 
from the 100 mg dose.  
57 
 
 
 
AUC(0-12wk) 
The number of migraine days decreased from baseline with increasing eptinezumab exposure over Weeks 1-
12. Similar decreases in number of migraine days were observed for increasing Cmax, Cavg and Ctrough 
(data not shown). Several statistical functions were tested to model the relationship of eptinezumab exposure 
and change in migraine days using a placebo-anchored approach (i.e., for placebo, AUC was set to 0). The 
saturable inhibitory Emax model describing the relationship between the PK parameters of eptinezumab and 
change in frequency of MMD over Weeks 1-12 resulted in a statistically significant decrease in the objective 
function value relative to the statistical linear model.  
This model is described as follows: 
Reduction of Migraine Days: E0 + Imax × AUC/(AUC50 + AUC) 
Imax is the maximum inhibitory effect, AUC50 is the AUC achieving the half-maximal change in effect and 
AUC is the area under the curve for eptinezumab. The model was stratified by disease status (CM or EM).  
Results of the inhibitory Emax model are summarized below in Table 14: 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment with 100 or 300 mg eptinezumab provided exposure (AUC0-12wk, Cmax, Ctrough, or Cavg) that 
exceeded all EC90 estimates for the CM and EM groups. Exposure following the administration of 30 mg 
eptinezumab was insufficient to meet the EC90 estimates.  
Key Secondary Endpoints: 50% and 75% migraine responder rate 
A logistic regression analyses was performed to explore associations with eptinezumab exposures (e.g., 
AUC0-12Wk / Ctrough / Cmax/ Cavg) and the various categorical endpoints: 75% migraine responder rate 
(Weeks 1-4), 75% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-12), and 50% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-12). 
Presented are responder rates from Week 1-12. 
Dose-response relationships were explored prior to performing exposure-response analysis. Dose-response 
relationships for 50% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-12 are presented in Figure 13. 
The probability of 50% responder rate over Weeks 1-12 increased with increasing eptinezumab dose. 
The probability of 50% responder rate over Weeks 1-12 as a function of eptinezumab AUC is presented in 
Figure 15. 
59 
 
 
 
 
Considerable responses are observed with placebo (39%). This observation has already been described in 
clinical studies with other anti-CGRP antibodies. The observed 50% responder rate for the first, second, third, 
and fourth quartiles of AUC0-12wk were 52%, 54%, 60% and 57%, respectively, and were higher than 
placebo. 
Dose-response relationships for 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-12 are presented in Figure 16. 
The probability of 75% responder rate over Weeks 1-12 increased with increasing eptinezumab dose.  
The probability of 75% responder rate over Weeks 1-12 as a function of eptinezumab AUC0-12wk is 
presented in Figure 18. 
60 
 
 
 
 
The observed 75% responder rate was 17% for placebo. The observed 75% responder rate for the first, 
second, third, and fourth quartiles of AUC0-12wk) were 28%, 26%, 33% and 30%, respectively, and were 
higher than placebo. 
The third quartile of AUC0-12wk (mean AUC0-12wk = 33,000 hxµg/mL) appeared to show a higher 
probability of response for all key secondary endpoints, compared to the first and second quartiles of AUC0-
12wk (mean AUC0-12wk = 4690 hxµg/mL and 15,800 hxµg/mL, respectively). The fourth quartile of AUC0-
12wk mean AUC0-12wk = 64.300 hxµg/mL) showed no further improvement for all key secondary endpoints. 
The applicant argues that the third quartile corresponds to the 100 mg dose, however, this is not fully 
agreed, since AUC0-12wk was 17,900 hxµg/mL for the 100 mg dose (min-max-range: 6350-55,700 
hxµg/mL). The exposure after single administration of 100 mg eptinezumab is therefore somewhat lower 
than the exposure described for the third quartile (33,000 hxµg/mL with min-max-range: 20,253-49378 
hxµg/mL). Still, it is agreed that a plateau effect is observed somewhere between the 100 mg and 300 mg 
dose. Referring to the overall exposure-response analyses conducted, the estimated difference in treatment 
benefit comparing the 100 mg and 300 mg eptinezumab dose and corresponding exposure appears marginal 
or not obvious at all. However, the primary and secondary endpoints analysed in the pivotal efficacy trials 
consistently revealed slightly higher efficacy of the 300 mg dose as compared to the 100 mg dose. This is not 
evident from the provided exposure-efficacy analyses; however, differential conclusions may relate to the 
rather small differences in efficacy which may not have been discriminable due to the width of the scale. 
Additionally, as mentioned above, the quartiles (3rd and 4th) depicted in the exposure-response analysis for 
the secondary endpoints do not entirely match the exposure reached after dosing with 100 mg and 300 mg 
eptinezumab. 
No exposure-safety analyses have been conducted. For a thorough assessment of the appropriateness of the 
intended dosing regimens and for a better discrimination between the different dosing regimens, the 
applicant was asked to analyse the relationship of eptinezumab exposure with relevant adverse events. The 
requested exposure-safety analysis was provided in response to the D120 LoQ. Except for the SOC 
Gastrointestinal disorders in Study 011 showing increased TEAE incidences with increasing AUC quartile 
intervals, no apparent relationship was seen in the incidences of TEAEs by SOC and AUC quartile intervals in 
61 
 
 
 
Studies 006 and 011. The pattern of increasing GI disorders with increasing AUC quartiles was not seen in 
Study 006, therefore this finding is not considered clinically meaningful - also accounting for the fact that 
TEAE incidences in the SOC Gastrointestinal disorders for the all eptinezumab (8.4%) and placebo (7.9%) 
groups in Study 011 were found to be similar. 
2.6.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
Overall, pharmacokinetics of eptinezumab has been extensively studied and adequately characterized 
throughout 10 clinical studies and a population PK analysis. 
Assay methods developed for the quantification of eptinezumab plasma concentrations and the determination 
of ADA and NAb directed against eptinezumab were adequately validated. For the PK assay, questions raised 
on the cross-site comparability study, interference with ADA, and long-term stability were adequately 
addressed in response to the D120 LoQ. For the ADA and NAb assay, concerns regarding the drug tolerance 
level and interference with haemolysis were demonstrated not to result in non-reliability or misinterpretation 
of overall study data.  
For description of eptinezumab PK and exposure-response analysis, a population PK model was developed 
which included IV data from 8 clinical studies comprising 2123 patients and healthy volunteers. The final 
population PK model was a 2-compartment model with linear elimination. Some weaknesses of the model 
have been identified. For instance, the number of covariates included suggests over-parameterization and the 
applicant was asked to elucidate on the biological plausibility of the covariates disease state and baseline 
MMD being significant predictors of eptinezumab PK. However, the root cause of the exposure differences 
seen for disease state and baseline MMD could not be identified, but was assumed to be due to variability 
associated with study-to-study factors and/or the bioanalytical methodology. Exposure differences due to 
disease state and baseline MMD were generally small and considered not clinically relevant. In the GOF and 
VPC plots, some deviations are evident. Low eptinezumab concentrations are overestimated and high 
eptinezumab concentrations are slightly underestimated by the model. Nevertheless, the model seems to 
provide acceptable estimations of eptinezumab exposure for the relevant doses (100 mg and 300 mg) of this 
application. 
Eptinezumab is presently intended to be solely administered as IV infusion with 100% bioavailability. 
Apparent clearance and central volume of distribution of eptinezumab estimated in the population PK analysis 
was 0.15 L/d and 3.64 L, respectively. These values are typical for monoclonal antibodies and indicate 
minimal extravascular distribution of free eptinezumab and relatively slow elimination from the plasma 
compartment. Half-life of eptinezumab was 27 days. 
After IV administration of eptinezumab doses ranging from 10 mg to 300 mg, dose proportionality was 
demonstrated. However, at dose levels ≤ 10 mg, departure from PK linearity was detected and target 
mediated drug disposition is suspected. The accumulation ratio for 3-monthly dosing of 100 mg or 300 mg 
eptinezumab was predicted to be 1.08 – 1.15. 
Moderate to high interindividual variability as assessed by %CV was observed in the clinical studies 
conducted in patients with EM and/or CM. In the population PK analysis, variability was largely explained by 
the covariates body weight, CLcr, disease (healthy, CM or EM patients), and baseline migraine days.  
62 
 
 
The PK of eptinezumab was overall consistent across the individual studies conducted in both healthy 
volunteers and migraine patients. Slightly higher exposure of eptinezumab was observed in patients with 
chronic migraine as compared to healthy subjects, which is not considered clinically relevant. At steady state 
after 3-monthly dosing of eptinezumab, the population PK model predicted a Cmax of 40.9 µg/mL and 125 
µg/mL and AUC(0-т) of 20800 µgxh/mL and 63100 µgxh/mL for the 100 mg and 300 mg dose, respectively. 
According to visual assessment of the predose plasma levels, steady state was achieved by Week 12 after the 
first eptinezumab administration. 
Body weight, CLcr (capped at a physiological value of 150 mL/min), disease (healthy, CM or EM patients), 
sex, and baseline MMD were the most important covariates describing the variability of eptinezumab CL and 
V. The most prominent effect on eptinezumab exposure was observed for body weight, which is now 
adequately reflected in the SmPC. It was demonstrated that eptinezumab exposure in all bins of body weight 
was predicted to be above the AUC90 threshold (AUC resulting in 90% of the maximum effect), meaning that 
no need for increasing dose by weight is anticipated. Overall, it seemed that the 100 mg and 300 mg doses 
are both under the plateau area of efficacy and a weight based dosing approach is not necessary. Exposure-
safety analysis of TEAEs by quartiles of AUC did not reveal a relationship between exposure and incidence of 
TEAEs. Since no data in patients with severe renal impairment are available, this information was added to 
section 5.2 of the SmPC. Boxplot analyses were provided indicating no significant impact of hepatic 
impairment, sex, race, and age on the exposure of eptinezumab. No data are available on eptinezumab PK in 
children. 
Pharmacodynamics 
A skin blood flow test measuring the inhibition of topical capsaicin-induced vasodilation after treatment with 
eptinezumab was conducted as proof of concept. However, the applicant did not provide clinical 
pharmacodynamic studies as proof-of-concept for the mechanism of action of eptinezumab, unlike other 
mAbs already approved. CGRP levels were not assessed, neither in Phase 1 clinical trials nor in in vivo non-
clinical primary pharmacology studies. Ultimately, the CIDBF model is deemed acceptable to provide an 
indirect relation with inhibition of CGRP-induced pain and can be used as surrogate PD endpoint. The joint 
analysis of this surrogate PD endpoint along with efficacy results can be considered as a valid approach. 
Immunogenicity of eptinezumab was investigated in 2074 subjects from 5 clinical studies. Overall, ADA and 
NAb response to eptinezumab was comprehensively analysed. The overall treatment emergent ADA incidence 
was 15.9% across the studies, 6.2% subjects in the overall safety population were determined to be NAb-
positive.  
Ctrough was lower in ADA- and NAb-positive subjects as compared to ADA- and NAb-negative subjects. This 
information was requested to be included in the SmPC. However, the extent of reduction of eptinezumab 
exposure in ADA-positive subjects was not considered clinically meaningful, given that neither ADA-positive 
nor NAb-positive status appeared to influence efficacy in either the 100 or 300 mg treatment groups. 
Furthermore, no relationship of the presence of ADA and the occurrence of adverse events (with special focus 
on hypersensitivity reactions) was described. No clear pattern was seen for the relationship between ADA-
positivity (as compared to ADA negative patients) and TEAE or AESI at the evaluated eptinezumab doses.   
Since eptinezumab is generally intended as long-term treatment, immunogenicity results from the secondary 
treatment phase of study ALD403-CLIN-013 were requested and provided in response to the D120 LoQ. ADA 
incidence during the secondary treatment phase further decreased as compared to the highest ADA incidence 
observed at Week 24. Similarly, the percentage of NAb positive samples decreased during the secondary 
63 
 
 
treatment phase. The data from the secondary treatment phase further confirmed that there is no impact of 
ADA or NAb positivity on efficacy or adverse events (hypersensitivity reactions). 
Exposure-efficacy analyses 
Exposure-response analyses included the investigation of dose-and exposure-response relationships for 
change in frequency of MMD over weeks 1-12 and the analysis of the probability of 50% and 75% responder 
rate over Weeks 1-4 and weeks 1-12 versus key metrics of exposure (i.e., AUC0-12Wk, Cmax, Ctrough and 
Cavg). Overall, dose- and exposure-response analyses of primary and secondary efficacy endpoints 
demonstrated a trend toward increased efficacy with increased exposure, although response curves were 
rather flat and considerable responses have also been observed with placebo. This observation has already 
been described in clinical studies with other anti-CGRP antibodies. 
The estimated difference in treatment benefit comparing the 100 mg and 300 mg eptinezumab dose and 
corresponding exposure appears marginal. However, the primary and secondary endpoints analysed in the 
pivotal efficacy trials consistently revealed slightly higher efficacy of the 300 mg dose as compared to the 100 
mg dose.  
For better discrimination between the different dosing regimens and in order to rationally define a target 
exposure range, the applicant provided analyses of the relationship between eptinezumab exposure and 
relevant adverse events. No apparent relationship was seen in the incidences of TEAEs by SOC and AUC 
quartile intervals in Studies 006 and 011.  
2.6.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall, pharmacokinetics of eptinezumab has been adequately characterized. Immunogenicity of 
eptinezumab was extensively and sufficiently analysed.  
Pharmacodynamic proof of concept was demonstrated in a skin blood flow test. Exposure-response analyses 
were provided revealing a trend toward increased efficacy with increased exposure, and no apparent 
relationship in the incidences of TEAEs and AUC quartile intervals. 
2.6.5.  Clinical efficacy 
In order to demonstrate the efficacy of eptinezumab, used as an intravenous (IV) formulation, for the 
preventive treatment of migraine, the Applicant provided data from 4 eptinezumab studies: 
• Two of the studies are pivotal and administered multiple infusions of eptinezumab: episodic migraine Study 
ALD403-CLIN-006 (hereafter referred to as Study 006) and chronic migraine Study ALD403-CLIN-011 
(hereafter referred to as Study 011). 
• Two of the studies are supportive and administered 1 infusion of eptinezumab: episodic migraine Study 
ALD403-CLIN-002 (hereafter referred to as Study 002) and chronic migraine Study ALD403-CLIN-005 
(hereafter referred to as Study 005).   
64 
 
 
Dose-response study 
Study 005: A Parallel Group, Double-Blind, Randomized, Placebo Controlled, Dose-Ranging Phase 2 Trial to 
Evaluate the Efficacy, Safety, and Pharmacokinetics of ALD403 Administered Intravenously in Patients with 
Chronic Migraine 
Study 005 was a parallel group, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Subjects were 
randomized into one of four ALD403 dose levels (10 mg, 30 mg, 100 mg, or 300 mg) or placebo in a 
1:1:1:1:1 ratio. Randomization was stratified by baseline migraine days (< 20 and ≥ 20 days) and 
medication overuse status (medication overuse vs. no medication overuse). 
Subjects completed a Headache eDiary daily for 28 days from screening until randomization to determine 
certain eligibility criteria, and the baseline migraine results. There was approximately a week between 
randomization and dosing. Subjects were asked to complete a daily eDiary through 48 weeks post dose. 
Dosing occurred on Day 0. After dosing, visits occurred approximately every four weeks through 3 months 
post-dose and approximately every 12 weeks through 49 weeks postdose. 
The total study duration was approximately 54 weeks with visits at screening, Day 0, and Weeks 4, 8, 12, 24, 
36, and 49. Additionally, phone calls were made by site staff to subjects at weeks 2, 16, 20, 28, 32, 40 and 
44. 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the dose response of a single dose of ALD403 
administered IV in patients with chronic migraine, measured as 75% migraine responder rate. 
Secondary objectives included the evaluation of the safety of ALD403 administered IV compared with placebo 
in patients with chronic migraine, the duration of effect of ALD403 administered IV in patients with chronic 
migraine, and the pharmacokinetics (PK) and immunogenicity of ALD403 administered IV in patients with 
chronic migraine. 
665 patients were randomly assigned to treatment with either ALD403 (n = 531) or placebo (n = 134). 
Overall, 49 (7.4%) patients were randomized but not treated. 
Table 6. Populations for Analysis 
ALD403 
ALD403 
ALD403 
ALD403 
300 mg n 
100 mg n 
30 mg n 
10 mg n 
Placebo n 
Overall n 
(%) 
(%) 
(%) 
(%) 
(%) 
(%) 
Randomized Patients  131 
133 
134 
133 
134 
665 
Safety Populationa 
121 (92.4)  122 (91.7)  122 (91.0)  130 (97.7)  121 (90.3)  616 (92.6) 
Modified Full Analysis 
114 (87.0)  118 (88.7)  117 (87.3)  123 (92.5)  116 (86.6)  588 (88.4) 
Population 
Site 165 Patientsb 
6 (4.6) 
5 (3.8) 
5 (3.7) 
7 (5.3) 
5 (3.7) 
28 (4.2) 
PK Populationa 
120 (91.6)  122 (91.7)  122 (91.0)  129 (97.0)  NA 
493 (74.1) 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics were generally similar across treatment groups. 
Primary efficacy analysis 
The ALD403 groups had higher response rates overall for the responder endpoints (50%, 75%, and 
100%) than placebo up to Week 12. Differences from placebo for the ALD403 10 mg group were generally 
not statistically significant for the study endpoints. The differences were in general greatest at Weeks 1 to 4 
and less pronounced up to Week 12.  
The greatest 75% migraine response rate was observed with ALD403 300 mg-treated patients (33.3% vs 
placebo 20.7%). For the study’s primary efficacy endpoint, more ALD403-treated patients were 75% 
migraine responders over Weeks 1 to 12 (33.3%, 31.4%, 28.2%, and 26.8% for 300 mg, 100 mg, 30 mg, 
and 10 mg, respectively) than placebo-treated patients (20.7%). The difference between the 300 mg ALD403 
and placebo treatment groups was statistically significant (95% CI) (p = 0.0330) as was the difference 
between the 100 mg ALD403 and placebo treatment groups (p = 0.0715; 10% alpha decision rule). 
The 75% migraine responder rates for Weeks 1-4 for the ALD403 groups were generally similar to those 
observed for Weeks 1-12 though the differences from placebo for Weeks 1-4 were larger (20.5%, 15.0%, 
11.0%, and 8.8% for 300 mg, 100 mg, 30 mg, and 10 mg, respectively). 
Figure 1 presents line plots for the 75% migraine responder rate by 4-week intervals for each treatment 
group up to Week 49: 
Secondary efficacy measures 
Secondary efficacy measures included 50% headache responder rates, 100% migraine responder rates, and 
change from baseline of migraine days. These measures were supportive for the primary efficacy analyses. 
With regard to the secondary efficacy endpoint “change from baseline in monthly migraine frequency”, the 30 
mg dose was numerically slightly better than the 100 mg dose until week 8. However, this effect was not 
statistically significant, and was not maintained until week 12. 
Figure 3. Mean Number of Migraine Days vs 4 Week Interval (Modified Full Analysis Population) 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
Overall, all doses tested (10, 30, 100, 300 mg) performed better than placebo, with a trend in favour for the 
300 mg dose, and the 100 mg and 30 mg dose performing highly similar. Based on these data, the range of 
doses chosen for further testing in phase 3 clinical trials is acceptable. However, based on these phase 2 
data, it appears as if at least some patients with chronic migraine might also have responded to a repeat 30 
mg dosing regimen. This 30mg dose however was not followed further in the phase 3 clinical trial in chronic 
migraine patients, although it is likely that some patients would have responded to this lower dose. Of note, 
there were more patients pre-treated with migraine prophylactics in the 300 mg group compared to the other 
arms. Imbalances were especially observed for betablockers, valproate, and botox, which could argue for an 
overall more difficult-to-treat population in the 300 mg arm. This might have influenced efficacy results. 
Main study(ies) 
The efficacy profile of eptinezumab was established in 2 pivotal Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled studies, named ALD403-CLIN-006 (Frequent Episodic Migraine, recruiting patients with 4 to 14 
MHDs/month at baseline) and ALD403-CLIN-011 (Chronic Migraine, recruiting patients with  ≥15 to ≤26 
headache days of which at least 8 with features of migraine ). Up to six (Study 011) and 12 months (Study 
006) of placebo-controlled data are available from the 2 pivotal studies. 
Key inclusion criteria in the 2 pivotal studies specified that subjects be adults with a history of migraine with 
or without aura. Exclusion criteria were generally similar across both studies, with minor differences due to 
the disease state (EM or CM). Patients with a dual diagnosis of chronic migraine and medication overuse 
headache (associated with the overuse of triptans, ergotamine, or combination analgesics > 10 days/month, 
or acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ≥ 15 days/month) were 
included in Study 011. 
The following dose regimes of IMP were evaluated, given once every 12 weeks as an intravenous infusion:  
Study 006:   30 mg, 100 mg, 300 mg eptinezumab or placebo  in a 1:1:1:1 ratio.  
Study 011:  100 mg, 300 mg eptinezumab or placebo in a 1:1:1 ratio. 
67 
 
 
 
Study ALD403-CLIN-006: Frequent Episodic Migraine  
Methods 
Study Participants 
The study included anti CGRP mAb-naïve, male and female patients between 18 and 75 years of age with a 
diagnosis of frequent episodic migraine (defined as ≤14 headache days of which at least 4 had to be migraine 
days in each 28-day period in the 3 months prior to screening). Subjects did not regularly use prophylactic 
headache medication. Patients with a history of complicated migraine, chronic tension-type headache, hypnic 
headache, cluster headache, hemicrania continua, new daily persistent headache, migraine with brainstem 
aura, sporadic, and familial hemiplegic migraine, as well as subjects with cardiovascular disease, neurological 
disease, cerebrovascular disease, diabetes, or Raynaud’s disease were excluded from study participation. 
The study was primarily conducted in the USA, and in few study sites in the Republic of Georgia. 
Treatments 
Patients were assigned to the 4 treatment arms (30, 100, 300 mg eptinezumab or placebo) in a 1:1:1:1 
ratio. The doses of eptinezumab (30, 100, 300 mg) or placebo were reconstituted by unblinded personnel in 
a total volume of 100 mL 0.9% saline. Doses were administered intravenously over a period of 1 hour (±15 
minutes) on Day 0 and at Weeks 12, 24, and 36, by the blinded investigator or designee. Subjects were 
monitored for 4 hours after the end of the infusion. 
The eptinezumab dose ranges evaluated in this study included all doses that tested superior to placebo in the 
phase 2 study program.  
Any concomitant prophylactic headache medication was prohibited through week 24. Concomitant barbiturate 
and opioid medication, as well as codeine was restricted, but not prohibited. It is not clear, to which extend 
these medications were actually used across treatment groups and whether endpoint analyses might have 
been affected. 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of repeat doses of ALD403 administered 
intravenously compared to placebo in subjects with FEM.  
Secondary objective 
The secondary objectives of this study were to evaluate the safety of repeat doses of ALD403 administered 
intravenously compared to placebo and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics (PK) and immunogenicity of repeat 
doses of ALD403 administered intravenously to subjects with FEM. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy endpoint  
68 
 
 
The primary efficacy endpoint was „Change in frequency of migraine days (Weeks 1-12)”. The primary 
efficacy analysis was therefore conducted at Week 12 after the first dose of study drug. 
[Originally, another primary endpoint, namely “75% responder rate (weeks 1-12)”, was chosen. The primary 
endpoint was changed to “Change in frequency of migraine days (weeks 1-12)” with amendment no.3 in 
2016.] 
Key secondary endpoints  
Key secondary efficacy endpoints  included: 
•  75% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-4) 
•  75% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-12) 
•  50% migraine responder rates (Weeks 1-12) 
• 
Percentage of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing 
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
Randomization was planned to occur 29 to 35 days after the screening visit after eligibility assessments are 
completed and eligibility verified. Sites were planned to complete the randomization in an Interactive Web or 
Voice Response System (IWRS or IVRS) and the randomization assignment was planned to be obtained by 
the clinical trial site’s unblinded pharmacist or Investigational Product consignee. Subjects were planned to be 
randomized in equal ratios to one of the dose groups. Stratified permuted block randomization was planned 
to be used, stratified by migraine days during the screening period (≤9 days vs. >9 days). 
Statistical methods 
Primary analysis populations 
The Full Analysis Population was planned to be used for efficacy analyses. This set was planned to include all 
randomized subjects who received Investigational Product/placebo. Subjects were planned to be summarized 
within the treatment group to which they were randomized. 
Outcome variable 
The primary outcome was defined as the change from baseline in monthly migraine days (Weeks 1-12), 
where the baseline monthly migraine days were planned to be measured over a 28 days period after 
screening (i.e. before randomization) and the monthly migraine days up to week 12 were planned to be the 
average of the monthly migraine days in each 4 week period up to week 12 (i.e. the average of the migraine 
days in week 1-4, 5-8 and 9-12). 
Initially, 75% response on week 1-12 was defined as primary outcome measure. A responder was planned to 
be defined as a subject who achieves a ≥75% reduction in migraine headache days when response rates for 
each of the four week intervals (1-4, 5-8, 9-12) are averaged. 
Primary analysis model 
An ANCOVA model was planned to be used to test for a difference between treatment arms. This model was 
planned to include the change from baseline measure as the response variable. Treatment and the 
69 
 
 
stratification variable: baseline migraine days (continuous predictor) were planned to be included as 
independent variables. 
For the key secondary endpoints (including the initially planned primary 75% responder rate) a CMH test was 
planned. The tests was planned to be stratified by the randomization stratification factor. 
Significance level and multiplicity 
The significance level was planned to be 5% two-sided. Multiplicity due to different dose-levels and several 
key secondary endpoints was planned to be addressed by an hierarchical testing procedure, displayed in the 
following figure: 
Of note, the hierarchy was amended several times. Initially it was planned to test only the 75% responder 
rate hierarchically in all dose levels as compared to placebo in decreasing order (300 mg, 100 mg, 30 mg). In 
amendment 1, hierarchical testing of key secondary endpoints was introduced, where key secondary 
endpoints would be tested in each dose level after rejection of the primary null hypothesis for that dose level. 
The test of key secondary endpoints was planned to be conducted in parallel to the primary endpoint in the 
next lower dose level. This was again changed in amendment 3, which planned to hierarchically test primary 
and key secondary endpoints for each dose level before moving on to the next lowest dose level. In 
amendment 4 this was again changed to include the key secondary endpoint percentage of subjects with 
migraine on the day after dosing in the highest and second highest does level, before moving on to the 
lowest dose. 
Missing values 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects who do not complete the eDiary daily were expected to have missing data. It was expected that 
most missing diary data would be sporadic. If the diary has been completed at least 21 days in a 28 day 
interval, then normalization was planned to be used. The results were planned to be normalized to 28 days 
by multiplying the observed results by the inverse of the completion rate. If the diary has been completed on 
less than 21 days in the 28 day interval then the results for the 28 day interval were planned to be a 
weighted function of the observed data for the current four week interval and the results from the previous 
interval. The weights were planned to be proportional to how many days the diary was completed. 
Specifically, the results were planned to be derived as 28
(W
XC+(1-W)
XP) where W is the days the diary was 
completed divided by 20, Xc is the available average daily results for the current interval and Xp are the 
⋅
⋅
⋅
average daily results for the previous interval. 
Results 
Participant flow 
The treatment arms were generally similar in numbers of patients who were randomized and treated and who 
completed the study, or discontinued early. Overall, a proportion of >20% of study participants discontinued 
the study prematurely. The number of patients who discontinued due to adverse events was slightly 
71 
 
 
 
increased in patients treated with eptinezumab 300 mg and 100 mg (1.4% each), compared to placebo-
treated patients (<1%). The number of patients who withdrew due to study burden or lack of efficacy was 
greater in patients treated with placebo (9.5%/ 3.6 %) than withdrawals due these reasons among patients 
treated with placebo in the 300 mg (4.5%/ <1%), 100 mg (6.8 %/1.4%) and 30 mg (5.4%/ <1%) treatment 
groups.  
Baseline data 
Subject demographics across treatment groups were generally well balanced and any minor differences 
observed were not considered to be clinically relevant. The mean age was 39.8 years and most subjects (545 
[61.4%]) were in the >35-year age group. The majority of the subjects were females (84.3% versus 15.7%), 
the majority were not of Hispanic or Latino ethnicity (727 subjects [81.9%]) and the majority were racially 
identified as white (744 subjects [83.8%]). 
72 
 
 
 
73 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
All efficacy analyses were performed on the Full Analysis Population (FAP). The FAP included all randomized 
subjects who received investigational product/placebo. Subjects were summarized within the treatment group 
to which they were randomized. 
A total of 898 subjects were randomized. A total of 888 subjects (98.9%) received treatment and were 
included in the safety population and full analysis population. A total of 10 subjects (1.1%) were randomized 
but not dosed. 
Table 10: Summary of Analysis Populations (All Randomized Subjects) 
ALD403 
ALD403 
ALD403 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
Placebo 
Overall 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
All randomized subjects 
224 
225 
224 
225 
898 
Safety population 
224 (100) 
223 (99.1) 
219 (97.8) 
222 (98.7) 
888 (98.9) 
Full analysis population 
222 (99.1) 
221 (98.2) 
223 (99.6) 
222 (98.7) 
888 (98.9) 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy analyses 
For the study’s primary efficacy endpoint, the change in frequency of migraine days from Weeks 1-12 was 
measured in ALD403 treatment groups at 30, 100, and 300 mg, compared to placebo. This primary efficacy 
endpoint was calculated as the number of migraine days within 4-week intervals that were then averaged up 
to Week 12. The difference of this estimate from baseline was calculated as the change from baseline in the 
frequency of migraine days over Weeks 1-12. 
Table 16: Analysis of Migraine Days by 12-Week Interval and Treatment (Full Analysis Population) 
Interval 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
Placebo N = 
ALD403 
ALD403 
ALD403 
N = 222 
N = 221 
N = 223 
Weeks 1-12 
Actual 
Estimated mean 
4.3 
Mean difference from placebo 
-1.11 
4.7 
-0.69 
4.6 
-0.82 
95% CI 
(-1.68, -0.54) 
(-1.25, -0.12) 
(-1.39, -0.25) 
Change from baseline 
Estimated mean 
-4.3 
Mean difference from placebo 
-1.11 
-3.9 
-0.69 
-4.0 
-0.82 
95% CI 
p-value 
(-1.68, -0.54) 
(-1.25, -0.12) 
(-1.39, -0.25) 
0.0001 
0.0182 
0.0046 
222 
5.4 
-3.2 
Key secondary efficacy analyses 
75% Migraine Responder Rate (Weeks 1-4) 
The 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-4 demonstrated a statistically significant improvement for 
the ALD403 300 mg with an estimated difference of 11.3% (95% CI: 3.2, 19.3) vs. placebo. For the ALD403 
100-mg group, the 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-4 also demonstrated statistically significant 
improvement (P=0.0112) with an estimated difference of 10.5% (95% CI: 2.4, 18.6) vs. placebo. For the 
ALD403 30-mg group, the 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-4 was also nominally statistically 
significant (P=0.0170) with an estimated difference of 9.8% (95% CI: 1.8, 17.8%) vs. placebo. 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
75% Migraine Responder Rate (Weeks 1-12) 
The 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-12 demonstrated a statistically significant improvement 
(P=0.0007) for ALD403 300 mg with an estimated difference of 13.5% (95% CI: 5.8, 21.2) vs. placebo. The 
75% migraine responder rates for ALD403 300 mg across Weeks 1-4 and Weeks 1-12 were 31.5% and 
29.7%, respectively, demonstrating sustained monthly responder rates over the 12-week interval. For the 
ALD403 100-mg group, the 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-12 was not statistically significant 
(P=0.1126) with a difference of 6% (95% CI: -1.4, 13.3) vs. placebo. The treatment effect for the ALD403 
30-mg group was nominally significant (P=0.0272) vs. placebo. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
50% Migraine Responder Rate (Weeks 1-12) 
With a mean difference of 18.9 (95% CI: 9.8, 28.0), the ALD403 300-mg group with a 50% migraine 
responder rate of 56.3% demonstrated a statistically significant improvement (P=0.0001) vs. placebo. The 
ALD403 100-mg dose, with a mean difference of 12.4 (95% CI: 3.2, 21.5), was nominally significant 
(P=0.0085) for this endpoint vs. placebo. ALD403 30-mg dose with a mean difference of 12.8 (95% CI: 3.7, 
22.0) was also nominally significant (P=0.0064) for this endpoint vs. placebo. 
77 
 
 
 
Percentage of Subjects with Migraine on the Day After Dosing 
For the baseline value, on average approximately 31% of subjects had a migraine on any given day during 
the 28-day screening period (daily migraine prevalence) based on migraine data captured by daily eDiary 
entries. 
The percentage of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing (Day 1) decreased to 14% and 15% in 
the ALD403 300-mg and 100-mg groups, respectively. When compared with placebo, the percentage of 
subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing (Day 1) in the ALD403 300-mg and 100-mg groups were 
both nominally significantly lower (P=0.0159 and 0.0312, respectively) than the 23% observed in the 
placebo group. 
78 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint analyses  
Reduction in Average Daily Migraine Prevalence from Baseline to Week 4 
There were nominally significant and clinically meaningful improvements for the ALD403 groups compared 
with placebo in the reductions from baseline in average daily migraine prevalence over Weeks 1-4 with p-
values of <0.0001, 0.0004 and <0.0001 for the 300-mg, 100-mg and 30-mg groups, respectively. The rates 
of average daily migraine prevalence, as measured each week over the first month, were similar to the Day 1 
migraine prevalence rates shown in Table 20 (e.g., for ALD403 300 mg the Day 1 rate was 13.9% and the 
Week 1 rate was 14.4%). 
Change in Frequency of Migraine Days Between Baseline and Time Periods Other Than Weeks 1-12 
Results showed consistently reduced average migraine days in all the ALD403 treatment groups compared 
with placebo. The therapeutic effect was most consistently maintained in the ALD403 300-mg group across 
all dosing intervals, while increases in average monthly migraine days were observed in the ALD403 100-mg 
and ALD403 30-mg groups prior to the second, third and fourth dose. 
Overall, the number (%) of subjects with a 50% or greater reduction in migraines from Weeks 1-48 was 
consistently higher in the ALD403 treatment groups than in the placebo group. The proportions of subjects 
with 50% or greater reduction in migraines were balanced across the ALD403 treatment groups. Results were 
similar for 50% headache responder rates. 
Overall, the number (%) of subjects with a 75% or greater reduction in migraines from Weeks 1-48 was 
consistently higher in the ALD403 treatment groups than in the placebo group. The proportion of subjects 
with 75% or greater reduction in migraines was numerically greater in the 300-mg group as compared to the 
100-mg and 30-mg groups in 10 of the twelve 4-week intervals. Results were similar for 75% headache 
responder rates. 
79 
 
 
 
100% Migraine Responder Rates (Weeks 1-48) 
The ALD403 300-mg group was associated with greater 100% migraine responder rates during each 4-week 
interval compared with placebo over Weeks 1-12. Results for the ALD403 30-mg and 100-mg group were less 
consistent over the same 12-week period. The percent of 100% migraine responders in the ALD403 300-mg 
group was consistently higher than the other ALD403 dose groups from shortly after dosing and that result 
was maintained in all but one 4-week interval through Week 48. 
Change in Acute Migraine Medication Days (Weeks 1-12) 
An acute migraine medication day was a day with any triptan or ergotamine use as recorded in the eDiary. 
Mean acute migraine medication days was low at baseline and was reduced over Weeks 1-12 in all treatment 
groups. The reductions in acute migraine medication days from baseline were numerically greater in the 
ALD403 treatment groups with nominally statistically significant reductions in the ALD403 300-mg and 
ALD403 100-mg groups compared to the placebo group. 
Change in acute migraine medication days (weeks 1-12) 
An acute migraine medication day was a day with any triptan or ergotamine use as recorded in the eDiary. 
Mean acute migraine medication days was low at baseline and was reduced over Weeks 1-12 in all treatment 
groups. The reductions in acute migraine medication days from baseline were numerically greater in the 
ALD403 treatment groups with nominally statistically significant reductions in the ALD403 300-mg and 
ALD403 100-mg groups compared to the placebo group. 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses 
The following figures present forest plots of difference from placebo for ALD403 300 mg and ALD403 100 mg, 
respectively, in migraine days change from baseline over Weeks 1-12 by subgroup. 
80 
 
 
 
Subgroup analyses raised concerns that there could be heterogeneity associated with race. In particular, 
black patients seemed to have a point estimate close to zero, suggesting that these patients did not benefit 
from treatment. Lack of efficacy for patients of colour was found replicated in study 011. This issue was 
raised and discussed in the day 180 LoOI. The applicant provided some reassurance that other variables may 
interact with treatment despite adjustment for race. This suggests that other variables than race may be 
associated with a larger or smaller effect of treatment. This includes the acute use of medication with more 
extreme positioning in US (either no medication or fixed combinations and opiates) as compared to EU. 
Although the extent of this cannot be evaluated, as the respective estimates are missing, this at least 
provides some reassurance, as it is not considered plausible that black patients would have a smaller 
treatment benefit than white patients. 
Overall, the effect of 100 mg seems to be less robust than the effect of 300 mg. Several subgroups show 
point estimates close to zero, including subjects with age at diagnosis >21 years, male sex, >9 monthly days 
of migraine at baseline, ≤15 years of migraine history, black race and Hispanic ethnicity. Therefore, some 
uncertainty regarding heterogeneity of the treatment effect remains. 
Missing data and study compliance 
The majority of subjects remained in the study through Week 12 with fewer than 10 subjects (<5%) in the 
300-mg and 100-mg groups not attending the Week 12 visits and 17 placebo subjects not attending the 
Week 12 visit (Table 7). The incidence of missing data increased with time during the study. 
The dropouts and the missing eDiary reports were generally balanced across the treatment groups until Week 
24, where a slightly higher rate was observed for the placebo group compared to the ALD403 treatment 
groups.  
81 
 
 
 
 
Study ALD403-CLIN-011: Chronic Migraine  
Methods 
Study Participants 
The study included anti CGRP mAb-naïve, male and female patients between 18 and 65 years of age with a 
diagnosis of chronic migraine (defined as ≥15 to ≤26 headache days, of which ≥8 days were assessed as 
migraine days in the 28-day screening period). Subjects were allowed to concomitantly use non-mAb 
prophylactic headache medication, provided that this was stable for at least 3 months prior to screening. 
Patients with a history of complicated migraine, chronic tension-type headache, hypnic headache, cluster 
headache, hemicrania continua, new daily persistent headache, migraine with brainstem aura, sporadic, and 
familial hemiplegic migraine, as well as subjects with cardiovascular disease, neurological disease, 
cerebrovascular disease, diabetes, or Raynaud’s disease were excluded from study participation. 
Study 011 was conducted at approximately 150 centers in 13 countries with the majority of sites (53%) in 
the United States. Approximately 1050 subjects were to be randomly assigned in equal ratios to one of the 3 
treatment groups (100 mg ALD403, 300 mg ALD403, or placebo). 
Treatments 
The eptinezumab doses of (100 mg or 300 mg) or placebo were prepared by the unblinded pharmacist or 
designee and were administered via IV over a period of 30 (+15) minutes on Day 0 and at the Week 12 (Day 
84 ±3 days) visit by the blinded investigator or designee. 
Subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of three treatment arms, 1 of 2 eptinezumab dose levels (100 mg or 
300 mg) or placebo in a 1:1:1 ratio. Randomization occurred 28-30 days after the screening visit, after 
eligibility assessments were completed. 
There were no pre-specified dose modifications or dose reductions allowed. 
Stable concomitant (non-anti CGRP) prophylactic headache medication was allowed. Concomitant barbiturate 
and opioid medication, as well as codeine was restricted, but not prohibited. It is not clear, to which extend 
these medications were actually used across treatment groups and whether endpoint analyses might have 
been affected 
Objectives 
Primary objective 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of repeat doses of ALD403 administered IV 
compared to placebo in subjects with chronic migraine. 
Secondary objectives 
The secondary objectives of this study were: 
• To evaluate the safety of repeat doses of ALD403 administered IV compared to placebo in subjects with 
chronic migraine. 
• To evaluate the PK and immunogenicity of repeat doses of ALD403 administered IV to subjects with chronic 
migraine. 
82 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in frequency of migraine days (Weeks 1-12). 
Key Secondary Efficacy Endpoints 
The key secondary endpoints were as follows: 
• 75% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-4) 
• 75% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-12) 
• 50% migraine responder rate (Weeks 1-12) 
• Percentage of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing 
• Reduction in migraine prevalence from baseline to Week 4 
• Headache Impact Test (HIT-6)a, b 
• Acute migraine medication usagea, b 
a Applies only to the ALD403 300 mg dose. 
b Please see Section 9.8.2 for further description of the planned analyses. 
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
Approximately 1050 subjects were to be randomly assigned in equal ratios to one of the 3 treatment groups 
(100 mg ALD403, 300 mg ALD403, or placebo).  
Randomization occurred 28 to 30 days after the screening visit, after eligibility assessments approved by the 
medical monitor and eligibility, including eDiary criteria, were reconfirmed by the investigator. As study drug 
was shipped upon confirmation of subject randomization, subjects were not always treated on the day of 
randomization. Every effort was made to conduct an on-site randomization visit; however, a phone visit was 
acceptable in cases where the subject’s schedule did not permit an on-site visit. Sites completed 
randomization in IWRS, and the randomization assignment was obtained by the clinical study site’s 
unblinded pharmacist or designee. Subjects were randomly assigned in equal to one of two ALD403 dose 
levels (100 mg or 300 mg) or placebo in a 1:1:1 ratio. 
Subjects who withdrew from the clinical study after randomization were not replaced (i.e., their 
randomization numbers were not reused), including subjects who withdrew between randomization and 
treatment; these subjects retained their randomization assignment and subject number. 
The study remained blinded until the last subject completed the Week 12 visit. A limited number of sponsor 
representatives were unblinded as per the Blinding Plan and outputs were generated for the primary endpoint 
assessment at Week 12. Operational members of the study team and clinical site staff remained blinded to 
subject level data and treatment assignment through the end of the study. The details of any unblinding 
events were recorded in the ALD403-CLIN-011 Unblinding Log and maintained in the trial master file. During 
the conduct of the study there were no cases where subject unblinding was required. 
83 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
Primary analysis populations 
The Full Analysis Population was planned to be used for efficacy analyses. This set was planned to include all 
randomized subjects who received Investigational Product/placebo. Subjects were planned to be summarized 
within the treatment group to which they were randomized. 
Outcome variable 
The primary outcome was defined as the change from baseline to week 12 in monthly migraine days, where 
the baseline monthly migraine days were planned to be measured over a 28 days period after screening (i.e. 
before randomization) and the monthly migraine days up to week 12 were planned to be the average of the 
monthly migraine days in each 4 week period up to week 12 (i.e. the average of the migraine days in week 
1-4, 5-8 and 9-12). 
Initially, 75% response on week 1-12 was defined as primary outcome measure. A responder was planned to 
be defined as a subject who achieves a ≥75% reduction in migraine headache days when response rates for 
each of the four week intervals (1-4, 5-8, 9-12) are averaged. 
Primary analysis model 
An ANCOVA model was planned to be used to test for a difference between treatment arms. This model was 
planned to include the change from baseline measure as the response variable. Treatment and the 
stratification variables: baseline migraine days (continuous predictor) and prophylactic medication use (use 
vs. no use) were planned be the independent variables. 
For the key secondary endpoints (including the initially planned primary 75% responder rate) a CMH test was 
planned. The tests was planned to be stratified by the randomization stratification factors. 
Significance level and multiplicity 
The significance level was planned to be 5% two-sided. Multiplicity due to different dose-levels and several 
key secondary endpoints was planned to be addressed by a hierarchical testing procedure, as follows: 
The procedure was planned to start with the 300 mg vs placebo comparison for the primary endpoint. If this 
is significant, testing was planned to continue to key secondary endpoints for 300 mg. The procedure was 
planned to then move on to the 100 mg group for the primary endpoint and subsequently the secondary 
endpoints. The order of key secondary endpoints is not specified. 
Of note, the hierarchy was different in the initial protocol and was amended. Initially, it was planned to test 
the primary endpoint for the 300 mg vs placebo comparison first, and then hierarchically continue with key 
secondary endpoints in the 300 mg group and the primary endpoint in the 100 mg group in parallel. In 
amendment 1, this was changed. The primary analysis was changed to be for change form baseline in MMDs, 
(Weeks 1-12), and a hierarchy was introduced to key secondary endpoints and dose level testing, specifying 
that key secondary endpoints for 300 mg would be tested before moving on to the 100 mg dose level. The 
order of key-secondary endpoints was specified as first the Weeks 1-4, 75% responder endpoint and then the 
Weeks 1-12 75% responder endpoint). In amendment 3, the order of key-secondary endpoints was updated. 
In the statistical analysis plan, dated 08 November 2017, it was specified differently that key secondary 
endpoints would be tested using Holm’s procedure, i.e. overall a combination of gatekeeping and Holm’s 
would be applied, rather than hierarchical testing, as follows: 
84 
 
 
“At a high level this procedure will start with the 300 mg vs placebo comparison for the primary endpoint. If 
this is significant, testing will continue to the first group of key secondary endpoints for 300 mg where Holm’s 
multiplicity procedure will be used. Testing will then continue to the second group of key secondary endpoints 
and then move on to the 100 mg group for the primary endpoint and subsequently the key secondary 
endpoints using the same methodology (Holm’s within each group).” The ordering as specified in the SAP is 
displayed in the following table, where key secondary #1 would be tested upon rejection of the null 
hypothesis regarding change from baseline (week 1-12) in the 300 mg vs placebo comparison (primary 
endpoint) and between key secondary # 2 and key secondary # 3 the same outcome would be tested in the 
100 mg vs placebo comparison (primary outcome in lower dose level). Within one tier of key-secondary 
endpoints, all comparisons would need to be significant before continuation to the next tier. 
85 
 
 
 
Missing values 
Subjects who do not complete the eDiary daily were expected to have missing data. It was expected that 
most missing diary data would be sporadic. If the diary has been completed at least 21 days in a 28 day 
interval, then normalization was planned to be used. The results were planned to be normalized to 28 days 
by multiplying the observed results by the inverse of the completion rate. If the diary has been completed on 
less than 21 days in the 28 day interval then the results for the 28 day interval were planned to be a 
weighted function of the observed data for the current four week interval and the results from the previous 
interval. The weights were planned to be proportional to how many days the diary was completed. 
Specifically, the results were planned to be derived as 28
(W
XC+(1-W)
XP) where W is the days the diary was 
completed divided by 20, Xc is the available average daily results for the current interval and Xp are the 
⋅
⋅
⋅
average daily results for the previous interval. 
Results 
Participant flow 
A total of 1142 subjects were screened but not randomized, the majority as they did not meet all inclusion 
criteria.  
Of the 1121 subjects who were randomized, 49 subjects (4.4%) were not treated, due to a variety of 
reasons, including subject withdrew from the study (19 subjects), due to AE (2 subjects), study burden (8 
subjects), and other reasons (9 subjects). 27 subjects were randomized and but not treated due to other 
reasons. Overall, these reasons were not related to study drug (never received dosing). 
55 subjects (5.1%) discontinued treatment early; the incidence of subjects who discontinued treatment early 
was generally balanced across the groups.  
86 
 
 
 
Table 7: Subject Disposition by Treatment Sequence (All Randomized Subjects) 
Status 
ALD403 300 mg 
ALD403 100 mg 
Placebo n 
Overall n 
n (% ) 
n (% ) 
(% ) 
(% ) 
Randomized subjects 
374 
372 
375 
1121 
Subjects randomized but not 
24 (6.4) 
16 (4.3) 
9 (2.4) 
49 (4.4) 
treated 
Discontinued treatment early 
15 (4.3) 
16 (4.5) 
24 (6.6) 
55 (5.1) 
a 
Discontinued study early a 
28 (8.0) 
32 (9.0) 
41 (11.2) 
101 (9.4) 
Reason for early treatment discontinuation 
Adverse event 
8 (2.3) 
Subject withdrew informed 
5 (1.4) 
3 (< 1) 
7 (2.0) 
3 (< 1) 
14 (1.3) 
14 (3.8) 
26 (2.4) 
consent 
Investigator decision 
0 
Termination of study by Sponsor 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Lost to follow-up 
2 (< 1) 
Other 
0 
3 (< 1) 
3 (< 1) 
5 (1.4) 
10 (< 1) 
2 (< 1) 
5 (< 1) 
Reason for early study discontinuation a 
Withdrawal by subject 
20 (5.7) 
20 (5.6) 
23 (6.3) 
63 (5.9) 
Adverse event 
Study burden 
Lack of efficacy 
4 (1.1) 
3 (< 1) 
6 (1.7) 
Worsening of study indication 
0 
0 
4 (1.1) 
5 (1.4) 
0 
1 (< 1) 
5 (< 1) 
3 (< 1) 
10 (< 1) 
10 (2.7) 
21 (2.0) 
0 
0 
Other 
7 (2.0) 
11 (3.1) 
9 (2.5) 
27 (2.5) 
Randomization capped 
Physician decision 
0 
0 
Lost to follow-up 
8 (2.3) 
Death 
Study terminated by Sponsor 
Other 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (< 1) 
9 (2.5) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (< 1) 
3 (< 1) 
16 (4.4) 
33 (3.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
2 (< 1) 
87 
 
 
 
Reason randomized but not treated b 
Withdrawal by subject 
9 (37.5) 
8 (50.0) 
2 (22.2) 
19 (38.8) 
Adverse event 
2 (8.3) 
0 
Study burden 
5 (20.8) 
3 (18.8) 
0 
0 
2 (4.1) 
8 (16.3) 
Status 
ALD403 300 mg 
ALD403 100 mg 
Placebo n 
Overall n (% 
n (% ) 
n (% ) 
(% ) 
Lack of efficacy 
Worsening of study indication 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
) 
0 
0 
Other 
2 (8.3) 
5 (31.3) 
2 (22.2) 
9 (18.4) 
Randomization capped 
Physician decision 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Lost to follow-up 
1 (4.2) 
1 (6.3) 
1 (11.1) 
3 (6.1) 
Death 
Study terminated by Sponsor 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Other 
14 (58.3) 
7 (43.8) 
6 (66.7) 
27 (55.1) 
Subjects by visit c 
Day 0 
Week 4 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 32 
350 (93.6) 
356 (95.7) 
366 (97.6) 
1072 (95.6) 
348 (93.0) 
355 (95.4) 
364 (97.1) 
1067 (95.2) 
344 (92.0) 
349 (93.8) 
356 (94.9) 
1049 (93.6) 
331 (88.5) 
333 (89.5) 
336 (89.6) 
1000 (89.2) 
291 (77.8) 
293 (78.8) 
289 (77.1) 
873 (77.9) 
Abbreviations: n = number of subjects in a group 
a Percentages based upon number of subjects in the full analysis population. 
b Percentages based upon number of subjects randomized but had not received treatment. These 
subjects were not included in the full analysis population 
c Subjects who attended each visit. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Demographics across groups were generally well balanced and any minor differences observed were not 
considered to be clinically relevant. The mean age was 40.5 years and most subjects (704 [65.7%]) were in 
the > 35-years age group. The majority of subjects were females (88.2%), most were not of Hispanic or 
Latino ethnicity (986 subjects [92.0%]), and most were racially identified as white (975 subjects [91.0%]). 
At baseline, 397 subjects (37.0%) reported prophylactic medication use. 
Table 11: Demographics and Baseline Characteristics (Safety Population) 
Status 
ALD403 300 mg 
ALD403 100 mg 
Placebo 
N=350 
N=356 
N=366 
Overall 
N=1072 
Age (years) 
n 
350 
356 
366 
1072 
Mean (SD) 
41.0 (10.36) 
41.0 (11.72) 
39.6 (11.28)  40.5 (11.15) 
Median 
Min, max 
40.5 
41.0 
40.0 
41.0 
18, 65 
18, 65 
18, 65 
18, 65 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Age Group, n (% ) 
≤ 35 years 
> 35 years 
Sex, n (% ) 
Male 
Female 
Ethnicity, n (% ) 
114 (32.6) 
113 (31.7) 
141 (38.5) 
368 (34.3) 
236 (67.4) 
243 (68.3) 
225 (61.5) 
704 (65.7) 
36 (10.3) 
49 (13.8) 
41 (11.2) 
126 (11.8) 
314 (89.7) 
307 (86.2) 
325 (88.8) 
946 (88.2) 
Hispanic or Latino 
18 (5.1) 
33 (9.3) 
35 (9.6) 
86 (8.0) 
Not Hispanic or Latino 
332 (94.9) 
323 (90.7) 
331 (90.4) 
986 (92.0) 
Race, n (% ) 
White 
322 (92.0) 
332 (93.3) 
321 (87.7) 
975 (91.0) 
Black or African American 
23 (6.6) 
21 (5.9) 
38 (10.4) 
82 (7.6) 
Asian 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
3 (< 1) 
American Indian or Alaska 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
3 (< 1) 
Native 
Native Hawaiian or other 
1 (< 1) 
0 
0 
1 (< 1) 
Pacific Islander 
Multiple Races 
2 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
4 (1.1) 
7 (< 1) 
Other 
0 
0 
1 (< 1) 
1 (< 1) 
Region, n (% ) 
European Union 
53 (15.1) 
50 (14.0) 
51 (13.9) 
154 (14.4) 
North America 
195 (55.7) 
198 (55.6) 
232 (63.4) 
625 (58.3) 
Other 
102 (29.1) 
108 (30.3) 
83 (22.7) 
293 (27.3) 
Status 
ALD403 300 mg 
ALD403 100 mg 
Placebo 
N=350 
N=356 
N=366 
Overall 
N=1072 
Weight (kg) 
n 
350 
356 
366 
1072 
Mean (SD) 
72.71 (15.340) 
73.32 (15.655)  74.85 (16.259)  73.64 (15.774) 
Median 
70.30 
71.95 
73.00 
72.00 
Min, max 
45.8, 117.9 
39.2, 134.2 
40.7, 126.8 
39.2, 134.2 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Height (cm) 
n 
350 
356 
366 
1072 
Mean (SD) 
166.1 (7.89) 
166.2 (8.24) 
166.3 (7.90) 
166.2 (8.00) 
Median 
165.0 
166.0 
166.0 
165.0 
Min, max 
144, 203 
147, 194 
142, 198 
142, 203 
BMI (kg/m2)a 
n 
350 
356 
366 
1072 
Mean (SD) 
26.25 (5.038) 
26.42 (4.979) 
27.02 (5.558)  26.57 (5.208) 
Median 
25.20 
25.90 
26.15 
25.80 
Min, max 
15.9, 38.9 
16.7, 38.8 
17.3, 39.0 
15.9, 39.0 
Baseline migraine days, n (% )b 
< 17 days 
193 (55.1) 
192 (53.9) 
204 (55.7) 
589 (54.9) 
≥ 17 days 
157 (44.9) 
164 (46.1) 
162 (44.3) 
483 (45.1) 
Reported prophylactic medication use, n (% )c 
Yes 
No 
130 (37.1) 
132 (37.1) 
135 (36.9) 
397 (37.0) 
220 (62.9) 
224 (62.9) 
231 (63.1) 
675 (63.0) 
Calculated baseline migraine days, n (% )d 
< 17 days 
197 (56.3) 
199 (55.9) 
206 (56.3) 
602 (56.2) 
≥ 17 days 
153 (43.7) 
157 (44.1) 
160 (43.7) 
470 (43.8) 
Prior prophylactic medication use, n (% )e 
Yes 
No 
62 (17.7) 
51 (14.3) 
46 (12.6) 
159 (14.8) 
288 (82.3) 
305 (85.7) 
320 (87.4) 
913 (85.2) 
Status 
ALD403 300 mg N=350  ALD403 100 mg 
Placebo 
Overall 
N=356 
N=366 
N=1072 
Concomitant prophylactic medication use, n (% )f 
Yes 
No 
155 (44.3) 
195 (55.7) 
161 (45.2) 
163 (44.5) 
479 (44.7) 
195 (54.8) 
203 (55.5) 
593 (55.3) 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: BMI = body mass index; max = maximum; min = minimum, N = total number of 
subjects in a 
group, n = total number of subjects with the event. 
a Body mass index was calculated as weight (kg) / height (m)2. 
b Baseline migraine days entered at randomization by the site. 
c Prophylactic medication use entered at randomization by the site. 
d Baseline migraine days calculated from the eDiary. 
e Prior prophylactic medication use based on clinical review of the coded prior medication. 
f Concomitant prophylactic medication use based on clinical review of the coded concomitant 
medications. Sources: Table 14.1.3.1. 
Numbers analysed 
All efficacy analyses were performed on the FAP and all safety analyses were performed on the safety 
population. 
A total of 1121 subjects were randomized. A total of 1072 subjects (95.6%) received treatment and were 
included in the safety population and FAP. A total of 49 subjects (4.4%) were randomized but not dosed. 
Table 10: Summary of Analysis Sets (All Randomized Subjects) 
Status 
ALD403 300 mg n 
ALD403 100 mg 
Placebo n 
Overall n (% 
(% ) 
n (% ) 
(% ) 
) 
All randomized subjects 
374 
372 
375 
1121 
Safety populationa 
350 (93.6) 
356 (95.7) 
366 (97.6) 
1072 (95.6) 
Full analysis populationb 
350 (93.6) 
356 (95.7) 
366 (97.6) 
1072 (95.6) 
Abbreviations: n = total number of subjects with the event. 
a The safety population included all subjects who received study drug/placebo. Subjects were 
summarized within the group for which they actually received treatment. 
b The full analysis population included all randomized subjects who received study drug/placebo. 
Subjects were summarized within the group to which they were randomized. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy analyses 
The primary endpoint was calculated as the number of monthly migraine days within 4-week intervals that 
were then averaged up to week 12. 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16: Analysis of Migraine Days by 12-Week Interval and Treatment (Full Analysis Population) 
Interval 
ALD403 
ALD403 
Placebo N=366 
300 mg N=350 
100 mg N=356 
Weeks 1-12 
Actual 
Estimated mean 
7.9 
Mean difference from placebo 
-2.60 
8.5 
-2.03 
95% CI 
(-3.45, -1.74) 
(-2.88, -1.18) 
Change from baselinea 
Estimated mean 
-8.2 
Mean difference from placebo 
-2.60 
-7.7 
-2.03 
95% CI 
p-valueb 
(-3.45, -1.74) 
(-2.88, -1.18) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
10.5 
-5.6 
Key secondary efficacy endpoints 
75% Migraine Responder Rate (Weeks 1-4) 
The 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-4 demonstrated a statistically significant improvement 
(P<0.0001) for the ALD403 300 mg group with an estimated difference of 21.3% (95% CI: 15.0, 27.6) 
versus placebo. For the ALD403 100 mg group, the 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-4 also 
demonstrated statistically significant improvement (P<0.0001) with an estimated difference of 15.3% (95% 
CI: 9.3, 21.4) versus placebo. 
Table 17: Summary of 75% Migraine Responder Rate by 4-Week Interval and Treatment – Weeks 
1-4 (Full Analysis Population) 
Interval Assessment 
ALD403 
ALD403 
300 mg N=350 
100 mg N=356 
Placebo 
N=366 
Weeks 1-4 
75% responder - n (%) 
129 (36.9) 
110 (30.9) 
57 (15.6) 
Difference from placebo 
21.3 
15.3 
95% CIa 
p-valueb 
(15.0, 27.6) 
(9.3, 21.4) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Odds ratio relative to placeboc 
3.206 
2.445 
95% CIc 
(2.242, 4.583) 
(1.705, 3.507) 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; N = total number of subjects in the group; n = number of subjects 
with the event; SAP = statistical analysis plan. 
75% Migraine Responder Rate (Weeks 1-12) 
The 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-12 demonstrated a statistically significant improvement 
(P<0.0001) for ALD403 300 mg with an estimated difference of 18.1% (95% CI: 12.0, 24.3) versus placebo. 
For the ALD403 100 mg group, the 75% migraine responder rate over Weeks 1-12 was also statistically 
significant (P=0.0001) with a difference of 11.7 (95% CI: 5.8, 17.5) versus placebo. 
Table 18: Summary of 75% Migraine Responder Rate – Weeks 1-12 (Full Analysis Population) 
Interval Assessment 
ALD403 
ALD403 
Placebo N=366 
300 mg N=350 
100 mg N=356 
Weeks 1-12 
75% Responder - n (%) 
116 (33.1) 
95 (26.7) 
55 (15.0) 
Difference from placebo 
18.1 
11.7 
95% CI a 
p-value b 
Odds ratio relative to placebo c 
2.780 
(12.0, 24.3) 
(5.8, 17.5) 
< 0.0001 
0.0001 
2.052 
95% CIc 
(1.938, 3.987) 
(1.419, 2.968) 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; N = total number of subjects in the group; n = number of subjects 
with the event; SAP = statistical analysis plan. 
50% Migraine Responder Rate (Weeks 1-12) 
The ALD403 300 mg group with a 50% migraine responder rate of 61.4% and a mean difference of 22.1 
(95% CI: 14.9, 29.2) versus placebo demonstrated a statistically significant improvement (P<0.0001) for this 
endpoint. The ALD403 100 mg dose with a 50% migraine responder rate of 57.6% and a mean difference of 
18.2 (95% CI: 11.1, 25.4) versus placebo was also statistically significant (P<0.0001).  
Table 19: Summary of 50% Migraine Responder Rate by 12-Week Interval and Treatment (Full 
Analysis Population) 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interval Assessment 
ALD403 
ALD403 
Placebo 
300 mg N=350 
100 mg N=356 
N=366 
Weeks 1-12 
50% responder - n (%) 
215 (61.4) 
205 (57.6) 
144 (39.3) 
Difference from placebo 
22.1 
18.2 
95% CIa 
p-valueb 
Odds ratio relative to placeboc 
2.446 
(14.9, 29.2) 
(11.1, 25.4) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
2.098 
95% CIc 
(1.812, 3.301) 
(1.559, 2.824) 
Abbreviations: CI = confidence interval; N = total number of subjects in the group; n = number of subjects 
with the event; SAP = statistical analysis plan. 
Percentage of Subjects with Migraine on Day after Dosing (Day 1) 
On average approximately 58% of subjects had a migraine on any given day during the 28-day screening 
period (daily migraine prevalence) based on migraine data captured by daily eDiary entries. The percentages 
of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing (Day 1) were 27.8% and 28.6% in the ALD403 300 mg 
and 100 mg groups, respectively, compared with 42.3% in the placebo group. The percentages of subjects 
with a migraine on the day after dosing for the ALD403 300 mg and 100 mg groups versus placebo were 
statistically significant (P<0.0001 for both dose groups). 
Table 20: Summary of Percentages of Subjects with a Migraine from Baseline to Day 7 (Full 
Analysis Population) 
Assessment 
ALD403 
ALD403 
Placebo N=366 
Percentage of subjects with a migraine 
300 mg N=350 
100 mg N=356 
Baselinea 
Day 0b 
Day 1 
p-valuec 
Day 2 
Day 3 
Day 4 
Day 5 
57.4 
33.1 
27.8 
57.5 
40.0 
28.6 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
26.4 
29.1 
28.0 
27.4 
30.4 
27.5 
30.1 
28.7 
58.0 
45.3 
42.3 
36.9 
35.3 
44.8 
39.6 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day 6 
Day 7 
29.2 
28.3 
33.3 
28.9 
41.4 
40.2 
Abbreviations: N = total number of subjects in the group. 
a Baseline was the average over the 28-day screening period prior to receiving treatment. 
b Day 0 was the first study treatment day. 
c p-values for the key secondary endpoint percentage of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing 
(Day 1) were obtained from an extended Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test stratified by randomized baseline 
migraine days (< 17 days, ≥ 17 days) and prophylactic medication use (yes vs. no). The p-values were 
deemed significant by the decision rule outlined in the statistical analysis plan. 
Reduction in Migraine Prevalence from Baseline to Week 4 
There was a nominally significant and clinically meaningful improvement for both ALD403 groups compared 
with placebo on reductions in average daily migraine prevalence for each of the 4 weeks. The mean 
difference of the change from baseline in average daily migraine prevalence over Weeks 1-4 was -11.0 (95% 
CI: -14.22, -7.77) for the ALD403 300 mg arm, while the difference was -8.26 (95% CI: -11.48, -5.05) for 
the ALD403 100 mg arm, both statistically significant versus placebo (P<0.0001). 
Headache Impact Test (HIT-6) – ALD403 300 mg 
96 
 
 
 
 
At baseline, the HIT-6 life impact scores were balanced among the groups. Most subjects in all groups had 
severe impact scores at baseline (310, 319, and 320 subjects [88.6%, 89.6%, and 87.4%] in the ALD403 
300 mg, 100 mg, and placebo groups, respectively). The impact scores improved by Weeks 9-12 (assessed 
at Week 12) and 150, 183, and 220 subjects (42.9%, 51.4%, and 60.1%) had severe impact scores in the 
ALD403 300 mg, 100 mg, and placebo groups, respectively. The improvements were sustained through Week 
32. 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses 
The following figures present forest plots of difference from placebo for ALD403 300 mg and ALD403 100 mg, 
respectively, in migraine days change from baseline over Weeks 1-12 by subgroup. 
Figure 9: Forest Plot of Difference from Placebo in Migraine Days Change from Baseline over 
Weeks 1-12 by Subgroup - ALD403 300 mg Versus Placebo (Full Analysis Population) 
Note: Change from baseline was the difference in migraine days between baseline and Weeks 1-12. The 95% 
CIs were based on normal approximation. 
Source: Figure 14.5.2.3 (Panel 1). 
Figure 10: Forest Plot of Difference from Placebo in Migraine Days Change from Baseline over 
Weeks 1-12 by Subgroup - ALD403 100 mg Versus Placebo (Full Analysis Population) 
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Change from baseline was the difference in migraine days between baseline and Weeks 1-12. The 95% 
CIs were based on normal approximation. 
Consistent with study 006 heterogeneity associated with race is observed, suggesting that black patients may 
have a smaller or no treatment benefit. In the 431 (40%) patients diagnosed with medication-overuse 
headache (MOH) in PROMISE-2, the mean change from baseline in MMD (weeks 1-12) was for VYEPTI 
100 mg -8.4 days, VYEPTI 300 mg -8.6 days, and placebo -5.4 days (mean difference to placebo of -3.0 days 
and -3.2 days for 100 mg and 300 mg, respectively). 
Missing data and study compliance 
Most subjects remained in the study through Week 12 with 13 subjects (< 5%) in the ALD403 300 mg and 
100 mg groups not attending the Week 12 visits and 10 placebo subjects (< 5%) not attending the Week 12 
visit (Table 7). Subjects who remained in the study and failed to interact with their eDiary each day, thereby 
resulting in sporadic missing data, are summarized in Table 14.2.1.1. The incidence of missing data increased 
with time during the study. The mean rate (average percent of days the subjects failed to report a headache 
or interact with the eDiary) during baseline was 2.12%, 2.03%, and 2.08%, and during Weeks 9-12 was 
9.96%, 11.08%, and 12.32% for the ALD403 300 mg group, 100 mg group, and placebo group, respectively.  
The dropouts and the missing eDiary reports were generally balanced across the groups until Week 24, where 
a slightly higher rate was observed for the placebo group compared with the ALD403 groups. The impact of 
missing eDiary reports was assessed through the sensitivity analyses of the primary efficacy endpoints. 
Results did not indicate substantial impact of the missing data on results of the primary efficacy endpoint, but 
this needs further evaluation through additional sensitivity analyses.  
Summary of main efficacy results 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as  well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
98 
 
 
 
 
Summary of efficacy for trial 006 
Title: A Parallel Group Double-Blind Randomized Placebo Controlled Trial to Evaluate the 
Efficacy and Safety of ALD403 Administered Intravenously in Patients with Frequent 
Episodic Migraines 
Study identifier 
ALD403-CLIN-006,  
Design 
Phase 3, multi-center, parallel group; double-blind; placebo controlled; 
subjects were randomly assigned into 1 of 3 ALD403 dose levels (30 mg, 100 
mg, and 300 mg) or placebo in a 1:1:1:1 ratio. Randomization was stratified 
by migraine days during screening (≤9 days versus >9 days). 
Duration:  
60 weeks, hereof, 4 weeks for confirmation of 
eligibility, 36-weeks treatment period, 20-
weeks follow-up period. 
Hypothesis 
Superiority  
Treatments groups 
placebo 
4 total infusions (day 0, week 12, 24, 36), n = 
222 
30 mg  
4 total infusions (day 0, week 12, 24, 36), n = 
223 
100 mg 
4 total infusions (day 0, week 12, 24, 36), n = 
221 
300 mg 
4 total infusions (day 0, week 12, 24, 36), n = 
222 
Endpoints and 
Primary endpoint: 
The primary efficacy endpoint was calculated 
definitions 
Change in frequency of 
monthly migraine days 
(weeks 1-12) 
as the number of migraine days within 4-week 
intervals that were then averaged up to Week 
12. The difference of this estimate from 
baseline was calculated as the change from 
baseline in the frequency of migraine days 
over Weeks 1-12. 
Key secondary Endpoints: 
75% responder rate was calculated Weeks 1-4 
and Weeks 1-12 while 50% responder rate 
only was calculated Weeks 1-12 
• 75% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-4) 
• 75% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-12) 
• 50% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-12) 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Percentage of subjects 
with a migraine on the day 
of dosing 
Selected secondary 
Change in frequency of migraine as well as 
Endpoints: 
migraine responder rates for ALD403 were 
analysed across different intervals.  
Change in frequency of 
monthly migraine days 
Change in acute migraine medication days 
(weeks 1-12, weeks 13-
was limited to triptans and ergotamines. 
24, weeks 25-36, weeks 
37-48) 
• 50%, 75%, 100% 
responder rates (weeks 1-
12, weeks 13-24, weeks 
25-36, weeks 37-48) 
• Change in acute migraine 
medication days (weeks 1-
12) 
• 100% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-12) 
• Short-Form Health 
Survey (SF-36) 
• Health-Related Quality of 
Life (EQ-5D-5L) 
Database lock 
14 Dec 2017 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
Full analysis Population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate variability 
Weeks 1-12 
Treatment 
Placebo 
30 mg 
100 mg 
300 mg 
group 
Number 
subjects 
222 
223 
221 
222 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline 
MMDs 
Change 
from 
baseline 
8.4 
8.7 
8.7 
8.6 
Mean 
difference 
from 
placebo 
-3.2 
- 
95% CI 
p-value 
-4.0 
-3.9 
-4.3 
-1.11 
-0.82 
-0.69 
0.0046 
0.0182 
0.0001 
Effect estimate per 
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
30 – 100 – 300 mg (vs. 
comparison 
endpoint: 
placebo) 
Difference from 
9.8 – 10.5 – 11.3  
75% responder 
placebo (%) 
rate (weeks 1-4) 
95% CI  
(1.8, 17.8) - (2.4, 18.6) - 
(3.2, 19.3) 
P-value (Cochran-
0.0170 – 0.0112 – 0.0066 
Mantel-Haenszel test)  
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
30 – 100 – 300 mg (vs. 
endpoint: 
placebo) 
75% responder 
rate (weeks 1-
12) 
  Difference from 
8.4 – 6.0 – 13.5  
placebo (%) 
  95% CI  
(1.0, 15.9)-(-1.4, 13.3)-
(5.8, 21.2) 
P-value (Cochran-
0.0272 - 0.1126 - 0.0007 
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
30 – 100 – 300 mg (vs. 
endpoint: 
placebo) 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Difference from 
12.8 – 12.4 – 18.9  
50% responder 
placebo (%) 
rate (weeks 1-
95% CI  
(3.7, 22.0)- (3.2, 21.5)- 
12) 
(9.8, 28.0) 
P-value (Cochran-
0.0064 - 0.0085 - 0.0001 
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
Placebo - 30 – 100 – 300 
endpoint: 
mg  
Percentage of 
subject with 
migraine on the 
day after dosing 
Baseline 
Day 1  
29.8 – 31.0 – 31.0 – 30.8 
22.5 – 17.3 - 14.8 – 13.9 
p-value (Cochran-
     - 0.1539 – 0.0312 – 
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
0.0159 
Notes 
Based on the decision rule (Section 11.4.1), the results for the study’s primary 
efficacy endpoint was statistically significant in the ALD403 300-mg and 100-
mg groups compared to placebo. The ALD403 30-mg group was nominally 
significant (P=0.0046) from placebo with a mean difference of -0.82 days 
(95% CI: -1.39, -0.25. 
The initially planned primary outcome (75% responder rate (week 1-12)) was 
not significant in the 100 mg vs placebo comparison. 
Summary of efficacy for trial 011 
Title: A parallel group, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy 
and safety of ALD403 administered intravenously in subjects with chronic migraine 
Study identifier 
ALD403-CLIN-011 
Design 
This was a multinational  Phase 3, parallel group, double-blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled study enrolling subjects with chronic migraine. 
Duration of main phase:  
Total study duration36 weeks, including a 4-
week screening phase, a 12 week treatment 
phase , and 20 weeks of follow-up after the 
final dose 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
placebo 
2 total infusions (day 0, week 12), n = 366 
100 mg 
300 mg 
2 total infusions (day 0, week 12), n = 356 
2 total infusions (day 0, week 12), n = 350 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints and 
Primary endpoint: 
The primary efficacy endpoint was calculated 
definitions 
Change in frequency of 
monthly migraine days 
(weeks 1-12) 
as the number of migraine days within 4-week 
intervals that were then averaged up to Week 
12. The difference of this estimate from 
baseline was calculated as the change from 
baseline in the frequency of migraine days 
over Weeks 1-12. 
Key Secondary endpoints: 
75% responder rate were calculated Weeks 1-
4 and Weeks 1-12 while 50% responder rate 
only was calculated Weeks 1-12 
Key secondary Endpoints: 
• 75% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-4) 
• 75% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-12) 
• 50% Responder rate 
(weeks 1-12) 
• Percentage of subjects 
with a migraine on the day 
of dosing 
• Reduction in migraine 
prevalence from baseline 
to Week 4 
• Headache Impact Test 
(HIT-6)a, b 
• Acute migraine 
medication usage 
Database lock 
20 April 2018 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis 
Full analysis Population Weeks 1-12 
population and 
time point 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
Treatment 
Placebo 
100 mg 
300 mg 
group 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
estimate 
variability 
Number of 
subject 
Primary 
endpoint:  
change in 
frequency of 
migraine days 
from Weeks 1-
12(mean) 
Mean difference 
from placebo 
375 
372 
374 
-5.6 
-7.7 
-8.2 
-2.03 
-2.60 
95% CI 
p-value 
(-2.88, -1.18) 
(-3.45, -1.74) 
< 0.0001 
< 0.0001 
Effect estimate per 
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
100 – 300 mg  
comparison 
endpoint: 
(vs. placebo) 
Difference from 
15.3 – 21.3  
75% responder 
placebo 
rate (weeks 1-4) 
95% CI  
(9.3, 21.4) - (15.0, 27.6) 
P-value (Cochran-
<0.0001 - <0.0001 
Mantel-Haenszel test)  
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
100 – 300 mg  
endpoint: 
(vs. placebo) 
75% responder 
placebo 
  Difference from 
11.7 – 18.1  
rate (weeks 1-
12) 
  95% CI  
(5.8, 17.5)-(12.0, 24.3)-
(5.8, 21.2) 
P-value (Cochran-
0.0001 - <0.0001 
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
100 – 300 mg  
endpoint: 
(vs. placebo) 
50% responder 
placebo 
Difference from 
18.2 – 22.1    
rate (weeks 1-
12) 
95% CI  
(11.1, 25.4) - (14.9, 29.2) 
P-value (Cochran-
< 0.0001 - < 0.0001 
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Key secondary 
Comparison groups 
Placebo – 100 – 300 mg  
endpoint: 
Percentage of 
subject with 
migraine on the 
day after dosing 
Baseline 
Day 1  
58.0– 57.5– 57.4 
42.3– 28.6– 27.8 
p-value ((Cochran-
     < 0.0001 - < 0.0001 
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable.  
Clinical studies in special populations 
No specific studies in special populations have been conducted. Patients > 65 years of age have been 
included in the pivotal trials, however, their absolute number was quite low [28 patients across pivotal 
studies (1.2%)]. Hence, only limited efficacy data are available for patients >65 years [28 patients across 
pivotal studies (1.2%)]. 
2.6.6.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The efficacy profile of eptinezumab was established in 2 pivotal Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-
controlled studies. Study ALD403-CLIN-006 included patients with frequent episodic migraine, while study 
ALD403-CLIN-011 included patients with chronic migraine. The key inclusion criteria in the 2 pivotal studies 
were generally similar across both studies, with minor differences due to the disease state (EM or CM). Since 
episodic and chronic migraine are not considered different disease entities, but rather represent a continuum 
of severity of the same disease condition, the approach of only one pivotal trial in each migraine subtype is 
considered adequate (and was also agreed for other recently approved anti CGRF-therapies). The study 
designs followed the recommendation gained during EMA Scientific Advice and are also agreed. The dose 
regimens tested in the two phase 3 studies were based on preliminary efficacy and PK results from phase 2 
clinical trials. 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 006 was primarily conducted in the USA (79 sites), and in few study sites (5 sites) in the Republic of 
Georgia. No EU sites were included. Study 011 was conducted at approximately 150 centers in 13 countries 
with the majority of sites (53%) in the United States. Although this per se is not a matter of concern (as 
neither the disease characteristics, nor the underlying pathophysiology of migraine, nor eptinezumab’s mode 
of action are expected to differ between the US and the European population), it might have impacted some 
patient characteristics, e.g. patient BMI. Overall, the body-mass-index (BMI) of approximately 30 across 
treatment groups (which corresponds to grade 1 adipositas) appears relatively high. In line with current 
guidance (ICH guideline E17 on general principles for planning and design of multi-regional clinical trials, 
EMA/CHMP/ICH/453276/2016, and Guideline on adjustment for baseline covariates in clinical trials, 
EMA/CHMP/295050/2013) it would have been expected that randomization was stratified by region or study 
site. Some uncertainty remains with regard to extrapolation from North America to other regions, also in light 
of results from study 011. However, there is currently no reason to expect that the effect of treatment would 
be smaller in Europe and it is not expected that further insight can be gained from study 006. The analysed 
patient populations were overall representative, although patients with certain subtypes of migraine (e.g., 
complicated migraine, migraine with brainstem aura, sporadic, and familial hemiplegic migraine) as well as 
patients with specific concomitant diseases, such as cardiovascular disease (hypertension, ischemic heart 
disease), neurological disease, cerebrovascular disease, diabetes, or Raynaud’s disease, were excluded from 
study participation. Only few patients > 65 years of age took part in the clinical studies. Information on 
concomitant medication intake during Study 006 was tabulated and reviewed by a medical expert to identify 
if the medication in question were barbiturates, opioids, or codeine. Based on the classification, the patients 
with concomitant use of barbiturates, opioids, and codeine during the treatment period were further 
analysed. It was found that use during the treatment period was limited, and similar across treatment groups 
(13%, 14%, and 11% for eptinezumab 100 mg, eptinezumab 300mg, and placebo, respectively). A 
sensitivity analysis was conducted in order to assess the impact of the use of the concomitant barbiturates, 
opioids, and codeine medications, on the primary endpoint. The use was seen to be relatively stable over 
time. The primary analysis, change from baseline in MMDs Weeks 1-12, was repeated excluding the group of 
patients using these concomitant medications. The treatment effect was close to the results for the full study 
population, within <0.1 MMD, confirming that the impact from concomitant use of barbiturates, opioids, and 
codeine was low. 
The treatment arms were generally balanced in terms of baseline characteristics and similar in numbers of 
patients who were randomized and treated and who completed the studyor discontinued early. Overall, a 
proportion of >20% of study participants in study 006 and > 9% of participants in study 011 discontinued 
the study prematurely. The number of patients who discontinued due to adverse events was slightly 
increased in patients treated with eptinezumab 300 mg and 100 mg, compared to placebo-treated patients. 
The number of patients who withdrew due to study burden or lack of efficacy was greater in patients treated 
with placebo. This might be considered indicative for a beneficial effect of eptinezumab treatment. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
With regard to the statistical analyses, for both studies (006 and 011), the estimand approach to withdrawal 
from treatment is not entirely understood. The strategy described by the applicant depends on whether data 
is missing after the intercurrent event or not, rather than on the intercurrent event. It seems that a 
treatment policy approach for withdrawal from treatment, but a hypothetical approach for withdrawal from 
study would better characterize the analysis. The applicant was asked to either confirm or to provide clarity. 
In addition, a justification why the hypothetical approach should be preferred over a treatment policy 
approach was requested. The definition of the primary outcome variable is complex. Change from baseline is 
defined as the difference between baseline and the monthly average over the first 12 weeks after 
106 
 
 
randomization. The provided descriptive statistics provide reassurance of the general approach to missing 
values taken by the applicant, and provide further clarity that the methods are overall appropriate. The 
analyses provided by the applicant provide some reassurance on the primary conclusions. The applicant 
conducted a multiple imputation approach using the placebo distribution as a basis for multiple imputation of 
missing diary entries. Treatment effect estimates were affected, but remained in favour of eptinezumab 
treatment. In particular, for the 300 mg dose, point estimates were smaller for the difference in mean change 
from baseline MMDs (-1.00 for multiple imputation vs. -1.11 in the original analysis) as well as for the risk 
difference for ≥75% responders (12.7% with multiple imputation vs. 13.5% in the original analysis). These 
changes do not raise any strong concern. However, as differences were observed with regard to missing 
data, in particular with regard to discontinuation from study, the assumptions underlying this imputation 
approach may be questionable. The applicant conducted a tipping point analysis, using the delta method, by 
artificially changing the probability for a migraine day in the multiple imputation approach using linear 
increments corresponding to 10% of the difference in observed migraine day proportions between the 
treatment groups. As discussed by the applicant in response to question 80, there may be issues with 
overdispersion in a binomial approach, but nonetheless this exercise is very much endorsed, as it may 
provide insight into the robustness towards assumptions on missing values. It is noted that the tipping point 
analysis was not carried out until detection of a tipping point and rather small steps were used in the delta 
method, without discussion on the plausibility or relevance of the increments. The increments ranged from 
10% to 120% where 100% corresponds to a random draw using the mean proportion of observed migraine 
days in the placebo group. While the results from the exercise are reassuring, there remains some 
uncertainty, as it is not yet clear under which assumptions a different conclusion might have been made and 
whether such assumptions would be plausible. Thus, the robustness towards violations of the assumptions 
cannot be sufficiently assessed. Based on the linearity of the tipping point approach it seems that a delta of 
approximately 400% might be the tipping point, at which the difference in change in MMDs of the 300 mg 
arm vs the placebo arm comparison would no longer be statistically significant at the nominal level of 
α=0.05. The applicant was therefore asked to confirm or correct this impression in the D180 LoOI, and to 
discuss the plausibility of the respective delta by discussing the plausibility of the assumed migraine day 
probabilities corresponding (e.g. discussing the corresponding percentile in the baseline distribution of 
MMDs). The applicant provided the requested information. The tipping point at which the results would no 
longer be statistically significant corresponds to an average daily migraine frequency of 0.336 (averaged 
across the 4-week periods; Weeks 1-4, Weeks 5-8, and Weeks 9-12) for eptinezumab 300 mg, which 
translates into a theoretical number of 9.4 MMDs for Weeks 1-12. Although a theoretical number of 9.4 MMD 
in a four week period is not impossible, this assumption appears rather pessimistic. Despite some uncertainty 
remains, this issue will not be further pursued.  
The primary efficacy endpoint for this study was the change from baseline in monthly migraine days over 
weeks 1-12, calculated as the number of migraine days within 4-week intervals that were averaged up to 
week 12. The primary endpoint was statistically significant for the 300 mg and 100 mg treatment groups. 
Despite this statistical significance, the mean difference from placebo was only modest (300 mg: - 1.11/ 100 
mg: - 0.69). Key secondary and secondary endpoints were supportive for the primary endpoint analysis. 
However, the initially planned primary outcome (75% responder rate (week 1-12)) was not significant for the 
100 mg group. The 30 mg group was found to be nominal significant for the primary and all secondary 
endpoints, but not statistically significant in a confirmatory sense, as the 75% responder rate over week 1-12 
was not significantly different between 100 mg and placebo, and this analysis was higher in hierarchy. The 
overall migraine prevalence on day 1 after treatment was lower in all treatment arms compared to placebo. 
Baseline prevalence across arms was hereby highly comparable between groups, arguing for a true treatment 
effect. Acute migraine medication (triptans and ergotamines) days across weeks 1-12 were lower for all 
107 
 
 
treatment groups compared to placebo, as was the mean change from baseline. However, only use of 
triptans and ergotamines was reported and analysed. Other medications, e.g. over-the-counter analgesics, 
might have been used by patients, but were not evaluated. HIT-6, and SF-36, were supportive for the 
primary and key secondary endpoints. The persistence of efficacy was in addition demonstrated by the 
change in frequency of migraine days (Weeks 13-24), which was greater in eptinezumab groups compared 
with placebo. 
Although the difference on the primary efficacy endpoint was found to be rather modest, the size of 
treatment effect is in a range comparable to other anti-CGRP therapies recently authorised for the prevention 
of migraine in adults. Key secondary endpoints, especially the 75% responder rate, argue for a substantial 
treatment benefit of the 300 mg dosing regimen. However, clinical efficacy was not consistently robust for 
the 100 mg dose, especially in episodic migraine.  
However, as discussed above, the robustness of these findings requires further investigation in light of a 
substantial amount of missing data and heterogeneity across subjects. The Applicant was therefore requested 
to provide reassurance that other variables than region or race may be responsible for a reduced treatment 
effect by investigating through appropriate multivariable analyses the role of relevant patient characteristics 
as well as previous and concomitant medication observed in study 011 (instead of referring to literature 
only). In this regard, the Applicant discussed results from multivariable ANCOVA models to investigate 
potential interactions with treatment that might be underlying observed heterogeneity of the treatment effect 
between black and white patients. Overall, the statistical approach is considered reasonable. Although the 
applicant did not provide any point or confidence interval estimates from the respective models, and the 
clinical relevance of potential interactions thus cannot be judged, the applicant provided some reassurance 
that other variables may interact with treatment despite adjustment for race. This suggests that other 
variables than race may be associated with a larger or smaller effect of treatment. This includes the acute 
use of medication with more extreme positioning in US (either no medication or fixed combinations and 
opiates) as compared to EU. Although the extent of this cannot be evaluated, as the respective estimates are 
missing, this at least provides some reassurance, as it is not considered plausible that black patients would 
have a smaller treatment benefit than white patients. Although some uncertainty remains, as it is not 
expected that this issue can be resolved, this point is not further pursued. 
It is agreed that both treatment regimens, 100 mg and 300 mg, demonstrated to be efficacious in the 
treatment of EM and CM. Differences in response of some subgroups remain not completely understood, but 
might – at least in some cases – be chance findings and attributed to low patient numbers or non-medical 
factors. While 300 mg seems to have a more pronounced treatment effect across all treatment groups, the 
number of hypersensitivity reactions is remarkably higher in the 300 mg group compared to the 100 mg 
group (1.4% vs. 0.2%). Weighing the benefits and risks of treatment, the proposed posology with a 
recommended starting dose of 100 mg, with the option to increase to the 300 mg dose for patients who do 
not have a sufficient response after at least 12 weeks of treatment, seems acceptable. The amended wording 
in section 4.2 of the SmPC is considered adequate, since it clarifies the need for assessing treatment benefit 
12 weeks after treatment initiation, and the need for a re-assessment 6 months after treatment initiation. 
The efficacy of such a dose escalation strategy in non-responders or partial-responders has not been formally 
tested in the context of clinical trials. However, the approach seems to be justified and sufficiently pragmatic 
and will also fit in a real-world therapeutic setting. 
108 
 
 
2.6.7.  Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
Overall, the data submitted could provide evidence for the efficacy of eptinezumab, administered as a 3-
monthly 300 mg or 100 mg IV infusion, for the preventive treatment of episodic and chronic migraine in 
adults. Statistically significant and robust superiority over placebo was seen across the primary and most 
secondary endpoints for both dosing regimens. Although the difference to placebo on the primary efficacy 
endpoint was rather modest, the magnitude of treatment effect could be in line with what has been seen with 
recently authorized anti-CGRP therapies for subcutaneous administration. Eptinezumab is the first anti-CGRP 
treatment developed for the intravenous route of administration. The IV route and the less-than–monthly 
treatment regimen might be preferred by specific patient groups. Eptinezumab for IV administration may 
therefore complement the therapeutic landscape of anti-CGRP treatments for the prevention of migraine. 
Compared to “older” preventive treatments for migraine, that in part require long titration periods with a 
delayed onset of efficacy, daily drug intake, and an often poor tolerability, the rapid onset of treatment effect 
and the less frequent administration scheme are considered meaningful advances.  
Both treatment regimens, 100 mg and 300 mg, demonstrated to be efficacious in the treatment of EM and 
CM. Differences in response of some subgroups remain not completely understood, but might be chance 
findings and attributed to low patient numbers or confounding factors. While 300 mg seems to have a more 
pronounced treatment effect across all treatment groups, the number of hypersensitivity reactions is 
remarkably higher in the 300 mg group compared to the 100 mg group (1.4% vs. 0.2%). Weighing the 
benefits and risks of treatment, the proposed posology with a recommended starting dose of 100 mg, with 
the option to increase to the 300 mg dose for patients who do not have a sufficient response after at least 12 
weeks of treatment, seems acceptable. It is considered adequate to assess the treatment benefit 12 weeks 
after treatment initiation, and to re-assess 6 months after treatment initiation. The efficacy of such a dose 
escalation strategy in non-responders or partial-responders has not been formally tested in the context of 
clinical trials. However, the approach seems to be justified and sufficiently pragmatic and will also fit in a 
real-world therapeutic setting. 
2.6.8.  Clinical safety 
2.6.8.1.  Patient exposure 
Eptinezumab has been evaluated in 12 clinical studies. Five studies were conducted in subjects with chronic 
migraines (CM) or episodic migraines (EM) and seven studies were clinical pharmacology studies conducted in 
subjects without migraine, with the exception of a few subjects with migraines that participated in both, Part 
B of clinical pharmacology study ALD403-CLIN-001 and in one of the migraine studies.  
The  integrated  safety  database  included  data  from  the  pivotal  studies  ALD403-CLIN-006  (study  006)  and 
ALD403-CLIN-011 (study 011) with the other three studies ALD403-CLIN-002 (study 002), ALD403-CLIN-005 
(study 005) and ALD403-CLIN-013 (study 013) providing supportive data.    
Study 013 is a long-term safety study and was ongoing at the time of the safety data integration. Thus, only 
data of the primary treatment phase of study 013 (the first 4 eptinezumab infusions, up to week 36) has been 
integrated in the SCS. A 120-day safety update presenting new and updated data from study 013 (data cutoff 
of 01 Feb 2019) and including an updated OE pool and the final study report (data cutoff 09 Apr 2019) were 
submitted. 
109 
 
 
 
Clinical Studies Included in the Summary of Clinical Safety (data cutoff 31 May 2018) 
Study 
Phase  Number of 
Study Design 
Subjects 
Treated 
Study Drugs / Administration / 
Frequency 
Pivotal Studies  
ALD403-CLIN-006 (EM) 
3 
888 
(hereof 222 
placebo 
subjects) 
ALD403-CLIN-011 (CM) 
3 
1072 
(hereof 366 
placebo 
subjects) 
Supportive Studies 
ALD403-CLIN-002 (EM) 
1b 
163 
(hereof 82 
placebo 
subjects) 
ALD403-CLIN-005 (CM) 
2 
616 
(hereof 121 
placebo 
subjects) 
ALD403-CLIN-013 a (CM) 
3 
128 
(no placebo 
subjects) 
Double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled, parallel 
group 
Eptinezumab 30, 100, or 300 mg or 
placebo 
IV infusion 
Day 0 and every 12 weeks through 
week 36 (4 doses) 
Double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled, parallel 
group 
Eptinezumab 100 or 300 mg of 
placebo 
IV infusion 
Day 0 and week 12 (2 doses) 
Double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled, parallel 
group 
Double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-
controlled, parallel 
group 
Open-label, 
uncontrolled 
Eptinezumab 1000 mg or placebo  
IV infusion 
Single dose (day 0) 
Eptinezumab 10, 30, 100, or 300 mg 
or placebo 
IV infusion 
Single dose (day 0) 
Eptinezumab 300 mg 
IV infusion 
Day 0 and every 12 weeks through 
week 84 (8 doses)  
Scheduled 
Post-dose 
Visits 
Weeks 4, 8, 
12, 16, 20, 
24, 28, 36, 
48, and 56  
Weeks 2, 4, 
8, 12, 16, 20, 
24, and 32 
Weeks 2, 4, 
8, 12, and 24 
Weeks 4, 8, 
12, 24, 36, 
and 49 
Weeks 2, 4, 
8, 12, 24, 36, 
(48, 60, 72, 
84, and 104) 
CM = chronic migraine; CSR = clinical study report; EM = episodic migraine; IV = intravenous 
a  This study was ongoing at the time of the safety data integration.  Data from the primary treatment phase (up to, but not including, 
dosing at week 48) are included in the integrated safety database.  Further/final data reported separately. 
The  overall  safety  population  (N=2867)  included  all  patients  who  received  at  least  1  dose  of  study  drug 
(eptinezumab (N=2076) or placebo (N=791)) in any of the 5 studies included in the integrated safety database. 
The safety population included 1960 patients in the placebo-controlled pivotal phase 3 studies 006 (EM, N=888) 
and 011 (CM, N=1072), 128 patients in open-label long-term phase 3 safety study 013 (CM), 616 patients in 
phase 2 study 005 (CM) and 163 patients in phase 1b study 002 (EM). 
Three different pools were defined for the analysis of the safety data: 
PS  pool:  all  patients  in  the  pivotal  studies  (N=1960).  Including  patients  in  the  placebo-controlled  phase  3 
studies 006 (EM) and 011 (CM). The treatment groups summarized include placebo, 30 mg Q12W (EM), 100 
mg Q12W (EM+CM), 300 mg Q12W (EM+CM) and all eptinezumab. 
OE pool: all eptinezumab-treated patients (N=2739). Including all eptinezumab-treated patients with migraine 
(CM, EM): in the placebo-controlled  phase 3 studies 006 (EM) and 011 (CM), open-label long-term phase 3 
safety  study  013  (CM),  phase  2  study  005  (CM)  and  phase  1b  study  002  (EM).  The  treatment  groups 
summarized include placebo, 10 mg SD (CM), 30 mg SD (CM), 30 mg Q12W (EM), 100 mg SD (CM), 100 mg 
Q12W (EM), 300 mg SD (CM), 300 mg Q12W (EM), 1000 mg SD (EM) and all eptinezumab. 
PC pool: all patients in the placebo-controlled studies (N=2867). Including patients in the placebo-controlled 
phase 3 studies 006 (EM) and 011 (CM), phase 2 study 005 (CM) and phase 1b study 002 (EM). The treatment 
110 
 
 
 
groups summarized include placebo, 10 mg SD (CM), 30 mg SD (CM), 30 mg Q12W (EM), 100 mg SD (CM), 
100 mg Q12W (EM), 300 mg SD (CM), 300 mg Q12W (EM), 1000 mg SD (EM) and all eptinezumab. 
Numbers of Subjects Included in the Integrated Safety Database (Safety Population) 
Study 
Epti 
1000 mg 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
n (%) 
Epti 
30 mg 
n (%) 
Epti 
10 mg 
n (%) 
Placebo 
n (%) 
All Epti 
n (%) 
ALD403-CLIN-002 (N=163) 
 81 (49.7) 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  82 (50.3) 
  81 (49.7) 
ALD403-CLIN-005 (N=616) 
ALD403-CLIN-006 (N=888) 
ALD403-CLIN-011 (N=1072) 
ALD403-CLIN-013 (N=128) 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 NA 
 121 (19.6) 
 122 (19.8) 
 122 (19.8) 
 130 (21.1) 
 121 (19.6) 
 495 (80.4) 
 224 (25.2) 
 223 (25.1) 
 219 (24.7) 
 350 (32.6) 
 356 (33.2) 
 128 (100) 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
  NA 
 222 (25.0) 
 666 (75.0) 
 366 (34.1) 
 706 (65.9) 
  NA 
 128 (100) 
Note:  Denominator for percentages is the total number of subjects in the study. 
Epti = eptinezumab; NA = not applicable. 
Pivotal Study (PS) pool includes Studies 006 and 011. 
Overall Eptinezumab (OE) pool includes Studies 002, 005, 006, 011, and 013. 
Placebo-controlled (PC) pool includes Studies 002, 005, 006, and 011. 
Source: Table 14.1.1.2.1, Integrated Summary of Safety (ISS) Tables, Figures, and Listings (TFLs) (Module 5.3.5.3) 
Patient exposure 
Patient Disposition (PS pool)  
A  total  of  1,372  subjects  received  eptinezumab.  574  of  these  subjects  received  eptinezumab  300  mg,  579 
subjects received eptinezumab 100 mg and 219 subjects received eptinezumab 30 mg.  A total of 588 subjects 
received placebo.   
Most  subjects  completed  the  study  drug  regimen  and  completed  study  participation.    The  proportions  of 
subjects who discontinued the study drug were similar for all PS eptinezumab subjects (12.4%) and placebo 
subjects  (13.3%).  The  most  frequent  reason  for  discontinuing  the  study  drug  in  each  of  these  groups  was 
subject withdrawal of informed consent. Proportions of subjects who discontinued study drug due to AEs were 
similar in all PS eptinezumab subjects (2.3%) and placebo subjects (1.5%).   
The proportions of subjects who discontinued the study were similar for all PS eptinezumab subjects (15.7%) 
and placebo subjects (16.7%). The most frequent reason for discontinuing the study was withdrawal by the 
subject  (9.8%  of  all  PS  eptinezumab  subjects  and  10.5%  of  placebo  subjects,  respectively),  mostly  due  to 
study  burden,  followed  by  “lost  to  follow-up”  (4.9%  of  all  PS  eptinezumab  subjects  and  5.6%  of  placebo 
subjects, respectively). 
Patient Disposition (OE pool)  
A total of 2,076 subjects in the OE pool received eptinezumab. 81 of these subjects received eptinezumab 1000 
mg,  823  of  these  subjects  received  eptinezumab  300  mg,  701  subjects  received  eptinezumab  100  mg,  341 
subjects received eptinezumab 30 mg, and 130 subjects received eptinezumab 10 mg. A total of 791 subjects 
received placebo.   
Most subjects completed the study drug regimen and completed study participation. The proportions of subjects 
who discontinued the study drug were similar for all OE subjects (8.7%) and subjects who received placebo 
(9.9%).  The  most  frequent  reason  for  discontinuing  the  study  drug  in  each  of  these  groups  was  subject 
withdrawal of informed consent. Proportions of subjects who discontinued  study treatment due to AEs were 
similar in OE subjects (1.7%) and placebo subjects (1.1%).   
111 
 
 
 
The  proportions  of  subjects  who  discontinued  the  study  were  similar  for  OE  subjects  (18.2%)  and  placebo 
subjects (17.3%), with the most frequent reason for discontinuing was withdrawal by the subject in 10.1% of 
OE subjects and 10.6% of placebo subjects, respectively, with study burden and “other” were the most frequent 
reasons given. The second most frequent reason for discontinuing the study in each of these groups was lost 
to follow-up (6.2% of all eptinezumab subjects and 5.4% of placebo subjects). 
Subject Exposure by Treatment Group (PS pool) 
EM+CM 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
300 mg 
100 mg 
N=574 
N=579 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
Placebo 
N=588 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
All Epti 
All 
N=1372 
Studies 
N=2076 
574/574 
579/579 
219/219 
588/588 
1372/1372 
2076/2076 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
9/574 
 (1.6) 
8/579 
 (1.4) 
6/219 
 (2.7) 
6/588 
 (1.0) 
23/1372 
45/2076 
 (1.7) 
 (2.2) 
Day 0 Dose 
  Received 
Treatment, 
   n/m (%) a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%) b 
      Received Full 
8/9 
7/8 
4/6 
4/6 
 (88.9) 
 (87.5) 
 (66.7) 
 (66.7) 
19/23 
 (82.6) 
37/45 
 (82.2) 
548/574 
546/579 
194/219 
540/588 
1288/1372 
1408/1500 
 (95.5) 
 (94.3) 
 (88.6) 
 (91.8) 
 (93.9) 
 (93.9) 
8/548 
 (1.5) 
2/546 
 (0.4) 
1/194 
 (0.5) 
0/1 
3/540 
 (0.6) 
11/1288 
15/1408 
 (0.9) 
 (1.1) 
3/3 
 (100) 
6/11 
 (54.5) 
9/15 
 (60.0) 
      Received Full 
4/8 
Dose, 
       n/m (%)  c 
 (50.0) 
2/2 
 (100) 
Week 24 Dose 
190/224 
188/223 
182/219 
177/222 
560/666 
675/794 
  Received 
Treatment, 
   n/m (%)a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%)b 
 (84.8) 
 (84.3) 
 (83.1) 
 (79.7) 
 (84.1) 
 (85.0) 
2/190 
 (1.1) 
0/188 
2/182 
 (1.1) 
0/177 
4/560 
 (0.7) 
5/675 
 (0.7) 
112 
Dose, 
       n/m (%) c 
Week 12 Dose 
  Received 
Treatment, 
   n/m (%) a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%) b 
 
 
 
 
 
EM+CM 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
300 mg 
100 mg 
N=574 
N=579 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
Placebo 
N=588 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
All Epti 
All 
N=1372 
Studies 
N=2076 
      Received Full 
0/2 
NA 
Dose, 
       n/m (%) c 
1/2 
 (50.0) 
NA 
1/4 
2/5 
 (25.0) 
 (40.0) 
Week 36 Dose 
180/224 
177/223 
169/219 
167/222 
526/666 
638/794 
  Received 
Treatment, 
   n/m (%)a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%)b 
 (80.4) 
 (79.4) 
 (77.2) 
 (75.2) 
 (79.0) 
 (80.4) 
1/180 
 (0.6) 
2/177 
 (1.1) 
2/169 
 (1.2) 
2/167 
 (1.2) 
5/526 
 (1.0) 
6/638 
 (0.9) 
2/2 
 (100) 
2/2 
 (100) 
2/2 
 (100) 
5/5 
 (100) 
5/6 
 (83.3) 
      Received Full 
1/1 
Dose, 
       n/m (%) c 
 (100) 
Total Number of 
Doses 
 Received, n (%) d 
  1 
  2 
  3 
  4 
 26  (4.5) 
 33  (5.7) 
 25 (11.4) 
 47  (8.0) 
  84  (6.1) 
 668 
(32.2) 
358 (62.4) 
358 (61.8) 
 10  (4.6) 
365 (62.1) 
 726 (52.9) 
 731 
 10  (1.7) 
 11  (1.9) 
 17  (7.8) 
  9  (1.5) 
  38  (2.8) 
(35.2) 
  41  
(2.0) 
180 (31.4) 
177 (30.6) 
167 (76.3) 
167 (28.4) 
 524 (38.2) 
 636 
(30.6) 
  Received the 
518 (90.2) 
517 (89.3) 
167 (76.3) 
509 (86.6) 
1202 (87.6)  1890 
Protocol- 
   Specified Number 
of 
   Doses 
Total Exposure 
Time 
(Days) e 
  n 
(91.0) 
574 
579 
219 
588 
1372 
2076 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EM+CM 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
300 mg 
100 mg 
N=574 
N=579 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
Placebo 
N=588 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
All Epti 
All 
N=1372 
Studies 
N=2076 
  Mean (SD) 
272.1 
(90.61) 
267.9 
(92.94) 
346.5 
262.3 
(103.43) 
(94.70) 
282.2 
(97.79) 
284.1 
(96.16) 
  Median 
229.0 
229.0 
393.0 
227.0 
231.0 
272.0 
  Min, Max 
14, 472 
14, 442 
15, 460 
16, 472 
14, 472 
13, 472 
Categories of Total 
 Exposure Time, n 
(%)e 
  > 0 Day 
574  (100) 
579  (100) 
219  (100) 
588  (100) 
1372  (100)  2076  
(100) 
  >= 12 Weeks 
562 (97.9) 
562 (97.1) 
210 (95.9) 
569 (96.8) 
1334 (97.2)  2008 
(96.7) 
  >= 24 Weeks 
537 (93.6) 
531 (91.7) 
196 (89.5) 
531 (90.3) 
1264 (92.1)  1872 
(90.2) 
  >= 36 Weeks 
197 (34.3) 
191 (33.0) 
183 (83.6) 
185 (31.5) 
 571 (41.6) 
1072 
  >= 48 Weeks 
184 (32.1) 
178 (30.7) 
176 (80.4) 
172 (29.3) 
 538 (39.2) 
(51.6) 
 991 
(47.7) 
Total Exposure Time = Last day on study (or Last day up to end of the primary treatment phase for Study ALD403-CLIN-013) - 
A subject could have received a maximum of 1 dose in Studies ALD403-CLIN-002 and -005, 2 doses in Study -011, and 4 doses in 
The denominator is the number of subjects in these studies where the dose was planned to be administered at each visit. 
The denominator is the number of subjects who received treatment at each visit. 
A full dose is defined as having received an infusion volume of >= 100 mL. The denominator is the number of subjects who had 
a 
b 
 c 
dose interrupted at each visit. 
d 
Studies -006 and-013. Percentages are based on safety population. 
e 
first dose date + 1. Percentages are based on safety population. 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; Min = minimum; Max = maximum; NA = not applicable; SD = 
standard deviation.   
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (study ALD403-CLIN-006), Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg and 
All Epti Pivotal (studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), All Epti All Studies (all doses from all studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, -011 and -
013).   
Study drug data from study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase. 
Source: Table 14.1.4.4.1 (ISS TFLs) 
Subject Exposure by Treatment Group (OE pool) 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EM 
EM+CM 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
Day 0 Dose 
Received Treatment, 
n/m (%)a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%)b 
81/81 
 (100) 
1/81 
 (1.2) 
823/823 
701/701 
341/341 
130/130 
791/791 
2076/2076 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
17/823 
11/701 
12/341 
 (2.1) 
 (1.6) 
 (3.5) 
4/130 
 (3.1) 
8/791 
 (1.0) 
45/2076 
 (2.2) 
      Received Full 
1/1 
14/17 
9/11 
9/12 
4/4 
5/8 
37/45 
Dose, 
       n/m (%)c 
 (100) 
 (82.4) 
 (81.8) 
 (75.0) 
 (100) 
 (62.5) 
 (82.2) 
Week 12 Dose 
NA 
668/702 
546/579 
194/219 
NA 
540/588 
1408/1500 
Received Treatment, 
n/m (%)a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%)b 
 (95.2) 
 (94.3) 
 (88.6) 
 (91.8) 
 (93.9) 
NA 
12/668 
 (1.8) 
2/546 
 (0.4) 
1/194 
 (0.5) 
NA 
3/540 
 (0.6) 
15/1408 
 (1.1) 
      Received Full 
NA 
7/12 
2/2 
0/1 
NA 
3/3 
9/15 
Dose, 
       n/m (%)c 
 (58.3) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (60.0) 
Week 24 Dose 
NA 
305/352 
188/223 
182/219 
NA 
177/222 
675/794 
 (86.6) 
 (84.3) 
 (83.1) 
 (79.7) 
 (85.0) 
Received Treatment, 
n/m (%)a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%)b 
NA 
3/305 
 (1.0) 
0/188 
2/182 
 (1.1) 
NA 
0/177 
      Received Full 
NA 
Dose, 
       n/m (%)c 
1/3 
 (33.3) 
NA 
1/2 
 (50.0) 
NA 
NA 
Week 36 Dose 
NA 
292/352 
177/223 
169/219 
NA 
167/222 
638/794 
Received Treatment, 
n/m (%)a 
    Dose 
Interruption, 
     n/m (%)b 
 (83.0) 
 (79.4) 
 (77.2) 
 (75.2) 
 (80.4) 
NA 
2/292 
 (0.7) 
2/177 
 (1.1) 
2/169 
 (1.2) 
NA 
2/167 
 (1.2) 
6/638 
 (0.9) 
115 
5/675 
 (0.7) 
2/5 
 (40.0) 
 
 
 
 
EM 
EM+CM 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
      Received Full 
NA 
1/2 
2/2 
2/2 
NA 
2/2 
5/6 
Dose, 
       n/m (%)c 
 (50.0) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (100) 
 (83.3) 
Total Number of Doses Received, n (%)d 
  1 
  2 
  3 
  4 
81  (100)  155 
155 
147 
(18.8) 
(22.1) 
(43.1) 
130  
(100) 
250 
 668 
(31.6) 
(32.2) 
NA 
363 
358 
 10  (2.9) 
 NA 
365 
 731 
(44.1) 
(51.1) 
(46.1) 
(35.2) 
NA 
 13  (1.6) 
 11  (1.6) 
 17  (5.0) 
 NA 
  9  (1.1) 
  41  
(2.0) 
NA 
292 
177 
167 
 NA 
167 
 636 
(35.5) 
(25.2) 
(49.0) 
(21.1) 
(30.6) 
  Received the 
81  (100)  751 
639 
289 
Protocol- Specified 
Number of Doses 
Total Exposure Time (Days)e 
(91.3) 
(91.2) 
(84.8) 
130  
(100) 
712 
(90.0) 
1890 
(91.0) 
  n 
81 
823 
701 
341 
130 
791 
2076 
  Mean (SD) 
162.4 
285.8 
274.1 
324.3 
298.0 
258.1 
284.1 
(26.32) 
(87.68) 
(92.23) 
(107.40) 
(91.92) 
(95.40) 
(96.16) 
  Median 
168.0 
252.0 
231.0 
374.0 
344.0 
226.0 
272.0 
  Min, Max 
13, 231 
14, 472 
14, 448 
15, 469 
26, 380 
1, 484 
13, 472 
Categories of Total Exposure Time, n (%)e 
  > 0 Day 
81  (100)  823  
(100) 
701  
(100) 
341  
(100) 
130  
(100) 
791  
(100) 
  >= 12 Weeks 
78 (96.3)  806 
680 
322 
122 
766 
(97.9) 
(97.0) 
(94.4) 
(93.8) 
(96.8) 
  >= 24 Weeks 
46 (56.8)  771 
642 
298 
115 
692 
(93.7) 
(91.6) 
(87.4) 
(88.5) 
(87.5) 
  >= 36 Weeks 
 0 
412 
288 
271 
101 
280 
(50.1) 
(41.1) 
(79.5) 
(77.7) 
(35.4) 
2076  
(100) 
2008 
(96.7) 
1872 
(90.2) 
1072 
(51.6) 
116 
 
 
 
 
EM 
EM+CM 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
  >= 48 Weeks 
 0 
377 
263 
253 
 98 
256 
 991 
(45.8) 
(37.5) 
(74.2) 
(75.4) 
(32.4) 
(47.7) 
A subject could have received a maximum of 1 dose in Studies ALD403-CLIN-002 and -005, 2 doses in Study -011, and 4 doses in 
Total Exposure Time = Last day on study (or Last day up to end of the primary treatment phase for Study ALD403-CLIN-013) - 
The denominator is the number of subjects in these studies where the dose was planned to be administered at each visit. 
The denominator is the number of subjects who received treatment at each visit. 
A full dose is defined as having received an infusion volume of >= 100 mL. the denominator is the number of subjects who had 
a 
b 
c 
dose interrupted at each visit. 
d 
Studies -006 and -013. Percentages are based on safety population. 
e 
first dose date + 1. Percentages are based on safety population. 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; Min = minimum; Max = maximum; NA = not applicable; SD = 
standard deviation.   
Study drug data from study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase. 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006 and -011), Epti 10 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-005), Epti 30 mg 
(Studies ALD403-CLIN-005 and -006), Epti 100 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006 and -011), Epti 300 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -
006, -011 and -013), Epti 1000 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-002).   
Source: Table 14.1.4.4.3 (ISS TFLs) 
Demographic and Baseline Characteristics (PS pool) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
Placebo 
N=588 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=1372 
N=2076 
Age (years) 
  n 
574 
579 
219 
588 
1372 
2076 
  Mean (SD) 
40.7 (10.91) 
40.6 (11.33) 
39.1 (11.54) 
39.7 (11.42) 
40.4 (11.19) 
39.5 
(11.00) 
  Median 
40.0 
41.0 
37.0 
40.0 
40.0 
39.0 
  Min, Max 
18, 71 
18, 68 
18, 69 
18, 68 
18, 71 
18, 71 
Age Group, n (%) 
  < 65 years 
 567 (98.8) 
 576 (99.5) 
 215 (98.2) 
 579 (98.5) 
 1358 (99.0) 
 2061 
(99.3) 
  >= 65 to < 
   7  (1.2) 
   3  (0.5) 
   4  (1.8) 
   9  (1.5) 
   14  (1.0) 
   15  (0.7) 
75 years 
  >= 75 years 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    0 
    0 
Sex, n (%) 
  Male 
  61 (10.6) 
  93 (16.1) 
  34 (15.5) 
  77 (13.1) 
  188 (13.7) 
  290 (14.0) 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
Placebo 
N=588 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=1372 
N=2076 
  Female 
 513 (89.4) 
 486 (83.9) 
 185 (84.5) 
 511 (86.9) 
 1184 (86.3) 
 1786 
(86.0) 
Ethnicity, n (%) 
  Hispanic or 
  58 (10.1) 
  75 (13.0) 
  45 (20.5) 
  69 (11.7) 
  178 (13.0) 
  317 (15.3) 
Latino 
  Not Hispanic 
 516 (89.9) 
 504 (87.0) 
 174 (79.5) 
 519 (88.3) 
 1194 (87.0) 
 1759 
or 
   Latino 
Race, n (%) 
(84.7) 
  White 
 509 (88.7) 
 528 (91.2) 
 180 (82.2) 
 502 (85.4) 
 1217 (88.7) 
 1843 (88.8) 
  50  (8.7) 
  38  (6.6) 
  31 (14.2) 
  68 (11.6) 
  119  (8.7) 
  175  (8.4) 
  Black or 
African 
   American 
  Asian 
   2  (0.3) 
   2  (0.3) 
   1  (0.5) 
   3  (0.5) 
    5  (0.4) 
   12  (0.6) 
  American 
   3  (0.5) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   2  (0.3) 
    4  (0.3) 
    7  (0.3) 
Indian 
   or Alaska 
Native 
  Native 
Hawaiian 
   or Other 
Pacific 
   Islander 
   2  (0.3) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
    3  (0.2) 
    4  (0.2) 
  Multiple Races 
   7  (1.2) 
   8  (1.4) 
   5  (2.3) 
   9  (1.5) 
   20  (1.5) 
   24  (1.2) 
  Other 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   2  (0.9) 
   3  (0.5) 
    4  (0.3) 
   10  (0.5) 
  Not Reported 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    0 
    1 (<0.1) 
Weight (kg) 
  n 
574 
579 
219 
588 
1372 
2076 
  Mean (SD) 
75.62 
76.83 
82.03 
77.70 
77.15 
76.91 
(18.065) 
(19.497) 
(23.269) 
(18.854) 
(19.687) 
(18.743) 
  Median 
73.00 
74.00 
78.00 
75.65 
74.00 
74.15 
118 
 
 
 
 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
Placebo 
N=588 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=1372 
N=2076 
  Min, Max 
40.2, 139.5 
39.2, 190.1 
45.2, 174.0 
40.7, 160.9 
39.2, 190.1 
39.2, 190.1 
BMI (kg/m2)a 
  n 
574 
579 
219 
588 
1372 
2076 
  Mean (SD) 
27.29 
(6.080) 
27.56 
(6.309) 
29.91 
(8.324) 
27.99 
(6.381) 
27.82 
(6.641) 
27.73 
(6.206) 
  Median 
26.00 
26.50 
28.20 
27.00 
26.40 
26.70 
  Min, Max 
15.9, 49.8 
15.6, 59.3 
17.8, 67.5 
17.3, 52.6 
15.6, 67.5 
15.6, 67.5 
Region, n (%) 
  United States 
 381 (66.4) 
 382 (66.0) 
 194 (88.6) 
 417 (70.9) 
  957 (69.8) 
 1595 
(76.8) 
  European 
  53  (9.2) 
  50  (8.6) 
  NA 
  51  (8.7) 
  103  (7.5) 
  103  (5.0) 
Union 
  Rest of World 
 140 (24.4) 
 147 (25.4) 
  25 (11.4) 
 120 (20.4) 
  312 (22.7) 
  378 
(18.2) 
a 
BMI = Body mass index, and it is calculated as weight (kg) / height (m2). 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; Max = maximum; Min = minimum; NA 
= not applicable; SD = standard deviation 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-006), 
Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg and All Epti Pivotal (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), All Epti All Studies (all 
doses from all Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, -011, and -013). 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Demographic and Baseline Characteristics (OE pool) 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
CM 
Epti 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
Age (years) 
  n 
81 
823 
701 
341 
130 
791 
2076 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
CM 
Epti 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
  Mean (SD) 
38.6 
40.3 
39.9 
37.9 
36.4 
39.3 
39.5 
(10.81) 
(10.92) 
(11.11) 
(10.94) 
(10.31) 
(10.96) 
(11.00) 
  Median 
38.0 
40.0 
40.0 
37.0 
35.0 
40.0 
39.0 
  Min, Max 
18, 55 
18, 71 
18, 68 
18, 69 
18, 55 
18, 68 
18, 71 
Age Group, n (%) 
  < 65 years 
 81  (100) 
 815 
(99.0) 
 698 
(99.6) 
 337 
(98.8) 
 130  
(100) 
 782 
(98.9) 
 2061 
(99.3) 
  >= 65 to < 
  0 
   8  (1.0) 
   3  (0.4) 
   4  (1.2) 
   0 
   9  (1.1) 
   15  (0.7) 
75 years 
  >= 75 years 
  0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    0 
Sex, n (%) 
  Male 
 14 (17.3) 
 103 
(12.5) 
  Female 
 67 (82.7) 
 720 
(87.5) 
 111 
(15.8) 
 590 
(84.2) 
  45 
  17 
(13.2) 
(13.1) 
 296 
(86.8) 
 113 
(86.9) 
Ethnicity, n (%) 
  Hispanic or 
 28 (34.6) 
 102 
  98 
  62 
  27 
Latino 
(12.4) 
(14.0) 
(18.2) 
(20.8) 
  Not Hispanic 
 53 (65.4) 
 721 
or 
   Latino 
Race, n (%) 
(87.6) 
 603 
(86.0) 
 279 
(81.8) 
 103 
(79.2) 
 105 
(13.3) 
 686 
(86.7) 
 111 
(14.0) 
 680 
(86.0) 
  White 
 66 (81.5) 
 745 
(90.5) 
 636 
(90.7) 
 283 
(83.0) 
 113 
(86.9) 
 677 
(85.6) 
  Black or 
 10 (12.3) 
  58  (7.0) 
  50  (7.1) 
  45 
  12  (9.2) 
  84 
African 
   American 
(13.2) 
(10.6) 
  290 
(14.0) 
 1786 
(86.0) 
  317 
(15.3) 
 1759 
(84.7) 
 1843 
(88.8) 
  175  
(8.4) 
  Asian 
  4  (4.9) 
   4  (0.5) 
   2  (0.3) 
   1  (0.3) 
   1  (0.8) 
   7  (0.9) 
   12  
(0.6) 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
CM 
Epti 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
  American 
  0 
   3  (0.4) 
   1  (0.1) 
   1  (0.3) 
   2  (1.5) 
   3  (0.4) 
    7  (0.3) 
Indian 
   or Alaska 
Native 
  Native 
Hawaiian 
   or Other 
Pacific 
   Islander 
  0 
   2  (0.2) 
   1  (0.1) 
   1  (0.3) 
   0 
   2  (0.3) 
    4  (0.2) 
  Multiple 
  1  (1.2) 
   9  (1.1) 
   9  (1.3) 
   5  (1.5) 
   0 
  13  (1.6) 
   24  
Races 
(1.2) 
  Other 
  0 
   1  (0.1) 
   2  (0.3) 
   5  (1.5) 
   2  (1.5) 
   5  (0.6) 
   10  
  0 
   1  (0.1) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
  Not 
Reported 
Weight (kg) 
(0.5) 
    1 
(<0.1) 
  n 
81 
823 
701 
341 
130 
791 
2076 
  Mean (SD) 
74.82 
76.22 
76.91 
79.52 
75.81 
77.36 
76.91 
(16.545) 
(17.688) 
(19.149) 
(21.660) 
(15.360) 
(18.305) 
(18.743) 
  Median 
72.50 
73.40 
74.30 
76.60 
74.75 
75.50 
74.15 
  Min, Max 
46.1, 
127.4 
40.2, 
139.5 
39.2, 
190.1 
45.2, 
174.0 
45.1, 
110.5 
40.7, 
160.9 
39.2, 
190.1 
BMI (kg/m2)a 
  n 
81 
823 
701 
341 
130 
791 
2076 
  Mean (SD) 
27.47 
27.40 
27.63 
28.92 
27.36 
27.89 
27.73 
(5.166) 
(5.789) 
(6.149) 
(7.552) 
(5.402) 
(6.142) 
(6.206) 
  Median 
26.10 
26.30 
26.70 
27.40 
26.90 
27.00 
26.70 
  Min, Max 
17.2, 38.9  15.9, 49.8  15.6, 59.3  15.8, 67.5  18.0, 38.8  16.0, 52.6  15.6, 67.5 
Region, n (%) 
  United 
States 
 81  (100) 
 610 
(74.1) 
 488 
(69.6) 
 301 
(88.3) 
 115 
(88.5) 
 598 
(75.6) 
 1595 
(76.8) 
121 
 
 
 
 
EM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
CM 
Epti 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
All Epti 
1000 mg 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
10 mg 
N=791 
N=2076 
N=81 
N=823 
N=701 
N=341 
N=130 
  European 
 NA 
  53  (6.4) 
  50  (7.1) 
  NA 
  NA 
  51  (6.4) 
  103  
Union 
  Rest of 
 NA 
World 
 160 
(19.4) 
 163 
(23.3) 
  40 
  15 
(11.7) 
(11.5) 
 142 
(18.0) 
(5.0) 
  378 
(18.2) 
BMI = Body mass index, and it is calculated as weight (kg) / height (m2). 
a 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; Max = maximum; Min = minimum; NA = not applicable; SD = 
standard deviation. 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, and -011), Epti 10mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-005), Epti 30 mg 
(Studies ALD403-CLIN-005 and -006), Epti 100 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, and -011), Epti 300 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -
006, -011, and -013), Epti 1000 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-002). 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Source: Table 14.1.3.1.3 (ISS TFLs) 
Baseline Cardiovascular Risk Factors by Treatment Group (PS pool only) 
EM+CM 
EM 
EM+CM 
Baseline Risk Factors 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Placebo 
All Epti 
All Epti 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
N = 588 
Pivotal 
All 
N = 574 
N = 579 
N = 219 
n (%) 
N = 
Studies 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
1372 
N = 2076 
n (%) 
n (%) 
 Hypertension-relateda 
 24 
 34 
 1 
 24 
 59 
 71 
(4.2%) 
(5.9%) 
(0.5%) 
(4.1%) 
(4.3%) 
(3.4%) 
 Hyperlipidemia-relatedb 
 35 
 43 
 8 
 36 
 86 
 129 
(6.1%) 
(7.4%) 
(3.7%) 
(6.1%) 
(6.3%) 
(6.2%) 
 Diabetes-relatedc 
 Prior history of ischemic  
 CV events or proceduresd 
0 
 3 
 3 
 2 
 5 
 5 
 7 (0.3%) 
(0.5%) 
(0.9%) 
(0.9%) 
(0.4%) 
 4 
0 
 1 
 7 
 10 
(0.5%) 
(0.7%) 
(0.2%) 
(0.5%) 
(0.5%) 
 Obesity - BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2 
 165 
 181 
 85 
 196 
 431 
 664 
(28.7%) 
(31.3%) 
(38.8%) 
(33.3%) 
(31.4%) 
(32.0%) 
 Male and ≥ 45 years old 
 19 
 36 
 10 
 27 
 65 
 99 
(3.3%) 
(6.2%) 
(4.6%) 
(4.6%) 
(4.7%) 
(4.8%) 
 Female and ≥ 55 years old 
 54 
 62 
 21 
 49 
 137 
 160 
(9.4%) 
(10.7%) 
(9.6%) 
(8.3%) 
(10.0%) 
(7.7%) 
 Race: Black or African-
 50 
 38 
 31 
 68 
 119 
 175 
American 
(8.7%) 
(6.6%) 
(14.2%) 
(11.6%) 
(8.7%) 
(8.4%) 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline Risk Factors 
Epti 
Epti 
Epti 
Placebo 
All Epti 
All Epti 
EM+CM 
EM 
EM+CM 
300 mg 
100 mg 
30 mg 
N = 588 
Pivotal 
All 
N = 574 
N = 579 
N = 219 
n (%) 
N = 
Studies 
n (%) 
n (%) 
n (%) 
1372 
N = 2076 
n (%) 
n (%) 
 ≥ 1 CV risk factors 
 268 
 289 
 130 
 288 
 687 
 1016 
(46.7%) 
(49.9%) 
(59.4%) 
(49.0%) 
(50.1%) 
(48.9%) 
 ≥ 2 CV risk factors 
 75 
 87 
 26 
 98 
 188 
 256 
(13.1%) 
(15.0%) 
(11.9%) 
(16.7%) 
(13.7%) 
(12.3%) 
Related demographic data: 
   Subjects ≥ 40 years of age 
 299 
 305 
 100 
 302 
 704 
 1008 
(52.1%) 
(52.7%) 
(45.7%) 
(51.4%) 
(51.3%) 
(48.6%) 
   Males ≥ 40 years of age 
 25 
 51 
 13 
 38 
 89 
 135 
(4.4%) 
(8.8%) 
(5.9%) 
(6.5%) 
(6.5%) 
(6.5%) 
Includes essential hypertension, hypertension, prehypertension, or orthostatic hypertension 
Includes dyslipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, hypertriglyceridemia, or lipid metabolism disorder 
Includes glucose tolerance impaired, hyperglycemia, or impaired fasting glucose 
Includes angina pectoris, cardiomyopathy, cardiomegaly, chest pain, carotid artery bypass, arterial disorder, arteriosclerosis, or 
a 
b 
c 
d 
peripheral coldness 
BMI = body mass index; CV = cardiovascular; CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-006), Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg and 
All Epti Pivotal (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), All Epti All Studies (all doses from all Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, -011, and 
-013). 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Adverse events 
Common Adverse Events (PS pool) 
The most frequent (≥ 2%) TEAEs that occurred with greater incidence in any eptinezumab dose group than in 
the placebo group (in descending order of frequency in PS eptinezumab subjects) were upper respiratory tract 
infection, nasopharyngitis, nausea, fatigue, dizziness, urinary tract infection, arthralgia, back pain, influenza, 
cough,  pain  in  extremity,  and  pyrexia.  These  events  generally  occurred  in  similar  proportions  of  all  PS 
eptinezumab subjects, 300-mg eptinezumab subjects, 100-mg  eptinezumab  subjects, and placebo subjects. 
Upper respiratory tract infection and nasopharyngitis occurred in approximately 7% to 8% of PS eptinezumab 
subjects and approximately 6% of placebo subjects.  
Grade 3 or higher TEAEs (PS pool) 
The  large  majority  of  TEAEs  in  all  treatment  groups  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  TEAEs  of  grade  3 
(severe)  or  higher  severity  occurred  infrequently  and  in  similar  proportions  of  all  PS  eptinezumab  subjects 
(2.2%), eptinezumab 300 mg subjects (2.6%), eptinezumab 100-mg subjects (1.7%), and placebo subjects 
(3.1%).   
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two life-threatening (grade 4) TEAEs occurred in one placebo subject with multiple co-morbidities. 
Grade  3  migraine  occurred  in  2  (0.1%)  PS  eptinezumab  subjects  (1  eptinezumab  300-mg  subject  and  1 
eptinezumab  100-mg  subject)  and  in  4  (0.7%)  placebo  subjects.  One  additional  subject  who  received 
eptinezumab 300 mg had a grade 3 migraine with aura (“worsening migrainous visual phenomena”) that was 
serious. Grade 3 ECG T wave inversion occurred in 2 PS eptinezumab subjects (both receiving 300 mg) and no 
placebo subjects. All other grade 3 TEAEs occurred in one subject in each treatment group. 
Treatment-related Adverse Events (PS pool) 
Treatment-related TEAEs, as determined by the investigator, were seen in 12.9% of PS eptinezumab subjects 
and  8.2%  of  placebo  subjects.  The  incidence  of  treatment-related  TEAEs  increased  with  eptinezumab  dose 
(11.0% in the 30-mg group, 11.7% in the 100 mg group, and 14.8% in the 300-mg group).     
Overall Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse (PS pool) 
Category 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
311 (54.2) 
296 (51.1) 
128 (58.4) 
303 (51.5) 
 735 (53.6) 
1137 (54.8) 
Number of TEAEs 
756 
699 
313 
717 
1768 
2938 
Subjects with Any Study 
Drug 
 Related TEAE 
Number of Study Drug 
Related  
TEAEs 
Subjects with Any Serious 
 TEAE 
 85 (14.8) 
 68 (11.7) 
 24 (11.0) 
 48  (8.2) 
 177 (12.9) 
 295 (14.2) 
148 
110 
 38 
 77 
 296 
 489 
  7  (1.2) 
  7  (1.2) 
  4  (1.8) 
  9  (1.5) 
  18  (1.3) 
  35  (1.7) 
Number of Serious TEAEs 
 11 
 13 
  5 
 11 
  29 
  53 
Subjects with Any Grade 3 
 or Higher TEAE 
Number of Grade 3 or Higher 
 TEAEs 
Subjects with Any TEAE of 
 Special Interest 
Number of TEAEs of Special 
 Interest 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
 Leading to Study Drug 
 Discontinuationa 
Number of TEAEs Leading to 
 Study Drug Discontinuationa 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
 Leading to Study Drug 
 Infusion Interruption 
 15  (2.6) 
 10  (1.7) 
  5  (2.3) 
 18  (3.1) 
  30  (2.2) 
  54  (2.6) 
 21 
 19 
  7 
 22 
  47 
  77 
 57  (9.9) 
 46  (7.9) 
 22 (10.0) 
 29  (4.9) 
 125  (9.1) 
 197  (9.5) 
 65 
 71 
 28 
 34 
 164 
 255 
 13  (2.3) 
  9  (1.6) 
 12  (5.5) 
  8  (1.4) 
  34  (2.5) 
  40  (1.9) 
 13 
  9 
 12 
  9 
  34 
  41 
  9  (1.6) 
  9  (1.6) 
  6  (2.7) 
  6  (1.0) 
  24  (1.7) 
  40  (1.9) 
124 
 
 
 
Category 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
Number of TEAEs Leading to 
 Study Drug Infusion 
 Interruption 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
 Resulting in Death 
Number of TEAEs Resulting 
 in Death 
  9 
  0 
  0 
 11 
  0 
  0 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
  7 
  0 
  0 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
  8 
  0 
  0 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
  27 
  46 
  0 
  0 
   0 
   0 
a  The source of these data is from the Adverse Events CRF page. 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment emergent adverse events. 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (study ALD403-CLIN-006), Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg and 
All Epti Pivotal (studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), All Epti All Studies (all doses from all studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, -011 and -
013).  
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase.  
Percentages are based on safety population.  
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. 
Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  Occurring  in  2%  or  More  Subjects  in  Any  Eptinezumab 
Treatment  Group  and  with  Greater  Incidence  than  in  the  Placebo  Group  by  System  Organ  Class, 
Preferred Term and Treatment Group (PS pool) 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
    64 (11.1) 
    41  (7.1) 
   30 (13.7) 
    51  (8.7) 
   135  (9.8) 
  Nausea 
    17  (3.0) 
    11  (1.9) 
    9  (4.1) 
    15  (2.6) 
    37  (2.7) 
General disorders and administration 
 site conditions 
    38  (6.6) 
    37  (6.4) 
   21  (9.6) 
    31  (5.3) 
    96  (7.0) 
  Fatigue 
  Pyrexia 
    14  (2.4) 
    16  (2.8) 
    5  (2.3) 
     8  (1.4) 
    35  (2.6) 
     4  (0.7) 
     2  (0.3) 
    5  (2.3) 
     3  (0.5) 
    11  (0.8) 
Infections and infestations 
   165 (28.7) 
   152 (26.3) 
   72 (32.9) 
   159 (27.0) 
   389 (28.4) 
  Nasopharyngitis 
    47  (8.2) 
    36  (6.2) 
   14  (6.4) 
    34  (5.8) 
    97  (7.1) 
  Upper respiratory tract infection 
    42  (7.3) 
    37  (6.4) 
   25 (11.4) 
    36  (6.1) 
   104  (7.6) 
  Influenza 
    18  (3.1) 
     5  (0.9) 
    3  (1.4) 
    14  (2.4) 
    26  (1.9) 
  Urinary tract infection 
    16  (2.8) 
    11  (1.9) 
    4  (1.8) 
     9  (1.5) 
    31  (2.3) 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
 disorders 
    41  (7.1) 
    45  (7.8) 
   25 (11.4) 
    47  (8.0) 
   111  (8.1) 
  Arthralgia 
  Back pain 
    14  (2.4) 
    10  (1.7) 
    3  (1.4) 
     9  (1.5) 
    27  (2.0) 
     9  (1.6) 
    14  (2.4) 
    4  (1.8) 
    13  (2.2) 
    27  (2.0) 
  Pain in extremity 
     4  (0.7) 
     3  (0.5) 
    5  (2.3) 
     2  (0.3) 
    12  (0.9) 
125 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
Nervous system disorders 
    48  (8.4) 
    44  (7.6) 
   10  (4.6) 
    63 (10.7) 
   102  (7.4) 
  Dizziness 
    13  (2.3) 
    15  (2.6) 
    8  (3.7) 
    12  (2.0) 
    36  (2.6) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
 disorders 
    41  (7.1) 
    35  (6.0) 
   11  (5.0) 
    25  (4.3) 
    87  (6.3) 
  Cough 
    12  (2.1) 
    10  (1.7) 
    1  (0.5) 
     7  (1.2) 
    23  (1.7) 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab. 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-006), Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg, and 
All Epti Pivotal (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011). 
Note:  TEAEs shown in bold font indicate TEAEs that occurred in ≥ 2% of subjects in any PS eptinezumab group and with incidence that was 
at least 2% greater in the eptinezumab 100-mg or 300-mg groups than in the placebo group. 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. Subjects are counted only once per preferred term. Summary results are presented 
in decreasing order of preferred term frequency in ‘Epti 300 mg’ column. 
Common Adverse Events (OE pool) 
The most frequently occurring TEAEs (≥ 5%) in all OE subjects, the eptinezumab 300-mg and 100-mg groups, 
and the placebo group were nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection. Nasopharyngitis occurred in 
≥ 2% of subjects in the eptinezumab 100-mg group (6.3%) or 300-mg group (8.7%) and with incidence that 
was at least 2% greater in either of these 2 groups than in the placebo group (5.2%). Upper respiratory tract 
infection  occurred  in  similar  proportions  of  OE  subjects  (7.6%),  eptinezumab  300-mg  subjects  (7.8%), 
eptinezumab  100-mg  subjects  (6.4%),  and  placebo  subjects  (6.1%).  No  relationship  between  eptinezumab 
dose and the incidence of nasopharyngitis or upper respiratory tract infection was seen. 
Grade 3 or higher TEAEs (OE pool) 
The large majority of TEAEs in all treatment groups were mild or moderate in severity. As noted previously, 
TEAEs of grade 3 (severe) or higher severity occurred infrequently and in similar proportions of all OE (2.6%), 
eptinezumab 300-mg subjects (3.5%), eptinezumab 100-mg subjects (1.9%), and placebo subjects (2.4%).   
As previously noted in the PS pool section, 1 placebo subject had two life-threatening (grade 4) TEAEs.  
There were six grade 3 (severe) TEAEs that occurred in 2 or more OE eptinezumab subjects; these included 
migraine in 7 (0.3%) OE subjects and 5 (0.6%) placebo subjects, cholelithiasis in 3 (0.1%) OE subjects and 
no placebo subjects, uterine leiomyoma in 3 (0.1%) OE subjects and no placebo subjects, pneumonia in 2 (< 
0.1%) OE and no placebo subjects, upper respiratory tract infection in 2 (< 0.2%) OE subjects and no placebo 
subjects and ECG T wave inversion in 2 (< 0.1%) OE subjects and no placebo subjects. All other grade 3 TEAEs 
occurred in 1 OE subject.   
Treatment-related Adverse Events (OE pool) 
Treatment-related TEAEs, as determined by the investigator, were seen in 14.2% of OE eptinezumab subjects 
and 9.4% of placebo subjects. The incidence of treatment-related TEAEs increased, with exception of the 10mg 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
dosing group, with eptinezumab dose (12.3% in the 30-mg group, 13.1% in the 100 mg group, 15.1% in the 
300-mg group and 19.8% in the 1000-mg group). 
Overall Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse (OE pool) 
Category 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
 46 (56.8) 
 467 (56.7) 
366 (52.2) 
184 (54.0) 
 74 (56.9) 
 414 (52.3) 
1137 
(54.8) 
Number of TEAEs 
109 
1212 
942 
454 
221 
1000 
2938 
Subjects with Any Study 
 Drug Related TEAE 
Number of Study Drug 
 Related TEAEs 
Subjects with Any Serious 
TEAE 
 16 (19.8) 
 124 (15.1) 
 92 (13.1) 
 42 (12.3) 
 21 (16.2) 
  74  (9.4) 
 295 
(14.2) 
 23 
 212 
147 
 72 
 35 
 123 
 489 
  2  (2.5) 
  17  (2.1) 
 11  (1.6) 
  4  (1.2) 
  1  (0.8) 
  11  (1.4) 
  35  (1.7) 
Number of Serious TEAEs 
  5 
  24 
 18 
  5 
  1 
  13 
  53 
Subjects with Any Grade 3 
 or Higher TEAE 
Number of Grade 3 or Higher 
TEAEs 
Subjects with Any TEAE of 
 Special Interest 
Number of TEAEs of Special 
Interest 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
Leading to Study Drug 
Discontinuationa 
Number of TEAEs Leading to 
Study Drug Discontinuationa 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
Leading to Study Drug 
Infusion Interruption 
Number of TEAEs Leading to 
Study Drug Infusion 
Interruption 
Subjects with Any TEAE 
 Resulting in Death 
Number of TEAEs Resulting 
in Death 
  3  (3.7) 
  29  (3.5) 
 13  (1.9) 
  8  (2.3) 
  1  (0.8) 
  19  (2.4) 
  54  (2.6) 
  4 
  38 
 23 
 10 
  2 
  23 
  77 
 11 (13.6) 
  86 (10.4) 
 55  (7.8) 
 34 (10.0) 
 11  (8.5) 
  45  (5.7) 
 197  (9.5) 
 14 
  98 
 86 
 44 
 13 
  53 
 255 
 0 
  19  (2.3) 
  9  (1.3) 
 12  (3.5) 
 0 
   8  (1.0) 
  40  (1.9) 
 0 
  20 
  9 
 12 
 0 
   9 
  41 
 0 
  19  (2.3) 
 11  (1.6) 
 10  (2.9) 
 0 
   6  (0.8) 
  40  (1.9) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  20 
 15 
 11 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
  0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
   8 
  46 
  0 
  0 
   0 
   0 
a  The source of these data is from the Adverse Events CRF page. 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment emergent adverse events 
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to the end of the primary treatment phase. 
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, and -011), Epti 10 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-005), Epti 30 mg 
(Studies ALD403-CLIN-005 and -006), Epti 100 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, and -011), Epti 300 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, 
-006, -011, and -013), Epti 1000 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-002). 
127 
 
 
 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events with Incidence of 2% or More in Subjects in the Overall, 300-
mg, or 100-mg Eptinezumab Treatment Groups by Preferred Term and Treatment Group (OE pool) 
Preferred Term 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Nasopharyngitis 
 1  (1.2) 
 72  (8.7) 
 44  (6.3) 
 17  (5.0) 
 6  (4.6) 
 41  (5.2) 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
 7  (8.6) 
 64  (7.8) 
 45  (6.4) 
 32  (9.4) 
 9  (6.9) 
 48  (6.1) 
Sinusitis 
Nausea 
Influenza 
Fatigue 
 0 
 35  (4.3) 
 16  (2.3) 
 13  (3.8) 
 8  (6.2) 
 35  (4.4) 
 1  (1.2) 
 29  (3.5) 
 20  (2.9) 
 13  (3.8) 
 6  (4.6) 
 26  (3.3) 
 0 
 25  (3.0) 
  9  (1.3) 
  5  (1.5) 
 1  (0.8) 
 18  (2.3) 
 3  (3.7) 
 24  (2.9) 
 20  (2.9) 
  9  (2.6) 
 2  (1.5) 
 13  (1.6) 
Urinary tract infection 
 1  (1.2) 
 23  (2.8) 
 14  (2.0) 
  5  (1.5) 
 4  (3.1) 
 18  (2.3) 
Arthralgia 
Bronchitis 
Migraine 
Dizziness 
Back pain 
 1  (1.2) 
 21  (2.6) 
 13  (1.9) 
  3  (0.9) 
 0 
 14  (1.8) 
 0 
 21  (2.6) 
 17  (2.4) 
  9  (2.6) 
 4  (3.1) 
 25  (3.2) 
 1  (1.2) 
 18  (2.2) 
 14  (2.0) 
  3  (0.9) 
 3  (2.3) 
 23  (2.9) 
 3  (3.7) 
 16  (1.9) 
 27  (3.9) 
 11  (3.2) 
11  (8.5) 
 21  (2.7) 
 3  (3.7) 
 15  (1.8) 
 17  (2.4) 
  4  (1.2) 
 4  (3.1) 
 19  (2.4) 
 140  
(6.7) 
 157  
(7.6) 
  72  
(3.5) 
  69  
(3.3) 
  40  
(1.9) 
  58  
(2.8) 
  47  
(2.3) 
  38  
(1.8) 
  51  
(2.5) 
  39  
(1.9) 
  68  
(3.3) 
  43  
(2.1) 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; EM + CM = episodic and chronic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment 
emergent adverse events 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, and -011), Epti 10 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-005), Epti 30 mg 
(Studies ALD403-CLIN-005 and -006), Epti 100 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, and -011), Epti 300 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, 
-006, -011, and -013), Epti 1000 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-002). 
Note:  TEAEs shown in bold font indicate TEAEs that occurred in ≥ 2% of subjects in the eptinezumab 100-mg or 300-mg groups and with 
incidence that was at least 2% greater in either of these 2 groups than in the placebo group. 
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase. 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. Subjects are counted only once per preferred term. Summary results are presented 
in decreasing order of preferred term frequency in ‘Epti 300 mg’ column. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Deaths and life threatening events  
There were no subject deaths in any of the 5 clinical studies included in the integrated safety database or in 
any  of  the  7  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  No  life-threatening  AEs  occurred  in  any  eptinezumab-treated 
subject. Two life-threatening (grade 4) TEAEs occurred in one subject with multiple comorbidities treated with 
placebo. 
Other serious adverse events (PS pool) 
128 
 
 
 
SAEs occurred infrequently within the PS pool with 1.3% of all PS eptinezumab subjects and 1.5% of PS placebo 
subjects. The proportions of subjects with SAEs were similar in each eptinezumab dose group and the placebo 
group, and no relationship to eptinezumab dose was observed. 
Serious Treatment-emergent Adverse Events by System Organ Class, Preferred Term and 
Treatment Group (PS pool) 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Subjects with Any Serious TEAE 
   7  (1.2) 
   7  (1.2) 
   4  (1.8) 
   9  (1.5) 
   18  (1.3) 
   35  (1.7) 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
  Vertigo 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
  Gastric ulcer 
  Haematemesis 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
  Cholecystitis 
  Hepatitis cholestatic 
Infections and infestations 
  Gastroenteritis 
  Cellulitis 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
complications 
  Abdominal wound dehiscence 
  Fall 
  Post procedural complication 
  Spinal compression fracture 
  Post procedural constipation 
  Procedural pain 
  Stomal hernia 
  Tibia fracture 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
  Intervertebral disc protrusion 
  Rhabdomyolysis 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
 unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
  Benign breast neoplasm 
  Breast cancer 
  Breast cancer stage II 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.5) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.5) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    2  (0.1) 
    3  (0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.2) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    5  (0.2) 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.2) 
    0 
    0 
   2  (0.3) 
   2  (0.3) 
   1  (0.5) 
   0 
    5  (0.4) 
    6  (0.3) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   1  (0.5) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.5) 
   1  (0.2) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   2  (0.3) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
    0 
    0 
   1  (0.5) 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
    2  (0.1) 
    5  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.2) 
    0 
    0 
   2  (0.3) 
    4  (0.3) 
    8  (0.4) 
   0 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    2 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.2) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
129 
Nervous system disorders 
   2  (0.3) 
   2  (0.3) 
  Migraine with aura 
  Seizure 
  Migraine 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
  Syncope 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
Psychiatric disorders 
   1  (0.2) 
   3  (0.5) 
  Suicide attempt 
  Depression suicidal 
  Panic attack 
  Suicidal ideation 
Renal and urinary disorders 
  Acute kidney injury 
  Nephrolithiasis 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
  Menometrorrhagia 
  Uterine prolapse 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
  Apnoea 
  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
   2  (0.3) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
    4  (0.3) 
    8  (0.4) 
    2  (0.1) 
    2 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    2 (<0.1) 
   2  (0.9) 
   1  (0.2) 
    2  (0.1) 
    2 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.5) 
   0 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   1  (0.5) 
   1  (0.2) 
    1 (<0.1) 
    1 (<0.1) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   2  (0.3) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
   1  (0.2) 
    0 
    0 
    0 
    0 
    0 
    0 
    2 (<0.1) 
    0 
    0 
    2 (<0.1) 
    0 
    0 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment emergent adverse events 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-006), Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg and 
All Epti Pivotal (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), All Epti All studies (all doses from all Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, -011, 
and -013). 
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase.  
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. Subjects are counted only once per system organ class and per preferred term. 
Summary results are presented in alphabetic order of system organ class, and within each system organ class, TEAEs are sorted in 
decreasing order of preferred term frequency in “Epti 300 mg’ column. 
Source: Table 14.3.2.3.1.1 (ISS TFLs) 
Other serious adverse events (OE pool) 
Serious adverse events occurred infrequently in the OE pool: 1.7% of all OE eptinezumab subjects and 1.4% 
of  OE  placebo  subjects.  The  occurrence  of  SAEs  increased  slightly  with  eptinezumab  dose:  0.8%  of  10-mg 
subjects, 1.2% of 30-mg subjects, 1.6% of 100-mg subjects, 2.1% of 300-mg subjects, and 2.5% of 1000-mg 
subjects. However, the proportion of placebo subjects with SAEs (1.4%) was greater than the proportions of 
subjects with SAEs in the 2 lowest eptinezumab doses and similar to the proportion of subjects with SAEs in 
the eptinezumab 100-mg group (1.6%). 
Serious Treatment-emergent Adverse Events  by System Organ Class, Preferred Term and 
Treatment Group (OE pool) 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
CM 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Subjects with Any Serious TEAE 
2  (2.5) 
17  (2.1) 
11  (1.6) 
4  (1.2) 
1  (0.8) 
11  (1.4) 
35  (1.7) 
Ear and labyrinth disorders 
0 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
0 
0 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
130 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
  Vertigo 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
  Gastric ulcer 
  Haematemesis 
General disorders and administration 
 site conditions 
  Chest pain 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
  Cholecystitis 
  Cholelithiasis 
  Hepatitis cholestatic 
Immune system disorders 
  Anaphylactic reaction 
Infections and infestations 
  Gastroenteritis 
  Gastroenteritis viral 
  Pneumonia 
  Vaginal abscess 
  Cellulitis 
  Kidney infection 
  Wound infection 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
 complications 
  Abdominal wound dehiscence 
  Concussion 
  Fall 
  Head injury 
  Post procedural complication 
  Spinal compression fracture 
  Post procedural constipation 
  Procedural pain 
  Stomal hernia 
  Tibia fracture 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
 disorders 
  Intervertebral disc protrusion 
  Rhabdomyolysis 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
 unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
  Uterine leiomyoma 
  Benign breast neoplasm 
  Breast cancer 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
CM 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1  (1.2) 
1  (1.2) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
1  (1.2) 
 4  (0.5) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1  (1.2) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 2  (0.3) 
1  (0.3) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
0 
0 
1  (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 0 
1  (0.3) 
 1  (0.1) 
0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
1  (0.3) 
0 
1  (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 4  (0.5) 
 1  (0.1) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 3  (0.4) 
 2  (0.3) 
1  (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 3  (0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 2  (0.3) 
 5  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 6  (0.3) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 5  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 3  (0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
131 
 
 
  Transient ischaemic attack 
1  (1.2) 
1  (1.2) 
 2  (0.2) 
 4  (0.6) 
1  (1.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
  Breast cancer stage II 
Nervous system disorders 
  Seizure 
  Migraine with aura 
  Serotonin syndrome 
  Medication overuse headache 
  Migraine 
  Syncope 
Psychiatric disorders 
  Conversion disorder 
  Suicide attempt 
  Affective disorder 
  Depression suicidal 
  Panic attack 
  Suicidal ideation 
Renal and urinary disorders 
  Acute kidney injury 
  Nephrolithiasis 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
  Pelvic pain 
  Menometrorrhagia 
  Menorrhagia 
  Uterine prolapse 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
 disorders 
  Respiratory distress 
  Apnoea 
  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
  Dyspnoea 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
0 
 0 
 0 
1  (1.2) 
 4  (0.5) 
 3  (0.4) 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
CM 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 2  (0.3) 
 8  (0.4) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 2 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 2  (0.3) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
 8  (0.4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 2 (<0.1) 
 2 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
 2 (<0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 1  (0.1) 
 2 (<0.1) 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1 (<0.1) 
 2  (0.3) 
 2 (<0.1) 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 2 (<0.1) 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1 (<0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2  (0.6) 
1  (0.3) 
1  (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
1  (1.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
1  (1.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment emergent adverse events 
Treatment/Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, and -011), Epti 10 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-005), Epti 30 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005 and -006), 
Epti 100 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, and -011), Epti 300 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, -011, and -013), Epti 1000 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-002). 
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase. 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. Subjects are counted only once per system organ class and per preferred term. Summary results are presented in 
alphabetic order of system organ class, and within each system organ class, TEAEs are sorted in decreasing order of preferred term frequency in ‘Epti 300 mg’ column. 
Source: Table 14.3.2.3.1.3 (ISS TFLs) 
Adverse events of special interest (AESIs) 
For the eptinezumab clinical development, the following adverse events are defined AESIs: 
•  Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic Events 
•  Events Associated with Suicide 
132 
 
 
 
•  Cardiovascular Events 
•  Nervous System Events 
•  Hepatic Events 
•  Events Associated with Study Drug Infusion 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest (PS pool) 
The proportion of subjects having an AESI was higher in the PS eptinezumab group (9.1%) than in the placebo 
group (4.9%). Across eptinezumab dose groups, these proportions did not appear to be related to dose. The 
large majority of AESIs were mild or moderate in severity; there were no life-threatening or fatal AESIs. Events 
coded to hypersensitivity, the most frequently occurring AESI, occurred in 0.9% PS eptinezumab subjects and 
no placebo subjects. 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest by System Organ Class, Preferred Term, 
and Treatment Group (PS pool) 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Subjects with Any TEAE of Special Interest 
57  (9.9) 
46  (7.9) 
22 (10.0) 
29  (4.9) 
125  (9.1) 
197  (9.5) 
Cardiac disorders 
 4  (0.7) 
 3  (0.5) 
 6  (2.7) 
 2  (0.3) 
 13  (0.9) 
 20  (1.0) 
  Tachycardia 
  Bradycardia 
  Palpitations 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.2) 
 2  (0.9) 
 1  (0.2) 
  5  (0.4) 
  7  (0.3) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 3  (1.4) 
 1  (0.2) 
  5  (0.4) 
  8  (0.4) 
  Sinus tachycardia 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.5) 
 0 
  2  (0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
General disorders and administration site 
conditionsa 
 7  (1.2) 
 9  (1.6) 
 5  (2.3) 
 7  (1.2) 
 21  (1.5) 
 31  (1.5) 
  Infusion site extravasation 
 5  (0.9) 
 4  (0.7) 
 3  (1.4) 
 5  (0.9) 
 12  (0.9) 
 16  (0.8) 
  Infusion site nerve damage 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
  Infusion site rash 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.5) 
  Infusion site discomfort 
  Infusion site eczema 
  Infusion site erythema 
  Infusion site pain 
  Infusion site pruritus 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.5) 
Immune system disorders 
 8  (1.4) 
 1  (0.2) 
 4  (1.8) 
 8  (1.4) 
 1  (0.2) 
 4  (1.8) 
  Hypersensitivity 
Investigations 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  3  (0.2) 
  3  (0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  2  (0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 13  (0.9) 
 24  (1.2) 
 13  (0.9) 
 23  (1.1) 
11  (1.9) 
12  (2.1) 
 3  (1.4) 
10  (1.7) 
 26  (1.9) 
 39  (1.9) 
  Blood pressure increased 
 3  (0.5) 
 6  (1.0) 
 1  (0.5) 
 4  (0.7) 
 10  (0.7) 
 14  (0.7) 
133 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.5) 
 1  (0.2) 
  3  (0.2) 
  4  (0.2) 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
  Alanine aminotransferase increased 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.2) 
 2  (0.9) 
 4  (0.7) 
  5  (0.4) 
  7  (0.3) 
  Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
 2  (0.3) 
 0 
  Hepatic enzyme increased 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.2) 
  Heart rate increased 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
  Liver function test increased 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
  Transaminases increased 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
  Blood bilirubin increased 
  Blood pressure systolic increased 
  Electrocardiogram Q wave abnormal 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
Nervous system disorders 
 5  (0.9) 
 3  (0.5) 
  Syncope 
  Seizure 
 4  (0.7) 
 3  (0.5) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
Psychiatric disorders 
 1  (0.2) 
 5  (0.9) 
  Suicide attempt 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
  Depression suicidal 
  Suicidal ideation 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
 4  (0.7) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disordersb 
11  (1.9) 
 8  (1.4) 
 2  (0.9) 
  Rhinorrhoea 
  Cough 
  Dyspnoea 
  Nasal congestion 
  Throat irritation 
  Sneezing 
  Choking sensation 
  Sinus congestion 
  Wheezing 
 4  (0.7) 
 4  (0.7) 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.2) 
 2  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 2  (0.3) 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.5) 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.5) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.5) 
 1  (0.2) 
  2  (0.1) 
  3  (0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
  3  (0.2) 
  4  (0.2) 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
  2  (0.1) 
  3  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 3  (0.5) 
  8  (0.6) 
 10  (0.5) 
 3  (0.5) 
  7  (0.5) 
  8  (0.4) 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
  6  (0.4) 
 11  (0.5) 
 0 
 0 
  2  (0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
  4  (0.3) 
  9  (0.4) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 21  (1.5) 
 30  (1.4) 
  8  (0.6) 
  8  (0.4) 
  3  (0.2) 
  4  (0.2) 
  2  (0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
  5  (0.4) 
  9  (0.4) 
  3  (0.2) 
  3  (0.1) 
  2  (0.1) 
  4  (0.2) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disordersa 
 6  (1.0) 
 6  (1.0) 
 1  (0.5) 
 2  (0.3) 
 13  (0.9) 
 23  (1.1) 
  Rash 
  Pruritus 
  Pruritus generalised 
  Swelling face 
  Urticaria 
 5  (0.9) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
  6  (0.4) 
  9  (0.4) 
 1  (0.2) 
 4  (0.7) 
 1  (0.5) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  6  (0.4) 
 12  (0.6) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.2) 
  0 
  0 
Vascular disorders 
 6  (1.0) 
 6  (1.0) 
 3  (1.4) 
 5  (0.9) 
 15  (1.1) 
 26  (1.3) 
134 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
  Hot flush 
  Hypertension 
  Flushing 
EM+CM 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=574 
n (%) 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=579 
n (%) 
EM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=219 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=588 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
All Epti 
Pivotal 
N=1372 
n (%) 
All Epti 
All Studies 
N=2076 
n (%) 
 3  (0.5) 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.5) 
 0 
  6  (0.4) 
  8  (0.4) 
 2  (0.3) 
 3  (0.5) 
 1  (0.5) 
 5  (0.9) 
  6  (0.4) 
 11  (0.5) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.2) 
 1  (0.5) 
 0 
  3  (0.2) 
  4  (0.2) 
a  By definition, these events occurred within 7 days of infusion. 
b  By definition, these events occurred on the infusion day. 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse events 
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase.  
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. Subjects are counted only once per system organ class (SOC) and per preferred 
term. Summary results are presented in alphabetic order of SOC, and within each SOC, AEs are sorted in decreasing order of preferred 
term frequency in ‘Epti 300 mg’ column. 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Treatment Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), Epti 30 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-006), Epti 100 mg, Epti 300 mg and 
All Epti Pivotal (Studies ALD403-CLIN-006 and -011), All Epti All Studies (all doses from all Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, -011, 
and -013). 
Source: Table 14.3.2.4.1.1 (ISS TFLs) 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest (OE pool) 
AESIs  occurred  more  frequently  in  OE  subjects  (9.5%)  than  in  placebo  subjects  (5.7%)  (table  27).  The 
occurrence of any AESI did not appear to be dose related. The large majority of AESIs were mild or moderate 
in severity; there were no life-threatening or fatal AESIs. Events coded to hypersensitivity, the most frequently 
occurring AESI, occurred in 1.1% of OE subjects and no placebo subjects. 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest by System Organ Class, Preferred  Term, 
and Treatment Group (OE pool) 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
Subjects with Any TEAE of Special Interest 
11 (13.6) 
86 (10.4) 
55  (7.8) 
34 (10.0) 
11  (8.5) 
45  (5.7) 
197  
(9.5) 
Cardiac disorders 
  Palpitations 
  Tachycardia 
  Bradycardia 
  Atrial fibrillation 
  Sinus bradycardia 
  Sinus tachycardia 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
  Oral pruritus 
  Paraesthesia oral 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 9  (1.1) 
 3  (0.4) 
 6  (1.8) 
 2  (1.5) 
 6  (0.8) 
 20  (1.0) 
 3  (0.4) 
 1  (0.1) 
 3  (0.9) 
 1  (0.8) 
 3  (0.4) 
  8  (0.4) 
 3  (0.4) 
 1  (0.1) 
 2  (0.6) 
 1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
  7  (0.3) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.3) 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  0 
 0 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  0 
General disorders and administration site 
conditionsa 
 1  (1.2) 
10  (1.2) 
 9  (1.3) 
 8  (2.3) 
 3  (2.3) 
 9  (1.1) 
 31  (1.5) 
  Infusion site extravasation 
  Infusion site nerve damage 
 0 
 0 
 8  (1.0) 
 4  (0.6) 
 4  (1.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 5  (0.6) 
 16  (0.8) 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
135 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
  Infusion site rash 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
  3  (0.1) 
  Chest pain 
  Feeling hot 
  Infusion site discomfort 
  Infusion site eczema 
  Infusion site erythema 
  Infusion site pain 
  Infusion site pruritus 
  Injection site paraesthesia 
Immune system disorders 
  Hypersensitivity 
  Anaphylactic reaction 
 1  (1.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.3) 
 1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 2  (0.3) 
 2  (0.6) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  4  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 24  (1.2) 
 23  (1.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.8) 
16  (1.9) 
 2  (0.3) 
 6  (1.8) 
15  (1.8) 
 2  (0.3) 
 6  (1.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
Investigations 
 6  (7.4) 
12  (1.5) 
14  (2.0) 
 5  (1.5) 
 2  (1.5) 
14  (1.8) 
 39  (1.9) 
  Blood pressure increased 
 1  (1.2) 
 3  (0.4) 
 7  (1.0) 
 3  (0.9) 
  Alanine aminotransferase increased 
 1  (1.2) 
 2  (0.2) 
 2  (0.3) 
 2  (0.6) 
  Aspartate aminotransferase increased 
  Hepatic enzyme increased 
  Blood pressure systolic increased 
  Heart rate increased 
  Liver function test increased 
  Transaminases increased 
  Blood bilirubin increased 
  Electrocardiogram Q wave abnormal 
  Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
Nervous system disorders 
  Syncope 
  Seizure 
Psychiatric disorders 
  Suicidal ideation 
  Suicide attempt 
  Depression suicidal 
  Intentional self-injury 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (1.2) 
 3  (3.7) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 6  (0.7) 
 3  (0.4) 
 1  (0.3) 
 4  (0.5) 
 3  (0.4) 
 1  (0.3) 
 2  (0.2) 
 0 
 3  (0.4) 
 7  (1.0) 
 2  (0.2) 
 6  (0.9) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disordersb 
 1  (1.2) 
14  (1.7) 
 9  (1.3) 
 6  (1.8) 
  Rhinorrhoea 
  Cough 
  Nasal congestion 
  Dyspnoea 
  Sneezing 
 4  (0.5) 
 4  (0.6) 
 3  (0.4) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 3  (0.4) 
 3  (0.4) 
 3  (0.9) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 2  (0.2) 
 0 
 1  (1.2) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 5  (0.6) 
 14  (0.7) 
 5  (0.6) 
  7  (0.3) 
 2  (0.3) 
  3  (0.1) 
 1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
  4  (0.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.8) 
 1  (0.1) 
  3  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 0 
 0 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  3  (0.1) 
 4  (0.5) 
 10  (0.5) 
 4  (0.5) 
  8  (0.4) 
 0 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.8) 
 3  (0.4) 
 11  (0.5) 
 1  (0.8) 
 3  (0.4) 
  9  (0.4) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
 30  (1.4) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  8  (0.4) 
  4  (0.2) 
  9  (0.4) 
  2 (<0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  4  (0.2) 
136 
 
 
System Organ Class 
  Preferred Term 
  Throat irritation 
  Choking sensation 
  Oropharyngeal pain 
  Sinus congestion 
  Wheezing 
EM 
Epti 
1000 mg 
N=81 
n (%) 
Epti 
300 mg 
N=823 
n (%) 
EM+CM 
Epti 
100 mg 
N=701 
n (%) 
CM 
EM+CM 
Epti 
30 mg 
N=341 
n (%) 
Epti 
10 mg 
N=130 
n (%) 
Placebo 
N=791 
n (%) 
All Epti 
N=2076 
n (%) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.3) 
 2  (0.6) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
  3  (0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disordersa 
 3  (3.7) 
 8  (1.0) 
 7  (1.0) 
 3  (0.9) 
 2  (1.5) 
 2  (0.3) 
 23  (1.1) 
  Rash 
  Pruritus 
  Pruritus generalised 
  Rash pruritic 
  Swelling face 
  Urticaria 
 1  (1.2) 
 6  (0.7) 
 2  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
  9  (0.4) 
 1  (1.2) 
 2  (0.2) 
 4  (0.6) 
 3  (0.9) 
 2  (1.5) 
 0 
 1  (1.2) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 12  (0.6) 
  2 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
  1 (<0.1) 
1  (0.1) 
0 
Vascular disorders 
 1  (1.2) 
12  (1.5) 
 8  (1.1) 
 3  (0.9) 
 2  (1.5) 
 8  (1.0) 
 26  (1.3) 
  Hot flush 
  Hypertension 
  Flushing 
  Hypotension 
  Prehypertension 
 1  (1.2) 
 4  (0.5) 
 2  (0.3) 
 1  (0.3) 
 0 
 0 
  8  (0.4) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 4  (0.5) 
 4  (0.6) 
 1  (0.3) 
 2  (1.5) 
 6  (0.8) 
 11  (0.5) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 1  (0.3) 
 2  (0.2) 
 1  (0.1) 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 0 
 1  (0.1) 
  4  (0.2) 
 0 
  3  (0.1) 
 1  (0.1) 
  0 
a  By definition, these events occurred within 7 days of infusion. 
b  By definition, these events occurred on infusion day. 
CM = chronic migraine; EM = episodic migraine; Epti = eptinezumab; TEAE = treatment-emergent adverse events 
Adverse events from Study ALD403-CLIN-013 are presented up to end of the primary treatment phase.  
Adverse events were coded using MedDRA version 20.1. Subjects are counted only once per system organ class (SOC) and per preferred 
term. Summary results are presented in alphabetic order of SOC, and within each SOC, AEs are sorted in decreasing order of preferred 
term frequency in ‘Epti 300 mg’ column. 
Percentages are based on safety population. 
Treatment Dose level: Placebo (Studies ALD403-CLIN-002, -005, -006, and -011), Epti 10 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-005), Epti 30 mg 
(Studies ALD403-CLIN-005 and -006) Epti 100 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -006, -011), Epti 300 mg (Studies ALD403-CLIN-005, -
006, -011, and -013), Epti 1000 mg (Study ALD403-CLIN-002). 
Source: Table 14.3.2.4.1.3 (ISS TFLs) 
Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic Events 
Including  adverse  events  with  a  MedDRA  coded  SOC  of  Immune  System  Disorders  and  preferred  terms  of 
hypersensitivity, anaphylactic reaction, and anaphylactoid reaction.  
By  convention,  AEs  that  occurred  during  the  study  drug  infusion,  led  to  a  specific  clinical  action  by  the 
investigator and were determined by the investigator to be possible allergic response or infusion reaction were 
coded to the SOC of Immune System Disorders and the preferred term of hypersensitivity, hereafter referred 
as “events coded to hypersensitivity”. 
A medical assessment framework was used, considering the nature of symptoms reported by the investigator 
and  any  medical  action  taken  by  the  investigator,  including  study  drug  interruption  or  standard  medical 
treatment  to  manage  the  symptoms.  This  eased  the  investigators  to  determine  if  these  TEAEs  could  be 
aggregated into a unifying diagnosis of hypersensitivity. This process allowed for a pragmatic clinical context 
for risk assessment and consistent medical evaluation across events. 
137 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic Events (PS pool) 
Events coded to hypersensitivity occurred in 13 (0.9%) PS eptinezumab subjects and no placebo subject. They 
occurred in all dose groups but did not appear to be dose related. Study drug was discontinued in all 13 (0.9%) 
PS study subjects with events coded to hypersensitivity. 
There were no serious TEAEs of anaphylactic reaction and no events coded to hypersensitivity were serious in 
the PS pool. 
Hypersensitivity and Anaphylactic Events (OE pool) 
Events coded to hypersensitivity were the most frequent AESIs, occurring in 23 (1.1%) of OE subjects and no 
placebo subject. One of those subjects had 2 events coded to hypersensitivity, 1 during the first infusion and 
1 during the second infusion, all other had one event (all hypersensitivity-coded events: 24). No association 
between the occurrence of these events and eptinezumab dose was seen. 
Clinical presentation of these events was most commonly reported as being nonspecific allergic-type reactions 
with  symptoms  (verbatim  terms)  including  nasal  congestion,  throat  symptoms  (scratchiness,  tightness), 
itching, rash, hives, watery eyes, flushing, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, rapid heartbeat, localized swelling or 
burning sensation, sneezing, coughing, and wheezing. Other symptoms or physical signs characteristic of true 
immediate-type  hypersensitivity  reactions  (e.g.,  IgE-mediated),  such  as  urticaria,  angioedema,  and 
documented respiratory manifestations were rare. All but 1 of these events lasted 1 day or less. One event 
(rash)  lasted  1.9  days.  The  majority  of  subjects  received  standard  medical  treatment  for  these  events  (or 
observation  only)  and  all  events  resolved.  Notably,  13  of  the  23  OE  subjects  with  events  coded  to 
hypersensitivity also had medical histories of allergies to environmental agents or medicines, or atopic diseases 
such as asthma and allergic rhinitis.  
No events coded to hypersensitivity in the OE pool were serious. All of these events were mild (nine grade 1 
events) or moderate (fifteen grade 2 events) in severity; none were severe (grade 3).  
Events coded to hypersensitivity occurred mostly and in similar proportion either at the first or second infusion. 
Among the 17 subjects who had events coded to hypersensitivity in multiple dose studies, study drug infusion 
was interrupted in 16 (0.8%) and discontinued in 15 (0.7%) of the subjects. 
One subject had an AESI of anaphylactic reaction of moderate (grade 2) severity during the first infusion of 
eptinezumab  300  mg.  The  event  was  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  medically  important  and  was 
therefore classified as serious.   
The  subject  developed  erythema,  pruritus,  nasal  congestion,  and  hives  across  his  entire  body,  with  first 
symptoms starting 7 minutes after the start of the initial infusion of 300 mg eptinezumab (day 0). There were 
no symptoms referable to cardiovascular and/or respiratory compromise.   
The subject was administered epinephrine 0.3 mg with no discernible effect within 10 minutes. Intravenous 
diphenhydramine 50 mg was then administered, and an almost immediate response was noted. The subject 
was withdrawn from additional study drug dosing due to this.   
Due  to  the  lack  of  respiratory  or  cardiovascular  manifestations  and  no  response  to  epinephrine  but  an 
immediate response to IV diphenhydramine, the MAA assessed the event differently as allergic reaction and 
infusion day reaction under the larger classification of immune system disorders. Nevertheless, the event is 
maintained as an (serious) anaphylactic reaction in the integrated safety database. 
138 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity reactions including multiple TEAE terms related to hypersensitivity (AESIs) 
Besides  events  coded  to  hypersensitivity,  other  TEAE  preferred  terms  potentially  related  to  hypersensitivity 
reactions  have  been  considered.  These  included  events  coded  to  multiple  preferred  terms  of  urticaria, 
flushing/hot  flushes,  rash  and  pruritus.  Hypersensitivity  reactions  (including  multiple  TEAE  terms  related  to 
hypersensitivity) occurred in the PS pool at an incidence of 3.8% in the eptinezumab 300 mg group, 2.6% in 
the eptinezumab 100 mg group, and 1.2% in the placebo group. 
Events Associated with Suicide (AESIs) 
Adverse  events  of  special  interest  in  the  psychiatric  disorders  SOC  occurred  with  similar  frequency  in  OE 
subjects (0.5%) and placebo subjects (0.4%), with no apparent relationship to eptinezumab dose. The most 
frequently  occurring  AESI  in  this  SOC  was  suicidal  ideation  which  occurred  in  similar  proportions  of  OE  and 
placebo subjects (0.4% in each). 
Cardiovascular Events (AESIs) 
Cardiovascular AESIs occurred infrequent and with similar frequency in eptinezumab treated and in  placebo 
treated subjects of the PS and OE pool. 
Nervous System Events (AESIs) 
Nervous system AESIs occurred infrequent in the PS and OE pool. The only PT of seizure occurred in 2 subjects 
treated with 300 mg eptinezumab (< 0.1% of the OE population, both events were serious and assessed as 
not related) and in none of the placebo subjects. 
Hepatic Events (AESIs) 
Hepatic AESIs occurred infrequently (≤ 7 [0.3%] OE subjects) and in similar proportions of eptinezumab and 
placebo subjects. The occurrence of hepatic AESIs did not appear to be dose related. None of the hepatic 
AESIs in the OE subjects were serious and none were severe. All of the hepatic AESIs were significantly 
confounded by an array of risk factors and concomitant medication usage. 
Events Associated with Study Drug Infusion (AESIs) 
Adverse events of special interest in the general disorders and administration site conditions SOC occurred 
with similar frequency in OE subjects (1.5%) and placebo subjects (1.1%). By definition, these AESIs 
occurred on an infusion day or within the first 7 days of infusion. The occurrence of AESIs in this SOC did not 
appear to be dose related; however, the low incidence precludes any definitive conclusion. The majority of 
these events were infusion site-related AESIs (most frequent: infusion site extravasation) which are 
accounted for by the route of administration.  
Adverse events of special interest leading to study drug discontinuation (AESIs) 
AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation occurred in 21 (1%) OE subjects and no placebo subjects. Events 
coded to hypersensitivity were the most frequent events (15 (0.7% of) subjects of the OE population) with the 
majority of subjects (10 of 15) received eptinezumab 300 mg. Three OE subjects had study drug discontinued 
due to hypertension or blood pressure increased. Other AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation occurred 
in 1 subject each.  
Adverse events of special interest leading to interruption of study drug infusion (AESIs) 
139 
 
 
AESIs leading to interruption of study drug infusion occurred in 1.8% OE subjects and in 0.6% placebo subjects. 
The most frequent reasons were infusion site extravasation, events coded to hypersensitivity and infusion site 
pain.  Overall,  the  occurrence  of  all  those  events  did  not  appear  to  be  dose  related,  but  events  coded  to 
hypersensitivity only occurred in subjects treated with eptinezumab, none in subjected treated with placebo. 
Moreover, a serious AESI of anaphylactic reaction led to interruption of study drug infusion occurred in 1 OE 
subject. 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory tests, including hematology and serum chemistry, were obtained in all 5 studies at screening 
and/or baseline and at regular intervals throughout the treatment and follow-up phases. 
In each of the 5 clinical studies, mean clinical laboratory values at baseline were comparable in the eptinezumab 
and placebo groups. Mean clinical laboratory values and mean changes from baseline at all post-baseline visits 
were generally similar in the eptinezumab groups and the placebo groups. No dose related trends and no trends 
over time were observed. 
Liver  function  test  elevations  occurred  infrequently  and  in  similar  proportions  of  placebo  and  eptinezumab 
subjects. The incidence of these elevations did not appear to be dose related. There were no data to suggest 
that treatment with eptinezumab was associated with any liver toxicity. 
TEAEs related to abnormalities in hematology and biochemistry tests occurred infrequently (< 1% of subjects 
in  any  eptinezumab  group  for  any  particular  clinical  laboratory-related  preferred  term  in  the  Investigations 
SOC) and in similar proportions of all PS eptinezumab dosing groups and in placebo subjects. There was no 
apparent relationship between eptinezumab dose and the occurrence of clinical laboratory-related AEs.  
The  most  frequently  occurring  TEAEs  related  to  clinical  laboratory  findings  were  ALT  increased  (0.4%  of  PS 
eptinezumab subjects and 0.7% of placebo subjects) and lipids increased (0.4% of PS eptinezumab subjects 
and 0.3% of placebo subjects). No clinical laboratory-related TEAE was serious and all laboratory-related TEAEs 
in eptinezumab-treated subjects were mild or moderate in severity. One subject who received placebo had a 
grade 3 AESI of ALT increased. 
Overall,  the  mean  vital  signs  (SBP,  DBP,  heart  rate,  weight,  and  BMI)  at  baseline  were  comparable  for 
eptinezumab and placebo subjects. There were no notable differences in post-baseline mean values or in mean 
changes from baseline between eptinezumab and placebo subjects. Mean changes from baseline were small 
and were similar for each eptinezumab dose group and the placebo group. There were no obvious trends over 
time in mean vital signs values. 
TEAEs related to vital signs assessments occurred in < 2% of eptinezumab and placebo subjects and in similar 
proportions of eptinezumab and placebo subjects with no apparent relationship to eptinezumab dose. 
Means for ECG parameters were comparable across all eptinezumab groups and the placebo group at baseline 
and at all post-baseline visits. Mean changes from baseline were small and comparable across all treatment 
groups at all post-baseline visits. There were no notable trends over time in any of these parameters in any of 
the treatment groups.  
Individual  ECG-related  TEAEs  occurred  infrequently  (i.e.,  no  more  than  3  OE  subjects  each  [<  0.1%]). 
Treatment-emergent AEs of QT prolongation occurred in 3 of 2,076 OE subjects (0.1%) and 1 of 791 (0.1%) 
placebo  subjects,  all  of  them  participated  in  study  002  in  which  subjects  received  either  a  single  dose  of 
140 
 
 
eptinezumab 1000 mg or placebo. All of these events were considered mild, and none of these subjects had a 
QTcF  interval  >  500  msec.  T  wave  inversions  occurred  in  3  of  2,076  OE  subjects  (0.1%)  and  no  placebo 
subjects. 
Safety in special populations 
A total of 23 subjects (14 (1%) eptinezumab subjects and 9 placebo subjects) in the PS pool were between the 
ages of 65 and 74 years; no subjects were 75 years of age or older. Due to the small numbers of subjects in 
the older age groups, no meaningful statements can be made regarding the AE profiles of eptinezumab in these 
age groups. 
No clinically meaningful difference in terms of adverse events was observed between males and females. 
African-American/Black subjects comprised 8.7% of PS eptinezumab subjects (N = 119) and 11.6% of placebo 
subjects  (N  =  68)  only.  Overall,  African-American/Black  subjects  tended  to  have  higher  rates  of  TEAEs, 
including those treated with placebo even though the pattern of TEAEs seen in both white and black subjects 
was generally similar to that seen in all subjects in the PS pool.  
The incidence of TEAEs by preferred term for black and white subjects revealed some notable differences. For 
instance, the incidences of nausea, vomiting, events coded to hypersensitivity and dizziness, among others, 
were higher among black eptinezumab subjects than black placebo subjects, and the difference between black 
eptinezumab and black placebo subjects was greater than the difference between white eptinezumab subjects 
and white placebo subjects. 
AESIs generally occurred more frequently among black subjects regardless of SOC or preferred term in both 
the eptinezumab and placebo groups and also the proportion of black eptinezumab subjects with TEAEs leading 
to  study  drug  discontinuation  was  higher  (5.0%)  than  the  proportion  of  black  placebo  subjects  (none)  and 
higher than in white subjects (2.1% and 1.6%, respectively).  
Presently, there is no evidence linking eptinezumab with any negative impact on human pregnancy. However, 
due to the paucity of available human pregnancy data at the present time point, no definitive conclusions about 
the risks, if any, of eptinezumab use during pregnancy currently can be drawn. 
Immunological events 
The overall incidence of treatment emergent ADA and NAb detected in studies 005, 006, 011 and 013 was 15.9 
% and 6.2% respectively. In study 002, for which a different ADA assay method was used, treatment-boosted 
anti-eptinezumab immunoreactivity was detected in 13.6%. 
The incidences of TEAEs and AESIs were evaluated by ADA/Nab status (positive versus negative), ADA titer 
category and ADA titer value observed from the sample taken prior to the dose associated with the TEAE/AESI 
and the next available sample after the dose. 
In  Studies  005,  006,  011,  and  013,  23  (1.2%)  of  1,995  eptinezumab-treated  subjects  had  AESIs  coded  to 
hypersensitivity), all of them mild or moderate as graded by the investigators. Further, a single, serious AESI 
of  anaphylactic  reaction  of  grade  2  severity  occurred  during  the  day  0  infusion  of  eptinezumab  300  mg 
(differently assessed by the company).   
141 
 
 
There was no apparent relationship of any of these events to pre-existing or treatment-emergent ADA or NAb 
positive status, ADA titer category or eptinezumab dose. There was no evidence for a risk of immune complex-
related hypersensitivity, consistent with the relatively low ADA titers observed for all eptinezumab dose.  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Eptinezumab like most therapeutic proteins is not expected to be metabolized by liver CYP450 enzymes. Non-
specific  mechanisms  of  clearance  and  proteolysis  are  the  primary  expected  routes  of  elimination.  For  these 
reasons, administration of concomitant medications that are small molecules is not expected to alter the PK of 
eptinezumab.  
This is supported by results of the population PK analysis, in which migraine preventive medications were no 
significant covariate in models of volume of distribution and total plasma clearance for eptinezumab. Moreover, 
the coadministration with sumatriptan did not alter the single dose PK of eptinezumab and vice versa.  
In both the PS and OE pools, the percentages of subjects with a new or changed dose of a CV medication after 
the first administration of study drug were low and similar across the eptinezumab and placebo groups. Among 
these groups, the percentages of subjects with a new or increased dose of a CV medication for an indication of 
high blood pressure or hypertension were also low and generally similar across the eptinezumab and placebo 
groups. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
Treatment-emergent  adverse  events  leading  to  study  drug  discontinuation  occurred  infrequently  and  in  a 
slightly higher proportion of subjects treated with eptinezumab (2.5% (PS pool) and 1.9% (OE pool)) than in 
placebo  subjects  (1.4%  and  1.0%,  respectively).  The  differences  between  the  eptinezumab-treated  and  the 
placebo-treated patients are for both pools almost entirely accounted for by the occurrence of hypersensitivity-
coding AEs that did not occurred in any of the placebo-treated patients.  
Further AE that led to treatment discontinuation included hypertension and anaphylactic reaction. 
Post marketing experience 
Eptinezumab is approved in the USA since February 2020 for the preventive treatment of migraine in adults. 
The  first  PBRER  for  eptinezumab,  covering  the  time  period  of  21-Feb-2020  to  20-Aug-2020,  was  submitted 
with this application. During this first postmarketing reporting period, a total of 70 AEs of which 6 were serious, 
including one case of hypersensitivity and one case of anaphylactic reaction, were reported. 
Per FDA request, cases of events for myocardial infarction, stroke, hypertension and severe constipation are 
being monitored. In the period covered by the submitted PBRER, no cases with these events were received, no 
significant safety issues have been identified and no safety-related changes were made to the RSI. 
2.6.9.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The numbers of subjects exposed to eptinezumab in the PS pool and in the OE pool and the numbers of doses 
these subjects received provide sufficient exposures to evaluate the safety of eptinezumab for administration 
every  12  weeks  by  IV  infusion.  A  total  of  1,288  PS  subjects  received  at  least  2  doses  of  eptinezumab 
142 
 
 
approximately 12 weeks apart, and 526 PS subjects received 4 doses of eptinezumab approximately 12 weeks 
apart. 
In the OE pool, a total of 2,076 subjects with migraine received at least 1 dose of eptinezumab, representing 
1,615 patient years of exposure, 1,334 subjects had at least 6 months of exposure to eptinezumab (2 doses 
plus  follow-up  for  at  least  5  half-lives  (130  days))  and  a  total  of  490  subjects  had  1  year  of  exposure  to 
eptinezumab (4 doses and follow-up). 
The large majority of all subjects received their complete study drug dose without interruption. In the small 
proportion of subjects for whom the dose was interrupted (< 2% of eptinezumab 300-mg and 100-mg subjects 
(PS),  <  4%  at  any  dose  (OE)),  most  went  on  to  receive  their  full  dose.  There  was  no  apparent  association 
between  eptinezumab  dose  and  the  occurrence  of  dose  interruption,  and  the  proportions  of  subjects  with  a 
dose interruption were similar in the eptinezumab and placebo groups at each scheduled dose day.  
The majority of all subjects were white (> 85%) and female (> 80%) with a mean of age of approximately 40 
years, reflecting the demographic characteristics of people with migraine in the general population.  
Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and circulation conditions were notably lower among subjects in the 
PS pool than has been reported in community-based surveys of people with migraine. This reflects the exclusion 
of  subjects  with  clinically  significant  cardiovascular  conditions  from  the  clinical  studies.  The  most  frequently 
occurring cardiovascular risk factor was obesity. This is similar to proportions of subjects with EM and CM in 
community-based surveys. 
Section  4.4  Special  Warnings  and  Precautions  for  Use  was  adapted  to  include  patients  with  a  history  of 
cardiovascular disease and cardiovascular risk factors. In addition, the wording of section 4.4 was amended to 
state  that  patients  with  a  history  of  neurological  diseases  or  patients  with  psychiatric  conditions  that  were 
uncontrolled  and/or untreated were excluded from the clinical studies and that therefore only limited safety 
data are available in these patients. 
The proportions of subjects with 1 or more TEAEs were similar for all PS subjects who received eptinezumab 
(53.6%), eptinezumab 300 mg (54.2%), eptinezumab 100 mg (51.1%), and placebo (51.5%) and were similar 
to  those  of  subjects  in  the  OE  pool  (eptinezumab  at  any  dose  (54.8%),  eptinezumab  300  mg  (56.7%), 
eptinezumab  100  mg  (52.2%)  and  placebo  (52.3%).  No  relationship  between  eptinezumab  dose  and  the 
occurrence of 1 or more TEAEs was seen. 
Most frequent (≥ 2%) TEAEs that occurred with greater incidence in any eptinezumab dose group than in the 
placebo  group  (in  descending  order  of  frequency  in  PS  eptinezumab  subjects)  were  upper  respiratory  tract 
infection  (URTI),  nasopharyngitis,  nausea,  fatigue,  dizziness,  urinary  tract  infection,  arthralgia,  back  pain, 
influenza, cough, pain in extremity, and pyrexia. Of those TEAEs listed, the applicant agreed to include fatigue 
in the List of Adverse Reactions in section 4.8, since its frequency is likely to be higher than 1.1% over placebo.  
The  large  majority  of  TEAEs  in  all  treatment  groups  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  TEAEs  of  grade  3 
(severe) or higher severity occurred infrequently and in similar proportions of all PS eptinezumab and placebo 
subjects (3.1%). Treatment-emergent adverse events leading to interruption of study drug infusion occurred 
infrequently and in a slightly higher proportion of subjects treated with eptinezumab (1.7% (PS pool) and 1.9% 
(OE pool)) than in placebo subjects (1.0% and 0.8%, respectively). The differences between the eptinezumab-
treated and the placebo-treated patients are for both pools almost entirely accounted for by the occurrence of 
hypersensitivity-coding AEs (n= 8 and n= 16 in the PS and OE pool, respectively) that did not occurred in any 
of the placebo-treated patients. Further TEAEs that led to interruption of study drug infusion that occurred in 
more  than  1  subject  in  any  treatment  group  included  infusion  site  extravasation  and  infusion  site  pain  and 
143 
 
 
nausea. All other TEAEs that led to interruption of study drug infusion occurred in single eptinzumab subjects 
only,  including  an  anaphylactic  reaction  (assessed  differently  by  the  company)  in  one  300  mg  eptinezumab 
subject of the OE pool. The overall incidence of treatment-related TEAEs, as determined by the investigator, 
was 12.9% for subjects treated with eptinezumab and 8.2% of placebo subjects in the PS pool and 14.2% for 
subjects treated with eptinezumab and 9.4% of placebo subjects in the OE pool, respectively. The incidence of 
treatment-related  TEAEs  increased  with  eptinezumab  dose.  Nasopharyngitis  and  hypersensitivity  reactions 
occurred in ≥ 2% of subjects in any eptinezumab group of the PS pool with an incidence that was at least 2% 
greater in the eptinezumab 300 mg or 100 mg groups than in the placebo group. They are considered adverse 
drug reactions to eptinezumab. 
Long-term TEAEs were evaluated using pooled data from Studies 006 and 013. TEAEs with onset between week 
24  and  week  36  in  22.9%  of  eptinezumab  subjects  and  19.9%  of  placebo  subjects.  The  most  frequently 
occurring  (≥  1.0%  of  eptinezumab  subjects)  of  these  TEAEs  were  nasopharyngitis,  upper  respiratory  tract 
infection, nausea and sinusitis and occurred in similar proportions in eptinezumab and placebo subjects. 
TEAEs with onset between week 36 and week 48 occurred in 15.3% of eptinezumab subjects and 10.2% of 
placebo subjects. The only TEAE that occurred in ≥ 1% of eptinezumab subjects was nasopharyngitis, which 
occurred  in  1.9%  of  eptinezumab  subjects  (including  2.7%  of  eptinezumab  300-mg  subjects  and  1.7%  of 
eptinezumab 100-mg subjects) and no placebo subjects. 
Although TEAEs occurred infrequently during the third and fourth dosing intervals, the types of TEAEs that did 
occur were similar to the types of TEAEs that occurred across the dosing intervals in the OE pool, and were 
similar to the types of TEAEs that occurred after the first dose in the OE pool.  
As  per  120-Days  Safety  update,  the  safety  profile  in  the  OE  pool  observed  with  longer-term  exposure  to 
eptinezumab (median [min, max] of 272 [13, 757] days) remained unchanged from that presented in the SCS. 
There was no new pattern of TEAEs identified during this period. 
No AEs of overdose have been reported. No specific treatment for overdose with eptinezumab exists. The route 
and proposed posology of 100 mg (300 mg) Q12W does not enhance the risk of overdose. However, accidental 
overdosing can never be totally excluded. As per the SmPC, symptomatic treatment/supportive measures are 
required in the event of overdose. 
Abuse potential for eptinezumab is not suspected based on its mode of action, the absence of any indicative 
preclinical findings and the absence of any TEAEs suggesting abuse potential in the PS and OE pool populations 
of the clinical development program. 
There were no subject deaths in any of the 5 clinical studies included in the integrated safety database or in 
any  of  the  7  clinical  pharmacology  studies.  No  life-threatening  AEs  occurred  in  any  eptinezumab-treated 
subject. 
SAEs occurred infrequently within the PS pool with 1.3% of all PS eptinezumab subjects and 1.5% of PS placebo 
subjects. The proportions of subjects with SAEs were similar in each eptinezumab dose group and the placebo 
group, and no relationship to eptinezumab dose was observed. The frequency of SAEs was slightly higher in 
the OE pool: 1.7% of all OE eptinezumab subjects and 1.4% of OE placebo subjects. 
Outside  the  safety  pools  of  the  SCS,  two  SAEs  were  reported  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies,  and  two 
additional in study 013, all of them assessed as not related. 
AESIs occurred more frequently in eptinezumab-treated subjects than in placebo-treated subjects. The large 
majority of AESIs were mild or moderate in severity. As of 31 May 2018  (120-Day safety update) the incidence 
144 
 
 
of AESIs in the 300 mg group has increased by < 1% from 10.4% in the original application to 11.3% in the 
safety update period. The majority of newly reported AESIs were infusion site extravasation and infusion site 
pain. Serious AESIs occurred infrequently ((0.4%) OE subjects and 3 (0.4%) placebo subjects)). 
Overall, the incidence of events coded to hypersensitivity has been low (<1%) and events have been of mild 
to moderate intensity.  
By  convention,  AEs  that  occurred  during  the  study  drug  infusion,  led  to  a  specific  clinical  action  by  the 
investigator and were determined by the investigator to be possible allergic response or infusion reaction were 
coded to the SOC of Immune System Disorders and the preferred term of hypersensitivity, hereafter referred 
as  “events  coded  to  hypersensitivity”.  Serious  hypersensitivity,  including  anaphylactic  reactions,  has  been 
included in the SmPC in the Special Warnings and Precautions for Use section (4.4), and hypersensitivity to 
eptinezumab or to any of the excipients listed in SmPC section 6.1 have been defined as a contraindication. 
Moreover  are  hypersensitivity  reactions  and  anaphylactic  reaction  included  in  SmPC  section  4.8  Undesirable 
effects.  
Besides  events  coded  to  hypersensitivity,  other  TEAE  preferred  terms  potentially  related  to  hypersensitivity 
reactions  (e.g.,  multiple  preferred  terms  of  urticaria,  flushing/hot  flushes,  rash  and  pruritus)  have  been 
considered,  and  altogether  they  were  summarized  as  hypersensitivity  reactions.  Hypersensitivity  reactions 
(including multiple TEAE terms related to hypersensitivity) occurred in the PS pool at an incidence of 3.8% in 
the eptinezumab 300 mg group, 2.6% in the eptinezumab 100 mg group, and 1.2% in the placebo group and 
are considered an adverse drug reaction to eptinezumab. 
Adverse  events  of  special  interest  in  the  psychiatric  disorders  SOC  occurred  with  similar  frequency  in  OE 
subjects (0.5%) and placebo subjects (0.4%), with no apparent relationship to eptinezumab dose. The most 
frequently  occurring  AESI  in  this  SOC  was  suicidal  ideation  which  occurred  in  similar  proportions  of  OE  and 
placebo subjects (0.4% in each). 
Cardiovascular AESIs occurred infrequently and with similar frequency in eptinezumab treated and in placebo 
treated subjects of the PS and OE pool. 
Nervous system AESIs occurred infrequent in the PS and OE pool. The only PT of seizure occurred in 2 subjects 
treated with 300 mg eptinezumab (< 0.1% of the OE population, both events were serious and assessed as 
not related) and in none of the placebo subjects. 
Hepatic AESIs occurred infrequently (≤ 7 [0.3%] OE subjects) and in similar proportions of eptinezumab and 
placebo subjects. The occurrence of hepatic AESIs did not appear to be dose related. None of the hepatic 
AESIs in the OE subjects were serious and none were severe. All of the hepatic AESIs were significantly 
confounded by an array of risk factors and concomitant medication usage. 
Adverse events of special interest in the general disorders and administration site conditions SOC occurred 
with similar frequency in OE subjects (1.5%) and placebo subjects (1.1%). By definition, these AESIs 
occurred on an infusion day or within the first 7 days of infusion. The occurrence of AESIs in this SOC did not 
appear to be dose related; however, the low incidence precludes any definitive conclusion. The majority of 
these events were infusion site-related AESIs (most frequent: infusion site extravasation) which are 
accounted for by the route of administration.  
AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation occurred in 21 (1%) OE subjects and no placebo subjects. Events 
coded to hypersensitivity were the most frequent events (15 (0.7% of) subjects of the OE population) with the 
majority of subjects (10 of 15) received eptinezumab 300 mg. Three OE subjects had study drug discontinued 
145 
 
 
due to hypertension or blood pressure increased. Other AESIs leading to study drug discontinuation occurred 
in 1 subject each.  
AESIs leading to interruption of study drug infusion occurred in 1.8% OE subjects and in 0.6% placebo subjects. 
The most frequent reasons were infusion site extravasation, events coded to hypersensitivity and infusion site 
pain.  Overall,  the  occurrence  of  all  those  events  did  not  appear  to  be  dose  related,  but  events  coded  to 
hypersensitivity  only  occurred  in  subjects  treated  with  eptinezumab,  none  in  subjects  treated  with  placebo. 
Moreover, a serious AESI of anaphylactic reaction led to interruption of study drug infusion occurred in 1 OE 
subject. 
In  each  of  the  5  clinical  studies  in  subjects  with  migraine,  mean  clinical  laboratory  values  at  baseline  were 
comparable in the eptinezumab and placebo groups. Mean clinical laboratory values and mean changes from 
baseline at all post-baseline visits were generally similar in the eptinezumab groups and the placebo groups. 
No dose related trends and no trends over time were observed. 
Liver  function  test  elevations  occurred  infrequently  and  in  similar  proportions  of  placebo  and  eptinezumab 
subjects. The incidence of these elevations did not appear to be dose related. There were no data to suggest 
that treatment with eptinezumab was associated with any liver toxicity. 
TEAEs related to abnormalities in hematology and biochemistry tests occurred infrequently (< 1% of subjects 
in  any  eptinezumab  group  for  any  particular  clinical  laboratory-related  preferred  term  in  the  Investigations 
SOC) and in similar proportions of all PS eptinezumab dosing groups and in placebo subjects. There was no 
apparent relationship between eptinezumab dose and the occurrence of clinical laboratory-related AEs.  
The  most  frequently  occurring  TEAEs  related  to  clinical  laboratory  findings  were  ALT  increased  (0.4%  of  PS 
eptinezumab subjects and 0.7% of placebo subjects) and lipids increased (0.4% of PS eptinezumab subjects 
and 0.3% of placebo subjects). No clinical laboratory-related TEAE was serious and all laboratory-related TEAEs 
in eptinezumab-treated subjects were mild or moderate in severity. One subject who received placebo had a 
grade 3 AESI of ALT increased. 
Overall,  the  mean  vital  signs  (SBP,  DBP,  heart  rate,  weight,  and  BMI)  at  baseline  were  comparable  for 
eptinezumab and placebo subjects. There were no notable differences in post-baseline mean values or in mean 
changes from baseline between eptinezumab and placebo subjects. Mean changes from baseline were small 
and were similar for each eptinezumab dose group and the placebo group. There were no obvious trends over 
time in mean vital signs values. 
TEAEs related to vital signs assessments occurred in < 2% of eptinezumab and placebo subjects and in similar 
proportions of eptinezumab and placebo subjects with no apparent relationship to eptinezumab dose. 
There were no new patterns or trends in vital signs observed during the safety update period of study 013. 
Mean changes from baseline were small and clinically insignificant. 
Means for ECG parameters were comparable across all eptinezumab groups and the placebo group at baseline 
and at all post-baseline visits. Mean changes from baseline were small and comparable across all treatment 
groups at all post-baseline visits. There were no notable trends over time in any of these parameters in any of 
the treatment groups.  
Individual  ECG-related  TEAEs  occurred  infrequently  (i.e.,  no  more  than  3  OE  subjects  each  [<  0.1%]). 
Treatment-emergent AEs of QT prolongation occurred in 3 of 2,076 OE subjects (0.1%) and 1 of 791 (0.1%) 
placebo  subjects.  All  3  subjects  with  TEAEs  of  QT  prolongation  participated  in  Study  002  in  which  subjects 
received a single dose of eptinezumab 1000 mg. One subject who received placebo in this study also had a 
146 
 
 
TEAE  of  QT  prolongation.  All  of  these  events  were  considered  mild,  and  none  of  these  subjects  had  a  QTcF 
interval > 500 msec.  
T wave inversions occurred in 3 of 2,076 OE subjects (0.1%) and no placebo subjects. 
ECG data from Study 002 were excluded from the pooled analyses as they were not centrally read. 
At the baseline C-SSRS assessment, no OE subject reported any suicidal behaviours; 1 (0.1%) placebo subject 
reported an actual suicide attempt. During the post-baseline treatment period, 2 (< 0.1%) OE subjects (one 
eptinezumab 300-mg subject and one eptinezumab 100-mg subject) and no placebo subject reported an actual 
suicide attempt on the C-SSRS. Narratives for these events inform that both subjects had pertinent medical 
histories  of  psychological  conditions  and  current  stressors  that  confound  the  evaluation  of  possible  causal 
relationship to eptinezumab.  
Only a few subjects eptinezumab subjects (14 (1.0%) and 9 placebo subjects (9 (1.5%)) in the PS pool were 
between the ages of 65 and 74 years and none was 75 years of age or older, reflecting the eligibility criteria 
for the studies and the age distribution of patients with migraine in the general population. Due to the small 
numbers of subjects in the older age groups, no meaningful statements can be made regarding the AE profiles 
of eptinezumab in these age groups. However, for the age group of ≥ 65 to < 75 years, no grade 3 or higher 
TEAEs and no serious TEAS were reported. 
Due to the small numbers of subjects in the older age groups (≥ 65 < 75 years, ≥ 75 years) included in the 
clinical trials, the knowledge on the AE profile for patients ≥ 65 years of age is still very limited. Moreover, due 
to a higher prevalence of cardiovascular, neurological or psychiatric comorbidities and/or the respective risk 
factors  in  patients  ≥  65  years  of  age,  special  attention  should  be  payed  to  cardiovascular,  neurological  or 
psychiatric AEs.  
No clinically meaningful difference in terms of adverse events was observed between males and females. 
African-American/Black subjects comprised 8.7% of PS eptinezumab subjects (N = 119) and 11.6% of placebo 
subjects  (N  =  68)  only,  the  majority  of  study  subjects  was  white  (88.7%  and  85.4%,  respectively).  The 
proportion of black subjects was slightly higher in study 006, the 1-year study (4 doses), than in study 011, 
the 6 month study (2 doses) (11.8% and 7.6%, respectively). 
Overall, African-American/Black subjects tended to have higher rates of TEAEs, including those treated with 
placebo even though the pattern of TEAEs seen in both white and black subjects was generally similar to that 
seen in all subjects in the PS pool.  
The incidence of TEAEs by preferred term for black and white subjects revealed some notable differences. For 
instance, the incidences of nausea, vomiting, events coded to hypersensitivity and dizziness, among others, 
were higher among black eptinezumab subjects than black placebo subjects, and the difference between black 
eptinezumab and black placebo subjects was greater than the difference between white eptinezumab subjects 
and white placebo subjects. 
AESIs generally occurred more frequently among black subjects regardless of SOC or preferred term in both 
the eptinezumab and placebo groups (19.3% (black eptinezumab subjects) vs. 10.3% (black placebo subjects) 
and 7.9% (white eptinezumab subjects) vs. 4.4% (white placebo subjects), respectively).  
Also the proportion of black eptinezumab subjects with TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation was higher 
(5.0%)  than  the  proportion  of  black  placebo  subjects  (none)  and  higher  than  in  white  subjects  (2.1%  and 
1.6%, respectively).  
147 
 
 
While  some  of  these  findings  may  reflect  possible  differences  between  whites  and  blacks,  such  as  genetics, 
others are likely to be artefacts of the small numbers of black subjects and the large numbers of TEAE preferred 
terms evaluated, which make differences in percentages difficult to interpret. Moreover, differences in baseline 
characteristics  such  as  mean  BMI  and  medical/surgical  history  could  contribute  to  the  differences  in  safety 
findings.  Other  factors  such  as  regional,  socioeconomic  and  environmental,  may  also  contribute  to  the 
difference between black and white subjects in terms of TEAS. For instance, all black patients randomized in 
Studies 006 and 011 were recruited at sites in the US.  
Although, TEAE and AESI incidences were higher in black patients on eptinezumab or placebo: TEAEs: 78 [66%] 
versus 42 [62%]; AESIs: 23 [19%] versus 7 [10%], as compared to White patients on eptinezumab or placebo: 
TEAEs: 632 [52% ] versus 247 [49%]; AESIs: 96 [7.9%] versus 22 [4.4%], the differences are not striking 
and the most frequent SOC terms were equally reported between the two groups. At present time there is no 
known biological plausibility justifying the higher AESI frequency in black patients. 
Considering the above mentioned justifications, it can be considered that for the moment available information 
does not justify addressing specifically this aspect in SmPC. 
Presently, there is no evidence linking eptinezumab with any negative impact on human pregnancy. However, 
due to the paucity of available human pregnancy data at the present time point, no definitive conclusions about 
the risks, if any, of eptinezumab use during pregnancy currently can be drawn. 
Use in pregnant woman is included in the RMP as (safety concern of) missing information and pre-eclampsia is 
included  as  (safety  concern  of)  important  potential  risk.  Moreover,  a  post-marketing  pregnancy  program  is 
planned as additional pharmacovigilance activity.  
Clinical withdrawal or rebound effects to eptinezumab have not been observed in the pivotal clinical studies 
pool.  
The potential effects of eptinezumab on the ability to drive or operate machinery or on mental ability have not 
been explicitly studied. Dizziness and fatigue occurred in more than 2% and all other TEAEs relevant to these 
abilities occurred in < 0.5% of the OE subjects with similar proportions observed in placebo subjects. This is 
reflected in the SmPC as follows: VYEPTI has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
The incidence of treatment emergent ADA and NAb detected in the five clinical studies was up to 17.4 (range 
11.2-17.4)%  and  7.8  (range  3.7-7.8)%,  respectively.  There  was  neither  an  apparent  relationship  of  events 
coded to hypersensitivity and one single event of anaphylactic reaction (differently assessed by the company) 
to pre-existing or treatment-emergent ADA or NAb positive status, ADA titer category or eptinezumab dose, 
nor any evidence for a risk of immune complex-related hypersensitivity. In Study 002, for which a different 
ADA assay method was used, 11 subjects (13.6%) had treatment-boosted anti-eptinezumab immunoreactivity 
results. 
Eptinezumab like most therapeutic proteins is not expected to be metabolized by liver CYP450 enzymes. Non-
specific  mechanisms  of  clearance  and  proteolysis  are  the  primary  expected  routes  of  elimination.  For  these 
reasons, administration of concomitant medications that are small molecules is not expected to alter the PK of 
eptinezumab.  
This is supported by results of the population PK analysis, in which migraine preventive medications were no 
significant covariate in models of volume of distribution and total plasma clearance for eptinezumab. Moreover, 
the coadministration with sumatriptan did not alter the single dose PK of eptinezumab and vice versa. 
148 
 
 
In both the PS and OE pools, the percentages of subjects with a new or changed dose of a CV medication after 
the first administration of study drug were low and similar across the eptinezumab and placebo groups. Among 
these groups, the percentages of subjects with a new or increased dose of a CV medication for an indication of 
high blood pressure or hypertension were also low and generally similar across the eptinezumab and placebo 
groups. 
Treatment-emergent  adverse  events  leading  to  study  drug  discontinuation  occurred  infrequently  and  in  a 
slightly higher proportion of subjects treated with eptinezumab (2.5% (PS pool) and 1.9% (OE pool)) than in 
placebo  subjects  (1.4%  and  1.0%,  respectively).  The  differences  between  the  eptinezumab-treated  and  the 
placebo-treated patients are for both pools almost entirely accounted for by the occurrence of hypersensitivity-
coding AEs (n= 13 and n= 15 in the PS and OE pool, respectively) that did not occurred in any of the placebo-
treated patients.  
The only further AE that led to treatment discontinuation that occurred in more than 1 eptinezumab-treated 
pool subjects and no placebo subject was hypertension. All other TEAEs leading to study drug discontinuation 
occurred  in  1  eptinezumab  and/or  1  placebo  subject  each,  including  an  anaphylactic  reaction  (assessed 
differently by the company) in one 300 mg eptinezumab subject of the OE pool. 
2.6.10.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
Eptinezumab at all doses tested was generally well tolerated in migraine patients. 
Only few discontinuation due to AEs have been registered in clinical trials and most events have been judged 
as been manageable and being of mild to moderate intensity. 
AESIs  in  the  eptinezumab  clinical  development  program  included  hypersensitivity  and  anaphylactic  events, 
events associated with suicide, cardiovascular, nervous system and hepatic events as well as events associated 
with  study  drug  infusion.  They  occurred  more  frequently  in  eptinezumab-treated  subjects  than  in  placebo-
treated subjects with the large majority of AESIs were mild or moderate in severity.  
Adverse events of special interest in the general disorders and administration site conditions SOC occurred with 
similar frequency in subjects treated with eptinezumab (1.5%) than in placebo subjects (1.1%). The majority 
of  these  events  were  infusion  site-related  AESIs  (most  frequent:  infusion  site  extravasation)  which  are 
accounted for by the route of administration. Moreover, rash and pruritus occurred slightly more frequent in 
OE subjects than in placebo subjects. 
The  incidence  of  events  coded  to  hypersensitivity  has  been  low  (<1%)  and  events  have  been  of  mild  to 
moderate intensity. All events occurred in subjects treated with eptinezumab. One subject had a serious AESI 
of  anaphylactic  reaction  of  moderate  severity,  as  determined  by  the  investigator.  This  event  was  assessed 
differently by the company with the terms of allergic reaction and infusion day reaction based on the lack of 
respiratory  or  cardiovascular  manifestations  and  the  pattern  of  response  to  the  medications  used  for  acute 
management  of  the  event.  However,  further  cases  of  anaphylactic  reactions  and  one  case  of  serious 
hypersensitivity  reaction  were  reported  during  the  further  clinical  development  program  and  from 
postmarketing sources, which led to the integration of anaphylactic reaction in the SmPC. 
149 
 
 
2.7.  Risk Management Plan 
2.7.1.  Safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing myocardial 
infarction, cerebrovascular accident, transient ischemic attack, angina 
unstable and poorly controlled hypertension 
Pre-eclampsia 
Missing information 
Use in pregnant women 
Long-term safety  
2.7.2.  Pharmacovigilance plan 
Table of Ongoing and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities in the PV Plan 
Study 
Status 
Summary of 
Objectives 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
Milestones1 
Due Dates1 
Category 3 – Required Additional Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Study 19756N  
Long-term 
cardiovascular 
safety and real-
world use of 
eptinezumab. An 
observational, 
historical cohort 
study of patients 
initiating 
eptinezumab in 
routine clinical 
practice 
Planned 
•  To assess the long-
term cardiovascular 
risk in patients 
treated with 
eptinezumab, in 
comparison to 
appropriate control 
cohorts of patients 
with migraine who 
were not treated 
with eptinezumab 
•  To evaluate the 
impact of a known 
history of 
cardiovascular 
diseases on the long-
term cardiovascular 
risk 
•  To characterize the 
utilization of 
eptinezumab in 
routine clinical 
practice 
Important potential 
risks: 
•  Cardiovascular 
outcomes in patients 
with pre-existing 
myocardial 
infarction, 
cerebrovascular 
accident, transient 
ischemic attack, 
angina unstable and 
poorly controlled 
hypertension 
Missing information:  
•  Long-term safety 
•  Launch date 
reached in all 
relevant countries: 
01-Jan-2023 
•  Database specific 
study progress 
reports: 30-Jun-
20262 
•  End of study 
period:31-Dec-
20283 
•  Full data availability 
in all healthcare 
databases: 31-Dec-
2029 
•  Database analyses 
finalized: 30-Jun-
2030 
The study protocol 
should be submitted 
for PRAC review / 
approval within 3 
months from MA 
granting 
The final study report 
is estimated to be 
available by 31-Dec-
2030 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
Status 
Summary of 
Objectives 
Safety Concerns 
Addressed 
Milestones1 
Due Dates1 
Important potential 
risks: 
•  Pre-eclampsia 
Missing information:  
•  Use in pregnant 
women 
Important potential 
risks: 
•  Pre-eclampsia 
Missing information:  
•  Use in pregnant 
women 
•  To prospectively 
estimate the 
frequency of selected 
maternal, fetal and 
infant outcomes in 
women with 
migraine exposed to 
eptinezumab during 
pregnancy. These 
outcomes will be 
compared with two 
migraine control 
cohorts unexposed 
to eptinezumab 
Study 19419N 
A prospective, 
comparative 
pregnancy 
exposure registry 
cohort analysis of 
maternal, fetal 
and infant safety 
in women exposed 
to eptinezumab as 
compared to two 
migraine control 
cohorts unexposed 
to eptinezumab in 
the United States. 
Planned 
Study 19420N 
•  To assess the 
pregnancy, fetal and 
infant outcomes of 
women with 
migraine exposed to 
eptinezumab during 
pregnancy compared 
to two unexposed 
control populations. 
Pregnancy, fetal 
and infant 
outcomes of 
pregnancies 
exposed to 
eptinezumab 
compared to two 
migraine control 
cohorts unexposed 
to eptinezumab: a 
claims database 
study in the 
United States. 
Planned 
The final study report 
is estimated to be 
available by 31-Dec-
2034 
The final study report 
is estimated to be 
available by 31-Dec-
2028 
• 
Individual database 
study reports: 30-
Sep-2030 
•  Final study report: 
31-Dec-2030 
•  Launch date in the 
US: 06-Apr-2020 
•  Begin of study 
period: 06-Apr-
2020 
• 
Interim report4: 31-
Dec-2028 
•  End of study period: 
30-Jun-2034 
•  Final study report: 
31-Dec-2034 
•  Launch date in the 
US: 06-Apr-2020 
•  Begin of study 
period: 06-Apr-
2020 
•  End of study period: 
30-Jun-2027 
•  Full data 
availability: 30-Jun-
2028 
•  Final study report: 
31-Dec-2028 
1All milestone and timeline estimates are conditional to the actual marketing authorization date and market access issues 
2Study progress reports after 2 years of data since the first recorded use of eptinezumab have been accumulated in the respective health 
care databases, and assuming a lag-time of data availability in the databases of 1 year. In databases with longer lag-times, the milestone 
date would be delayed by the additional lag-time. 
3Assuming a lag-time of data availability in the databases of 1 year. In databases with a lag-time of up to 2 years, the study period would 
end up to one year earlier to ensure compliance with the milestone ‘Database analyses finalized’. 
4An interim report is planned at the time of the final study report for the retrospective pregnancy cohort study 19420N (planned for 31-Dec-
2028). In case the final study report for 19420N is delayed, the interim report milestone if 19419N would be updated accordingly. An interim 
report will not be produced, if study 19420N is finalized less than 1 year prior to study 19419N 
For the Real-World Use and Long-term Cardiovascular Safety Study, the full study protocol should be 
submitted for PRAC review and approval within 3 months after marketing authorisation (MA) granting. 
Routine pharmacovigilance is sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk minimisation measures 
(RMMs) put in place for Vyepti. 
151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.3.  Risk minimisation measures 
Summary table of pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation activities by safety concern 
Safety concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
Important potential 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
risk: 
Section 4.4 (Special Warnings and Precaution 
Long-term Cardiovascular Safety and Real-
Cardiovascular 
for use) of the proposed SmPC includes 
World Use of Eptinezumab Study (Study 
outcomes in patients 
information that patients with a history of 
19756N) 
with pre-existing 
cardiovascular disease were excluded from the 
myocardial infarction, 
clinical trials and no safety data are available 
cerebrovascular 
for these patients. Section 4.4 of the proposed 
accident, transient 
SmPC also includes information that limited 
ischemic attack, 
data is available in patients with 
angina unstable and 
cardiovascular risk factors. 
poorly controlled 
hypertension 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
(The study protocol should be submitted for 
PRAC review / approval within 3 months from 
MA granting) 
Important potential 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
risk: 
Section 4.6 (Fertility, Pregnancy and 
Eptinezumab Post-marketing Pregnancy 
Pre-eclampsia 
Lactation) of the proposed SmPC describes 
Program (Study 19419N and Study 19420N) 
states that limited data is available on use in 
pregnancy and includes advice that it is 
preferable to avoid the use of eptinezumab 
during pregnancy. 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Missing information:  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Use in pregnant 
Section 4.6 (Fertility, Pregnancy and 
Eptinezumab Post-marketing Pregnancy 
women 
Lactation) of the proposed SmPC describes 
Program (Study 19419N and Study 19420N) 
the (limited) data available on use in 
pregnancy and advice that it is preferable to 
avoid the use of eptinezumab during 
pregnancy. 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Missing information: 
No routine or additional risk minimisation 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Long-term safety 
measures 
Long-term Cardiovascular Safety and Real-
World Use of Eptinezumab Study (Study 
19756N) 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.7.4.  Conclusion 
The CHMP considers that the risk management plan version 1.5 is acceptable. 
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance 
2.8.1.  Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  pharmacovigilance  system  summary  submitted  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
2.8.2.  Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the Annex II, Section C of the CHMP Opinion. The applicant did request alignment of the PSUR cycle with the 
international birth date (IBD). The IBD is 20.02.2020. The new EURD list entry will therefore use the {EBD} 
{IBD} to determine the forthcoming Data Lock Points. 
2.9.  Product information 
2.9.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.9.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU) 726/2004, Vyepti (eptinezumab) is included in the additional 
monitoring list as it contains new active substance.   
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that this 
medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring and that this will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
3.1.  Therapeutic Context 
3.1.1.  Disease or condition 
Migraine is a chronic neurological disease characterized by severe headache attacks with associated 
hypersensitivity to environmental stimuli, as well as gastrointestinal, cognitive, and vestibular symptoms that 
can be severe and disabling (Buse et al. 2009). Typically, the headaches affect one half of the head, are 
pulsating in nature, and last from 4 to 72 hours without treatment. The disease is associated with higher 
frequencies of depression, anxiety disorders, sleep disturbances, cardiovascular risk, chronic pain syndromes, 
and suicide attempts. 
The therapeutic goal is to reduce the frequency and severity of migraine attacks, as well as the need for 
acute headache medication use.   
3.1.2.  Available therapies and unmet medical need 
In case of infrequent migraine attacks (less than 2 times per month), treatment is limited to acute 
medications that include: triptans, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, combination of analgesics, opioids, 
and ergots.   
In case of frequent migraine attacks (2-6 times or more per month) prophylactic drugs are introduced on a 
daily basis, including antihypertensive, anti-epileptic, or antidepressant drugs. Most of the commonly used 
prophylactic drugs have a registered indication, however others are used off-label with limited evidence of 
efficacy. The safety profile of these drugs is not optimal with neurological AEs including dizziness, vertigo, 
nausea, anorexia, fatigue, memory problems, paraesthesia; often requiring dose titration, and carrying 
contraindications and warnings.  
As a new therapeutic class, 3 other anti-CGRP mAb therapies for SC administration have recently been 
authorised. The rapid onset of treatment effect and the less frequent administration scheme, in conjunction 
with a good tolerability and safety profile are meaningful advances of these new therapies. 
Eptinezumab is the first anti-CGRP treatment developed for the intravenous route of administration. The IV 
route and the less-than–monthly treatment regimen might be preferred by specific patient groups. 
Eptinezumab for IV administration may therefore complement the therapeutic landscape of anti-CGRP 
treatments for the prevention of migraine. 
3.1.3.  Main clinical studies 
The eptinezumab clinical program was comprised of 12 clinical studies, hereof 2 phase 3 studies, and 1 open-
label safety in the intended indication “prophylaxis of migraine in adults”.  
The 2 pivotal Phase 3 efficacy studies were both randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. Study 
ALD403-CLIN-006 included patients with frequent episodic migraine, defined as 4 to 14 MHDs/month at 
baseline. 
154 
 
 
Study ALD403-CLIN-011 included patients with chronic migraine, defined as ≥15 to ≤26 headache days of 
which at least 8 with features of migraine.  
Up to six (Study 011) and 12 months (Study 006) of placebo-controlled data are available from the 2 pivotal 
studies. 
Key inclusion criteria in the 2 pivotal studies specified that subjects be adults with a history of migraine with 
or without aura. Exclusion criteria were generally similar across both studies, with minor differences due to 
the disease state (EM or CM). Patients with a dual diagnosis of chronic migraine and medication overuse 
headache (associated with the overuse of triptans, ergotamine, or combination analgesics > 10 days/month, 
or acetaminophen, acetylsalicylic acid, or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ≥ 15 days/month) were 
included in Study 011. 
The following dose regimes of IMP were evaluated, given once every 12 weeks as an intravenous infusion:  
Study 006: 
30 mg, 100 mg, 300 mg eptinezumab or placebo  in a 1:1:1:1 ratio.  
Study 011: 
100 mg, 300 mg eptinezumab or placebo in a 1:1:1 ratio. 
3.2.  Favourable effects 
For patients with episodic migraine (study 006), the superiority over placebo was demonstrated for 
both, the 300 mg and the 100 mg dosing regimen: 
The primary endpoint was statistically significant for the 300 mg and 100 mg treatment groups. Despite this 
statistical significance, the mean difference from placebo was relatively modest (300 mg: - 1.11/ 100 mg: - 
0.69). Although the effect size of the 30 mg dose regimen was numerically greater than the 100 mg arm (-
0.82), using the decision rule, the 30 mg arm was considered not statistically significant. 
The key secondary endpoints were supportive for the primary endpoint analysis: 
The 300 mg dosing regimen was significantly superior over placebo for the 75% responder rate over weeks 
1-4, 1-12, and the 50% responder rate over weeks 1-12. Significant improvement was also demonstrated by 
the 100 mg dose for the 75% responder rate over weeks 1-4, but not over weeks 1-12 (p-value: 0.113, OR: 
1.47). Consequently, subsequent endpoints in hierarchical testing are considered descriptive only. The 100 
mg dose showed nominally significant differences over placebo in the 50% responder rate over weeks 1-12. 
The 30 mg dose was nominally significant for all 3 key secondary endpoints.  
In addition, the proportion of patients with migraine on day 1 after treatment was lower in all treatment arms 
compared to placebo (300 mg: 13.9; 100 mg: 14.8; 30 mg: 17.3; placebo: 22.5) and compared to baseline 
prevalence (baseline 300 mg: 18.5; baseline 100 mg: 14.8; baseline 30 mg: 17.3; baseline placebo: 20.5). 
Subgroup analyses demonstrated that those patients who experienced a migraine attack at day 0 were more 
likely to have migraine at day 1 if they were in the placebo arm, compared to eptinezumab treatment arms.  
Acute migraine medication days across weeks 1-12 were lower for all treatment groups (300 mg: 0.7; 100 
mg: 0.6; 30 mg: 0.8; placebo: 1.1) compared to placebo. Due to the used account for multiplicity, this 
reduction of acute migraine medication was nominally significant, but cannot be regarded as statistically 
significant in a confirmatory sense.  
Other secondary endpoints, including patient reported outcomes as HIT-6, SF-36, MIDAS, and PGIC, are also 
supportive for the superior treatment effect of eptinezumab compared to placebo. 
155 
 
 
The persistence of efficacy has been demonstrated by the sustained reduction in average daily migraine 
prevalence and is further supported by the open-label long-term treatment effect observed in study 013. 
For patients with chronic migraine (study 011), the superiority over placebo was demonstrated for 
both, the 300 mg and the 100 mg dosing regimen: 
The primary endpoint was statistically significant from placebo for both doses tested. For the 300 mg dose 
the mean difference from placebo was of -2.60 days (95% CI: -3.45, -1.74). For the 100 mg dosing regimen 
the mean difference from placebo was -2.03 days (95% CI: -2.88, -1.18) for weeks 1-12. 
The key secondary endpoints were supportive for the primary endpoint analysis: 
The 300 mg dosing regimen was significantly superior over placebo for the 75% responder rate over weeks 
1-4, 1-12, and the 50% responder rate over weeks 1-12. Significant improvement was also demonstrated by 
the 100 mg dose for the 75% responder rate over both, weeks 1-4, and weeks 1-12.  
There was also a nominally significant and clinically meaningful improvement for both ALD403 groups 
compared with placebo on reductions in average daily migraine prevalence for each of the 4 weeks. 
In addition, the overall migraine prevalence on day 1 after treatment was lower in all treatment arms 
compared to placebo (300 mg: 27.8; 100 mg: 28.6; placebo: 42.3).  
Acute migraine medication (triptans and ergotamines) days across weeks 1-12 were lower for all treatment 
groups compared to placebo (300 mg: 3.2; 100 mg: 3.3; placebo: 4.3), as was the mean change from 
baseline (300 mg: -3.2; 100 mg: -3.3; placebo: -1.9).  
Other secondary endpoints, including the patient reported outcomes HIT-6, SF-36, were supportive for the 
primary and key secondary endpoints.  
The persistence of efficacy was in addition demonstrated by the change in frequency of migraine days 
(Weeks 13-24), which was greater in eptinezumab groups compared with placebo (mean difference -2.65 
days for 300 mg, and -1.68 for 100 mg). 
Both pivotal studies (006 + 011): 
Overall, a modest but consistent treatment effect in terms of reduction of migraine headache days, migraine 
responder rates, percentage of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing, change in migraine 
medication days, and supportive endpoints was found for all eptinezumab treatment arms. The superiority of 
the 300 mg and 100 mg group vs. placebo was found to be consistently statistically significant.  
Although the difference on the primary efficacy endpoint was found to be rather modest, the size of 
treatment effect is in a range comparable to other anti-CGRP therapies recently authorised for the prevention 
of migraine in adults. Moreover, key secondary endpoints, especially the 75% responder rate, argue for a 
substantial treatment benefit of the 300 mg dosing regimen. 
In study 006 both treatment regimens, 100 mg and 300 mg, demonstrated to be efficacious in the treatment 
of EM and CM. Differences in response of some subgroups remain not completely understood, but might – at 
least in some cases – be chance findings and attributed to low patient numbers or non-medical factors. While 
300 mg seems to have a more pronounced treatment effect across all treatment groups, the number of 
hypersensitivity reactions is remarkably higher in the 300 mg group compared to the 100 mg group (1.4% 
vs. 0.2%). Weighing the benefits and risks of treatment, the proposed posology with a recommended starting 
dose of 100 mg, with the option to increase to the 300 mg dose for patients who do not have a sufficient 
response after at least 12 weeks of treatment, seems acceptable. The amended wording in section 4.2 of the 
156 
 
 
SmPC is considered adequate, since it clarifies the need for assessing treatment benefit 12 weeks after 
treatment initiation, and the need for a re-assessment 6 months after treatment initiation. The efficacy of 
such a dose escalation strategy in non-responders or partial-responders has not been formally tested in the 
context of clinical trials. However, the approach seems to be justified and sufficiently pragmatic and will also 
fit in a real-world therapeutic setting. 
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about favourable effects 
As discussed above, overall a modest but consistent treatment effect in terms of reduction of migraine 
headache days, migraine responder rates, percentage of subjects with a migraine on the day after dosing, 
change in migraine medication days, and supportive endpoints was found in both eptinezumab pivotal trials. 
However, some uncertainties with regard to the true size of the treatment effect remain due to the 
(restricted) allowance of barbiturates and opioids as concomitant treatment and since acute migraine 
medication use might be underestimated due to the fact that only the frequency of use of triptans and 
ergotamines was analysed, but not the use of over-the-counter analgesics. Several amendments took place 
during conduct of both pivotal studies. Changes included also the primary endpoint in study 006. The 
changes might have impacted study result and therefore need further clarification. Moreover, several FDA 
inspections took place. Results of these inspections were not provided so far and should be presented. 
Moreover, there was considerable heterogeneity of the study population due to several alternatives of previous 
prophylactic  medication  use  with  different  mode  of actions,  concomitant  medication,  frequency  of migraine/ 
headache days and an unbalanced geographic patient allocation. This might have influenced efficacy results. 
In this respect, it should also be questioned whether the high mean BMI in study 006 might have (negatively) 
influenced efficacy results, and how these could be translated to patients with a lower body weight. The low 
number of EU participants might be a matter of concern. 
In both studies, subgroup analyses suggest heterogeneity associated with race. In particular, black patients 
had a point estimate close to zero, suggesting that these patients did not benefit from treatment.  
Only few data exist for patients > 65 years of age [28 patients across pivotal studies (1.2%)]. Hence, only 
limited efficacy data are available for this group. 
3.4.  Unfavourable effects 
Eptinezumab was generally well tolerated in migraine patients. 
AESIs  in  the  eptinezumab  clinical  development  program  included  hypersensitivity  and  anaphylactic  events, 
events associated with suicide, cardiovascular, nervous system and hepatic events as well as events associated 
with  study  drug  infusion.  They  occurred  more  frequently  in  eptinezumab-treated  subjects  than  in  placebo-
treated subjects with the large majority of AESIs were mild or moderate in severity.  
Overall, the incidence of events coded to hypersensitivity has been low (<1%) and events have been of mild 
to  moderate  intensity.  All  events  occurred  in  subjects  treated  with  eptinezumab.  One  subject  had  a  serious 
AESI of anaphylactic reaction of moderate severity, as determined by the investigator. This event was assessed 
differently by the company with the terms of allergic reaction and infusion day reaction based on the lack of 
respiratory  or  cardiovascular  manifestations  and  the  pattern  of  response  to  the  medications  used  for  acute 
157 
 
 
 
management  of  the  event.  However,  further  cases  of  anaphylactic  reactions  and  one  case  of  serious 
hypersensitivity  reaction  were  reported  during  the  further  clinical  development  program  and  from 
postmarketing sources.  
Adverse events of special interest in the general disorders and administration site conditions SOC occurred with 
similar frequency in subjects treated with eptinezumab (1.5%) than in placebo subjects (1.1%). The majority 
of  these  events  were  infusion  site-related  AESIs  (most  frequent:  infusion  site  extravasation)  which  are 
accounted for by the route of administration.  
Besides events coded to hypersensitivity, infusion site-related AESIs were one of the main reasons for leading 
to interruption of study drug, most frequently due to infusion site extravasation and infusion site pain. 
3.5.  Uncertainties and limitations about unfavourable effects 
The current exposure of eptinezumab in elderly patients is still very limited. In the clinical trial program only 
0.7% of patients were ≥65 years of age (n=15, including those treated with placebo), and no subject was 75 
years  of  age  or  older.  Thus,  no  meaningful  statements  currently  can  be  made  regarding  the  AE  profile  of 
eptinezumab in patients ≥ 65 years of age.  
Hypertension, hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and circulation conditions were notably lower among subjects in the 
PS pool than has been reported in community-based surveys of people with migraine. This reflects the exclusion 
of subjects with clinically significant cardiovascular conditions from the clinical studies. The generalizability of 
the safety profile of eptinezumab to the target population of migraine patients with certain cardiovascular risk 
factors is limited. “Use in patients with pre-existing myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, transient 
ischemic attack, angina unstable and poorly controlled hypertension” is included in the updated RMP version 
1.2 under the risk category of important potential risks.  
526 subjects received 4 doses of eptinezumab approximately 12 weeks apart and further data were obtained 
from the open label long-term safety study 013, in which more than 100 subjects received up to 4 additional 
dosing of 300 mg eptinezumab, 12 weeks apart. Although eptinezumab was generally well tolerated in migraine 
patients, in the short-term, with some limitations as addressed above, it is difficult to establish the long-term 
side effects of CGRP antagonists, given the limited long-term data.  
The  theoretical  side-effects  of  blocking  CGRP  may  pose  a  risk  in  subjects  with  comorbidities  such  as 
cardiovascular  diseases  (ischemic  events,  hypertension),  gastrointestinal  conditions  (ulcers,  irritable  bowel 
syndrome), and skin issues (erythema, inflammation, wound healing). Long-term safety is included in the RMP 
under the risk category of missing information. 
Differences were observed between black and white subjects in terms of safety data. Differences in baseline 
characteristics  such  as  mean  BMI  and  medical/surgical  history  as  well  as  other  factors  such  as  regional, 
socioeconomic and environmental could contribute to the differences between black and white subjects in terms 
of TEAEs.   
Presently, there is no evidence linking eptinezumab with any negative impact on human pregnancy. However, 
due  to  the  paucity  of  available  human  pregnancy  data  at  the  present  time  point  (24  women  treated  with 
eptinezumab), no definitive conclusions about the risks of eptinezumab use during pregnancy currently can be 
drawn. Use in pregnant women is already included in the RMP as safety concern of missing information and a 
post-marketing  pregnancy  program  is  planned  for  additional  pharmacovigilance  activity.  Additionally,  “pre-
158 
 
 
eclampsia”  is  listed  as  a  separate  safety  concern  of  the  category  “important  potential  risk”  since  this  safety 
concern arises from the CGRP blocking characteristics of eptinezumab. 
3.6.  Effects Table 
Table X. Effects Table for VYEPTI (eptinezumab) for prophylaxis of migraine in adults. 
Effect 
Short 
Description 
Unit 
Treatment  Results 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
Refere
nces 
Favourable Effects in Chronic Migraine (study 011) 
Migraine 
headache 
days 
Responder 
rate 
Change from 
baseline 
(week 1-12) 
≥75% (w1-4) 
≥75% (w1-
12) 
days 
%  
% 
PBO 
100 
300 
PBO 
100 
300 
PBO 
100 
300 
-5.6 
-7.7 
-8.2 
15.6 
30.9 
36.9 
15.0 
26.7 
33.1 
p-value: < 0.0001 
p-value: < 0.0001 
p-value: < 0.0001 
p-value: < 0.0001 
p-value: < 0.0001 
p-value: < 0.0001 
Favourable Effects in Episodic Migraine (study 006) 
p-value:  0.0182 
p-value:  0.0001 
p-value:  0.0112 
p-value:  0.0066 
p-value:  0.1126 
p-value:  0.0007 
days 
% 
% 
% 
% 
Migraine 
headache 
days 
Responder 
rate 
Change from 
baseline 
(week 1-12) 
≥75% (w1-4) 
≥75% (w1-
12) 
Unfavourable Effects 
Hypersensi
tivity/ 
anaphylacti
c reaction 
(AESI) a 
Infusion 
site 
disorders  
(AESI)b 
SOC of 
Immune 
System 
Disorders and 
PT of 
hypersensitivi
ty, 
anaphylactic 
reaction, and 
anaphylactoid 
reaction 
SOC of 
Administratio
n Site 
Conditions 
and PT of 
Infusion site 
extravation 
(cont’d)c  
PBO 
100 
300 
PBO 
100 
300 
PBO 
100 
300 
PBO 
10 
30 
100 
300 
1000 
OE 
PBO 
10 
30 
100 
300 
1000 
OE 
-3.2 
-3.9 
-4.3 
20.3 
30.8 
31.5 
16.2 
22.2 
29.7 
0 
0 
1.8 
0.3 
1.8 
0 
1.1 
0.9 
0.8 
2.1 
1.3 
1.2 
0 
1.3 
011 
011 
011 
006 
006 
006 
ISS, 
OE pool  
ISS, OE 
pool 
159 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect 
Infusion 
site 
disorders  
(AESI)b 
Short 
Description 
SOC of Skin 
and 
subcutaneous 
tissue 
disorders and 
PT of Rash, 
pruritus, 
swelling face 
and urticaria 
Unit 
Treatment  Results 
Uncertainties/ 
Strength of evidence 
Refere
nces 
% 
PBO 
10 
30 
100 
300 
1000 
OE 
0.3 
1.5 
0.9 
1.0 
1.0 
3.7 
1.1 
ISS, OE 
pool 
Abbreviations: AESI Adverse Event of Special interes, PBO Plabebo, PT Preferred Term, SOC System Organ Class 
Notes: aby convention, AEs that occurred during the study drug infusion, led to a specific clinical action by the investigator and were determined 
by the investigator to be possible allergic response or infusion reaction were coded to the SOC of Immune System Disorders and the preferred 
term of hypersensitivity, hereafter referred as events coded to hypersensitivity. 
b by definition, these events occurred within 7 days of infusion  
c complete list: Infusion site extravasation, Infusion site nerve damage, Infusion site rash, Infusion site discomfort, Infusion site eczema, 
Infusion site erythema, Infusion site pain, Infusion site pruritus, Injection site paraesthesia.      
3.7.  Benefit-risk assessment and discussion 
3.7.1.  Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
Superiority  of  eptinezumab  compared  to  placebo  in  reducing  the  frequency  of  migraine  days,  as  well  in 
decreasing the burden of migraine episodes and symptoms in patients with episodic and chronic migraine is 
considered demonstrated. The onset of treatment effect was prompt, with a trend for a treatment effect starting 
as early as day one. Persistence of efficacy was also demonstrated.  
The difference from placebo in mean reduction of migraine days was rather modest, especially in patients with 
EM. However, with regard to the secondary EP 75% responder rate W1-4, responder rates in CM patients were 
nearly doubled compared to placebo for the 100 mg dose, and more than doubled for the 300 mg dose (~30%/ 
37%vs. ~15%). Similar results were found for the EP 75% responder rate W-12 in this population. The effect 
was  slightly  less  pronounced  in  EM  patients,  but  there  was  also  clear  superiority  over  placebo  for  the  75% 
responder  rate  W1-4  endpoint  (~31%/30%  vs.  ~20%),  as  well  as  for  the  75%  responder  rate  W1-12  EP 
(22%/30% vs. 16%). These results were supported by all secondary endpoints. 
It can therefore be concluded that approximately 1/3 of treated patients had a clear, clinically relevant  and 
sustained treatment benefit, while others may also have benefitted, but to a lesser extent. It is not clear, which 
patients might have benefitted most. There are many co-variates that might have influenced efficacy results, 
and  not  all  have  yet  been  analysed  in  specific  subgroup-analyses.  Most  importantly,  no  data  on  over-the-
counter  acute  analgesic  use,  and  on  the  potential  influence  of  different  types  of  concomitant  prophylactic 
migraine treatment have been presented. Also the influence of patient body-weight on efficacy results remains 
to be clarified. Importantly, it seems as if black patients have not benefitted from eptinezumab treatment. This 
finding needs further investigation. 
However, overall the treatment effect observed seems to be in a range comparable to other anti-CGRP therapies 
recently authorised for the prevention of migraine in adults.  
Based  on  current  study  data  the  safety  profile  of  eptinezumab  in  general  is  acceptable.  Eptinezumab  was 
generally well tolerated in migraine patients. 
160 
 
 
 
 
Only few discontinuation due to AEs have been registered in clinical trials and most events have been judged 
as been manageable and being of mild to moderate intensity. 
Infusion  site-related  AESIs  were  one  of  the  main  reasons  for  leading  to  interruption  of  study  drug,  most 
frequently due to infusion site extravasation and infusion site pain. Moreover, rash and pruritus occurred slightly 
more frequent in OE subjects than in placebo subjects. Some of the events are considered inherent problems 
of the method of administration, for instance infusion site extravasation, where others seem to be related to 
the study drug.     
The  incidence  of  events  coded  to  hypersensitivity  has  been  low  (<1%)  and  events  have  been  of  mild  to 
moderate intensity. All events occurred in subjects treated with eptinezumab. One more subject had a serious 
AESI of anaphylactic reaction of moderate severity, as determined by the investigator. The event was assessed 
differently by the company with the terms of allergic reaction and infusion day reaction based on the lack of 
respiratory  or  cardiovascular  manifestations  and  the  pattern  of  response  to  the  medications  used  for  acute 
management of the event. Further cases of anaphylactic reactions and serious hypersensitivity reaction were 
reported during the further clinical development program and from postmarketing sources.  
Of  concern  are  further  the  limited  data  on  long-term  safety,  in  patients  ≥65  years  of  age  and  in  migraine 
patients with certain cardiovascular risk factors or comorbidities, which should be further explored.  
3.7.2.  Balance of benefits and risks 
The balance of benefits and risks is considered to be positive in the agreed indication.  
3.7.3.  Additional considerations on the benefit-risk balance 
The benefit of eptinezumab treatment in the claimed indication seems to outweigh the risks.  
However, the magnitude of treatment effect is limited and the strength of the evidence hampered by several 
issues  that  need  to  be  resolved.  These  issues  include  the  efficacy  in  certain  patient  subgroups,  regional 
heterogeneity,  influence  of  concomitant  migraine/headache  medications,  the  imputation  of  missing  data,  as 
well as the potential influence of body weight. 
Moreover, the effect of 100 mg seems to be less robust than the effect of 300 mg. Several subgroups in the 
EM population show point estimates close to zero in the 100 mg group, thus suggesting potential lack of efficacy 
in these groups. In addition, the 300 mg dose consistently demonstrated a trend for a higher efficacy across 
all  endpoints  in  both  efficacy  studies.  It  is  agreed  that  both  treatment  regimens,  100  mg  and  300  mg, 
demonstrated  to  be  efficacious  in  the  treatment  of  EM  and  CM.  Differences  in  response  of  some  subgroups 
remain not completely understood, but might – at least in some cases – be chance findings and attributed to 
low patient numbers or non-medical factors. While 300 mg seems to have a more pronounced treatment effect 
across all treatment groups, the number of hypersensitivity reactions is remarkably higher in the 300 mg group 
compared to the 100 mg group (1.4% vs. 0.2%). Weighing the benefits and risks of treatment, the proposed 
posology with a recommended starting dose of 100 mg, with the option to increase to the 300 mg dose for 
patients who do not have a sufficient response after at least 12 weeks of treatment, seems acceptable. The 
amended wording in section 4.2 of the SmPC is considered adequate, since it clarifies the need for assessing 
treatment  benefit  12  weeks  after  treatment  initiation,  and  the  need  for  a  re-assessment  6  months  after 
treatment initiation. The efficacy of such a dose escalation strategy in non-responders or partial-responders 
161 
 
 
has not been formally tested in the context of clinical trials. However, the approach seems to be justified and 
sufficiently pragmatic and will also fit in a real-world therapeutic setting. 
With regard to safety, uncertainties on potential cardiovascular risks, especially in elderly patients (>65 years) 
and  on  long-term  safety  currently  negatively  impact  the  acceptability  of  the  safety  profile  of  a  drug  that  is 
intended for a non-life threatening disease. The safety profile is currently compromised by the occurrence of 
hypersensitivity reactions, including one serious hypersensitivity reaction and cases of anaphylactic reaction. 
Moreover, the burden due to infusion, including infusion-site related reactions, should be taken into account. 
3.8.  Conclusions 
The overall benefit/risk balance of Vyepti is positive, subject to the conditions stated in section 
‘Recommendations’. 
162 
 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that the 
benefit-risk balance of Vyepti is favourable in the following indication(s): 
Vyepti is indicated for the prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraine days per month. 
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription. 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
•  Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and 
interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any 
agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
•  Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measures 
None 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of the available data, the CHMP considers that eptinezumab is to be qualified as a 
163 
 
 
 
 
new active substance in itself as it is not a constituent of a medicinal product previously authorised within the 
European Union. 
Refer to Appendix on new active substance (NAS).  
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  Appendix 
5.1.  CHMP AR on New Active Substance (NAS) dated 11 November 2021 
165 
 
 
 
