Part VI: Summary of the risk management plan     
Summary of risk management plan for VYEPTI® (eptinezumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for VYEPTI. The RMP details important risks 
of VYEPTI, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
VYEPTI's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
VYEPTI's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet will give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how VYEPTI should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for VYEPTI should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of VYEPTI's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
VYEPTI is authorised for the prophylaxis of migraine in adults who have at least 4 migraine days per 
month (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains eptinezumab as the active substance and it is 
given by intravenous administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of VYEPTI’s benefits will be available in VYEPTI’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available under the medicine’s webpage:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/vyepti 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of VYEPTI, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies for 
learning more about VYEPTI's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:  
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of VYEPTI is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of VYEPTI are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of VYEPTI. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on 
the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the 
long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
None 
Cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing 
myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, transient 
ischemic attack, angina unstable and poorly controlled 
hypertension 
Missing information 
Pre-eclampsia 
Use in pregnant women 
Long-term safety 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Cardiovascular outcomes in patients with pre-existing 
myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, transient ischemic attack, angina 
unstable and poorly controlled hypertension 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
The important potential risk is based upon the mechanism of 
action of CGRP inhibition and the theoretical concern for 
cardiovascular risk. There is presently no evidence to suggest 
that eptinezumab has a negative impact on patients with pre-
existing cardiovascular conditions. Data from the eptinezumab 
clinical studies showed no indication for an increased 
cardiovascular risk. Cardiovascular Treatment-Emergent 
Adverse Events were reported at low incidences with no 
difference between eptinezumab and placebo treatment groups. 
No significant changes in hemodynamic and ECG parameters 
were seen. However, as patients with pre-existing 
cardiovascular conditions were excluded from the clinical 
 
 
 
development program, limited data is available in use in this 
population. 
Risk factors and risk groups  As this potential risk is based upon a theoretical concern 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
related to the mechanism of action of CGRP inhibition and no 
actual increased cardiovascular risk has been established, risk 
factors or risk groups, if any, are unknown. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Section 4.4 (Special Warnings and Precaution for use) of the 
SmPC includes information that patients with a history of 
cardiovascular disease were excluded from the clinical trials 
and no safety data are available for these patients. Section 4.4 
of the SmPC also includes information that limited data is 
available in patients with cardiovascular risk factors. 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Long-Term Cardiovascular Safety and Real-World Use of 
Eptinezumab Study 
Important potential risk: Pre-eclampsia 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
The important potential risk is based upon the mechanism of 
action of CGRP inhibition and the theoretical concern for a 
potential association with hypertension and hence pre-
eclampsia. However, there is currently no evidence to suggest 
that eptinezumab may have a negative impact on human 
pregnancy. The clinical studies with eptinezumab showed no 
increased risk in hypertension or increased blood pressure and 
no events of pre-eclampsia have been reported. However, 
limited data is available in use during pregnancy. 
Risk factors and risk groups  As this potential risk is based upon a theoretical concern 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
related to the mechanism of action of CGRP inhibition and no 
actual increased risk for pre-eclampsia has been established, 
risk factors or risk groups, if any, are unknown. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Section 4.6 (Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation) of the SmPC 
states that limited data is available on use in pregnancy and 
includes advice that it is preferable to avoid the use of 
eptinezumab during pregnancy. 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
 
 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Eptinezumab Post-marketing Pregnancy Program 
Missing information: Use in pregnant women 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Section 4.6 (Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation) of the SmPC 
states that limited data is available on use in pregnancy and 
includes advice that it is preferable to avoid the use of 
eptinezumab during pregnancy 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Eptinezumab Post-marketing Pregnancy Program 
Missing information: Long-term safety 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
No routine risk minimisation measures 
No additional risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Long-term Cardiovascular Safety and Real-Word Use of 
Eptinezumab Study 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
VYEPTI. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Long-term Cardiovascular Safety and Real-World use of Eptinezumab Study 
Purpose of the study: 
Migraine is a chronic condition. Therefore, long-term eptinezumab use is expected in routine clinical 
practice. Adverse events such as cardiovascular diseases might be infrequent and might appear only 
after long-term patient exposure. However, data on exposures beyond 1 year is limited and the safety 
of eptinezumab beyond 2 years has not been investigated in the clinical trial program. Additionally, 
patients with recent acute cardiovascular events and/or serious cardiovascular risk were excluded 
from the clinical trial population and use in this group of patients may also occur in everyday clinical 
practice. Therefore, long-term cardiovascular safety, including the safe use of eptinezumab in patients 
with a known history of cardiovascular disease, requires further characterization in real life routine 
clinical practice. 
The objective of this study is to assess the long-term cardiovascular risk in patients treated with 
eptinezumab, including the evaluation of the impact on a known history of cardiovascular diseases on 
the long-term cardiovascular risk. Furthermore, the study will also characterize the utilization of 
eptinezumab in routine clinical practice. 
Eptinezumab Post-marketing Pregnancy Program 
Purpose of the study: 
Migraine is common among women of child-bearing age, with an estimated prevalence of 25% (1,2). 
Pregnant women were not included in the clinical development program; however, the indicated 
population is predominantly women, many of whom are of childbearing age. The population of 
pregnant women treated with eptinezumab is therefore one which warrants further characterization, as 
effects on the woman and the fetus after exposure in utero are unknown. 
The objective of the Post-marketing Pregnancy Program is to collect information and assess the 
potential risk of use of eptinezumab during pregnancy. The potential increase in the risks of adverse 
maternal, fetal, and infant outcomes will be evaluated, including risks of birth defects, other adverse 
pregnancy outcomes (e.g. pre-eclampsia) and postnatal health of liveborn children up to one year of 
age among the offspring of women exposed to eptinezumab. Data will be collected on women 
exposed to eptinezumab during pregnancy and their offspring, as well as data on two comparative 
groups of eptinezumab-unexposed pregnant women with migraine and their offspring. 
References: 
1  Myint A.A., et al. Special Issues in Managing Migraine in Women: A Review Article. International Journal of 
Collaborative Research on Internal Medicine & Public Health. Vol. 5 No. 6 (2013), 478 – 491 
2  Lipton R.B., et al. Migraine prevalence, disease burden, and the need for preventive therapy. Neurology. 
2007;68(5); 343-349 
 
 
 
 
