EMA/447104/2016  
EMEA/H/C/002294 
EPAR summary for the public 
Vyndaqel 
tafamidis 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Vyndaqel. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Vyndaqel. 
What is Vyndaqel? 
Vyndaqel is a medicine that contains the active substance tafamidis. It is available as capsules 
(20 mg). 
What is Vyndaqel used for? 
Vyndaqel is used to delay nerve damage caused by transthyretin amyloidosis, a hereditary disease in 
which fibres called amyloid build up in tissues around the body including around the nerves. Vyndaqel 
is used in adult patients with the early stage of nerve disease (stage 1). 
Because the number of patients with transthyretin amyloidosis is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, 
and Vyndaqel was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 28 August 
2006. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Vyndaqel used? 
Treatment should be started and supervised by a doctor knowledgeable in the management of patients 
with this disease. The recommended dose is one capsule once a day.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Vyndaqel work? 
In patients with transthyretin amyloidosis, a blood protein called transthyretin is defective and breaks 
easily. The broken protein forms a fibrous substance called amyloid that is deposited in tissues and 
organs around the body, including around nerves, where it interferes with their normal functions. 
The active substance in Vyndaqel, tafamidis, is a transthyretin stabilizer. It attaches to transthyretin, 
which prevents the protein from breaking up, thereby stopping the formation of amyloid and slowing 
down the progression of the nerve disease.  
How has Vyndaqel been studied? 
Vyndaqel was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in 128 patients with transthyretin 
amyloidosis. The main measure of effectiveness was based on an assessment of the patients’ nerve 
damage and quality of life after 18 months of treatment. 
What benefit has Vyndaqel shown during the studies? 
Vyndaqel was more effective than placebo at treating patients with transthyretin amyloidosis. In 45% 
of patients taking Vyndaqel, nerve function either improved or stabilised, compared with 30% of 
patients taking placebo. The results did not include patients with more severe disease who left the 
study early because they needed to undergo a liver transplant. 
What is the risk associated with Vyndaqel? 
The most common side effects with Vyndaqel (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are urinary tract 
infection (infection of the structures that carry urine), vaginal infection, upper abdominal pain 
(stomach ache) and diarrhoea. For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Vyndaqel, see the 
package leaflet.  
Why has Vyndaqel been approved? 
The CHMP noted that, apart from in patients who left the study because they needed a liver transplant, 
Vyndaqel was more effective than placebo in delaying nerve damage in patients with transthyretin 
amyloidosis. The medicine presented no major safety concerns and the risks were considered to be 
manageable. The CHMP therefore concluded that the benefits of Vyndaqel are greater than its risks 
and recommended that it be granted marketing authorisation. 
Vyndaqel has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that because 
transthyretin amyloidosis is rare, for scientific reasons, it has not been possible to obtain complete 
information about Vyndaqel. Every year, the European Medicines Agency will review any new 
information that may become available and this summary will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Vyndaqel? 
The company that makes Vyndaqel will carry out a study on the effects of the medicine in a subgroup 
of patients with certain genetic mutations. The company will also provide long-term post-marketing 
safety data. 
Vyndaqel  
EMA/447104/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vyndaqel? 
The company that markets Vyndaqel will provide educational material to all doctors expected to 
prescribe Vyndaqel. The material will include a leaflet containing information on the risks of the 
medicine including the risks to the unborn baby and on how to contribute to a post-marketing study 
and a surveillance programme for pregnant women. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vyndaqel have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
Other information about Vyndaqel 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Vyndaqel on 16 November 2011. 
The full EPAR for Vyndaqel can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Vyndaqel, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Vyndaqel can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designations. 
This summary was last updated in 06-2016.  
Vyndaqel  
EMA/447104/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
