EMA/786363/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005849 
Vyvgart (efgartigimod alfa) 
An overview of Vyvgart and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vyvgart and what is it used for? 
Vyvgart is a medicine for treating adults with generalised myasthenia gravis (a disease that leads to 
muscle weakness and tiredness) and whose immune system produce antibodies against a protein 
called acetylcholine receptor, located on muscle cells. It is given together with other medicines used 
for the treatment of myasthenia gravis. 
Myasthenia gravis is rare, and Vyvgart was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ on 21 March 2018.  
Vyvgart contains the active substance efgartigimod alfa. 
How is Vyvgart used? 
Vyvgart can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be initiated by doctors with 
experience in the management of patients with neuromuscular disorders. 
Vyvgart is available as a concentrate for solution to be administered as infusion (drip) into a vein. The 
dose of Vyvgart depends on the patient’s weight and is given once a week over cycles of 4 weeks. The 
doctor will decide on how many cycles to give after considering how the patient responds to the 
treatment. 
For more information about using Vyvgart, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Vyvgart work? 
For a muscle to contract, a substance called acetylcholine is released from a nerve and attaches to 
acetylcholine receptors on the muscle cells. In patients with generalised myasthenia gravis, the 
immune system produces autoantibodies (proteins that attack parts of a person’s own body by 
mistake) that damage these receptors. Because of this damage, the muscles are not able to contract 
as well as normal, leading to muscle weakness and difficulty moving.  
Vyvgart works by attaching to and blocking the action of a protein called neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) 
which is involved in regulating the levels of antibodies in the blood. By blocking FcRn, Vyvgart 
decreases the level of autoantibodies thereby improving the ability of muscles to contract and reducing 
the symptoms of the disease and their impact on daily activities. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Vyvgart have been shown in studies? 
A study involving 129 patients with myasthenia gravis who had anti-acetylcholine receptor 
autoantibodies showed that Vyvgart was effective at improving symptoms of the disease. The study 
looked at the effect of treatment using a Myasthenia Gravis-specific Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) 
scale which measures the impact of the disease on patients’ daily activities. The scale ranges from 0 to 
24 and higher scores indicate more severe symptoms. 
After the first treatment cycle, about 68% of patients treated with Vyvgart had a reduction of at least 2 
points in their MG-ADL scores compared with about 30% of the patients treated with placebo (a 
dummy treatment). 
What are the risks associated with Vyvgart? 
The most common side effects with Vyvgart, which may affect around 1 in 10 people, are upper 
respiratory tract infections (infections of the nose and throat) and urinary tract infection (infection of 
the parts of the body that collect and pass out urine). 
For the full list of side effects of Vyvgart, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vyvgart authorised in the EU? 
The main study showed that patients treated with Vyvgart have less severe symptoms as measured by 
a decrease in their MG-ADL scores.  
The most common side effects were upper respiratory tract infections and urinary tract infections but 
serious side effects causing patients to stop treatment were rare.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Vyvgart’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vyvgart? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vyvgart have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vyvgart are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Vyvgart are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Vyvgart 
Vyvgart received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 10 August 2022. 
Further information on Vyvgart can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/vyvgart  
This overview was last updated in 08-2022. 
Vyvgart (efgartigimod alfa)  
EMA/786363/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
