PART VI  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR VYXEOS 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Vyxeos.  The RMP details important 
risks of Vyxeos, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about the risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
The Vyxeos Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and Package Leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Vyxeos should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Vyxeos should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of the RMP 
for Vyxeos. 
I 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Vyxeos is authorised for the treatment of newly diagnosed adults with high-risk acute myeloid 
leukaemia (AML) as defined by therapy-related acute myeloid leukaemia (t-AML) or acute 
myeloid leukaemia with myelodysplasia-related changes (AML-MRC). 
Further information about the evaluation of the benefits of Vyxeos can be found in the Vyxeos 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage link to: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=/pages/medicines/human/medicines/human_med_0
02273.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES 
TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of Vyxeos, together with measures to minimise such risks are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with 
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including Period Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment - so that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Vyxeos is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Not applicable as there are no Important Identified Risks, Important Potential Risks and/or 
Missing Information for Vyxeos. 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
Not applicable as there are no Important Identified Risks and/or Important Potential Risks for 
Vyxeos. 
II.C 
Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 
Studies Which Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Vyxeos. 
II.C.2 
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Vyxeos. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
