EMA/631389/2019  
EMEA/H/C/004282  
Vyxeos liposomal1 (daunorubicin / cytarabine) 
An overview of Vyxeos liposomal and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Vyxeos liposomal and what is it used for? 
Vyxeos liposomal is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with newly diagnosed acute myeloid 
leukaemia, a cancer of white blood cells. It is used when the leukaemia was caused by previous 
treatments (e.g. for other cancers) or is associated with certain changes in the bone marrow known as 
myelodysplasia. 
The active substances in Vyxeos liposomal are daunorubicin and cytarabine. 
How is Vyxeos liposomal used? 
Vyxeos liposomal is given by infusion (drip) into a vein over 90 minutes and the dose is calculated 
using the patient’s height and weight. It is given on days 1, 3 and 5 of the first treatment course. If 
the medicine works well enough and the doctor considers further courses would be of benefit, Vyxeos 
liposomal is given on days 1 and 3 of each further course. The doctor may delay doses or stop 
treatment if the patient has severe side effects.  
Vyxeos liposomal can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and 
supervised by a doctor experienced in using cancer medicines. For more information about using 
Vyxeos liposomal, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Vyxeos liposomal work? 
The active substances in Vyxeos liposomal, daunorubicin and cytarabine, have been used together to 
treat leukaemia and other types of cancer for many years. They interfere in different ways with the 
production of new DNA within cells, which means the cells are unable to grow and multiply, and they 
eventually die. 
In this medicine, daunorubicin and cytarabine are contained in tiny fat droplets called ‘liposomes’. The 
liposomes are expected to remain in the patient’s body for longer than conventional daunorubicin and 
cytarabine medicines and to build up in the patient’s bone marrow. The liposomes protect the cancer 
medicines from being broken down early, which is expected to enhance their effect on cancer cells.  
1 Previously known as Vyxeos. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Vyxeos liposomal have been shown in studies? 
Vyxeos liposomal has been shown to improve how long patients lived in one main study involving 309 
patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukaemia linked to previous treatment or associated with 
myelodysplasia. The study compared Vyxeos liposomal with conventional daunorubicin and cytarabine 
infusions.  
Patients given Vyxeos liposomal lived on average around 9.6 months after treatment, whereas those 
given conventional daunorubicin and cytarabine lived about 6 months.  
Some 34% of patients given Vyxeos liposomal (52 of 153) were able to go on to have a stem cell 
transplant (a potentially curative procedure where the patient’s bone marrow is replaced by stem cells 
to form new, healthy bone marrow) compared with 25% (39 of 156) given conventional treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Vyxeos liposomal? 
The most common side effects with Vyxeos liposomal (which may affect more than 1 in 5 people) are 
hypersensitivity (allergic reactions, especially rash), febrile neutropenia (low white cell counts with 
fever), oedema (swelling), diarrhoea, colitis (inflamed bowel), mucositis (inflammation of the moist 
body surfaces), tiredness, muscle and bone pain, belly pain, decreased appetite, cough, headache, 
chills, arrhythmias (irregular heart rhythm), fever, sleep disorders and hypotension (low blood 
pressure). 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Vyxeos liposomal, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Vyxeos liposomal authorised in the EU? 
Vyxeos liposomal improved survival compared with conventional daunorubicin and cytarabine in 
patients with acute myeloid leukaemia who have a poor prognosis and few alternatives. The side 
effects were similar to the known side effects of the active substances and were considered 
manageable. The European Medicines Agency decided that Vyxeos liposomal’s benefits are greater 
than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Vyxeos liposomal? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Vyxeos liposomal have been included in the summary of product characteristics 
and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Vyxeos liposomal are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Vyxeos liposomal are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Vyxeos liposomal 
Vyxeos liposomal received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 23 August 2018. 
Further information on Vyxeos liposomal can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/epar/vyxeos-liposomal.  
This overview was last updated in 11-2019.  
Vyxeos liposomal0F (daunorubicin / cytarabine)  
EMA/631389/2019  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
