EMA/63272/2023 
EMEA/H/C/002616 
Wakix (pitolisant) 
An overview of Wakix and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Wakix and what is it used for? 
Wakix is used to treat narcolepsy in adults, adolescents and children from 6 years of age. Narcolepsy is 
a long-term sleep disorder which affects the brain’s ability to regulate the normal sleep-wake cycle. 
This leads to symptoms such as an irresistible urge to sleep, even at inappropriate times and places, 
and disturbed night-time sleep. Some patients also have episodes of severe muscle weakness 
(cataplexy) that can cause collapse. Wakix is used in patients with or without cataplexy. 
Narcolepsy is rare, and Wakix was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) 
on 10 July 2007. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu307459. 
Wakix contains the active substance pitolisant. 
How is Wakix used? 
Wakix can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started by a doctor 
experienced in the treatment of sleep disorders. 
Wakix is available as tablets to be taken by the mouth once a day in the morning during breakfast. 
For more information about using Wakix, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Wakix work? 
The active substance in Wakix, pitolisant, blocks histamine from attaching to a receptor (target) on 
nerve cells called ‘histamine H3 receptor’. As a result, more histamine is produced in the brain, which 
attaches to another type of receptor called ‘histamine H1 receptor’. This increases the activity of 
certain brain cells called histamine neurons, which are important for regulating sleep and wakefulness. 
What benefits of Wakix have been shown in studies? 
Wakix has been investigated in 2 main studies involving a total of 261 adults with narcolepsy, the 
majority of whom also had cataplexy. The studies compared Wakix with placebo (a dummy treatment). 
The main measure of effectiveness was based on how sleepy patients felt during daytime, assessed 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale or ESS. This is a standard scale used in patients with narcolepsy 
which ranges from 0 to 24. 
The first study showed that Wakix was more effective than placebo at reducing daytime sleepiness: 
patients taking Wakix had an average reduction of 3 points more in the ESS scale than those taking 
placebo after 8 weeks of treatment. Results from this study also showed a decrease in the number of 
cataplexy attacks. The second study, however, did not show a difference between Wakix and placebo 
at reducing sleepiness or cataplexy.  
When looking at sleepiness with an objective test called Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), the 
results of the two studies together showed that Wakix significantly improved wakefulness compared 
with placebo.  
In a third study involving 105 patients with narcolepsy and cataplexy, Wakix was also more effective 
than placebo at reducing the number of cataplexy attacks: the number of cataplexy attacks decreased 
from around 9 to 3 per week in patients taking Wakix, while it remained at around 7 per week in 
patients taking placebo. 
A fourth study involved 110 children with narcolepsy from 6 to 17 years of age, the majority of whom 
also had cataplexy. In this study, the Ullanlinna Narcolepsy Scale (UNS), a questionnaire with scores 
ranging from 0 to 44, was used to measure sleepiness and the frequency and severity of cataplexy. 
After 8 weeks of treatment, the average reduction in the UNS score was 4 points greater in children 
taking Wakix than in those taking placebo. In addition, the average reduction in the score for cataplexy 
was 2 points greater in patients taking Wakix than in those taking placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Wakix? 
The most common side effects with Wakix in adults (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
insomnia (difficulty sleeping), headache, nausea (feeling sick), anxiety, irritability, dizziness, 
depression, tremor, sleep disorders, tiredness, vomiting, vertigo (a spinning sensation) and dyspepsia 
(heartburn). Serious but rare side effects are abnormal loss of weight and spontaneous abortion. The 
side effects in children and adolescents are similar to those in adults. For the full list of side effects of 
Wakix, see the package leaflet.  
Wakix must not be used in patients with severely reduced liver function and in women who are 
breastfeeding. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Wakix authorised in the EU? 
Studies show that Wakix is effective at reducing the two major symptoms of narcolepsy, excessive 
daytime sleepiness and cataplexy, in adults, adolescents and children from 6 years of age. In addition, 
Wakix works differently from currently available treatments and therefore offers an alternative 
treatment option for patients with narcolepsy. The safety profile of Wakix is considered acceptable, 
with no major safety concerns identified.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Wakix’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Wakix? 
The company that markets Wakix will carry out an observational study to collect information on the 
safety of the medicine when used in medical practice. 
Wakix (pitolisant)  
EMA/63272/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Wakix have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Wakix are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Wakix are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Wakix 
Wakix received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 31 March 2016. 
Further information on Wakix can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/wakix.  
This overview was last updated in 03-2023. 
Wakix (pitolisant)  
EMA/63272/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
