ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Waylivra 285 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml contains 200 mg volanesorsen sodium, equivalent to 190 mg volanesorsen. 
Each single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 285 mg of volanesorsen in 1.5 ml solution. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.  
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection). 
Clear, colourless to slightly yellow solution with a pH of approximately 8 and osmolarity of 363-
485 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Waylivra is indicated as an adjunct to diet in adult patients with genetically confirmed familial 
chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS) and at high risk for pancreatitis, in whom response to diet and 
triglyceride lowering therapy has been inadequate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Treatment should be initiated by and remain under the supervision of a physician experienced in the 
treatment of patients with FCS. Prior to initiating Waylivra, secondary causes of hypertriglyceridemia 
(e.g. uncontrolled diabetes, hypothyroidism) should be excluded or appropriately addressed. 
The recommended starting dose is 285 mg in 1.5 ml injected subcutaneously once weekly for 3 
months. Following 3 months, dose frequency should be reduced to 285 mg every 2 weeks.  
However, treatment should be discontinued in patients with a reduction in serum triglycerides <25% 
or who fail to achieve serum triglycerides below 22.6 mmol/L after 3 months on volanesorsen 285 mg 
weekly. 
After 6 months of treatment with volanesorsen, increase of dose frequency to 285 mg weekly should 
be considered if response has been inadequate in terms of serum triglyceride reduction as evaluated by 
the supervising experienced specialist and in the condition that platelet counts are in the normal range. 
Patients should be re-downtitrated to 285 mg every 2 weeks if the higher 285 mg once weekly dose 
does not provide significant additional triglyceride reduction after 9 months. 
Patients should be instructed to give the injection on the same day of the week, according to medically 
determined frequency of administration. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a dose is missed and noticed within 48 hours, the patient should be directed to give the missed dose 
as soon as possible. If not noticed within 48 hours, then the missed dose should be skipped and the 
next planned injection given. 
Platelet monitoring and dose adjustments 
Before initiation of treatment, platelet count should be measured. If the platelet count is below 140 x 
109/L another measurement should be taken approximately a week later to reassess. If platelet count 
remains below 140 x 109/L upon a second measurement, Waylivra should not be initiated (see section 
4.3). 
After commencing treatment, patients should have platelet levels monitored at least every two weeks, 
depending on the platelet levels. 
Treatment and monitoring should be adjusted according to laboratory values in line with Table 1.  
For any patient dose paused or discontinued due to severe thrombocytopenia, the benefits and risks of 
returning to treatment once platelet count ≥100 x 109/L should be carefully considered. For 
discontinued patients, a haematologist should be consulted prior to resuming treatment. 
Table 1. Waylivra monitoring and treatment recommendations 
Platelet count (x109/L) 
Normal (≥140) 
100 to 139 
75 to 99 
50 to 74a 
Dose 
(285 mg prefilled syringe) 
Starting dose: Weekly 
After 3 months: Every 2 weeks 
Every 2 weeks 
Pause treatment for ≥4 weeks and 
resume treatment after platelet levels ≥ 
100 x 109/L 
Pause treatment for ≥4 weeks and 
resume treatment after platelet levels ≥ 
100 x 109/L 
Monitoring frequency 
Every 2 weeks 
Weekly 
Weekly 
Every 2-3 days 
Less than 50a, b 
Discontinue treatment 
Glucocorticoids recommended 
Daily 
a See section 4.4 for recommendations regarding use of antiplatelet agents/non-steroidal anti-
inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs)/anticoagulants 
b Consultation of a haematologist is needed to reconsider the benefit/risk for possible further treatment 
with volanesorsen. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
No starting dose adjustment is necessary for elderly patients. There is limited clinical data for patients 
aged 65 and over (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No starting dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. The 
safety and efficacy in patients with severe renal impairment has not been established and these patients 
should be closely observed. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
This medicinal product has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. The medicinal 
product is not metabolised via the cytochrome P450 enzyme system in the liver, therefore dose 
adjustment is unlikely to be required in patients with hepatic impairment. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of this medicinal product in children and adolescents below 18 years of age 
have not yet been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration  
This medicinal product is intended for subcutaneous use only. It should not be administered 
intramuscularly or intravenously. 
Each pre-filled syringe is for single use only. 
Waylivra should be inspected visually prior to administration. The solution should be clear and 
colourless to slightly yellow. If the solution is cloudy or contains visible particulate matter, the 
contents must not be injected and the medicinal product should be returned to the pharmacy. 
The first injection administered by the patient or caregiver should be performed under the guidance of 
an appropriately qualified health care professional. Patients and/or caregivers should be trained in the 
administration of this medicinal product in accordance with the patient information leaflet. 
The pre-filled syringe should be allowed to reach room temperature prior to injection. It should be 
removed from refrigerated storage (2 ° to 8 °C) at least 30 minutes before use. Other warming methods 
should not be used. It is normal to see a large air bubble. It should not be attempted to remove the air 
bubble. 
It is important to rotate sites for injection. Sites for injection include the abdomen, upper thigh region, 
or outer area of the upper arm. If injected in the upper arm, the injection should be administered by 
another person. Injection should be avoided at the waistline and other sites where pressure or rubbing 
may occur from clothing. This medicinal product should not be injected into tattoos, moles, 
birthmarks, bruises, rashes, or areas where the skin is tender, red, hard, bruised, damaged, burned, or 
inflamed. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Chronic or unexplained thrombocytopenia. Treatment should not be initiated in patients with 
thrombocytopenia (platelet count <140 x 109/L).  
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Thrombocytopenia 
Waylivra is very commonly associated with reductions in platelet count in patients with FCS, which 
may result in thrombocytopenia (see section 4.8). Patients with lower body weight (less than 70 kg) 
may be more prone to thrombocytopenia during treatment with this medicinal product. Careful 
monitoring for thrombocytopenia is important during treatment with this medicinal product in patients 
with FCS (see section 4.2). Recommendations for adjustments to monitoring frequency and dosing are 
specified in Table 1 (see section 4.2). 
4 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation of antiplatelet medicinal products/NSAIDs/anticoagulants should be considered for 
platelet levels < 75 x 109/L. Treatment with these medicinal products must be discontinued at platelet 
levels < 50 x 109/L (see section 4.5). 
Patients should be instructed to report to their physician immediately if they experience any signs of 
bleeding, which can include petechiae, spontaneous bruising, subconjunctival bleeding, or other 
unusual bleeding (including nosebleeds, bleeding from gums, stools, or unusually heavy menstrual 
bleeding), neck stiffness, atypical severe headache, or any prolonged bleeding. 
LDL-C levels 
With treatment with Waylivra, LDL-C levels may rise but will usually remain within the normal 
range. 
Renal toxicity 
Renal toxicity has been observed after administration of volanesorsen and other subcutaneously and 
intravenously administered antisense oligonucleotides. Monitoring for evidence of nephrotoxicity by 
routine urine dipstick is recommended on a quarterly basis. In the case of a positive assessment, a 
broader assessment of renal function, including serum creatinine and a 24-hour collection to quantify 
the proteinuria and assess creatinine clearance, should be performed. Treatment should be 
discontinued if: proteinuria of ≥ 500 mg/24 hour is recorded, or an increase in serum creatinine ≥ 0.3 
mg/dL (26.5 μmol/L) that is >ULN is recorded, or creatinine clearance estimated by the CKD-EPI 
equation is ≤ 30 mL/min/1.73m2. Treatment should also be discontinued for any clinical symptoms or 
signs of renal impairment pending the previous confirmatory assessments. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Elevations of liver enzymes have been observed after administration of other subcutaneously and 
intravenously administered antisense oligonucleotides. Monitoring for hepatotoxicity through serum 
liver enzymes and bilirubin should be assessed on a quarterly basis. Treatment should be discontinued 
if there is a single increase in ALT or AST > 8 x ULN, or an increase > 5 x ULN, which persists for ≥ 
2 weeks, or lesser increases in ALT or AST that are associated with total bilirubin > 2 x ULN or INR 
> 1.5. Treatment should also be discontinued for any clinical symptoms or signs of hepatic impairment 
or hepatitis. 
Immunogenicity and inflammation 
No evidence of altered safety profile or clinical response was associated with presence of anti-drug 
antibodies. If formation of anti-drug antibodies with a clinically significant effect is suspected, contact 
the marketing authorisation holder to discuss antibody testing. 
Monitoring of inflammation should be assessed through quarterly assessment of erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate (ESR). 
Sodium content 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose of 285 mg, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No clinical drug interaction studies have been conducted. 
Clinically relevant pharmacokinetic interactions are not expected between volanesorsen and 
substrates, inducers or inhibitors of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, and drug transporters. It is 
unknown whether triglyceride lowering by volanesorsen and the potentially ensuing decrease in 
inflammation leads to normalisation of CYP enzyme expression. 
In clinical studies, this medicinal product has been used in combination with fibrates and fish oils with 
no impact on the medicinal product pharmacodynamics or pharmacokinetics. There were no adverse 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
events related to drug-drug interactions reported during the clinical program, however this is based on 
limited data. 
The effect of concomitant administration of this medicinal product with alcohol or medicinal products 
known to have potential for hepatotoxicity (e.g., paracetamol) is unknown. If signs and symptoms of 
hepatotoxicity develop, use of the hepatotoxic medicinal product should be discontinued. 
Antithrombotic agents and medicinal products that may lower platelet count 
It is not known whether the risk of bleeding is increased by concomitant use of volanesorsen and 
antithrombotic agents or medicinal products that may lower platelet count or affect platelet function. 
Discontinuation of antiplatelet medicinal products/NSAIDs/anticoagulants should be considered for 
platelet levels <75 x 109/L and treatment with these medicinal products should be stopped at platelet 
levels < 50 x 109/L (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data on the use of volanesorsen in pregnant women. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to reproductive toxicity 
(see section 5.3). 
As a precautionary measure, it is preferable to avoid the use of this medicinal product during 
pregnancy. 
Breastfeeding 
In non-clinical studies, levels of volanesorsen in milk were very low in lactating mice. Available 
pharmacodynamic/toxicological data in animals have shown excretion of very low amounts of 
volanesorsen in milk (see section 5.3). Due to the poor oral bioavailability of this medicinal product, it 
is considered unlikely that these low milk concentrations would result in systemic exposure from 
nursing. 
It is unknown whether volanesorsen or metabolites are excreted in human milk.  
A risk to the newborn infant cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from therapy 
taking into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
No clinical data on the effect of this medicinal product on human fertility are available. Volanesorsen 
had no effect on fertility in mice.  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Volanesorsen has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 4.8  Undesirable 
effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
In clinical studies in patients with FCS, the most commonly reported adverse reactions during 
treatment were platelet count decreased occurring in 29%, thrombocytopenia occurring in 21% (see 
section 4.4), and injection site reactions occurring in 82% of patients during the pivotal studies.  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 2 presents the adverse reactions from the Phase 3 studies in patients with FCS in receiving 
volanesorsen subcutaneously.  
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The frequency of adverse reactions is defined using the following convention: very common (≥1/10); 
common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000); very rare 
(<1/10,000); and not known (cannot be estimated from available data). Within each frequency 
grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
Table 2: 
Summary of adverse reactions in clinical studies in patients with FCS (N=87) 
System organ class 
Very common  
Common  
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Thrombocytopenia  
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders  Headache 
Eye disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
7 
Leukopenia  
Lymphopenia  
Eosinophilia  
Immune thrombocytopenic 
purpura  
Spontaneous haematoma  
Immunisation reaction  
Hypersensitivity Serum sickness-
like reaction  
Diabetes mellitus  
Insomnia 
Syncope 
Hypoaesthesia 
Presyncope 
Retinal migraine 
Dizziness 
Tremor 
Conjunctival haemorrhage 
Vision blurred 
Hypertension 
Haemorrhage 
Haematoma 
Hot flush 
Dyspnoea 
Pharyngeal oedema 
Wheezing 
Epistaxis 
Cough 
Nasal congestion 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Abdominal distension 
Abdominal pain 
Dry mouth 
Gingival bleeding 
Mouth haemorrhage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Very common  
Common  
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Myalgia 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Injection site erythema 
Injection site pain 
Injection site swelling 
Injection site discolouration 
Injection site induration 
Injection site pruritus 
Injection site bruising 
Chills 
Injection site oedema 
8 
Parotid gland enlargement 
Dyspepsia 
Gingival swelling 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Rash 
Urticaria 
Hyperhidrosis 
Petechiae 
Ecchymosis 
Night sweats 
Papule 
Skin hypertrophy 
Swelling face 
Arthralgia 
Pain in extremity 
Arthritis 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Back pain 
Neck pain 
Pain in jaw 
Muscle spasms 
Joint stiffness 
Myositis 
Peripheral arthritis 
Haematuria 
Proteinuria 
Injection site haematoma 
Asthenia 
Fatigue 
Injection site reaction 
Pyrexia 
Injection site hypoaesthesia 
Injection site haemorrhage 
Injection site warmth 
Injection site dryness 
Injection site pallor 
Injection site urticaria 
Injection site vesicles 
Malaise 
Feeling hot 
Influenza-like illness 
Injection site discomfort 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Very common  
Common  
Injection site inflammation 
Injection site mass 
Oedema 
Pain 
Injection site paraesthesia 
Injection site scab 
Injection site papule 
Injection site rash 
Non-cardiac chest pain 
Vessel puncture site 
haemorrhage 
Haemoglobin decreased 
White blood cell count decreased 
Blood creatinine increased 
Blood urea increased 
Creatinine renal clearance 
decreased 
Hepatic enzyme increased 
International normalised ratio 
increased 
Transaminases increased 
Contusion 
Investigations 
Platelet count decreased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Thrombocytopenia 
In the pivotal Phase 3 study in patients with FCS (the APPROACH study), confirmed reductions in 
platelet counts to below normal (140 x 109/L) were observed in 75% of FCS patients treated with 
volanesorsen and 24% of placebo patients; confirmed reductions to below 100 x 109/L were observed 
in 47% of patients treated with volanesorsen compared with no placebo patients. In APPROACH 5 
patients who discontinued therapy due to platelet levels included 2 patients with platelet counts <25 x 
109/L and 3 with platelet counts between 50 x 109/L and 75 x 109/L. It was also reported in this study 
that platelet count decreased was reported in 11 (33%) patients versus 1 (3%), and thrombocytopenia 
was reported in 4 (12%) patients vs none for subjects treated with volanesorsen compared to placebo, 
respectively.  
In the open-label extension (CS7), confirmed reductions in platelet counts to below normal (140 x 
109/L) were observed in 52 (79%) patients overall, including 37 (74%) patients in the treatment-naïve 
group. Confirmed reductions to below 100 x 109/L were observed in 33 (50%) patients overall 
including 24 (48%) treatment naïve patients. In the open-label extension, 11 patients discontinued due 
to thrombocytopenia and platelet-related events. None of these patients had any major bleeding events 
and all recovered to normal platelet count following drug discontinuation and administration of 
glucocorticoids where medically indicated. In this open-label extension study, platelet count decreased 
was reported in 16 (24%) and thrombocytopenia was reported in 14 (21%) patients. 
For pooled data with the APPROACH study and the CS7 study, platelet count decreased was reported 
in 25 (29%) patients, and thrombocytopenia was reported in 18 (21%). 
Immunogenicity 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the Phase 3 clinical studies (CS16 and APPROACH), 16% and 33% of volanesorsen-treated 
patients tested positive for anti-drug antibodies during 6-month and 12-month treatment, respectively. 
No evidence of altered safety profile or clinical response was associated with presence of anti-drug 
antibodies; however this is based on the limited long-term data (see section 4.4). 
Injection site reactions 
Injection site reactions defined as any local cutaneous reaction at the injection site persisting more 
than 2 days occurred in 79% of volanesorsen-treated patients in the APPROACH study and 81% of 
patients in its open-label extension (CS7). Injection site reactions occurred in 80% of volanesorsen-
treated patients across both studies. These local reactions were mostly mild and typically consisted of 
1 or more of the following: erythema, pain, pruritus, or local swelling. Injection site reactions did not 
occur with all injections and resulted in discontinuation for 1 patient in the APPROACH study and 1 
patient in the open label extension (CS7). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is no clinical experience with overdose of this medicinal product. In the case of overdose, 
patients should be carefully observed and supportive care administered, as appropriate. Symptoms of 
overdose are expected to be limited to constitutional symptoms and injection site reactions. 
Haemodialysis is unlikely to be beneficial given that volanesorsen is rapidly distributed into cells. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: lipid modifying agents, other lipid modifying agents, ATC code: 
C10AX18 
Mechanism of action 
Volanesorsen is an antisense oligonucleotide designed to inhibit the formation of apoC-III, a protein 
that is recognised to regulate both triglyceride metabolism and hepatic clearance of chylomicrons and 
other triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. The selective binding of volanesorsen to the apoC-III messenger 
ribonucleic acid (mRNA) within the 3′ untranslated region at base position 489-508 causes the 
degradation of the mRNA. This binding prevents translation of the protein apoC-III, thus removing an 
inhibitor of triglyceride clearance and enabling metabolism through an LPL-independent pathway. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Effects of Waylivra on lipid parameters 
In APPROACH, the Phase 3 clinical study in patients with FCS, Waylivra reduced fasting 
triglycerides, total cholesterol, non-HDL cholesterol, apoC-III, apoB-48, and chylomicron triglyceride 
levels and increased LDL-C, HDL-C, and apoB (see Table 3). 
Table 3:   Mean baseline and percent change in lipid parameters from baseline to month 3 
Lipid parameter (g/L for 
apoC-III, apoB, apoB-48; 
Placebo 
(N=33) 
Volanesorsen 
285 mg 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mmol/L for cholesterol, 
triglycerides) 
Triglycerides 
Total cholesterol 
LDL-C 
HDL-C 
Non-HDL-C 
ApoC-III 
ApoB 
ApoB-48 
Chylomicron triglycerides 
Baseline 
24.3 
7.3 
0.72 
0.43 
6.9 
0.29 
0.69 
0.09 
20 
% Change 
+24% 
+13% 
+7% 
+5% 
+14% 
+6% 
+2% 
+16% 
+38% 
(N=33) 
Baseline 
25.6 
7.6 
0.73 
0.44 
7.1 
0.31 
0.65 
0.11 
22 
% Change 
-72% 
-39% 
+139% 
+45% 
-45% 
-84% 
+20% 
-75% 
-77% 
Cardiac electrophysiology 
At a drug concentration 4.1 times the peak drug plasma concentrations (Cmax) of the maximum 
recommended dose (285 mg subcutaneous injection), volanesorsen did not prolong the heart-rate 
corrected QT (QTc) interval.  
Clinical efficacy and safety 
APPROACH study in patients with FCS 
The APPROACH study is a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled 52-week multicentre clinical 
study in 66 patients with FCS, evaluating volanesorsen 285 mg administered as a subcutaneous 
injection (33 treated with volanesorsen, 33 with placebo). Main inclusion criteria were a diagnosis of 
FCS (Type 1 hyperlipoproteinemia) in combination with a history of chylomicronemia evidenced by 
documentation of lactescent serum or documentation of fasting TG measurement ≥ 880 mg/dl.  
Diagnosis of FCS required documentation of at least one of the following: 
a) Confirmed homozygote, compound heterozygote, or double heterozygote for known loss-of-
function mutations in Type 1-causing genes (such as LPL, APOC2, GPIHBP1, or LMF1) 
b) Post heparin plasma LPL activity of ≤ 20% of normal.  
Patients taking Glybera within 2 years prior to screening were excluded from the study. 
Nineteen of the 33 patients in the volanesorsen group completed 12 months of study treatment. 
Thirteen of these patients had dose adjustment/pause on the study. Out of the 13, 5 had a dose pause, 5 
had a dose adjustment and 3 had both a dose pause and dose adjustment.  
Mean age was 46 years (range 20-75 years; 5 patients ≥65 years old); 45% were men; 80% were 
White, 17% were Asian, and 3% were of other races. Mean body mass index was 25 kg/m2. A history 
of documented acute pancreatitis was reported for 76% of patients and a history of diabetes was 
reported for 15% of patients; 21% of patients had a recorded history of lipaemia retinalis and 23% of 
patients had a recorded history of eruptive xanthomas. The median age at diagnosis was 27 years, with 
23% shown to lack a known FCS genetic mutation. 
At study entry, 55% of patients were on lipid lowering therapies (48% on fibrates, 29% on fish oils, 
20% HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors), 27% were on pain medicinal products, 20% were on platelet 
aggregation inhibitors, and 14% were on nutritional supplements. Background lipid-lowering therapies 
remained consistent throughout the study. Patients were prohibited from receiving plasma apheresis 
within 4 weeks prior to screening or during the study; 11% of patients had previously received gene 
therapy for lipoprotein lipase deficiency (i.e., alipogene tiparvovec), on average 8 years prior to 
starting this study. After a 6-week diet run-in period, the mean fasting triglyceride level at baseline 
was 2,209 mg/dL (25.0 mmol/L). Compliance with diet and alcohol restriction was reinforced through 
periodic counselling sessions during the study. 
Waylivra led to a statistically significant reduction in triglyceride levels as compared to placebo at the 
primary efficacy endpoint, defined as percent change from baseline to Month 3 in fasting triglycerides, 
11 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
in addition to a lower incidence of pancreatitis over the 52-week treatment period in a post-hoc 
analysis (Table 4). 
At the primary efficacy endpoint, the treatment difference between volanesorsen and placebo in mean 
fasting triglyceride percent change was -94% (95% CI: -122% -67%; p˂0.0001, with a decrease of -
77% from baseline (95% CI: -97, -56) in patients receiving volanesorsen and an increase of 18% from 
baseline (95% CI: -4, 39) in patients receiving placebo (Table 4). 
Table 4:   Mean change from baseline in fasting triglycerides in the phase 3 placebo-controlled 
study in patients with FCS at month 3 (APPROACH) 
LS mean percent 
change (95% CI) 
LS mean absolute 
change (95% CI) 
mg/dL or mmol/L 
Placebo 
(N=33) 
Volanesorsen 285 mg 
(N = 33) 
Relative difference in 
change vs placebo 
+18% (-4, 39) 
-77% (-97, -56) 
-94%* (-122, -67) 
+92 (-301, +486) mg/dL 
+1 (-3, +5) mmol/L 
-1,712 (-2,094, -1,330) 
mg/dL 
-19 (-24, -15) mmol/L 
-1,804 (-2,306, -1,302) 
mg/dL 
-20 (-26, -15) mmol/L 
*p-value < 0.0001 (primary efficacy endpoint)  
Difference= LS Mean of [volanesorsen % Change – Placebo % Change] (ANCOVA model) 
Onset of the reduction was rapid with separation from placebo seen as early as 4 weeks and maximum 
response seen at 12 weeks, with clinically and statistically significant triglyceride reduction 
maintained over 52 weeks (Figure 1). The mean fasting triglyceride percent change was significantly 
different between volanesorsen and placebo arms at 3, 6, and 12 months; the volanesorsen arm 
included patients who did not complete dosing but who returned for assessments over the 52-week 
study. There were no significant differences in treatment effect across the stratification factors of 
presence or absence of concurrent omega-3 fatty acids or fibrates. 
Figure 1:  LS mean percent change in fasting triglycerides in phase 3 study in patients with FCS 
(APPROACH) 
Percent Change from Baseline in Fasting Triglycerides: 
Subset of Patients with Non-Missing Endpoints, Full Analysis Set
20%
10%
0%
-10%
-20%
-30%
-40%
-50%
-60%
-70%
-80%
18%
-77%
Placebo
Waylivra
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
%
n
a
e
M
S
L
0
2
4
6
Month
8
10
12
LS mean percent change from baseline in fasting triglycerides based on the observed data are 
displayed. 
Difference= LS mean of [volanesorsen % change – placebo % change] (ANCOVA model) 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
p-value from ANCOVA model < 0.0001 at month 3 (primary efficacy endpoint), month 6 and month 
12 
Additional efficacy results for changes in triglyceride are presented in Table 5. Most patients receiving 
volanesorsen experienced a clinically significant reduction in triglycerides.  
Table 5: Additional results for changes in triglycerides in the APPROACH study (primary 
endpoint at month 3) 
Parameter at month 3a 
Percent of patientsb with fasting 
plasma triglyceride < 750 mg/dL 
(8.5 mmol/L)* 
Percent of patientsc with ≥ 40% 
reduction in fasting triglycerides** 
Placebo 
(N=31) 
10% 
9% 
Volanesorsen 285 mg 
(N=30) 
77% 
88% 
a The month 3 endpoint was defined as the average of week 12 (Day 78) and week 13 (Day 85) fasting 
assessments. If 1 visit was missing, then the other visit was used as the endpoint. 
b The denominator for percentage calculation was the total number of patients in FAS with baseline 
fasting triglyceride ≥ 750 mg/dL (or 8.5 mmol/L) in each treatment group. 
c The denominator for percentage calculation was the total number of patients in each treatment group. 
* p-value =0.0001 
**p-value < 0.0001 
P-values from logistic regression model with treatment, presence of pancreatitis and presence of 
concurrent omega-3 fatty acids and/or fibrates as factors, and logarithm-transformed baseline fasting 
triglycerides as a covariate. 
In the APPROACH study, the numerical incidence of pancreatitis in patients treated with volanesorsen 
was lower compared with placebo (3 patients 4 events in 33 placebo patients vs 1 patient 1 event in 33 
volanesorsen patients). 
An analysis of patients with a history of recurrent pancreatitis events (≥ 2 events in the 5 years prior to 
Study Day 1) showed a significant reduction in pancreatitis attacks in volanesorsen-treated patients 
compared to placebo treated patients (p=0.0242). In the volanesorsen group, of the 7 patients who had 
24 adjudicated pancreatitis attacks in the prior 5 years, none of the patients experienced a pancreatitis 
attack during the 52 week treatment period. In the placebo group, of the 4 patients who had 17 
adjudicated pancreatitis attacks in the prior 5 years, 3 patients experienced 4 pancreatitis attacks 
during the 52-week treatment period. 
Open-label extension study in patients with FCS 
CS7 is a multicentre, open-label extension Phase 3 study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy 
of dosing and extended dosing with volanesorsen in patients with FCS. All patients enrolled either had 
participated in the APPROACH Study, in the CS16 Study, or were new FCS patients and had 
completed qualification assessments prior to receiving volanesorsen 285 mg once per week or a 
reduced frequency for safety or tolerability reasons determined in their index study. A total of 68 
patients have been treated in this study including 51 treatment-naïve patients, 14 patients who had 
received volanesorsen in Study CS6, and 3 patients who had received volanesorsen in Study CS16. 
Fifty patients had a dose pause, 45 had a dose adjustment and 41 had both a dose pause and a dose 
adjustment. 
Data from Study CS7 is provided in Table 6. The percent change in fasting TG from Index Study 
Baseline to Open-label Month 3 for the APPROACH- and CS16-volanesorsen patients was -49.2% 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and -64.9%, respectively. The percent change in fasting TG from index study baseline to open-label 
month 6, month 12 and month 24 for the APPROACH-volanesorsen patients was -54.8%, -35.1% and 
-50.2%, respectively. 
Table 6: Summary of fasting triglycerides (mean (SD, SEM), mg/dL) over time in study CS7 
(N=68) 
Time 
point 
APPROACH-volanesorsen 
(index study baselinea, N=14) 
Treatment-naïve group 
(open-label study 
baselinea, N=51) 
CS16-volanesorsen 
(index study baselinea, 
N=3) 
Baselinea 
Month 3 
Month 6 
Month 
12 
Month 
15 
Month 
18 
Month 
24 
n 
51 
47 
49 
45 
34 
27 
21 
Observed 
value 
2341 
(1193, 
167) 
804 (564, 
82) 
1032 
(695, 99) 
1332 
(962, 
143) 
1328 
(976, 
167) 
1367 
(938, 
181) 
1331 
(873, 
190) 
% 
change 
from 
baseline 
- 
-59.8 
(37.0, 
5.4) 
-45.5 
(42.9, 
6.1) 
-36.3 
(44.2, 
6.6) 
-35.6 
(48.1, 
8.2) 
-37.5 
(45.6, 
8.8) 
-40.5 
(47.4, 
10.3) 
n 
14 
14 
13 
12 
10 
7 
5 
Observed 
value 
2641 
(1228, 
328) 
1266 
(812, 
217) 
1248 
(927, 
257) 
1670 
(1198, 
346) 
1886 
(1219, 
386) 
1713 
(1122, 
424) 
1826 
(1743, 
780) 
% change 
from 
baseline 
- 
-49.2 (34.8, 
9.3) 
-54.8 (23.8, 
6.6) 
-35.1 (45.6, 
13.2) 
-26.5 (57.4, 
18.1) 
-38.4 (32.2, 
12.2) 
-50.2 (32.2, 
14.4) 
n 
3 
3 
3 
3 
2 
2 
2 
% 
change 
from 
baseline 
- 
Observed 
value 
2288 
(1524, 
880) 
855 (651, 
376) 
-64.9 
(9.1, 5.3) 
1215 
(610, 
352) 
1351 
(929, 
536) 
1422 
(190, 
135) 
1170 
(843, 
596) 
1198 
(1177, 
832) 
-43.0 
(19.7, 
11.4) 
-41.6 
(36.3, 
21.0) 
3.4 
(23.3, 
16.5) 
-24.0 
(31.9, 
22.6) 
-26.3 
(56.0, 
39.6) 
a Baseline values for treatment-naïve group were taken from the open-label study CS7 and baseline for 
APPROACH-volanesorsen and CS16-volanesorsen groups were taken from the respective index 
study. 
Elderly population 
Clinical studies included 4 patients with FCS aged 65 treated with volanesorsen in randomised control 
studies (phase II study CS2, 1 patient; APPROACH 3 patients), and 6 patients aged 65 and over in the 
open-label extension study (CS7). No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed 
between these patients and younger patients, however data are limited in this subpopulation. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
volanesorsen in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment of familial 
chylomicronemia syndrome (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
This medicinal product has been authorised under a so-called ‘conditional approval’ scheme. This 
means that further evidence on this medicinal product is awaited. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicinal product at least every 
year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following subcutaneous injection, peak plasma concentrations of volanesorsen are typically reached in 
2 to 4 hours. The absolute bioavailability of volanesorsen following a single subcutaneous 
administration is approximately 80% (most likely higher because an AUC of 0 to 24 hours was used 
and volanesorsen has a half-life of >2 weeks). 
Following a dose of 285 mg once weekly in patients with FCS, the estimated geometric mean 
(coefficient of variation % of geometric mean) steady-state Cmax is 8.92 µg/ml (35%), AUC0-168h is 136 
µg*h/ml (38%), and Ctrough is 127 ng/ml (58%) in patients who remain negative for anti-drug antibody. 
An alternative dosing regimen of 285 mg volanesorsen every two weeks results in a Ctrough,ss of 
approximately 58.0 ng/ml with Cmax and AUC similar compared to the once weekly dosing regimen. 
Distribution 
Volanesorsen was rapidly and widely distributed to tissues following subcutaneous or intravenous 
administration in all species evaluated. The estimated steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) in 
patients with FCS is 330 L. Volanesorsen is highly bound to human plasma proteins (>98%) and the 
binding is concentration independent. 
In vitro studies show that volanesorsen is not a substrate or inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp), breast 
cancer resistance protein (BCRP), organic anion transporting polypeptides (OATP1B1, OATP1B3), 
bile salt export pump (BSEP), organic cation transporters (OCT1, OCT2), or organic anion 
transporters (OAT1, OAT3). 
Biotransformation 
Volanesorsen is not a substrate for CYP metabolism, and is metabolised in tissues by endonucleases to 
form shorter oligonucleotides that are then substrates for additional metabolism by exonucleases. 
Unchanged volanesorsen is the predominant circulating component. 
In vitro studies indicate that volanesorsen is not an inhibitor of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, 
CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, or CYP3A4 or inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4. 
Elimination 
Elimination involves both metabolism in tissues and excretion in urine. Urinary recovery of the parent 
drug was limited in humans with < 3% of administered subcutaneous dose recovered within 24 hours 
post dose. The parent drug and 5- to 7-mer chain-shortened metabolites accounted for approximately 
26% and 55% of oligonucleotides recovered in urine, respectively. Following subcutaneous 
administration, terminal elimination half-life is approximately 2 to 5 weeks. 
In animals, elimination of volanesorsen was slow and occurred mainly via urinary excretion, reflecting 
rapid plasma clearance principally to tissues. Both volanesorsen and shorter oligonucleotide 
metabolites (predominantly 7-mer metabolites (generated either from 3′-deletions or 5′-deletions)) 
were identified in human urine. 
Linearity/non-linearity 
Single- and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics of volanesorsen in healthy volunteers and patients with 
hypertriglyceridemia have shown that the Cmax of volanesorsen is dose-proportional over a dose range 
of 100 to 400 mg and the AUC is slightly more than dose-proportional over the same dose range. 
Steady-state was reached approximately 3 months after starting volanesorsen. Accumulation in Ctrough 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
was observed (7- to 14-fold) and little or no increase in Cmax or AUC was observed following weekly 
SC administration over a dose of 200 to 400 mg. Some accumulation in AUC and Cmax was observed 
for the 50 to 100 mg dose. Since the administered dose will be 285 mg every two weeks, or 142.5 mg 
weekly, little increase in Cmax or AUC is expected upon multiple dosing in the clinical setting. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis suggests that mild and moderate renal impairment has no 
clinically relevant effect on the systemic exposure of volanesorsen. No data are available in patients 
with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of volanesorsen in patients with hepatic impairment is unknown. 
Age, sex, weight, and race 
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis, age, body weight, sex, or race has no clinically 
relevant effect on volanesorsen exposure. There are limited data available in subjects >75 years of age. 
Anti-volanesorsen antibody formation affecting pharmacokinetics 
The formation of binding antibodies to volanesorsen appeared to increase total Ctrough by 2- to 19-fold. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, genotoxicity, carcinogenicity or toxicity to reproduction and development. 
Dose and time-dependent reductions in platelet counts were observed in Cynomolgus monkey 
repeated dose studies. The decrease was gradual, self-sustaining and did not decrease to adverse 
levels. In individual monkeys, severe thrombocytopenia was noted in the 9 month study of drug 
treated groups at clinically relevant exposures and has also been observed in clinical studies. The 
decrease in platelet counts was not acute and decreased to below 50,000 cells/μl. Platelet counts 
recovered after cessation of treatment, but decreased again below 50,000 cells/μl after treatment was 
resumed in some monkeys. Decreased platelet counts were also observed in rodent repeated dose 
studies. A mode of action for the observed thrombocytopenia is currently not known. 
In nonclinical studies, levels of volanesorsen in milk were very low in lactating mice. The 
concentrations in breast milk of mice were >800 fold lower than effective tissue concentrations in 
maternal liver. Due to the poor oral bioavailability of volanesorsen, it is considered unlikely that these 
low milk concentrations would result in systemic exposure from nursing (see section 4.6). 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections. 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products.  
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
5 years  
This medicinal product can be removed from refrigeration and stored, in the original carton, at room 
temperature (below 30 °C) for up to 6 weeks. In this 6-week period, it can be kept as needed between 
refrigerated and room temperature (up to 30 °C). This medicinal product must be discarded 
immediately if not used within the 6 weeks after the first time it is removed from refrigerated storage. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 ° - 8 °C).  
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original carton in order to protect from light. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Single-dose, type I glass pre-filled syringe with a siliconised chlorobutyl rubber stopper and staked 
needle with shield, filled to deliver 1.5 ml of solution. 
Pack sizes of one pre-filled syringe or multipacks containing 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
This medicinal product should be inspected visually prior to administration. The solution should be 
clear and colourless to slightly yellow. If the solution is cloudy or contains visible particulate matter, 
the contents must not be injected and the medicinal product should be returned to the pharmacy.  
Use each pre-filled syringe only once and then place in a sharps disposal container for disposal 
according to community guidelines. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd. 
St. James House 
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017 
Ireland  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1360/001 
EU/1/19/1360/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 03 May 2019 
Date of latest renewal: 14 February 2022 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
18 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
E. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Almac Pharma Services (Ireland) Ltd 
Finnabair Industrial Estate 
Dundalk 
Co. Louth 
A91 P9KD 
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this 
product within 6 months following authorisation.  
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
•  Additional risk minimisation measures  
Prior to launch of Waylivra in each Member State, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority.  
The objective of the programme is to provide information on the risks of thrombocytopaenia and 
bleeding; advise on platelet monitoring and provide details about the dose frequency adjustment 
algorithm.  
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Waylivra is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals, patients and carers who are expected to prescribe, dispense and use Waylivra have 
access to/are provided with the following educational package:  
•  Physician educational material  
•  Patient information pack 
•  The physician educational material should contain: 
o  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
o  Guide for healthcare professionals 
•  The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
o  Relevant information on thrombocytopaenia and severe bleeding  
o  Details of the population at higher risk for thrombocytopaenia and bleeding (e.g. those 
with weight less than 70 kg), and patients for which Waylivra is contraindicated (i.e. 
patients with chronic or unexplained thrombocytopaenia) 
o  Platelet monitoring recommendations including dosage adjustment recommendations, 
both before and during treatment. 
o  That patients should be made aware of the possibility of thrombocytopaenia and to seek 
medical attention immediately in case of signs of bleeding. Patients must be reminded to 
read the patient leaflet and the patient/carer guide.  
o  Duration of treatment covered by each prescription should be commensurate with, and 
encourage adherence to, the dosing and monitoring frequency of volanesorsen treatment. 
Information about the FCS disease registry and the post authorisation safety study (PASS) 
study and the importance of contributing to those studies.  
o 
•  The patient information pack should contain: 
o  Patient information leaflet 
o  A patient/carer guide 
•  The Patient/carer guide shall contain the following key messages: 
Importance of monitoring platelet levels 
o  Relevant information on thrombocytopaenia and severe bleeding  
o 
o  Possible need for dose adjustments or treatment pauses based on platelet test results 
o  Need to be aware of and alert to the signs of thrombocytopaenia and the importance of 
seeking immediate assistance from a health professional  
Information about the FCS disease registry and the PASS study and encouragement to 
participate in those studies.  
o 
o  Reporting of any adverse drug reaction to a health professional 
E.  SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE CONDITIONAL MARKETING AUTHORISATION  
This being a conditional marketing authorisation and pursuant to Article 14-a of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004, the MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Non-interventional PASS: the applicant should conduct and submit the results of a 
study based on a Registry in order to evaluate the safety of Waylivra on 
thrombocytopenia and bleeding(including incidence rate, severity and outcomes) in 
FCS patients according to the dose recommendation and dose algorithm and investigate 
adherence with platelet monitoring and dose adjustment requirements.  
The applicant will ensure the long term follow-up of patients in the Registry. 
Due date 
Q3 2026 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON – SINGLE PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Waylivra 285 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
volanesorsen  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 200 mg volanesorsen sodium, equivalent to 190 mg volanesorsen. 
Each single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 285 mg of volanesorsen in 1.5 ml solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Water for injections, hydrocloric acid and sodium hydroxide. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection  
1 pre-filled syringe 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single use.  
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. May be kept at room temperature for up to 6 weeks. 
Date of first removal from fridge: 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd. 
St. James House 
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1360/001 
EU/1/19/1360/002  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Waylivra 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON – MULTIPACK WITH BLUE BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Waylivra 285 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
volanesorsen  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 200 mg volanesorsen sodium, equivalent to 190 mg volanesorsen. 
Each single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 285 mg of volanesorsen in 1.5 ml solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Water for injections, hydrocloric acid and sodium hydroxide 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
Multipack: 4 (4 packs of 1) pre-filled syringes 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. May be kept at room temperature for up to 6 weeks. 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd. 
St. James House 
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017 
, 
Dublin 2 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1360/001 
EU/1/19/1360/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Waylivra 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
INNER CARTON – MULTIPACK WITHOUT BLUE BOX 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Waylivra 285 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
volanesorsen  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml contains 200 mg volanesorsen sodium, equivalent to 190 mg volanesorsen. 
Each single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 285 mg of volanesorsen in 1.5 ml solution. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Water for injections, hydrocloric acid and sodium hydroxide 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
1 pre-filled syringe. Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Single use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Subcutaneous use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. May be kept at room temperature for up to 6 weeks. 
Date of first removal from fridge: 
Keep the syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd. 
St. James House 
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017 
Ireland  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1360/001 
EU/1/19/1360/002  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Waylivra 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Waylivra 285 mg injection 
volanesorsen 
SC 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
1.5 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Waylivra 285 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe  
volanesorsen  
▼This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 
for how to report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
-  
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Waylivra is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use Waylivra  
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Waylivra  
Possible side effects  
How to store Waylivra  
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Waylivra is and what it is used for 
Waylivra contains the active substance volanesorsen, which helps to treat a condition called familial 
chylomicronemia syndrome (FCS). FCS is a genetic disease which gives rise to abnormally high 
levels of fats called triglycerides in the blood. This can lead to inflammation of your pancreas, causing 
severe pain. Together with a controlled low-fat diet, Waylivra helps to lower the levels of triglycerides 
in your blood. 
Waylivra may be given after you have already received other medicines used to lower the levels of 
triglycerides in blood without them having much effect. 
You will only be given Waylivra if genetic testing has confirmed you have FCS and your risk for 
pancreatitis is considered very high.. 
You should continue the very low-fat diet that your doctor has prescribed during treatment with 
Waylivra.  
This medicine is intended for patients aged 18 years and above. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Waylivra  
Do not use Waylivra: 
if you are allergic to volanesorsen or any of the other ingredients in this medicine (listed in section 
6). 
if you have a condition called thrombocytopenia, which means that you have a very low number 
of platelets in your blood (less than 140 x 109/L). You may notice this if you have an injury 
which causes bleeding and it takes a long time to stop (more than 5-6 minutes for a skin 
scratch). Your doctor will test for this before treatment with this medicine is started. You may 
not know that you have this condition until this point, or what might have caused it. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the above apply to you, or you are not sure, talk to your doctor, nurse or pharmacist before 
using Waylivra. 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Waylivra if you have or have had any of the 
following medical problems: 
Very high triglyceride levels which are not due to FCS. 
A low number of platelets, a type of cell in your blood that clump together to help it clot 
(thrombocytopenia); your doctor will do a blood test before you start using this medicine to 
check the number of platelets in your blood.  
Any liver or kidney problems. 
Blood tests 
Your doctor will do a blood test before you start using this medicine to check the number of platelets, 
and then at regular intervals once you have started using Waylivra to check on platelet levels.  
You should see your doctor immediately if you have any signs of low platelet levels, such as unusual 
or prolonged bleeding, patches of red appearing on the skin (called petechiae), unexplained bruising, 
bleeding which will not stop, or nosebleeds, or if you get neck stiffness or a severe headache. 
Your doctor may also do a blood test every 3 months to check for signs of damage to your liver. You 
should see your doctor immediately if you have any signs of liver damage, such as yellowing of your 
skin and eyeballs, pain or swelling in your abdomen, feeling or being sick, confusion or a general 
feeling of being unwell. 
If necessary, your doctor may change how often you use this medicine, or may stop it for a period. It 
may be necessary to consult a doctor specialising in blood disorders to determine whether you should 
continue treatment with Waylivra or not. 
Urine tests 
Your doctor may do a urine and/or blood test every 3 months to check for signs of damage to your 
kidneys. You should see your doctor immediately if you have any signs of kidney damage, such as 
swelling in your ankles, legs and feet, passing smaller amounts of urine than usual, shortness of breath, 
feeling sick, confusion or feeling very tired or drowsy. 
Diet 
Before starting this medicine, you should be on a diet designed to help lower triglyceride levels in 
your blood.  
It is important that you maintain this triglyceride-lowering diet whilst using Waylivra. 
Children and adolescents 
Do not use Waylivra if you are under 18 years old. Waylivra has not been studied in patients under 18 
years old. 
Other medicines and Waylivra 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other 
medicines. It is important to tell your doctor if you are already being treated with any of the following: 
Medicines to prevent blood clots, e.g., acetylsalicylic acid, dipyridamol or warfarin. 
Other medicines that may change how your blood clots, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
medicines like ibuprofen, medicines used to prevent heart attacks and strokes such as 
clopidogrel, ticagrelor and prasugrel, antibiotics such as penicillin, medicines such as 
ranitidine (used to reduce stomach acid), and quinine (used to treat malaria). 
Medicines that may cause problems with your liver, such as paracetamol. 
Waylivra with alcohol 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effect of using Waylivra with alcohol is not known. You should avoid alcohol during treatment 
with this medicine due to risk of liver issues. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant, or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before using this medicine. It is preferable to avoid the use of 
Waylivra during pregnancy. 
It is not known if Waylivra passes into breast milk. It is recommended that you discuss breast-feeding 
with your doctor to see what is best for you and your child. 
Driving and using machines 
Waylivra is not likely to affect your ability to drive or use machines. 
Sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to use Waylivra 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if 
you are not sure. 
Before you are given this medicine other causes of high levels of triglycerides, such as diabetes or 
problems with your thyroid, will be ruled out by your doctor. 
Your doctor will tell you how often you should take this medicine. They may change how often you 
use it, or may stop it for a period or permanently, depending on the results of your blood and urine 
tests or occurrence of side effects. 
You or your caregiver will be trained on how to use Waylivra according to the instructions in this 
leaflet. Waylivra should be injected under your skin (subcutaneous or ‘SC’ administration) in the way 
the doctor, nurse or pharmacist has shown you, and you should make sure you inject all of the liquid in 
the syringe. Each single-use, pre-filled syringe of this medicine gives you a dose of 285 mg in 1.5 ml. 
Before using this medicine, it is important that you read, understand, and closely follow the 
instructions for use. 
Instructions for use are provided at the end of this leaflet. 
If you use more Waylivra than you should 
If you inject too much Waylivra, contact your doctor or pharmacist, or attend a hospital emergency 
department immediately, even if there are no symptoms. 
If you forget to use Waylivra 
If you miss a dose, contact your doctor to ask when to take your next dose. If a dose is missed and 
noticed within 48 hours, you should give the missed dose as soon as possible. If not noticed within 48 
hours, then the missed dose should be skipped and the next planned injection given. Do not inject 
more than one dose within 2 days. 
If you stop using Waylivra  
Do not stop using Waylivra unless you have discussed stopping your medicine with your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects 
If you get any of the following side effects, contact your doctor immediately: 
-  Symptoms that could indicate low counts of platelets in your blood (platelets are cells 
important for blood clotting). You should see your doctor immediately if you have any signs 
of low platelet levels, such as unusual or prolonged bleeding, patches of red appearing on the 
skin (called petechiae), unexplained bruising, bleeding which will not stop, or nosebleeds, or if 
you get neck stiffness or a severe headache. 
Other side effects 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
Injection site reactions (rash, pain, redness, heat or warmth, dryness, swelling, itching, 
tingling, hardening, hives, blistering, pimpling, bruising, bleeding, numbness, paleness, 
change in colour or a burning feeling at the injection site). You can reduce the likelihood of 
having injection site reaction if you wait for Waylivra to reach room temperature before 
injecting, and by applying ice to the injection site after injecting. 
-  Headache 
-  Muscle pain 
-  Chills 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
-  Blood tests showing unusually high levels of white blood cells in your blood  
-  Blood tests showing unusually low levels of white blood cells in your blood (known as 
lymphopenia) 
-  Easy or excessive bruising, or bruising without an obvious cause 
-  Bleeding under the skin that appears as a rash, bleeding from the gums or mouth, blood in the 
urine or stools, nosebleed, or unusually heavy menstrual period 
-  An allergic reaction, the symptoms of which include skin rash, joint stiffness or fever 
-  Blood or protein in the urine  
-  Changes to the results of some blood tests, including:  
o  an increase in the level of some constituents in your blood: creatinine, urea, 
transaminases, liver enzymes 
o  an increase in blood clotting time  
o  a fall in levels of haemoglobin in your blood 
o  a fall in the rate of blood passing through the kidneys 
-  Diabetes, the symptoms of which include increased thirst, frequent need to pass urine 
(particularly at night), extreme hunger, severe tiredness, and unexplained weight loss 
-  Difficulty sleeping 
-  Numbness, tingling or pins and needles, feeling faint or fainting, dizziness or shaking 
-  Visual disturbances, such as flashing lights or brief, temporary blindness in one eye, bleeding 
under the surface of the eye, or blurred vision  
-  High blood pressure 
-  Hot flush, increased sweating, night sweats, feeling hot, pain, flu-like illness or a general 
feeling of being unwell 
-  Cough, difficulty breathing, a blocked nose, swelling of the throat, wheezing 
-  Feeling or being sick, dry mouth, diarrhoea, swelling of the neck, face or gums, stomach pain 
or swelling, indigestion 
-  Skin redness, rash, pimples, thickening or scarring, or itchiness of the skin known as ‘hives’ 
(urticaria) 
-  Pain in the hands or feet, pain in the large joint of the arms and legs including the elbows, 
wrists, knees and ankles, other joint pain or stiffness, back pain, neck pain, jaw pain, muscle 
spasms, or other body pains 
-  Severe tiredness (fatigue), weakness or lack of energy, fluid retention, chest pain unrelated to 
the heart 
36 
 
  
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Waylivra 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and syringe label after 
‘EXP’. Please note that the expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 ° - 8 °C). 
Store in the original carton to protect from light.  
Waylivra can be kept at room temperature (up to 30 °C) in the original carton for up to 6 weeks after 
removing from the refrigerator. During this time this medicine may be kept at either room temperature 
or put back into the refrigerator, as needed. Record the date you first remove the pack from the 
refrigerator on the outer carton in the space indicated. If you do not use it within 6 weeks after first 
removing from the refrigerator, discard the medicine. If the expiry date on the syringe label has passed 
during the 6 week period at room temperature, do not use the syringe and discard it. 
Do not use this medicine if the solution is cloudy or contains particles; it should be clear and 
colourless to slightly yellow.  
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Waylivra contains  
The active substance is volanesorsen. Each ml contains 200 mg volanesorsen sodium, equivalent to 
190 mg volanesorsen. Each single-dose pre-filled syringe contains 285 mg of volanesorsen in 1.5 ml 
solution.  
The other ingredients are water for injections, sodium hydroxide and hydrochloric acid (to adjust 
acidity level, see section 2 under ‘Sodium’). 
What Waylivra looks like and contents of the pack 
Waylivra is provided in a carton as a single-dose syringe with needle and needle cap, pre-filled with a 
clear, colourless to pale yellow solution. It is filled to deliver 1.5 ml of solution upon full depression of 
the syringe’s plunger.  
It is available as either a carton containing 1 pre-filled syringe, or as a multipack of 4 (4 packs of 
1-pack cartons) pre-filled syringes.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Akcea Therapeutics Ireland Ltd. 
St. James House 
72 Adelaide Road, Dublin 2 
D02 Y017 
Ireland  
Manufacturer 
Almac Pharma Services Ireland Ltd. 
Finnabair Industrial Estate 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dundalk 
Co. Louth 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
This medicine has been given ‘conditional approval’. This means that there is more evidence to come 
about this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review new information on this medicine at least every year and 
this leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for use 
Waylivra is an injection given under the skin with a single-use, disposable, pre-filled syringe. 
Do not use Waylivra until you completely understand the procedure described below. If you have any 
questions about how to use Waylivra, please contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
Pre-filled syringe components 
Get ready to inject 
1.  Wash hands and gather supplies 
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap (for at least 3 minutes) and dry them well. 
Place the following items on a clean, flat surface in a well-lit area (Figure A). 
2.  Allow the injection to reach to room temperature 
If the syringe was in the refrigerator, allow the pre-
filled syringe to reach room temperature by 
39 
Figure A 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
removing it from the refrigerator at least 30 minutes 
before the injection. 
Injection with cold liquid may cause injection site 
reactions such as pain, redness, or swelling. 
Do not warm syringe in any other way, such as by 
microwave or warm water. 
3.  Check the expiry date 
Check the expiry date on the carton. 
Figure B 
The expiry date on the package refers to the life of the medicine when refrigerated.  
The date you first remove the pack from the refrigerator should be recorded on the outer carton in 
the space indicated. 
Do not use Waylivra if the expiry date has passed or if it was stored for longer than 6 weeks at room 
temperature. Call your doctor or pharmacist to get a new supply. 
4.  Remove the syringe and inspect the medicine 
Open the carton and remove the syringe by grasping the 
syringe barrel and pulling it straight out (Figure C). 
Figure C 
Figure D 
Look at the liquid in the syringe. The medicine should 
be clear to slightly yellow in colour. It is normal to see 
a large air bubble (Figure D). 
Do not try to remove the air bubble before injecting. 
Injecting the solution with the air bubble is harmless. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is cloudy 
or has floating particles. 
5.  Choose an injection site 
If self-injecting: 
Stomach – Stomach area as shown, except for 2 
inches around the belly button. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thighs – Front, middle area as shown (Figure 
E). 
If administering an injection to someone else as a 
caregiver, in addition to the above sites: 
Arms – Back of upper area as shown (Figure 
F).  
For all injections: 
Alternate the injection area for each injection.  
Avoid injecting at the waistline where your clothing 
may rub or press the injection area. 
Do not inject into tattoos, moles, scars, birthmarks, 
bruises, rashes, or areas where the skin is tender, red, 
hard, damaged, burned, or inflamed. 
Talk to your healthcare provider if you are unsure of 
where to inject. 
Injecting 
6.  Prepare injection site 
Clean your chosen injection site with an alcohol pad  
(Figure G). 
7.  Remove needle cap 
Remove the needle cap by holding the barrel of the 
syringe with the needle pointing away from you and 
pulling the needle cap straight off (Figure H). 
You may see a drop of liquid at the tip of the needle. 
This is normal. 
41 
Figure E 
Figure F 
Figure G 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not hold the plunger rod or the plunger head while 
removing the needle cap. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the needle appears 
damaged. 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if it is dropped with 
the needle cap removed. 
8.  Pinch the skin 
Using your free hand, pinch the skin around the 
injection site (Figure I). 
9.  Insert needle 
Insert the needle into the injection site with a quick, 
firm motion without touching the plunger head. The 
needle should be inserted at a 45 degree angle to the 
skin surface (Figure J).  
10.  Inject Waylivra 
Inject the liquid by holding the syringe with your thumb 
on the plunger, and slowly push the plunger down as 
far as it will go, until the syringe is completely empty 
(Figure K and L). 
42 
Figure H 
Figure I 
Figure J 
Figure K 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure L 
Figure M 
Figure N 
11.  Remove Needle 
Remove the needle from the injection site by pulling 
out at the same angle it was inserted (Figure M). 
After the Injection 
12.  Dispose of the Used Syringe into a Sharps Container 
Immediately after the injection, dispose of the used 
syringe as instructed by your healthcare professional, 
usually into a sharps disposal container (Figure N) by 
following these steps.  
Throw away the needle cap after injecting. 
Do not recap the syringe. 
If you do not have a sharps disposal container, you may 
use a household container that is: 
•  Made of heavy-duty plastic,  
•  Capable of being closed with a tight-fitting, 
Puncture-resistant lid, without sharps being able to 
come out,  
•  Upright and stable during use,  
•  Leak-resistant,  
•  Properly labeled to warn of hazardous waste inside 
the container. 
When your sharps disposal container is almost full, you will need to follow your community 
guidelines for proper disposal of the sharps container. There may be special local laws regarding 
how you should throw away used needles and syringes. Ask your pharmacist or see your local 
public health government website (where available) for more details on how you should dispose of 
sharps in your location.  
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not dispose of your used sharps disposal container in your household waste.  
Do not recycle your used sharps disposal container. 
Always keep your sharps container away from children and pets. 
13.  Treat the Injection Site 
If you see blood where you’ve injected, press the site 
lightly with the sterile cotton ball or gauze and bandage 
if needed (Figure O). 
Do not rub the site after you’ve injected. 
You may also apply ice to the injection site to reduce 
pain, redness, or discomfort (Figure P). 
Figure O 
Figure P 
Storage 
Storage information 
When you first receive Waylivra the pre-filled syringes should be stored in their packaging in the 
refrigerator (2 °C-8 °C). 
Waylivra can be stored at room temperature (8 °C-30 °C), in the outer carton to protect from light, for 
up to 6 weeks. During this 6 week period, this medicine can be stored at either room temperature or put 
back in the refrigerator. 
Do not freeze the Waylivra pre-filled syringe. 
Do not take out of the packaging or remove the needle cap until you are ready to inject. 
Discard this medicine immediately if not used within the 6 weeks after the first time it is removed from 
the refrigerator. You should refer to the date you have written on the carton to be sure. 
44 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
