SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Wilzin. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Wilzin contains zinc acetate dihydrate as active substance. With the present application, the applicant 
sought a marketing authorisation in the following indication: “Maintenance treatment of patients with 
Wilson’s disease. Wilzin can be administered in symptomatic patients after initial decoppering therapy 
with a chelating agent or from the beginning in presymptomatic patients.” 
Wilson's Disease 
in 
is  bound 
Wilson's  disease  (also  known  as  hepatolenticular  degeneration)  is  an  inherited  autosomal  recessive 
disorder characterised by the accumulation and toxicity of copper in various tissues.   
Copper is an essential trace element and an important metal co-factor for many enzymes. Normally, 
excess  dietary  copper 
the  hepatocyte  by  cytoplasmic  proteins,  particularly 
metallothioneins  (cysteine-rich  intracellular  proteins  capable  of  binding  and  sequestering  ions),  then 
incorporated  into  plasma  ceruloplasmin  or  excreted  in  the  bile  (Brewer  et  al.,  1992).  In  Wilson’s 
disease,  the  gene  encoding  for  a  membrane-bound  copper-transporting  P-type  ATPase  (ATP7B)  is 
defective,  leading  to  insufficient  biliary  excretion  of  copper  as  well  as  to  reduced  incorporation  of 
copper into ceruloplasmin. As a result of the positive copper balance, copper accumulates first in the 
liver, and later in the brain (Cuthbert 1995).  
The  physiopathology  of  Wilson’s  disease  is  linked  to  copper  toxicity,  as  affected  organs  contain 
higher than normal levels of copper, which is implicated in deleterious oxidation of lipids and proteins 
and in free radical formation (Cuthbert 1995; Menkes 1999).  
The  natural  history  begins  with  a  pre-symptomatic  period  of  positive  copper  balance  and  copper 
accumulation  in  the  liver  where  subclinical  cirrhosis  develops.  The  diagnosis  of  Wilson's  disease  is 
usually made on the basis of clinical findings such as typical neurological symptoms and/or Kayser-
Fleischer  corneal  rings  and  laboratory  abnormalities,  for  instance  low  serum  ceruloplasmin  and 
increased amounts of urinary copper (Brewer 2000). The disease typically becomes clinically apparent 
in the late teens or twenties, although patients have presented as early as 3 years and as late as 60 years 
of  age  (Anderson  et  al.,  1998).  Unless  specific  treatment  is  instituted,  copper  accumulation  is 
progressive  and  ultimately  fatal  usually  within  1-3  years  of  the  onset  of  neurological  symptoms, 
frequently as a result of hepatic failure or neurological deteriorations (Menkes 1999). 
The  calculated  prevalence  of  Wilson’s  disease  was  0.6  per  10,000  EU  population,  on  the  basis  of 
which the European Commission granted Orphan Drug status to zinc acetate dihydrate in the treatment 
of the condition on 31 July 2001 (EU/3/01/050). 
Chelation and zinc therapy are the main treatments currently used in the treatment of Wilson’s disease. 
Chelators  such  as  penicillamine  (authorised  in  the  EU)  and  trientine  (not  authorised  in  the  EU,  but 
available  for  the  treatment  of  patients  who  are  intolerant  of  penicillamine)  act  primarily  by  forming 
complexes with copper in the blood that are excreted in the urine, and thereby very effectively reduce 
systemic copper to subtoxic levels. Despite excellent efficacy in halting disease progressing and even 
improving symptoms, many patients on chelating agents experience major adverse effects, leading to 
poor compliance and treatment discontinuation with recrudescence of the disease and mortality.  
Zinc acetate dehydrate 
Zinc acetate dihydrate (active moiety zinc cation) is not a new active substance, but a salt that has long 
been available and has attained compendial status.  
1/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zinc acts primarily by decreasing the absorption of copper from the gastrointestinal tract by inducing 
the production of intestinal mucosal metallothionein, which binds copper so preventing its absorption 
(Brewer 2000; Ferenci 1999).  
Zinc has been used in the treatment of Wilson’s disease since 1958, when Schouwink described the 
symptomatic improvement of two patients treated with zinc sulphate in The Netherlands (Hoogenraad 
2001).  In  1977,  Schouwink’s  colleague,  Hoogenraad  started  using  zinc  sulphate  in  the  treatment  of 
patients with Wilson’s disease and published his promising experience of 194 patient years treatment 
(in 27 patients) in 1987 (Hoogenraad 1987). Since that time, George Brewer from the University of 
Michigan,  USA,  has  undertaken  the  bulk  of  the  research  into  the  use  of  zinc  in  treating  Wilson’s 
disease, using the acetate salt because of its better tolerability compared with the sulphate (Oelshlegel 
and Brewer 1977).  
Zinc  aspartate  and  zinc  orotate  are  authorised  in  Germany  for  the  treatment  of  Wilson’s  disease. 
However, current information in the compendium is inadequate to allow for their use in the treatment 
of  Wilson’s  disease:  dosages  are  low  and  indications  restricted  to  zinc  deficiencies  including 
dermatological  indications.  Zinc  salts  for  oral  administration  are  also  available  in  other  EU  member 
states as nutritional supplements and magistral formulations. At the time the marketing authorisation 
application for Wilzin, the product was only available in the European Union on a “named-patient” or 
“compassionate use” basis, under the American trade name of Galzin. 
The applicant has submitted documentation covering non-clinical and clinical study reports based on 
studies carried out by the applicant and bibliographic references. Where certain studies were lacking, 
adequate  justifications  have  been  given  (see  also  non-clinical  and  clinical  aspects).  Therefore,  all 
requirements  as  set  out  in  the  Annex  I  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  were  considered 
fulfilled. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Wilzin  is  presented  as  hard  capsules  containing  25  and  50  mg  of  zinc  as  zinc  acetate  dihydrate.  
The different strengths can be distinguished by the imprinting and colour of the capsules.  
The  other  ingredients  include  maize  starch,  magnesium  stearate,  hard  gelatin  capsule  shell,  titanium 
dioxide, blue brilliant (25 mg strength only), sunset yellow FCF (50 mg strength only) and imprinting 
ink. 
Wilzin is supplied in HDPE bottles with a polypropylene child-resistant closure.  
Active substance 
Zinc  acetate  dihydrate  is  a  well-known  chemical  entity,  which  is  described  in  the  European 
Pharmacopoeia (Ph. Eur.). 
It is a white crystalline powder or leaflets and it is freely soluble in water in pH media ranging from 
1.1  to  9.  The  chemical  structure  of  the  active  substance  has  been  briefly  characterised  by  elemental 
analysis and the dihydrate structure has been confirmed by thermogravimetric analysis. The omission 
of  any  additional  structural  elucidation  is  acceptable  based  on  the  well-known  nature  of  the  active, 
combined with its simple structure and synthesis. 
• 
Manufacture 
Zinc acetate dihydrate is synthesised by reacting zinc oxide with glacial acetic acid, with subsequent 
crystallisation, separation by centrifugation, drying and milling of the crystals.   
Zinc  oxide  and  glacial  acetic  acid  are  of  Ph.  Eur.  quality.  In-process  controls  and  corresponding 
specifications have been adequately defined where appropriate at each stage. No organic solvents are 
used during the synthesis. 
2/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Specification 
Zinc acetate dihydrate is controlled according to its European Pharmacopoeia monograph. In addition, 
particle size distribution is tested, but it is not expected to be a critical parameter with regards to the 
bioavailability of the capsules, taking into account the high water solubility of zinc acetate dihydrate. 
With regards to impurities, the Ph. Eur. monograph appears to sufficiently control the impurities most 
likely to arise during the synthesis and storage. Related substances that may arise from glacial acetic 
acid have been detected in 2 batches tested but in limited quantity (levels <0.1 %), thus no additional 
specification  has  been  set  up  for  organic  impurities.  Concerning  inorganic  impurities,  zinc  was  the 
only  element  detected  in  a  study  carried  out  using  Inductively  Coupled  Plasma  Analysis  (detection 
limit ranging from 0.01% to 0.001%) in 19 elements tested including the ones limited by the Ph. Eur. 
monograph of zinc acetate dihydrate. Moreover, zinc acetate dihydrate is a very a stable compound, is 
not hygroscopic and formation of zinc oxides is very unlikely during storage.  
Batch  analytical  data  provided  demonstrate  conformance  with  the  specifications.  Ph.  Eur.  analytical 
methods are deemed validated. 
• 
Stability 
No  formal  stability  studies  according  to  ICH  guidelines  have  been  performed  under  long  term  and 
accelerated conditions.  
The  drug  substance  is  stored  in  a  polyethylene  drum  liner  inside  a  fibre  drum  and,  since  no  re-test 
period has been established, it will be recontrolled immediately prior to manufacture of each batch of 
the finished product according to Ph. Eur.  
Product development and finished product 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The formulation is mostly empirical. The choice of the acetate salt is partly due the observation that it 
induces less gastrointestinal disturbances. The two strengths have the same qualitative composition but 
non-proportional formula.  
The  function  of  each  excipient  and  the  rationale  for  its  use  has  been  satisfactorily  described.  For 
commercialisation, the colouring system and the imprinting ink of the capsule shell will be modified 
and the preservatives initially present will be removed. All the excipients selected are commonly used 
for this kind of formulation. They are of Ph. Eur. quality except some components of the capsule shell 
and  of  the  imprinting  ink,  which  are  satisfactorily  controlled  according  to  different  standards.  
All the colourants are authorised colourants in the EU and meet the specific criteria specified by the 
European legislation.  
Compliance of the HDPE bottle and polypropylene closure selected meet the Ph. Eur. requirements for 
packaging materials. 
The main clinical study has been performed with batches having the same or very close formula to the 
one proposed for registration and they were prepared using a manufacturing process essentially similar 
to the one proposed for production. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The method of manufacture involves the following standard operations: milling, mixing, sieving and 
encapsulation. Adequate in-process controls have been specified.  
Validation  data  have  been  provided  for  three  consecutive  commercial  batches  of  each  strength  and 
confirm the robustness and reproducibility of the manufacturing process. 
3/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Product Specification 
The product specification includes tests for appearance, identification of zinc, identification of acetate, 
assay  limits  (release  and  shelf  life  95.0%-105.0%),  content  uniformity,  dissolution  (NLT  75% in 30 
minutes), microbial limits (Ph. Eur. – non routine test). 
The  specification  does  not  include  a  parameter  for  routine  control  of  degradation  products.  
This  is  acceptable  in  this  particular  case  since  the  manufacturing  process  does  not  involve  any 
stressing operation and the occurrence of any degradation product is highly unlikely since zinc acetate 
dihydrate is a very stable and it is a non-hygroscopic compound. 
Batch  analysis  data  provided  for  3-production  scale  batches  of  each  strength  comply  with  release 
specifications and indicate consistent and reproducible manufacture. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
3-month data for 1 full-scale development batch of each strength stored under accelerated conditions 
(40°C/75%  RH)  have  been  provided.  Stability  data  have  also  been  presented  for  production  scale 
batches stored at 25-30°C/60% RH over a 2-year period.  
The data provided support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SPC. 
The  applicant  committed  to  provide  additional  stability  data  for  the  finished  product  manufactured 
with the new capsule shells under accelerated and normal ICH conditions.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  drug  substance  is  a  well-known  and  a  very  stable  chemical  entity.  It  will  be  recontrolled 
immediately  prior  to  manufacture  of  the  finished  product.  The  pharmaceutical  form  selected  is 
adequate taken into account the properties and the stability of the drug substance. The excipients are 
commonly  used  for  this  kind  of  formulation  and  the  packaging  material  is  well  documented.  
The manufacturing process ensures that reproducible finished product batches are produced. Based on 
the  stability  data  provided  so  far  and  the  good  stability  of  zinc  acetate  dihydrate,  the  change  in 
composition of the capsules shell for commercialisation is not expected to impact on the stability of 
the finished product. In addition, the applicant committed to provide additional stability data for the 
finished  product  manufactured  with  the  new  capsule  shells  under  accelerated  and  normal  ICH 
conditions.   
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The non-clinical data consist entirely of reports from the scientific literature, published from 1920 to 
2002, of studies using either zinc acetate or others salts (sulphate, carbonate, chloride) and also zinc 
oxide. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Zn++,  supplied  by  zinc  salts,  acts  to  reduce  and  maintain  systemic  copper  levels  by  competing  for 
absorption  on  the  luminal  side  of  the  intestinal  epithelium,  and  also  by  inducing  the  synthesis  of 
metallothionein.  
Several  investigators  have  studied  the  interactions  between  zinc  and  copper  and/or  iron  in  rats 
following  administration  of  zinc  oxide  and  different  zinc  salts  including  zinc  acetate  (in  diet,  or 
gavage, or injection): 
4/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four studies, published in 1960, in 1967 and in 1969 precede the introduction of oral zinc therapy in 
Wilson's disease: 
(cid:190)  In rats, dietary zinc oxide at dose of 0.4 % zinc (∼ 1.2 g/kg), for 8 weeks, produced poor growth 
and anaemia. Excess dietary zinc reduced iron in the liver, and markedly reduced copper liver 
and copper plasma levels.  
(cid:190)  In rats, dietary zinc (carbonate, chloride, oxide) at levels of 0.75 and 1 % (∼ 0.45 and 0.6 g/kg), 
for  5  weeks,  produced  reduction  in  body  weight  gains,  in  liver  copper  and  in  liver  iron 
concentrations.  Excess  dietary  zinc  also  reduced  blood  haemoglobin  levels  and  heart 
cytochrome  oxidase  activity.  These  three  zinc  compounds  exhibited  the  same  biological  toxic 
effects.  Addition  of  copper  or  copper  +  iron  restored  the  liver  copper  levels  and  the  heart 
cytochrome oxidase activity. 
(cid:190)  In  rats,  acute  zinc  nitrate  administration  (1  mg  zinc/rat)  either  by  the  intraduodenal  (ID)  or 
intraperitoneal (IP) route increased zinc plasma and liver levels. Zinc ID reduced the absorption 
of 64Cu, and 64Cu clearance from duodenal segments. Zinc IP had no effects. 
(cid:190)  In rats, administration of excess dietary zinc (0.4 % zinc in diet) during gestation: 
- 
- 
- 
reduced serum ceruloplasmin and hemoglobin levels in dams, 
reduced maternal and foetal tissue copper concentrations, 
reduced  cytochrome  oxidase  activity.  The  reduction  of  cytochrome  oxidase  activity  and 
ceruloplasmin concentration is attributed to a zinc-induced copper deficiency.  
Other  studies  published  in  1989,  1998  and  2002  including  three  studies  with  zinc  acetate, 
support the therapeutic indication of oral zinc in Wilson's disease. 
(cid:190)  In a rat model of Wilson's disease (= copper supplementation 100 ppm in diet, for 10 weeks), 
reduction  of  body  weight  gains  and  diarrhoea  were  not  observed  in  zinc  treated  rats  (zinc 
acetate, 8 weeks, p.o. gavage, at daily doses of ∼ 5.7, 28.5 and 57.1 mg Zn++/kg). No significant 
pancreatic macroscopic and histopathological changes were observed. 
(cid:190)  In  another  rat  model  of  Wilson's  disease  (copper  750  µg/g  diet,  for  11  or  8 weeks)  copper 
loading resulted in impaired growth, enhanced liver copper, cytosol copper, and liver/intestinal 
metallothionein  (MT).  Zinc  depot  treatment  consisted  of  zinc  carbonate  in  sesame  oil, 
administered subcutaneously (100 mg Zn++/kg i.e. one depot injection) as follows: 
-  Copper  loading  11  weeks  +  zinc,  13  depot  injections,  for  14  weeks,  mean  ∼  13  mg 
Zn++/kg/day. 
-  Copper loading 8 weeks + zinc, 9 depot injections, for 5 weeks, mean ∼ 26 mg Zn++/kg/day. 
Zinc  treatment  significantly  reduced  serum  SGPT,  liver  copper,  cytosol  liver  copper  and 
enhanced  serum  and  liver  zinc,  intestinal  copper,  and,  liver/intestinal  MT  without  effecting 
brain MT. In rats, zinc therapy protects against copper toxicity in liver, by induction of hepatic 
metallothionein. 
In  rats,  D-penicillamine  (0.5  mmol/kg/day)  p.o.  gavage,  for  five  days,  enhanced  the  urinary 
excretion  of  copper.  A  five-day  treatment  with  zinc  acetate  (10  mg/kg/day)  p.o.  gavage, 
enhanced  excretion of copper in faeces. Copper  excretion (urine  + faeces) is not enhanced by 
the co-administration of the two drugs. 
(cid:190)  Long-Evans  Cinnamon  rats  (LEC)  were  identified  in  Japan  in  1997.  This  animal  model  has  a 
mutation in the gene homologous to the human Wilson's disease gene, and shows most of the 
features of the disease, such as extensive Cu deposition in the liver and decreased serum levels 
of ceruloplasmin. 
LEC rats receiving 80 mg zinc acetate daily by gavage for one and two weeks showed higher 
levels  of  metallothionein  in  the  hepatic  and  renal  cells  compared  to  untreated  ones.  
Tissue Zn concentrations were significantly higher  in treated rats versus controls, whereas Cu 
concentrations decreased in the liver and kidneys. 
5/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The  most  important  metabolic  effect  when  feeding  zinc  in  excess  is  the  development  of  anaemia  
(see toxicology section). 
Excess  dietary  zinc  in  rats  results  in  altered  activity  of  numerous  enzymes  "ex  vivo",  including 
catalase, ferroxidase, cytochrome oxidase, xanthine oxidase and alkaline phosphatase. In most cases, 
excess  zinc  treatment  has  inhibitory  effects  on  enzyme  activity.  Zinc  inhibits  intestinal  alkaline 
phosphatase  activity  but  enhances  liver  and  kidney  enzyme  activities.  Generally,  these  effects  are 
observed  at  doses  ≥  200  mg/kg/day  for  periods  ≥  2  weeks  (approx.  100-fold  the  human  therapeutic 
dose of 2–3 mg/kg). 
In  rats,  excess  dietary  zinc  can  also  produce  mild  to  moderate  effects  on  the  metabolism  of  other 
elements, such as inhibition of the deposition of calcium and phosphorus in bone, and the assimilation 
of nitrogen, phosphorus and sulphur. Zinc also causes an increase in the urinary excretion of both uric 
acid and creatinine. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
The applicant performed a literature survey on the safety pharmacology of zinc salts, focusing on heart 
function and blood lipids. In experimental animals, Zn++ failed to induce cardiotoxicity (except in vitro 
with  very  high  concentrations).  Negative  inotropy  and  chronotropy  have  been  reported  by 
investigators  using  various  isolated  cardiac  preparations  at  concentrations  above  5  x  10-6M  zinc 
approximately.  Decreases  in cardiac rate, contractile force and peak systolic pressure were observed 
on the isolated rat heart preparation perfused by a zinc-histidine complex. 
Increases in serum cholesterol were observed in rats (2.8 or 10 mg Zn++/kg/day for 2 or 7 months) but 
not confirmed in two additional studies. In rabbits, two studies showed a hypolipidemic effect of zinc 
(2.2 or 3.4 mg Zn++/kg/day for 6 months i.e. similar to clinical doses). 
Although  data  in  experimental  animals  are  limited  they  are  over-ridden  by  clinical  data.  
No unexpected adverse effects of zinc salts have been found. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No experimental animal data have been submitted. Data referring to interaction studies in animals with 
zinc  salts  are  available,  but  they  all  refer  to  competition  with  other  minerals  or  trace  elements  or 
metals. Animal findings would not be expected to contribute to the knowledge of potential interactions 
of zinc acetate with concomitant drugs commonly used in patients suffering from Wilson’s disease. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
The  submitted  publications  allow  concluding  that  Zn++  acts  by  competing  for  intestinal  Cu++ 
absorption and by inducing the synthesis of metallothionein. 
Only  very  high  doses  of  zinc  would  be  required  to  deleteriously  alter  the  activity  of  those  enzymes 
investigated.  Theses  doses  are  considered  to  be  non  relevant  for  the  proposed  therapeutic  doses. 
Considering  the  extent  of  clinical  experience,  additional  pharmacodynamic  studies  in  animals  are 
unlikely  to  extend  scientific  knowledge  for  the  use  of  zinc  in  Wilson’s  disease.  Moreover,  due  to 
clinical considerations concerning unnecessary use of animals, such studies were not repeated. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The available pharmacokinetic information consists of reports from the scientific literature. Only one 
of the studies utilizes the acetate salt form of zinc, which is proposed for clinical use. 
Other studies submitted in support of the pharmacokinetic documentation used various other forms of 
zinc:  zinc  oxide  or  zinc  salts  for  ADME  characterisation  (Absorption,  Distribution,  Metabolism, 
Excretion), after single or repeated administrations, in various species including pregnant animals. 
6/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
In a review of literature including 235 references up to 1981, evidence is provided that in humans, zinc 
absorption occurs through the mucosa of small intestine and against a concentration gradient Studies 
in  rats  show  that  zinc  is  primarily  absorbed from  the  duodenum. The  relative absorption  of  65ZnCl2 
(single oral administration) in mice, rats, dogs and humans is about 13, 23, 48 and 55 % respectively, 
with major excretion of zinc in the faeces 
Studies in rats and chicks show that the absorption of zinc is reduced when administered with phytic 
acid, a soybean protein component. Some reports in rats show that calcium and phosphorus reduce the 
absorption of oral zinc, other reports are conflicting. 
• 
Distribution 
Distribution studies in rats show that peak tissue concentrations of 65Zn are reached within 5 days after 
oral dosing. Distribution studies following oral long-term administrations in rats, cats and dogs, show 
that  highest  levels  of  zinc  are  attained  in  liver,  gallbladder  and  bile,  gastrointestinal  tract,  kidney, 
bone, bone marrow and pancreas. Average tissue zinc concentrations are analogous in cats and dogs 
suggesting a similar distribution. 
Analysis of zinc contents in various organs and tissues showed no evidence of accumulation or tissue 
specific storage. In rats chronically treated (up to 53 weeks), distribution and elimination of zinc oxide 
and zinc salts (acetate, citrate, malate) are similar without any accumulation or tissue specific storage 
in all cases. 
• 
Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
Metabolism involves incorporation of the Zn++ moiety into Zn-reliant enzymes  
The  elimination  of  65Zn  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  humans  is  triphasic  with  half-life  values  for  the 
terminal phase of 75, 91, 94 and 154 days, respectively.  
In cats, tissue levels return to normal levels (∼ 2 weeks) when zinc dosing is discontinued, whereas in 
rats, elimination from bone and pelt is delayed.  
• 
Excretion 
Zinc  oxide  and  zinc  salts  were  administered  in  drinking  water  to  male  or  female  rats  
(n = 1 to 3/dose), for 35 to 53 weeks. Analysis of excreta (faeces, urine) from control and zinc-treated 
rats indicated that faecal excretion was the main route of zinc elimination. Increased doses produced 
only minimal increases in zinc urinary excretion. 
In all species studied (mice, rats, dogs, humans), the majority of excretion occurs via the faeces, with 
only a small fraction excreted in the urine. 
• 
Pregnancy 
In rats, ADME of 65Zn (single tracer dose) is not affected by gestation, there is a placental transfer and 
also a transfer of radio-zinc in milk of mother rats. 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters (in different species) 
Only one animal pharmacokinetic study has used the intended compound, zinc acetate, and no studies 
were conducted to GLP. The studies are generally very old and of little qualitative value. Plasma Zn 
levels were not determined in these studies, interspecies comparisons and dose justifications were not 
possible. However, available ADME studies show concordance across salts and animal species used. 
Absorption  is  minimal  in  the  GI  tract,  though  modified  by  certain,  controllable,  dietary  factors. 
Distribution  studies  reveal  highest  tissue  concentrations  where  expected:    liver,  gallbladder,  bile,  
GI  tract  and  kidney.  Metabolism  involves  incorporation  of  the  Zn++  moiety  into  Zn-reliant  enzymes 
and excretion is primarily faecal, as expected by the low level of absorption. 
7/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are sufficient human data available to accurately deduce the clinical PK profile of the compound 
and clinical doses are derived from these data. 
Toxicology 
The applicant has provided a large number of study citations on the toxicology of zinc salts.  Many of 
these  pre-date  GLP  standards,  but  the  majority  are  interpretable,  show  concordance  across 
salts/species and, taken together, provide an adequate overall view. 
• 
Single dose toxicity 
The oral LD50 is about 300 mg Zn++/kg for three animal species (mouse, rat, rabbit), i.e. approx. 100-
150-fold  the  human  therapeutic  dose.    The  parenteral  LD50  is  about  10-fold  lower  than  oral  LD50 
values, showing the poor absorption of Zn++ via the gastrointestinal tract. Intraperitoneal LD50 is about 
15 mg Zn++/kg in mice and rats. The intravenous LD50 in rats is similar. 
Clinical and toxic symptoms result in depression of CNS (tremor, ataxia, dyspnoea, cyanosis) and in 
gastric irritation or corrosion with bleeding ulcerations and/or perforations. 
• 
Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Eight  repeat-dose  studies  using  zinc  acetate,  ranging  from  4  weeks  to  53  weeks,  are  available.  
Numerous other toxicological studies have used either zinc oxide or zinc salts.  In most cases, these 
studies have some flaws or are limited in their design, however in general they consistently define the 
target  organs  of  high  dose  zinc  toxicity:  Pancreas  (histopathological  changes  and  enzymatic 
inhibition);  Blood  (development  of  a  specific  microcytic  hypochromic  anaemia,  reversible  after 
supplementation  with  iron  or  copper,  and  more  rarely  bone  marrow  hyperplasia,  lymphocyte  / 
neutrophil  inhibition);  Kidney  (disturbance  of  function  with  albuminuria,  decreased  urine  volume, 
local 
associated  with  histopathological  changes);  GI 
corrosion/erosion).  In addition, a general zinc toxicosis is described from animal studies (decreased 
bodyweight  gain,  vomiting  and/or  diarrhoea,  tremor,  muscular  weakness,  ataxia,  dyspnoea  and  hair 
coat  changes,  associated  with  various  metabolic  changes),  though  this  only  manifests  at  very  high 
doses.  Indeed,  copper  deficiency  following  prolonged  high-dose  zinc  administration  is  of  more 
concern clinically.  
The  same  target  organs  of  toxicity  are identified in rats, and also in other species,  regardless of the 
zinc form used, i.e. zinc oxide, zinc acetate and other zinc salts.  
Effects  on  the  immune  function  have  not  been  specifically  studied  in  animals,  but  clinical  data  are 
available (see clinical section)  
In general, the lowest doses tested and the NOEL of zinc acetate are about 18 to 95 mg Zn++/kg/day 
(i.e. ∼6-9 and ∼32-48 times the human therapeutic dose) for periods ranging from 4 to 53 weeks. 
Due  to  the  clinical  experience  in  the  claimed  indication,  no  new  acute  or  repeated-dose  toxicity 
studies are required. 
(astringent  action 
leading 
tract 
to 
• 
Toxicokinetics 
Toxicokinetics  of  zinc  salts  is  not  well  documented.  No  adequate  studies  are  available  to  compare 
animal and human pharmacokinetics. 
However, available ADME studies show concordance across salts and animal species used. Published 
data  of  the  effects  of  zinc  carbonate,  chloride  and  oxide  on  copper  and  iron  metabolisms  in  rats 
showed that there were no differences between the zinc salts activities; the three compounds exhibited 
the same biological toxic effects. Other studies conducted in rats with zinc acetate and zinc carbonate 
showed that the effects on copper bioavailability were obtained at quite similar doses, close to human 
doses (2 to 3 mg Zn++ /kg.), i.e. about 5.7 mg and about 13 mg Zn++/kg/b.w, respectively. Finally, in 
toxicology,  results  showed  no  major  difference  between  species  and  between  zinc  salts.  The  acute 
toxicity  studies  performed  either  with  zinc  acetate,  zinc  chloride  or  sulphate,  in mice and  rats (oral) 
lead  to  very  close  LD50  results  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  performed  in  rats  either  with  zinc 
8/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acetate or other zinc salts showed that the toxicity target organs were the same regardless of the zinc 
salt used.  
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo (with toxicokinetics) 
A number of genotoxic assays have been performed with zinc salts using bacteria, yeast, drosophila, 
plants, mammalian cells, in vitro systems and in vivo studies.  
Zinc was tested in several Ames tests. Zinc acetate did not show any mutagenic activity in an assay 
with 5 strains of Salmonella, in the presence and absence of the S9 activation system. However, in a 
study  where  zinc  was  complexed  with  an  organic  ligand,  the  results  were  positive  with  2  strains  of 
Salmonella. Results from other studies with different salts were conflicting. 
In the L5178Y TK+/- mouse lymphoma assay, dose-dependent positive responses were obtained in the 
presence  and  absence  of  the  S9  metabolic  activation,  with  a  doubling  of  the  mutation  frequency 
occurring  at  ≥  10  µg/ml.  However,  zinc  chloride  was  negative  using  the  same  test  in  similar 
experimental conditions (similar range of concentrations and cytotoxicity). 
In  the  in  vitro  cytogenetic  CHO  assay,  dose-dependent  positive  responses  of  zinc  acetate  were 
obtained  in  the  presence  and  absence  of  the  S9  activation  system,  although  the  S9  reduces  both  the 
clastogenic response (≥ 34 to ≥ 45 µg/ml) and the cytotoxicity. 
Zinc  sulphate  was  negative  in  the  in  vivo  mouse  micronucleus  test.  However,  a  weak  positivity  is 
obtained in animals fed with a low calcium diet. 
The  unscheduled  DNA  synthesis  in  primary  cultures  of  rat  hepatocytes  was  not  induced  by  zinc 
acetate. 
Results  of  cell  transformation  assays  (Syrian  Hamster  Embryo)  induced  by  zinc  chloride  were 
equivocal:  one  positive  and  one  negative.  The  positive  assay  might  be  explained  by  an  epigenetic 
mechanism (inhibition of apoptosis). 
Assays  on  in  vitro  DNA  synthesis,  did  not  show  mispairing,  but  an  inhibition  of  E.  coli  RNA 
polymerase or DNA polymerase at high concentration (0.5mM). Therefore, no direct interaction with 
nucleotides has been demonstrated in these tests unlike cadmium or manganese. 
• 
Carcinogenicity  
Published  carcinogenicity  studies  performed  with  different  zinc  salts  in  mice  and  hamsters  are 
inconclusive and outdated. None of them fulfil the present EU requirements.  
Four carcinogenicity studies have been conducted in mice with oral zinc chloride, oleate or sulphate. 
Two  of  them  are  positive  and  two  are  negative.  Unfortunately,  study  reports  are  only  short 
communications or publications and are not detailed enough in order to fully assess the carcinogenic 
potential. On the other hand there is some agreement in the literature that oral zinc salts should not be 
considered as carcinogenic to man. Furthermore, the extensive genotoxic testing does not suggest that 
zinc has a clinically relevant genotoxic potential. Therefore, although no definitive conclusion on the 
carcinogenic  potential  can  be  obtained,  and  considering  the  long  clinical  experience  of  zinc  salts  in 
other indications, additional animal testing of the carcinogenic potential is deemed unnecessary for the 
present product with respect to the claimed indication. 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Reproduction studies performed during 2 or 3 generations showed that zinc acetate (∼25 mg Zn++/kg) 
in  mice  and  in  rats,  zinc  oxide  (∼260  mg  Zn++/kg)  and  other  zinc  salts  at  oral  dose  up  to  85  mg 
Zn++/kg (carbonate), have no effects on fertility and reproductive performance of male and female rats 
F0, F1, F2, if any.  In addition, specific studies on the effects of excess dietary zinc on the chemical 
composition  and  enzymatic  activities  of  maternal  and  foetal  tissues  have  not  revealed  any  serious 
adverse effects. 
9/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral teratology studies performed with zinc oxide in rats, with zinc sulphate in sheep, and with zinc 
sulphate  in  mice,  rats,  hamsters  and  in  rabbits  were  always  negative  in  terms  of  teratogenicity.   
The latest studies conducted by Food and Drug Research Laboratories in 1973 – 1974, are close to the 
GLP standards and to the EU regulatory requirements.  Negative results were obtained with doses up 
to  24  and  36  mg  Zn++/kg  in  rabbits  and  in  hamsters,  respectively.    For  these  studies,  study  reports 
were  given  in  the  dossier.    It  has  to  be  stated  that  even  the  highest  doses  tested  did  not  elicit  any 
maternal toxic or fetotoxic effect and a toxic threshold level has not been determined. 
Some animal experiments have indicated that gestational exposures to very high levels of dietary zinc 
or  zinc  supplements  were  associated  with  increased  skeletal  defects  and  impaired  reproductive 
performance in mice, exencephaly in hamsters and an increased incidence of congenital malformations 
in  rats.  The  high  doses  required  to  produce  these  effects  would  seem  to  make  clinical  relevance 
unlikely. 
Only  the  teratology  studies  performed  with  zinc  sulphate  in  1973-1974  can  be  regarded  as  nearly 
fulfilling the present requirements for teratology testing.  The poor quality of the experimental animal 
studies  and  the  conflicting  results  do  not  allow  a  teratogenic  effect  to  be  ruled  out.    However,  the 
limited  clinical  data  suggest  that  incidences  of  miscarriage  and  malformation  are  within  the  normal 
range.  In light of these results zinc acetate should be used with caution in pregnancy, but may present 
an advantage over other clearly teratogenic therapies. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
Special toxicity studies have been conducted in rodents (mice, rats and rabbits), in non-rodent animals 
(dogs and cats) and in chicks, a non-mammal species.  In all studies, the animals have been fed with 
the  zinc  compound  as  part  of  the  diet  or  the  drinking  water,  except  for  oral  capsules  in  dogs.   
The objectives were to precise target organs and secondary effects of oral zinc.  For these reasons the 
pancreatic  effects  and  the  effects  on  iron  metabolism  and  zinc  inducing  anaemia  have  been 
investigated, 
In  copper  overloaded  rats,  at  doses  up  to  57.1  mg  Zn++/kg/day,  zinc  acetate  has  no  effects  on  the 
pancreas.    However,  repeated  administrations  of  excess  oral  zinc  (in  cats  and  chicks)  result  in  the 
development  of  a  pancreatic  toxicity  (fibrosis  and  reversible  acinar  cell  vacuolation  respectively) 
which may be copper deficiency-mediated, or due to decreases in pancreatic enzymes secondary to GI 
tract irritation. 
A prominent preclinical feature of excess oral zinc administration in rats and dogs is the development 
of  a  microcytic  hypochromic  anaemia.    In  humans,  dramatic  hypochromic  anaemia  response  to zinc 
supplements  (oral  zinc  sulphate,  660  mg  daily,  ≥  12  months)  in  patients  with  non-responsive  celiac 
disease is attributed to zinc induced copper deficiency. 
• 
Environmental risk assessment 
Calculations  on  the  environmental  risk  have  led  to  the  conclusion  that  no  special  precautionary  or 
safety measures have to be taken regarding the storage of the present products, their administration to 
the patients and for the disposal of waste products. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The submitted publications allow concluding that zinc acts by competing for intestinal Cu absorption 
and by inducing the synthesis of metallothionein. 
Available ADME studies show concordance across salts and animal species used. 
Repeat-dose toxicity consistently identifies target organs as the pancreas, haematology system, kidney 
and  gastro-intestinal  tract.  The  NOEL  is  approximately  in  the  range  of  5  to  40  times  the  human 
therapeutic dose. 
10/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity testing gave equivocal results. Zinc and calcium equilibrium seem to play a central role 
in the positive or equivocal results observed in vitro and in vivo. 
In  conclusion,  the  weight  of  evidence,  from  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests,  suggests  that  zinc  has  no 
clinically relevant genotoxic activity. This is expressed in the SPC, section 5.3. 
Carcinogenicity  testing  is  inconclusive  due  to  poor  available  data.  However,  in  the  absence  of 
clinically  relevant  genotoxic  potential  and  considering  the  long  clinical  experience  of  zinc  salts  in 
other indications, additional animal testing of the carcinogenic potential is deemed unnecessary. 
The available studies do not suggest that Zn++ affect significantly the reproductive function. However, 
a  teratogenic  effect  cannot  be  ruled  out,  especially  at  high  doses  possibly  by  virtue  of  copper 
deficiency.  Nevertheless,  the  use  of  zinc  acetate  during  pregnancy  may  present  an  advantage  over 
other clearly teratogenic therapies (see SPC). 
Submitted  bibliographical  data  are  sufficient  to  describe  the  biochemistry  of  zinc  salts  and  the 
potential hazards associated with their ingestion. Non-clinical data are therefore considered sufficient 
to fulfil requirements as set out in the Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
GALZIN  is authorised in  the  USA and has  been marketed by  GATE Pharmaceuticals (a division of 
Teva  Pharmaceuticals) in the USA  since  March  1997, as maintenance treatment in Wilson’s disease 
for  patients  who  have  previously  been  treated  with  chelating  agents.  Orphan  Europe  SARL  has 
proposed Teva Pharmaceuticals USA to develop GALZIN under the tradename WILZIN in the EU. At 
the  time  of  the  Wilzin  Marketing  Authorisation  Application,  the  product  was  only  available  in  the 
European Union on a “named-patient” or “compassionate use” basis, under the American trade name 
of GALZIN. 
To establish  the efficacy and safety  of Wilzin in Wilsonian’s patients, the company has submitted a 
bioavailability  and  dose  ranging  study  of  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  in  healthy  volunteers  (referred  as 
NDA study because it was part of the Galzin application in the US), a dose-response study in adults 
and paediatric patients and a pivotal uncontrolled clinical trial (Brewer’s study). 
Teva  Pharmaceuticals,  USA  who  developed  capsules  of  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  (GALZIN),  provided 
Dr Brewer with clinical supplies. 
Those studies were supported by publications including pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, clinical 
efficacy and safety data. Post marketing data in USA has also been submitted. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  provided  one  bioavailability  and  dose  proportionality  study  for  zinc  acetate  dihydrate 
(25mg & 50mg) capsules in 16 healthy volunteers and a number of literature references. 
Atomic absorption spectroscopy was used for the determination of zinc in human serum. 
Since the mechanism of action of zinc is an effect on copper uptake at the level of the intestinal cell, 
pharmacokinetic evaluations based on blood levels of zinc do not provide useful information on zinc 
bioavailability at the site of action. 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability – Dose proportionality 
Zinc is absorbed in the small intestine, especially in the jejunum, and probably by a carrier-mediated 
process. When zinc ingestion exceeds the normal dietary levels, intestinal metallothionein is induced, 
causing some zinc to be bound in the mucosal cells. Such zinc presumably may be lost as cells slough 
off. 
The absorption kinetics of 25 mg and 50 mg of Wilzin has been investigated in a stepped-dose study 
(NDA study) in 16 healthy subjects (8 of each sex; mean age 26 years). The subjects each received a 
single 25 mg capsule on one day, followed by a single 50 mg capsule two days later (allowing for a 
11/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
washout  day)  and  then  a  50  mg  capsule  three  times  daily  for  7  doses.  The  pharmacokinetic  results, 
corrected for baseline plasma levels of zinc are summarised in the table below. 
Zinc dose regime 
Cmax 
Tmax 
AUC0-12h  
AUCτ 
(µg/ml) 
25 mg single dose 
50 mg single dose 
50 mg x 3/day 
1.8 
2.3 
2.1 
(h) 
2.4 
2.3 
2.4 
(µg. h/ml) 
(µg. h/ml) 
5.5 
7.9 
– 
– 
– 
8.3 
Cmax – maximum plasma concentration; Tmax – time of Cmax; 
AUC0-12h – area under the plasma concentration-time curve in the first 12 h after dosing; 
AUCτ – area under the plasma concentration-time curve during the dose interval at steady state. 
Based  on  this  study,  dose-linearity  between  25  and  50  mg  zinc  is  not  shown,  while  in  a  published 
study by Henderson 1996 zinc pharmacokinetics was dose-linear up to 50 mg. Therefore clarifications 
were requested. 
The  absorption  kinetics  of  different  doses  of  zinc  in  healthy  volunteers  was  reported  in  five  studies 
(see  table  below).  In  these  studies,  two  salts  were  used:  zinc  acetate  and  zinc  sulphate.  However, 
plasma  zinc  levels  in  subjects  receiving  either  acetate  or  sulphate  were  not  significantly  different 
(Prasad 1993). Thus, the data from different studies were compiled regardless of the salt administered. 
Adjusted AUC ratios (25mg/50mg) in healthy volunteers 
Zinc salt  AUC 25/50 
N 
(age) 
8 
Oelshlegel/ Brewer 1977 
Lee 1989 
Prasad 1993 
Henderson 1996 
NDA Study 
* Net Zn movement ratio with doses of 35 and 70 mg perfused over 60 min (450/650) 
Sulphate 
10 (18-27)  Acetate 
Several 
10 (51-66) 
Acetate 
11 
Acetate 
16 
58% 
69%* 
- 
55% 
69% 
Based on these studies, the AUC 25/AUC50 ratio showed a wide range of variation from 55% to 69%. 
This  discrepancy,  especially  between  Henderson  and  the  NDA  study,  is  difficult  to  explain.  
A close look at the method could not find notable differences between subjects’ age (25.9±4.6 years in 
the NDA study versus 24.5±2.7 years for females and 26.6±3.9 years for males in Henderson study), 
meals and meal schedule, as well as the assay used to determine plasma zinc concentration. However, 
the  study  design  was  different  (Henderson  study  was  a  randomised  crossover  study,  during which a 
wash  out  period  of  at  least  7  days  between  treatments  was  applied).  It  is  not  clear  whether  this 
difference  alone  can  explain  the  discrepancy.  More  surprising  are  the  differences  in  the  level  of 
concentration  achieved  in  both  studies  in  spite  of  the  use  of  the  same  formulation  (GALZIN).  
In  the  Henderson  study,  the  concentration  profile  of  50  mg  is  quite  similar  to  that  of  25  mg  in  the 
NDA  study.  This  could  be  consistent  with  a  tendency  of  saturation  at  higher  doses  as  demonstrated 
with 100 mg in Henderson study. Furthermore, the 69% ratio is similar to the ratio found with jejunal 
instillation (Lee 1989 study where four doses of zinc [3.9, 35, 70, and 140 mg] were perfused in the 
jejunum of 10 healthy volunteers). 
In conclusion, some saturation effect is already evident at a dose of 50 mg and it should be stated in 
the summary of product characteristics that “Zinc is absorbed in the small intestine and its absorption 
kinetics suggests a tendency of saturation at increasing doses.” 
12/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Bioequivalence 
Up to 1 January 1986, clinical studies performed on zinc acetate dihydrate by Brewer and colleagues 
were  with  a  tablet  formulation  manufactured  at  the  University  of  Michigan  Hospital  Pharmacy.  
The dissolution profile of this formulation is unknown and so the bioavailability of zinc from it at the 
site of action in the intestinal wall or in terms of systemic absorption cannot be compared to that from 
WILZIN. However, in the analysis of clinical outcomes of patients treated by Brewer with zinc acetate 
dihydrate,  only  37  of  the  170  patients  (22%)  ever  received  the  tablet  formulation  and  all  but  
3 of these patients (2%) were switched to Galzin during the course of their treatment. Therefore, the 
vast majority of data from the analysis of clinical outcomes with zinc acetate dihydrate relates to the 
use of WILZIN. 
Zinc acetate dihydrate and zinc sulphate show comparable systemic bioavailability. 
• 
Distribution 
In  the  blood,  about  80%  of  absorbed  zinc  is  distributed  to  erythrocytes;  with  most  of  the  remainder 
being bound to albumin and other plasma proteins. 
Zinc  crosses  the  human  placenta  and  concentrations  in  the  cord  and  maternal  serum  are  positively 
correlated. Zinc is excreted in human breast milk.  
In  Brewer’s  long  term  clinical  study  some  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease  (n=61)  had  hepatic  zinc 
measurements  taken  over  periods  of  up  to  9  years  during  maintenance  therapy  with  zinc  (as  the 
acetate)  using  dose  regimes  of  25  mg  twice  daily  to  50  mg  three  times  daily.  In  these  patients  an 
elevation  of  hepatic  zinc  levels  by  approximately  threefold  from  a  mean  baseline  level  within  the 
normal range (431 µg/g dry weight) was observed over the first 3 years of treatment, followed by a 
reduction  to  levels  of  1-2  times  baseline  over  the  next  6  years.  The  reason  for  the  initial  marked 
elevation of hepatic zinc levels is unclear, but it could be to compensate for zinc deficiency caused by 
previous  chelation  therapy  in  some  patients  and/or  induction  of  hepatic  metallothionein  so  causing 
hepatic sequestration of zinc. It has also been found that mean plasma levels of zinc in a larger group 
of  these  patients  (n=75)  rose  above  the  normal  range  (75-125  µg/dl)  to  levels  above  200 µg/dl after  
1 year of maintenance therapy and then remained at about this level during the follow up period of up 
to 9 years. These results indicate that systemic zinc levels are elevated above the normal range during 
zinc maintenance therapy for Wilson’s disease, as would be expected from therapeutic dosing, but that 
there is no evidence that zinc accumulates during long-term administration. 
• 
Elimination 
Zinc  is  not  metabolised.  The  elimination  half-life  of  zinc  in  healthy  subjects  is  in  the  range  
0.9-1.2 hours. Elimination results primarily from faecal excretion (70-80%) with relatively little from 
urine and sweat (15-25%). Following oral administration urinary excretion is very low (up to 2% of 
the administered dose), while faecal excretion varies greatly (20%-76% of the administered dose). The 
latter  is  in  the  greatest  part  due  to  the  passage  of  unabsorbed  zinc  but  also  to  endogenous  intestinal 
secretion. The contribution of bile is very small, as opposed to pancreatic secretions, which may play a 
significant role in the homeostasis of zinc. 
• 
Time dependencies 
The  time  dependency  of  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  pharmacokinetics  was  evaluated  in  the  NDA  study. 
The  AUC  over  one  dosing  interval  following  multiple  dosing  of  the  50  mg  capsules  was 
approximately  the  same  (less  than  5%  difference)  as  the  AUC  measured  from  dosing  to  return  to 
baseline following a single 50 mg dose. The mean Cmax after multiple dosing was actually slightly 
lower  than  that  observed  after  a  single  dose  (after  correction  for  baseline  concentration,  2.08  vs  
2.35 µg/ml, respectively). Therefore, zinc pharmacokinetics did not appear to be time-dependant. 
13/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  regards  inter-individual  variability:  based  on  the  dispersion  parameters  for  the  bioavailability 
studies,  the  coefficients  of  variation  for  the  Henderson  study  were  at  least  twice  those  of  the  NDA 
study; however both these results were obtained in volunteers and their significance remains unclear. 
No data on intra-individual variability are available.  
• 
Special populations 
Pharmacokinetic data for paediatric patients: 
Zinc  absorption  and  distribution  have  been  extensively  studied  in  preterm  infants  and  adults  by 
Wastney  (1986,  1996  &  1999).  This  team  developed  a  compartmental  model,  where  each  pool 
represents  zinc  in  different  tissues  or  sites  of  body.  The  rate  of  zinc  turnover  between  different 
compartments  was  assessed.  After  administration  of  either  oral  or  intravenous  stable  isotope  tracer 
(70Zn),  samples  from  blood,  urine  and  faeces  were  analysed  at  different  time  points  and  data  were 
fitted to the compartmental model. In the last paper published in 1999, nine clinically stable preterm 
infants  (six  male  and  three  female)  with  gestational  age  of  32  ±  1  weeks  were  studied.  The  mean 
postnatal age was 14 ± 3 days. During the 18 ± 3 days of the trial, neonates received preterm formula 
containing 9.8-11.7 mg/l of zinc. One day before hospital discharge, the formula was changed to term 
formula with 4.9 to 5.9 mg/l of zinc. They also studied the zinc absorption and distribution in 25 adult 
subjects  aged  from  20  to  84  years.  Data  displayed  in  the  table  below  indicate  that  Red  Blood  Cell 
(RDC)-Zn level was several folds higher than plasma-Zn concentration in both newborns and adults. 
However, the ratio of RBC-Zn/plasma-Zn in adults (14.2) was 5 times higher than the ratio in preterm 
infants (2.7). Despite lower fractional absorption in preterm infants (36% versus 59% in adults), zinc 
absorption on a body weight basis was higher in preterm infants, due to a higher zinc intake per body 
weight  (10  fold).  However,  when  compared  to  adults  ingesting  the  same  amount  of  zinc  on  a  body 
weight  basis  (around  1.5  mg/kg/day),  the  fractional  zinc  absorption  was  much  higher  in  preterm 
infants  than  in  adults  (36%  versus  7%,  respectively).  Furthermore,  in  term  infants  aged  from  
2  to  7  months  with  mean  zinc  intake  of  1.0  to  7.3  mg/day  the  mean  fractional  absorption  varied 
between 29 to 54% (Krebs 2003). 
Zinc absorption in (pre and term) infants and adults 
N 
Weight (kg) 
Plasma zinc (µg/dl) 
RBC zinc (µg/dl) 
Fractional Zn absorption (%) 
Zinc Absorption   (µg/kg/day) 
               Mean         (mg/day) 
Zinc Intake           (mg/kg/day) 
                Mean         (mg/day) 
Preterm 
infants 
9 
1.47±0.06 
98.7±5.2 
268.1±26.2 
36±5 
464.3±52.3 
1.48 
Term 
infants 
45 
29-54 
0.57-3.2 
1.0-7.3 
Adults 
25 
69±3 
86±2 
1225±15 
59±2 
82 
0.145 
10 
162±30 
- 
7±2 
- 
≈ 1.59 
110 
Plasma  zinc  concentration  in  Wilson’s  disease  paediatric  patients:  Individual  plasma  zinc 
concentrations for paediatric patients (aged from 12 to 19 years) were extracted from data listings in 
Brewer’s  study.  Twelve  patients  on  two  dose  regimes  (25  or  50  mg  x  3)  were  identified  
(Table  below).  In  addition,  Brewer  (2001)  reported  34  paediatric  patients  including  the  12  patients 
already mentioned. All plasma zinc concentrations from paediatric patients were in the same range as 
those reported for the first cohort in the main Brewer study for all patients on effective doses of zinc 
(50x3, 50x2 & 25x3). 
14/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Plasma zinc concentrations in paediatric patients 
Plasma Zinc (µg/dl) 
Patient N° 
42 
46 
55 
61 
65 
76 
95 
137 
75 
117 
123 
136 
Dose 
50x3 
50x3 
50x3 
50x3 
50x3 
50x3 
50x3 
50x3 
25x3 
25x3 
25x3 
25x3 
0-1 year 
156 
189 
232 
177 
328 
192 
Mean±SD 
N = 12 
251±70 
2-3 years 
3-4 years 
135 
150 
210 
176 
1-2 years 
223 
204 
193 
268 
214 
88 
218 
228 
206 
185±65 
190 
200±14 
Mean±SD 
N = 34 
211±52 
176±49 
197±54 
220±44 
Brewer’s Publication (2001) 
Mean±SD 
N = 86 
218±74 
223±55 
226±65 
199±63 
All Patients (first cohort) 
Elderly 
The systemic bioavailability of normal levels of dietary zinc is approximately 40% in young healthy 
subjects and about 20% in elderly subjects (August 1989), but increases in people in a poor nutritional 
state (Spencer 1985). 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
In  patients  with  chronic  renal  disease,  especially  nephrotic  syndrome  and  uraemia,  plasma  levels  of 
endogenous  zinc  are  decreased  (Mahajan  1989;  Prasad  1979).  The  reasons  for  this  are  unclear  but 
seem  to  include  decreased  intake  and  absorption  in  uraemia,  and  decreased  intake  and  increased 
urinary  excretion  in  nephrotic  syndrome.  It  is  therefore  unlikely  that  therapeutic  doses  of  zinc  will 
accumulate in such patients despite the fact that it is partly excreted by the kidneys. 
Cirrhosis  is  also  associated  with  decreased  plasma  levels  of  endogenous  zinc  (Capocaccia  1991; 
Prasad 1979). The reasons for this are unclear but could include reduced intake, reduced absorption, 
reduced  synthesis  of  plasma  proteins  that  carry  zinc,  and  porto-systemic  shunting  that  decreases  the 
hepatic  extraction  of  zinc  and  so  increases  its  availability  for  urinary  excretion  (Capocaccia  1991).  
It  is  therefore  unlikely  that  therapeutic  doses  of  zinc  will  accumulate  in  such  patients,  and  such 
accumulation has not been noted in the studies performed on Wilson’s disease patients, most of whom 
have some degree of cirrhosis. 
Possible influence of gender, race & body weight: 
Wastney 1986 & 1992 showed sex related changes of zinc metabolism with age during zinc loading. In 
both sexes, the response of urinary zinc increased with age; the response of plasma zinc increased with 
age  in  women  only,  whereas  the  amount  of  zinc  absorbed  increased  with  age  in  men  only.  
The  influence  of  race  on  zinc  status  has  only  been  addressed  in  subjects  with  zinc  deficiency.  
No publications addressing the influence of body weight on zinc pharmacokinetics were found. 
15/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Interaction studies 
A study of the co-administration of several foods with 25 mg zinc (as the sulphate) in healthy subjects 
found that many foods (including bread, hard boiled eggs, coffee and milk) impair the absorption of 
zinc by up to about 90% (Oelshlegel and Brewer 1977; Nève 1992). The possible interaction of Wilzin 
with food is taken into consideration by the recommendation in the SPC that Wilzin must be taken on 
an empty stomach, at least one hour before or 2-3 hours after meals. 
The absorption of zinc may be reduced by iron supplements, penicillamine, trientine, tetracyclines and 
phosphorus-containing  compounds,  while  zinc  may  reduce 
tetracyclines, 
fluoroquinolones, iron, penicillamine and trientine (Martindale 2002). 
the  absorption  of 
Pharmacodynamics 
• 
Mechanism of action and Primary Pharmacology 
Zinc acts primarily by decreasing the absorption of copper from the gastrointestinal tract by inducing 
the  production  of  intestinal  mucosal  metallothionein,  an  intracellular  protein  which  binds  copper  so 
preventing its absorption (Brewer 2000; Ferenci 1999).  
This  action  has  been  demonstrated  in  5  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease  treated  with  GALZIN  for 
maintenance  therapy  at  a  dose  of  25-50  mg  of  zinc  3  times  per  day  (Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan  1992).  
It was found that, 5-6 days after starting the treatment, duodenal mucosal metallothionein levels had 
increased by about 2-4 times and uptake of orally administered radiolabelled  64copper into the blood 
decreased to about 1% of normal. Further increases in metallothionein levels during prolonged therapy 
(over 1 year) resulted in little further suppression of copper uptake. When zinc therapy was stopped, 
the half-life for the loss of the suppressive effect was about 11 days. This indicates that even if several 
doses of zinc are missed, the suppression of copper uptake will be maintained. 
Another  study  has  confirmed  the  marked  induction  of  duodenal  mucosal  metallothionein  in  patients 
with  Wilson’s  disease  treated  with  oral  zinc  50  mg  three  times  daily  (as  the  sulphate),  with  levels 
being 15 times greater compared with untreated healthy control patients (p < 0.05) (Sturniolo 1999). 
This study also found that mucosal levels of metallothionein were significantly positively correlated to 
duodenal mucosal levels of zinc, so supporting that the site of action of the zinc is metallothionein. 
It  appears  that  once  the  copper  is  bound  to  intestinal  metallothionein  it  is  excreted  in  the  faeces  as 
epithelial cells slough off, since faecal excretion of copper increased markedly, but after a delay of at 
least 1 week, in two Wilson’s disease patients treated with zinc (as the acetate) 150 mg/day in divided 
doses (Brewer 1983). 
There is also evidence in animals that zinc may also induce hepatic metallothionein, so increasing the 
hepatic sequestration of copper in  a non-toxic  form (Lee 1989b). The effect also means that hepatic 
levels of copper should not be used to monitor the success of zinc therapy. 
Primary  pharmacology  data  are  also  available  through  Brewer’s  dose-response  relationship  study  in 
decoppered patients with Wilson’s disease using the surrogate efficacy variable of copper balance over 
10 days. This study is described below in the “Clinical efficacy section”. 
• 
Secondary pharmacology 
Most secondary pharmacological effects of zinc are likely to result from copper deficiency, such as its 
effects on haematopoiesis, nervous system, and lipid metabolism. Others are more likely to be related 
to zinc itself such as its effects on the liver, pancreas and immune function. See adverse events section 
(laboratory findings). 
16/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamic Interactions 
Studies  have  been  undertaken  in  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease  to  evaluate  possible  interactions 
between zinc acetate dihydrate and the chelating agents penicillamine and trientine (Brewer 1993). All 
patients were on maintenance therapy with 50 mg zinc 3 times a day. After a baseline 10-day copper 
balance study and a 64copper uptake test, 5 patients also received a maintenance dose of penicillamine 
(250 mg 4 times daily) for 2 days, with at least one hour between dosing of each drug, and then the 
tests  were  repeated.  A  similar  study  was  performed with a maintenance dose  of trientine (250 mg  4 
times daily) in 5 patients. Both chelators decreased the faecal loss of copper caused by zinc and yet not 
by  enough  to  affect  the  suppression  of  copper  uptake  achieved  with  zinc.  Furthermore,  since  the 
chelators both increased the urinary excretion of copper, there was no net effect on the copper balance 
achieved  by  zinc.  In  summary,  the  faecal  loss  of  copper  decreased  while  the  urinary  excretion  of 
copper increased, but an adequately well controlled copper balance and 64Cu absorption blockade were 
maintained.  The  mechanism  of  the  effect  of  chelators  on  faecal  loss  of  zinc  is  unknown,  but  since 
chelators are well known to bind with metal ions in the gastrointestinal tract, this could decrease the 
availability of zinc to induce intestinal metallothionein.  
There  is  evidence  that  vitamin  C  may  decrease  the  gastrointestinal  absorption  of  copper  ions  by 
reducing  them  to  the  monovalent  state  (Brewer  1993).  However,  using  a  similar  design  to  that 
described above for the chelator interaction studies, 1 g/day of vitamin C given for 6 weeks in addition 
to  zinc  maintenance  therapy  had  no  effect  on  faecal  or  urinary  excretion  of  copper  or  on  64copper 
uptake (Brewer 1993). 
Clinical efficacy  
The  efficacy  goal  of  lifelong  maintenance  anticopper  therapy  is  to  slowly  deplete  the  body's  excess 
copper and to prevent the reaccumulation of copper, thereby preventing further copper toxicity.  
Brewer's study constitutes the pivotal study performed with zinc acetate dihydrate to demonstrate the 
efficacy of zinc treatment, as well as supportive studies from literature performed with zinc sulphate. 
Overall, efficacy data is available for 255 patients, 191 symptomatic and 64 presymptomatic patients. 
The table below provides a summary of efficacy results on the use of zinc in treating Wilson’s disease. 
Source 
Patient types  N 
Mean 
duration 
of zinc 
therapy 
(years) 
Number (%) 
patients with 
clinical and/or 
metabolic 
response 
Number 
(%) 
patients 
who died 
Brewer 
1994,1996, 2001 
Czlonkowska 1996 
Hoogenraad 2001 
Rossaro 1990 
Case studies 
Sym 
Pre 
126 
44
170
3.2 
142/157* 
(90) 
6 
(3) 
25 
19 
5 
16 
8
9
3
33
28
5
19
4.6 
9.1 
3.3 
2.6 
27   (82) 
23   (82) 
4 
5 
(12) 
(18) 
5 (100) 
0 
  (0) 
15/18   (83) 
1 
  (5) 
Total 
191 
64
255
212/241   (88) 
16 
  (6) 
* evaluable for metabolic response 
17/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Dose response study 
Brewer  studied  the  dose-response  relationship  with  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  as  maintenance  treatment 
for  a  minimum  of  6  weeks  in  60  well-decoppered  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease  (belonging  to  the 
main  Brewer’s  study)  using  the  surrogate  efficacy  variable  of  copper  balance  over  10  days.  
Copper  balance  is  the  daily  dietary  intake  of  copper  minus  its  daily  excretion,  which  should  be 
approximately zero in a healthy individual and should be zero or slightly negative (excretion in excess 
of intake) in a treated patient with Wilson’s disease. In this study, the threshold for positive balance 
(copper accumulation) was taken as 0.25 mg/day, rather than zero, because copper excretion was only 
measured in terms of faecal and urinary excretion, the excretion in sweat being difficult to measure. 
Since copper excretion in  sweat is about 0.34 mg/day (Jacob  1981), copper balance occurs at about 
+0.34 mg/day when only faecal and urinary excretion are measured. Furthermore, in order to allow for 
a 10% error in measuring copper balance, and given that the average daily intake of copper is about 1 
mg/day,  reducing  the  threshold  down  to  +0.25  mg/day  ensures  that  patients  who  actually  have  a 
slightly positive copper balance are not considered as in balance (Hill 1986 & 1987). 
The  results  of  this  study  for  all  60  patients  are  presented  in  the  US  Prescribing  Information  for 
GALZIN,  but  details  of  the  study  are  only  available  for  the  first  50  patients.  The  copper  balance 
results for the original and extended cohorts are presented separately in the table below. An adequate 
copper balance was defined as a result less than +25 mg/day. 
Sufficient  balance  copper  data  (at  least  10  tests)  are  available  for  five  dose  regimes  of  zinc.  
The recommended 50 mg x 3 regime, which has been the most extensively tested (70 tests), achieved a 
response rate of 91%. There is little experience with other dose regimes but the only regimes that were 
almost always associated with a lower response rate (≤ 80%) were those with a total daily dose of 75 
mg or less and a dosing frequency of less than three times daily. The same level of control was only 
obtained with two other dose regimes: 50 mg x 5 and 25 mg x 3. However, these were results of short-
term studies, and based on Dr Brewer’s practical experience, they had the following drawbacks: 
(cid:131)  With a higher number of daily doses, compliance might be challenging. Therefore, 50 mg x 5 
is only mentioned as the maximum daily dose in the SPC. 
(cid:131)  Conversely,  a  lower  dose  regime  (25  mg  x  3)  has  a  lower  safety  margin,  as  in  cases  where 
doses are missed, the patient risks being inadequately controlled. However, provided careful 
monitoring  is  performed,  this  dose  may  be  equally  effective,  especially  in  children  and 
pregnant women who should not be exposed to excessive decoppering. 
Proportions of patients with Wilson’s disease who had adequate copper balance according 
to dose of zinc (as acetate) 
Dose Regime 
Initial cohort of 50 patients 
Extended cohort of 60 patients 
Patients adequately 
Total 
controlled (%) 
patients* 
Daily 
dose 
(mg) 
50 x 5 
50 x 3 
25 x 6 
50 x 2 
25 x 4 
25 x 3 
75 x 1 
37.5 x 2 
50 x 1 
25 x 2 
25 x 1 
0 
250 
150 
150 
100 
100 
75 
75 
75 
50 
50 
25 
0 
Total 
patients*
9 
31 
8 
4 
4 
11 
8 
4 
1 
4 
4 
6 
Patients 
adequately 
controlled (%) 
8   (89) 
31   (100) 
8   (100) 
4   (100) 
4   (100) 
10   (91) 
6   (75) 
3   (75) 
1   (100) 
3   (75) 
2   (50) 
- 
11 
70 
12 
5 
5 
11 
8 
4 
1 
4 
10 
6 
10   (91) 
64   (91) 
8   (67) 
5   (100) 
5   (100) 
10   (91) 
6   (75) 
3   (75) 
1   (100) 
3   (75) 
8   (80) 
- 
*Some  patients  received  more  than  one  dose  regime  or  the  same  dose  regime  at  widely 
separated intervals 
18/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
• 
Main study 
Dr  George  Brewer  and  colleagues  at  Ann  Arbor,  Michigan,  USA,  have  been  undertaking  an  open-
label, uncontrolled study on the use of zinc acetate dihydrate (almost entirely GALZIN/WILZIN) in 
the maintenance treatment of Wilson’s disease since October 1980.  
Methods  
The study was an open, maintenance trial of zinc acetate dihydrate administered orally to patients with 
Wilson’s disease. Each patient served as his own control. The controls, or baselines, for assessments 
were the patients’ copper values and clinical status prior to the start of maintenance therapy. 
An open design without a concurrent control group was chosen for ethical considerations. A placebo 
or  no  treatment  group  was  considered  inappropriate  because  of  the  progressive  and  invariably  fatal 
nature of Wilson’s disease. From an ethical standpoint it was considered unreasonable to put patients 
with Wilson’s disease at risk of clinical deterioration while trying an experimental drug, in view of the 
availability  of  alternative  effective  (albeit  somewhat  toxic)  drugs.  An  active  treatment  concurrent 
control  group  was  avoided  because  of  the  known  risks  associated  with  penicillamine  and  trientine. 
Moreover, as it is generally held that penicillamine is 100% effective in the maintenance treatment of 
Wilson’s disease, it was agreed that zinc therapy should accordingly be 100% effective to be equally 
efficacious.  Thus  a  penicillamine  treated  patient  sample  was  considered  unnecessary  to  establish  or 
reject the clinical efficacy of zinc. 
The objectives of this study were to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of zinc acetate dihydrate for 
long-term therapy (maintenance therapy) in patients with Wilson’s disease. Maintenance was defined 
as the period of zinc therapy when the objective was to prevent the accumulation or reaccumulation of 
copper and to prevent the appearance or reappearance of copper toxicity. The specific objectives were 
to show that zinc could: 
• 
Maintain  body  copper  at  subtoxic  levels  and  prevent  progressive  target  organ  damage  after 
adequate  decoppering  with  chelating  agents,  zinc  or  other  agents  in  patients  who  were 
symptomatic at the start of therapy; 
Maintain body copper at subtoxic levels in patients who were asymptomatic at the star of zinc 
therapy; 
Maintain body copper at subtoxic levels during pregnancy without adverse effects in the mother 
or child. 
• 
• 
The  study  participants  were  selected  from  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease  who  were  referred  to  the 
investigator for treatment, and presymptomatic siblings who were diagnosed by the investigator from 
the  family  workup.  The  diagnosis  of  homozygous  Wilson’s  disease  was  established  in  symptomatic 
patients  using  a  combination  of  ceruloplasmin  values,  urine  copper  values,  presence  of  Kayser-
Fleischer rings, liver copper values and sequelae of copper accumulation. Asymptomatic patients were 
siblings of patients with Wilson’s disease in whom one or more of the laboratory tests confirmed the 
diagnosis.  Patients  were  excluded  from  the  study  if  they  were  unable  to  reliably  comply  with  the 
dosage or other study requirements  or if they were unwilling to provide consent. Female patients of 
childbearing  potential  were  initially  required  to  use  an  acceptable  form  of  contraception.  However, 
after approximately two years of adequate control  of copper in 10  female patients, these restrictions 
were lifted. 
The  maintenance  period  followed  a  period  of  “initial”  therapy  during  which  time  the  copper  levels 
were  reduced  to  subtoxic  amounts.  In  general,  the  period  of  initial  therapy  was  a  minimum  of  two 
months in duration for patients with Wilson’s disease who presented with elevated copper values. 
The duration of zinc therapy was indefinite and lifetime treatment was anticipated unless withdrawal 
was clinically indicated or requested by the patient. 
19/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Patients  were  hospitalised  at  intervals  of  approximately  twelve  months,  at  which  time  neurological 
status  was  assessed,  copper  levels  were  measured  and  haematology,  chemistry  and  urinalysis  was 
performed. Additional visits were scheduled as indicated. 
Urine  samples  were  collected  at  6  monthly  intervals  and  sent  through  the  post  for  copper  and  zinc 
evaluation.  Measures  of  copper  metabolism  that  reflected  the  copper  status  of  the  patient,  and  gave 
advanced  warning  before  the  risk  of  clinical  deterioration,  were  used.  Namely,  copper  balance,  
24-hour  urine  copper,  non-ceruloplasmin  plasma  copper,  blockade  of  absorption  of  orally 
administered 64 copper, and hepatic copper were used as surrogates for the clinical control of Wilson’s 
disease. 
Results 
A total of 148 patients were followed up (Data on the first 86 patients was submitted to the FDA as 
part  of  the  New  Drug  Application  in  1994  and  later  on  a  further  62  patients  as  an  Amendment  in 
1996). The distribution of these patients according to their presentation and their age is shown in the 
table below. Paediatric patients were defined as less than 19 years old. Exactly half of the 148 patients 
were  male.  This  study  population  is  thus  reasonably  representative  of  Wilson’s  disease  patients  on 
maintenance therapy. 
Patient population (main cohort) 
Adult patients 
Paediatric patients 
Total 
Presymptomatic 
27 
4 
Symptomatic 
109 (85 N + 24 H) 
8 (7 N + 1 H) 
Total 
136 
12 
  31 
117 
148 
N: patient with predominantly neurological /psychiatric symptoms 
H: patient with predominantly hepatic symptoms/signs 
17  (11%)  of  the  148  patients  discontinued  zinc  maintenance  therapy.  In  10  cases,  the  patients  were 
discharged by the investigator for being uncooperative. 
therapy. 
In  some  cases 
In the main cohort of 148 patients, 93 (85%) symptomatic adults had already received chelators prior 
to  starting  zinc  maintenance 
tetrathiomolybdate,  
an investigational drug which is only available in the USA and which acts by chelating with copper 
and protein in the gastrointestinal tract to prevent copper absorption and by chelating with copper and 
albumin  in  the  blood  to  decrease  cellular  uptake  of  copper  (Brewer  2000).  It  is  fast  acting  and  was 
favoured  by  Brewer’s  group  for  treating  patients  with  a  neurological/psychiatric  presentation.  
It is usually administered for 8 weeks (Brewer 1996). Most presymptomatic adult patients (63%) were 
treated  immediately  with  zinc,  while  the  remainder  (37%)  received  penicillamine  as  initial  therapy 
before  starting  zinc  maintenance  therapy.  All  symptomatic  paediatric  patients  received  initial  anti-
copper therapy while all presymptomatic paediatric patients were started immediately on zinc. 
included 
this 
Zinc Dose Regimens 
In the main cohort, the vast majority (121/136 [89%]) of the adult patients started on a zinc dose of 
50 mg three times daily, with the remainder starting on a dose of 25 mg three times daily (12 [9%]) or 
50 mg twice daily (3 [2%]). In the 12 paediatric cases, 8 started on 50 mg three times daily and 4 on 
25  mg  three  times  daily.  The  lower  doses  were  used  primarily  in  younger  patients  and  those  with 
lower body weight. 
The mean duration of treatment was 3.2 years in symptomatic adults and 3.1 years in presymptomatic 
adults. 
20/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
Concomitant Anti-copper Therapies 
In  the  main  cohort,  52  of  109  symptomatic  adults  (48%)  received  a  chelator  concomitantly  at  some 
time  during  zinc  maintenance  therapy.  However,  in  most  cases  (48/52),  such  therapy  was  only 
administered during the first year of therapy and usually at the start of maintenance therapy. This was 
particularly the case with tetrathiomolybdate therapy as the 8-week course overlapped with the start of 
zinc therapy. Of the 27 presymptomatic adults, only one patient used concomitant penicillamine over 
the  first  2  years  of  treatment.  In  the  paediatric  patients  three  (symptomatic)  were  still  being  treated 
with tetrathiomolybdate at the start of zinc therapy. 
Outcomes 
Brewer did not define a primary efficacy variable for his study. 
Brewer’s  overall  clinical  impression  of  the  outcomes  in  the  main  cohort  was  that  none  of  the  first  
86  patients  had  progression  of  their  disease  from  copper  toxicity  during  the  follow-up  period. 
Furthermore,  the  outcomes  of  the  next  62  patients  were  considered  to  be  comparable.  However,  a 
more  objective  analysis  of  clinical  progression  can  be  obtained  by  analysing  the  individual  efficacy 
data for all 148 patients. Efficacy was assessed in a number of different ways: 
• 
• 
• 
Effects  on  copper  metabolism  (24  hour  urinary  copper  excretion  and  NCPC  =  Non-
Ceruloplasmin Plasma Copper).  
Effect on speech and neurological function measured on integer scales. 
Effect on liver function tests (liver enzymes, bilirubin and albumin). 
The  measures  of  copper  metabolism  provide  the  best  measure  of  control  of  Wilson’s  disease  since  
24  hour  urinary  copper  excretion  is  invariably  > 100 µg  in  symptomatic  patients,  while  most 
symptomatic  have  a  NCPC  level  >10 µg/dl.  Based  on  Brewer’s  extensive  experience  of  treating 
Wilson’s  disease  patients  with  zinc,  24  hour  urinary  copper  levels  of  ≤  125  µg  and  NCPC  level  
≤ 25  µg/dl  (the  ‘toxic’  thresholds)  indicate  adequate  control  (Brewer  1992).  Therefore,  adequate 
metabolic  control  with  zinc  therapy  has  been  defined  to  be  when  one  or  both  of  these  metabolic 
thresholds  are  attained  at  any  time  during  treatment.  Requiring  both  thresholds  to  be  attained  is  not 
desirable  for  several  reasons.  Firstly,  48%  of  symptomatic  adults  were taking concomitant chelation 
therapy  at  the  initiation  of  zinc  maintenance  therapy  and  chelators  increase  urinary  excretion  of 
copper. Secondly, Brewer has found that some patients can have consistently elevated urinary copper 
levels  over  many  years  despite  normal  NCPC  level  and  no  features  of  clinical  progression  (Brewer 
1992).  Finally,  the  NCPC  level  has  been  found  to  be  rather  variable,  perhaps  because  it  is  derived 
from two biological measurements, namely the total plasma copper level and the ceruloplasmin level 
(Brewer 1992). Loss of metabolic control has been defined as a persistent elevation (on two or more 
consecutive occasions) above the toxic threshold of a variable that was previously well controlled. 
Metabolic Control in Symptomatic Adults 
Of the 109 symptomatic adults in the main cohort, 7 had no data on NCPC or urinary copper and two 
were later found not to have Wilson’s disease but other causes of liver disease. This leaves 100 cases 
which can be evaluated for metabolic control with zinc therapy. Of these evaluable cases, 91 patients 
(91%) exhibited adequate metabolic control within the first year, while another five did so during the 
second year and one did not do so until the fourth year. The remaining three patients were followed 
for 1 year or less and did not achieve adequate metabolic control during that period. Analysis of those 
cases in which metabolic control was not achieved until the second year shows that these patients were 
on  concomitant  tetrathiomolybdate  therapy  for  a  few  weeks  at  the  initiation  of  zinc  treatment.  The 
inadequate  metabolic  control  was  not  associated  with  hepatic  or  neurological  deterioration  in  four 
cases. In two other cases there may have been some degree of hepatic deterioration although there was 
not enough data to confirm this, and in one case suboptimal zinc compliance may have contributed to 
the effect. The three cases of inadequate metabolic control during the first year were not accompanied 
by hepatic or neurological deterioration. Of the patients who were well controlled during the first year, 
control  was  later  lost  in  two  cases.  Analysis  of  these  cases  indicates  that  the  loss  of  control  was 
probably due to poor zinc compliance in both cases. 
21/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Metabolic Control in Presymptomatic Adults 
Of the 27 presymptomatic adults in the main cohort, 4 had no data on NCPC or urinary copper, which 
leaves 23 cases that can be evaluated for metabolic control with zinc therapy. Out of these, 20 patients 
(87%) exhibited adequate metabolic control within the first year, while the 3 last patients did so during 
the second year. Of the patients who were well controlled during the first year, control was later lost in 
one case, probably due to poor zinc compliance. 
Neurological Outcome in Symptomatic and Presymptomatic Patients (main cohort) 
Amongst  the  92  patients  with  a  neurological  presentation  repeated  assessments  of  speech  were 
performed using a scoring system from 0 (normal) to 7 in 46 cases and neurological function using a 
scoring system from 0 (normal) to 38 in 39 cases. Only one patient showed clear deterioration of both 
scores. This patient was started on zinc from the beginning but 7 months later, she was switched on 
trientine  for  8  months  in  view  of  persistently  high  urine  copper  and  neurological  deterioration;  zinc 
was  subsequently  restarted.  In  all  other  patients  scores  were  stable  (sometimes  with  fluctuations)  or 
showed  a  trend  towards  improvement.  It  should  also  be  mentioned  that  no  neurological  symptoms 
appeared  in  the  presymptomatic  patients  while  on  zinc  therapy.  However,  this  cohort  includes  three 
patients  who  were  originally  presymptomatic  and  developed  neurological  symptoms  while  non-
compliant  with  penicillamine;  they  were  later  treated  with  zinc  as  part  as  the  study  and  showed  no 
further deterioration. 
Liver Enzymes 
Judging the significance of elevation in hepatic enzymes is difficult since these may rise transiently in 
Wilson’s disease patients due to incidental stresses (Brewer 1992). However, 11 out of 148 patients in 
the main cohort (9 with a neurological and 2 with a hepatic presentation) showed an increase in ALT 
higher than twice the upper limit of normal without evidence of subsequent normalisation. They had 
normal  pre-treatment  levels  except  for  one  who  had  already  borderline  values  while  on 
tetrathiomolybdate. In six patients, these elevated values were the last data available, after a treatment 
period  of  1  to  6.5  years,  and  it  is  therefore  impossible  to  determine  whether  this  raise  was  only 
transient; in the worst case (228 UI/L) an increase in AST (147 UI/L) was associated. In five patients 
raised  values  were  repeatedly  recorded  over  several  years,  the  first  occurrence  being  observed  after  
1 week (in combination with trientine) to 3 years of treatment. Overall, eight of these 11 patients were 
reported  to  be  non  compliant  or  had  high  urine  copper  levels  whereas  another  patient  was  taking 
antidepressants which could also affect the liver function. 
For effectiveness with regard to mortality and treatment during pregnancy; see clinical safety section. 
• 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Brewer has also published data on 34 paediatric patients (defined as <19 years at the time of starting 
therapy) treated within this study. This publication relates to the 12 patients from the main cohort, plus 
22 further patients.  
Paediatric patient population 
Main cohort  
Published data  
Total 
Presymptomatic 
4 
13 
Symptomatic 
8 (7 N + 1 H) 
9 (3 N + 6H) 
Subtotal 
12 
22 
17 
17 
34 
N: patient with predominantly neurological /psychiatric symptoms 
H: patient with predominantly hepatic symptoms/signs 
Nineteen patients (56%) were male. The age range of patients at study entry was 3.2 to 17.7 years, of 
whom 11 were children (less than 12 years old) and 23 were adolescents (12 to 17 years old). 
22/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the total paediatric cohort of 34 patients, the dosing approach was to treat those under 6 years with 
25 mg zinc twice daily, those aged 6 to 15 years (if under 57 kg) with 25 mg zinc three times daily and 
those aged 16 years or more (or 57 kg or more) with the normal adult dose of 50 mg zinc three times 
daily. The actual dose regimen received by these patients is detailed below. 
Dose regimen in paediatric patients 
Age (years) 
Dose regimen 
25mg x 2  25mg x 3 50mg x 3 
Total
s 
< 12 
12 – 17 
Totals 
2 
2 
8
8
16
1 
15 
16 
11
23
34
Although individual metabolic data are not available for the whole paediatric cohort of 34 patients, it 
is reported that only three of the whole cohort (9%) had 24 hour urinary copper levels > 125 µg and 
that  only  two  amongst  33  of  the  cohort  (6%)  had  NCPC  >  25  µg/dl  within  the  first  year  of 
maintenance therapy (Brewer 2001). Therefore, in the worst case, 31 (91%) of the cohort had adequate 
metabolic control within the first year of zinc maintenance therapy. This figure is comparable with the 
results found in the adult groups. 
A  small  controlled  study  has  compared  the  efficacy  of  zinc  40-137  mg/day  (as  the  sulphate)  in  
2 children (aged 8 and 12 years) with recently diagnosed Wilson’s disease with that of penicillamine 
500-1000 mg/day in another two children (aged 10 and 13) (Cossack and Bouquet 1986). The paper 
does not mention how the patients were allocated to the treatments but the study does seem to have 
been  a  prospective  study  since  a  protocol  was  used  and  consent  was  obtained  from  parents  before 
participation.  Response  to  treatment  was  assessed  using  copper  balance  studies  that  measured  the 
intake and urinary and faecal excretion of copper. After 4 years of zinc treatment, the copper balance 
was  -0.09  and  -0.07  mg/day  while  after  3 years  of  penicillamine  treatment;  it  was  -0.25  and  
-0.12 mg/day. The actual copper balance was clearly more negative than this, given that copper losses 
in  the  sweat  were  not  measured.  Therefore  both  treatments  were  effective  in  achieving  a  negative 
copper balance. 
• 
Supportive studies 
Data supporting the efficacy of Wilzin in treating Wilson’s disease from studies and case reports were 
identified by literature search, in which patients were treated with zinc acetate dihydrate or sulphate, 
alone (monotherapy), with or without previous therapy and on a daily dose of zinc up to 150 mg/day. 
The results from such studies are relevant because the daily dose is as proposed and zinc sulphate is 
most probably bioequivalent to zinc acetate dihydrate. 
Controlled study with zinc sulphate 
Only  one  substantial  controlled  trial  has  been  undertaken  with  zinc  in  Wilson’s  disease  and  this 
employed  the  sulphate  salt  (Czlonkowska  et  al).  This  study  was  conducted  in  a  Neurology  Unit 
between  1980-1992  &  followed  up  67  newly  diagnosed  presymptomatic  (n=11)  and  symptomatic 
patients  (n=56), the majority of whom had a neurological presentation (n=48). The age range of the 
patients  was  not  stated  but  the  mean  age  was  approximately  29  years.  Patients  were  allocated  to 
receive  treatment  with  standard  doses  of  penicillamine  (initially  1-1.5 g/day,  falling  to  0.75-1 g/day, 
n=34) or zinc 136-182 mg/day, n=33 (as the sulphate). Treatment allocation was alternate in principle 
but was at the discretion of the investigator. The maximum dose of zinc used in this study was slightly 
higher  than  that  proposed  for  WILZIN  (150 mg/day),  but  this  is  unlikely  to  result  in  significant 
additional  efficacy  since,  as  shown  by  the dose-response study, a dose regime of 50  mg three  times 
daily  is  effective  in  correcting  copper  metabolism.  Patients  were  permitted  to  switch  to  the  other 
treatment during the study in the case of intolerance or inefficacy. At baseline, the two groups were 
similar  in  terms of age, duration of condition and  clinical presentation, although  more  patients were 
23/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
presymptomatic in the zinc group (8 versus 3). The effect of treatment with penicillamine and zinc is 
shown in the table below. 
Functional 
outcome 
Asymptomatic 
Improved 
On-treatment 
Intention to treat 
D-PEN (n=19)  Zn (n=29) 
D-PEN (n=34) 
Zn (n=33) 
7 [37% (16-
61)] 
6 [32% (12-
56)] 
11 [38% (20-
54)] 
12 [42% (26-
61)] 
13 [38% (22-
56)] 
14 [41% (25-
60)] 
12 [36% (20-54)] 
15 [45% (28-56)] 
Not changed 
1 [5% (0-26)] 
3 [10% (0-27)] 
1 [3% (0-15)] 
- 
Deteriorated 
2 [10% (0-33)] 
- 
3 [9% (0-24)] 
2a [6% (0-19)] 
Dead 
3 [15% (0-39)]  3 [10% (0-27)] 
3 [9% (0-24)] 
4 [13% (0-28)] 
Results given as number, percentage and 95% confidence interval in parentheses 
a  severe  deterioration  of  neurological  status  was  observed  in  one  case,  soon  after  initiation  of  Zn 
therapy 
Six symptomatic patients in each group either deteriorated clinically or died, which can be considered 
as lack of efficacy. All 7 patients who died (except for one) were diagnosed in a very advanced stage 
of  the  disease.  Severe  deterioration  of  neurological  status  was  observed  in  only  one  case  soon  after 
initiation of zinc therapy. However, many more patients switched from penicillamine to zinc (10 due 
to  side  effects  and  5  due  to  a  lack  of  improvement)  than  vice  versa  (2  due  to  side  effects,  
1  deterioration  and  1  lack  of  improvement)  (p  <  0.003).  Efficacy  is  therefore  better  judged  by 
considering  only  those  patients  who  continued  on  the  same  therapy  throughout  the  study  
(on-treatment analysis). A similar favourable clinical outcome was shown in the two groups with 79% 
of the patients  (23/29) in  the  zinc group  and 68% of  the  patients (13/19) in the penicillamine group 
who  remained  asymptomatic  or  improved.  However,  the  mean  duration  of  treatment  in  the 
penicillamine  group  was  longer  than  in the zinc group (6.3 versus  3.8 years, respectively), although 
the  authors  offered  no  explanation.    This  controlled  clinical  study  gives  some  evidence  that  the 
outcome of a therapy with zinc (irrespective of the salt used) in Wilson’s disease is comparable to that 
of a therapy with penicillamine. 
Uncontrolled Studies with Zinc Sulphate  
Hoogenraad  (1987  &  2001)  has  reported  on  the  use  of  zinc  sulphate  as  the  sole  therapy,  in  the 
treatment  of  50  presymptomatic  and  symptomatic  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease,  including  some 
children,  in  the  Netherlands  up  to  1995.  The  dosages  used  were  150-1200  mg/day,  in  three  divided 
doses.  This  is  equivalent  to  34-272 mg  zinc,  the  upper  end  of  which  is  significantly  more  than 
proposed  for  Wilzin.  However,  data  on  individual  patients  are  available  and  so  the  demographic 
characteristics,  previous  treatments,  dose  and  duration  of  zinc  therapy  and  clinical  outcomes  in  the  
28  patients  who  received  no  more  than  150  mg/day  of  zinc  can  be  examined.  The  28  evaluable 
patients  comprised  15  symptomatic  adults  (aged  19  years  or  more),  5  presymptomatic  adults,  and  
4 each of presymptomatic and symptomatic paediatric cases. Nineteen patients (68%) had previously 
been on penicillamine therapy, which had been stopped in some cases due to intolerance, whereas the 
remaining patients (32%) had not previously been treated. The overall mean duration of zinc therapy 
was 9.1 years (median 6.5 years). Twenty-four patients (86%) were on a zinc dose of 136 mg/day at 
the time when outcomes were assessed, the remainder being on lower doses. At the assessment point 
in  1995,  a  total  of  23  patients  (82%)  had  responded  well  to  zinc  therapy  (stabilised,  improved, 
asymptomatic).  The  other  five  patients  all  died,  but  only  after  a  median  of  6  years  (range  <1  to 
12 years).  This  gives  a  mortality  rate  of  5/28  (18%)  over  a  mean  follow-up  period  of  9.1  years.  
24/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All of these patients had cirrhosis at presentation and all of them died as a consequence of liver disease 
(liver  failure  and/or  after  a  variceal  haemorrhage).  In  one  case,  the  patient  had  changed  back  to 
penicillamine due to worsening of liver failure after an operation. No death occurred in patients with 
neurological symptoms. NCPC levels are available for nine of the above patients 10 years before the 
latest  assessment  of  clinical  outcomes  (i.e.  1985),  after  a  mean  of  8  years  treatment  (median  
3 years) (Hoogenraad 1987). In all cases NCPC was normal (≤ 10 mg/dl). 
In  another  uncontrolled  study,  five  patients  aged  14-29  years  (two  under  19  years  old)  with 
symptomatic  Wilson’s  disease  received  50  mg  zinc  (as  the  sulphate)  three  times  daily  following 
previous  penicillamine  therapy,  which  had  been  stopped  in  three  cases  because  of  intolerance 
(Rossaro  1990).  After  a  mean  treatment  duration  with  zinc  of  3.5  years  (range  1.5  to  7  years),  all 
patients  were either clinically improved (4 cases) or clinically stable  (1 case), i.e. a response rate of 
100%. In all cases 24 h urinary copper excretions normalised. 
Case reports 
Case reports have been identified for 17 patients who have been treated with zinc sulphate (16 cases) 
or zinc acetate dihydrate (1 case) at daily zinc doses within, or less than, that proposed for Wilzin. 
Amongst the 10 adult cases, 8 of whom had previously been treated with penicillamine, clinical and 
copper metabolic changes were reported in all but one case. In six of the nine evaluable cases, patients 
either  improved  or  were  stable  on  zinc  therapy.  Two  other  patients  deteriorated  soon  after  zinc 
initiation: acute hepatitis in a presymptomatic patient (with only raised transaminases) who recovered 
on penicillamine (Castilla-Higuero 2000) and hepatic failure with fatal neurological deterioration in an 
asymptomatic patient who had been treated with repeated courses of penicillamine (10 years in total) 
but had stopped any therapy for the preceding 3 years (Lang 1993). A third patient, who had been on a 
low daily dose of 50 mg of zinc for 3 years, lost adequate copper control and developed jaundice due 
to acute haemolysis (Shimon 1993). 
Amongst  the  seven  paediatric  cases  (age  range  at  start  of  zinc  therapy  4-16 years),  5  of  whom  had 
previously  been  treated  with  chelators,  clinical  and  copper  metabolic  changes  were  reported  in  all 
cases. All patients either improved or were stable on zinc therapy. The report of an increased hepatic 
copper  level  in  one  case  (Walshe  1984)  is  not  indicative  of  a  metabolic  deterioration,  since  zinc  is 
thought to have this effect by inducing hepatic metallothionein. 
Therefore,  case  studies  from  the  literature  confirm  that  most  patients  (81%)  exhibit  clinical 
stabilisation or improvement, so long as an adequate dose is used. 
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  efficacy  goal  of  lifelong  maintenance  anticopper  therapy  is  to  slowly  deplete  the  body's  excess 
copper  and  to  prevent  the  reaccumulation  of  copper,  thereby  preventing  further  copper  toxicity. 
Evidence  for  the  efficacy  of  zinc  in  the  proposed  dose  regime  as  maintenance  therapy  in  Wilson’s 
disease is provided by the data accumulated for more than 40 years of use, first in the Netherlands and 
later  in  the  US  and  other  European  countries.  Overall,  efficacy  data  is  available  for  255  patients,  
191 symptomatic and 64 presymptomatic patients. 
Although  the  section  on  clinical  efficacy  deviates  from  usual  standards  (e.g.  lack  of  well  controlled 
dose-finding studies, pivotal study non-controlled, only descriptive statistics where indicated), there is 
clear evidence that zinc acetate dihydrate is effective in patients with Wilson’s disease. 
Brewer's  study,  which  constitutes  the  pivotal  study,  as  well  as  supportive  studies  from  literature, 
demonstrates the efficacy of zinc treatment based on: 
• 
Reduction of urine copper which reflects the reduction of the body load of copper; decrease in 
non ceruloplasmin (free) plasma copper, which is the potentially toxic copper in the blood; 
Stabilisation  or  improvement  of  the  clinical  symptoms  and  liver  function  tests  in  most 
symptomatic cases; 
Prevention of the occurrence of clinical signs/symptoms in presymptomatic patients; 
Data survival as compared to the natural history of the disease 
• 
• 
• 
25/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
These  data  establish  efficacy  of  Wilzin  in  symptomatic  patients  who  have  been  decoppered  by 
chelating treatment and whose disease has stabilised, and, in presymptomatic patients without previous 
chelating treatment. 
When  switching  a  patient  on  chelating  treatment  to  Wilzin  for  maintenance  therapy,  the  chelating 
treatment should be maintained and co-administered for 2 to 3 weeks since this is the time it takes for 
the  zinc  treatment  to  induce  maximum  metallothionein  induction  and  full  blockade  of  copper 
absorption. 
No data support the use of combination therapy in the initial treatment phase of symptomatic Wilson’s 
disease patients exists (except for very severe cases). 
In principle, zinc acetate dihydrate is not recommended for the initial therapy of symptomatic patients 
because  of  its  slow  onset  of  action;  symptomatic  patients  must  be  initially  treated  with  a  chelating 
agent and once copper levels are below toxic thresholds and patients are clinically stable, maintenance 
treatment with Wilzin can be considered. 
Nevertheless,  while  awaiting  zinc  induced  duodenal  metallothionein  production  and  consequential 
effective  inhibition  of  copper  absorption,  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  could  be  administered  initially  in 
symptomatic patients in combination with a chelating agent. 
Considering  the  fact  that  patients  with  Wilson's  disease  are  generally  treated  at  specialist  centres by 
physicians  with  experience  and  expertise  in  this  area,  then  it  was  agreed  that  the  more  general term 
"treatment of Wilson's disease" was the most appropriate indication. 
Adequate  metabolic  control  was  also  obtained  in  the  paediatric  cohort.  Data  are  very  limited  in 
children  under  6  years  but  since  the  disease  is  fully  penetrant,  prophylactic  treatment  should  be 
considered as early as possible. The recommended dosage is as follows: 
The  recommended  posologies  in  adults  (50 mg  x  3  to  x  5  daily),  children  or  adolescents  from  1-6 
years (25 mg x 2 daily), from 6-16 years if bodyweight under 57 kg (25 mg x 3 daily) from 16 years or 
bodyweight above 57 kg (50 mg x 3 daily) and in pregnant women are in line with the posologies used 
in  the  pivotal  study.  In  all  cases,  dosage  should  be  adjusted  according  to  therapeutic  monitoring.  
The aim of the treatment is to maintain the plasma free copper below 250 microgram/l (normal: 100-
150 microgram/l)  and 
< 50 microgram/24 h). 
the  urinary  copper  excretion  below  125 microgram/24 h 
(normal:  
Applicant’s own generated data, together with the published literature, are sufficient to fulfil normal 
dossier  requirements  and  the  application  can  be  considered  a  full  ‘mixed’  application  in  accordance 
with art. 8 (3) and Annex I part II.7 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. 
Clinical safety 
• 
Patient exposure 
The  extent  of  exposure  to  zinc  (as  the  acetate  or  sulphate)  in  clinical  studies  and  case  studies  in 
Wilson’s  disease  at  daily  doses  similar  to  that  proposed  in  the  SPC  are  summarised  in  the  tables 
below. 
26/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zinc exposure in Brewer’s uncontrolled study with zinc acetate dihydrate 
Patient group 
N 
Daily dose 
of zinc 
(mg) 
Mean 
duration of 
zinc therapy 
(years) 
Patient-years 
of zinc 
therapy 
Symptomatic adults 
75-150 
Presymptomatic adults 
75-150 
Paediatric patients 
All patients 
50-150 
50-150 
109 
  27 
  34 
170 
3.2 
3.1 
3.6 
3.2 
345 
  83 
121 
549 
Zinc exposure in adults in other studies and case reports using zinc sulphate1 
Source 
Daily dose 
of zinc 
(mg) 
Czlonskowska 1996 
136-182 
Hoogenraad 2001 
68-136 
Rossaro 1990 
Case studies 
All patients 
150 
45-150 
45-182 
N 
33 
20 
3 
10 
66 
Mean 
duration of 
zinc therapy 
(years) 
Patient-years 
of zinc 
therapy 
4.6 
10.2 
2.6 
1.6 
5.8 
152 
204 
8 
16 
380 
1Except that zinc acetate dihydrate was used in one case report 
Zinc exposure in paediatric patients (< 19 years old) in other studies and case reports 
using zinc sulphate 
Source 
Daily dose 
of zinc 
(mg) 
Hoogenraad 2001 
34-136 
Rossaro 1990 
150 
Case studies 
40-150 
N 
8 
2 
9 
All patients 
34-150 
19 
Mean 
duration of 
zinc therapy 
(years) 
Patient-years 
of zinc 
therapy 
6.5 
4.4 
3.8 
5.0 
52 
9 
34 
95 
In Brewer’s study on zinc acetate dihydrate a total of 170 patients were treated for 549 patient-years. 
In  addition,  a  further  66  adults  were  treated  with  zinc  (as  the  sulphate  in  65  cases)  for  a  total  of  
380 patient-years, and a further 19 paediatric cases were treated with zinc (as the sulphate) for a total 
of 95 patient-years. In all of these cases, the daily dose of zinc used was within the range proposed in 
the summary of product characteristics (SPC). 
Therefore, a total of 255 patients with Wilson’s disease have been treated with zinc salts at daily doses 
very similar to those proposed in the SPC for a total of 1024 patients-years. This includes a significant 
exposure in paediatric cases of 53 patients for a total of 216 patient-years. 
27/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
It is estimated that since GALZIN was marketed in the USA, a further 1045 patient-years of exposure 
has occurred. 
• 
Adverse events  
Adverse  events  occurring  during  the  use  of  zinc  salts  in  maintenance  therapy  for  Wilson’s  disease 
have only been systematically reported in Brewer’s study with zinc acetate dihydrate in 170 patients. 
Adverse events were reported in 27 of these patients, the most common being gastric irritation, which 
was reported in 15 cases (8.8%). This effect was considered to be treatment related, but was usually 
confined to the first morning dose and was minimised by a change in the timing of the first daily dose 
to  mid-morning  or  co-administration  with  food.  However,  of  the  11  patients  who  reported  gastric 
irritation within Brewer’s main cohort of 148 patients, 10 had started on a zinc dose of 50 mg three 
times daily out of a total of 129 patients on this dose, i.e. 7.8%. 
In contrast, the other patient had started on a zinc dose of 25 mg three times daily, out of a total of  
16 patients in this dose, i.e. 6.3%. Although, these data are consistent with gastric irritation not being 
dose related, the possibility of a dose relationship cannot be excluded, given that so few patients were 
exposed to the lower dose of zinc. 
The next most common adverse events reported in this study were weight loss (4) and pneumonia (3). 
However, in the case of weight loss, two sibling patients also suffered from multiple sclerosis and in 
another  case  the  patient  was  severely  disabled  with  Wilson’s  disease.  This  leaves  only  one  case  of 
weight  loss  that  cannot  be  otherwise  explained.  Among  the  three  cases  of  pneumonia,  two occurred 
during institutionalisation and one was an aspiration pneumonia due to dysphagia. 
The only other adverse event reported in more than one patient was fatal accidents. One patient died in 
a road accident and another died in a drowning accident. All other adverse events were reported only 
once. 
Therefore, gastric irritation is the only adverse event for which there is good evidence of a causal link 
to zinc. 
Adverse Events in Conditions other than Wilson’s disease:  
In a study on elderly patients (mean age 71-72 years) with venous leg ulcers, the tolerability profile of 
zinc at daily doses of 150 mg (as the sulphate) in 27 subjects was compared with that in 29 patients 
treated with placebo using alternate allocation (Tschumi and Floersheim 1981). The two groups were 
comparable demographically and in terms of current illnesses at baseline. Over 3 months, no adverse 
effects were attributed to zinc therapy and haematological, renal and hepatic laboratory variables were 
not clinically significantly different between the groups. 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the pivotal study, the rate of death was 6 out of 170 patients (3.5%) treated with zinc and 5 out of 
168  patients  (3%)  who  had  Wilson’s  disease.  The  causes  of  death  were  related  to  intercurrent  or 
residual Wilson's diseases. No adverse events were reported as ‘serious’ in this study. However, other 
than the cases of death discussed above, one case each of variceal bleeding secondary to underlying 
cirrhosis  and  HIV  diagnosis  would  probably  be  considered  serious  but  are  unlikely  to  be  related  to 
zinc therapy. 
In the comparative study of zinc sulphate versus penicillamine in 67 patients with Wilson’s disease, 
the death rate was the same in both groups (4 versus 3 cases), and there is indication that these deaths 
were  the  result  of  disease  progression  in  patients  diagnosed  in  a  very  advanced  stage  (Czlonkowska 
1996).  However,  one  patient  developed  severe  anaemia  caused  by  bone  marrow  depression  after  
2 years of zinc therapy; she also had a very low level of total serum copper at that time. She recovered 
after symptomatic treatment and was switched to penicillamine.  
In the cohort of 28 patients followed by Hoogenraad, five patients with liver cirrhosis at presentation 
died from complication of their liver disease (Hoogenraad 2001). 
28/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Therefore, there is no evidence from clinical studies with zinc acetate dihydrate or sulphate in patients 
with  Wilson’s  disease  that  zinc  caused  any  serious  adverse  event  apart  from  haematological 
complications secondary to excessive decoppering. 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Haematological Effects 
In the study by Brewer in 170 patients with Wilson’s disease, no case of anaemia or leucopenia was 
reported  and  no  trend  in  mean  levels  of  haemoglobin,  white  cells  or  platelets  was  found  during  the 
study. A few isolated low values of haemoglobin in females have been attributed to heavy menstrual 
bleeding and low values of WBC and platelets counts have been attributed to hypersplenism. 
Only two cases of anaemia/leucopenia were reported in the literature: one of which has already been 
described (Czlonkowska 1996); and the other is a boy who started zinc at the age of 14 years (45 mg 
three times daily as the sulphate) and developed microcytic anaemia and neutropenia 12 months later, 
in  association  with  copper  deficiency  (low  serum  and  urine  copper);  he  recovered rapidly following 
transient  reduction  of  the  daily  dose  of  zinc  (Alexiou  1985).  This  emphasises  the  need  for  careful 
monitoring of the copper metabolism during long-term zinc therapy. 
With  zinc  supplementation  becoming  popular  among  the  general  public  it  was  recognised  that 
ingestion  of  zinc,  even  at  daily  doses  less  than  150  mg,  can  cause  bone  marrow  depression  with 
leucopenia (especially neutropenia) and anaemia. This has been attributed to copper deficiency rather 
than zinc toxicity and low levels of serum copper and ceruloplasmin were detected in all these cases. 
Full recovery was obtained after discontinuation of zinc and sometimes copper supplementation (Fiske 
1994). 
Anaemia may be micro-, normo- or macrocytic and is often associated with leucopenia. Bone marrow 
examination usually reveals hypocellularity, cytoplasmic vacuolisation of both myeloid and erythroid 
precursors,  and  characteristic  "ringed  sideroblasts"  (i.e.  developing  red  blood  cells  containing  iron-
engorged  paranuclear  mitochondria).  A  number  of  mechanisms  have  been  postulated  to  explain 
anaemia and neutropenia. Low levels of ceruloplasmin and cytochrome oxidase, a copper-dependent 
enzyme  involved  in  heme  synthesis,  may  impair  iron  mobilisation,  mitochondrial  transport  and 
utilisation  (Porea  2000).  An  interference  with  the  gastrointestinal  absorption  of  iron  is  less  likely 
because iron deficiency is usually not reported. 
Cases  of  sideroblastic  anaemia  have  also  been  reported  with  penicillamine  and  trientine;  copper 
deficiency is one of the likely mechanisms. However, other mechanisms may be involved explaining 
why haematological toxicity is more frequent, especially with penicillamine, such as iron deficiency, 
pyridoxine  antagonism  and  hypersensitivity; 
fatal  aplastic  anaemia,  agranulocytosis  and 
thrombocytpenia  have  been  reported  with  penicillamine  (Walshe  1982,  US  Prescribing  Information 
for Trientine and Penicillamine). 
Clearly, patients with Wilson’s disease having a systemic excess of copper are less at risk of copper 
deficiency, which explains why anaemia is so rare with zinc therapy. 
It has also been reported that large doses of zinc (300 mg/day) over 6 weeks can impair lymphocyte 
and neutrophil function in healthy men (Chandra 1984). There is, therefore, a theoretical concern that 
long-term  treatment  with  zinc  could  cause  suppression  of  the  immune  system  and  increased 
susceptibility  to  infection.  However,  lymphocyte  function  was  not  found  to  be  impaired  in  
11 Wilson’s disease patients from Brewer’s study who were treated with zinc 150 mg/day for at least 5 
years, compared with healthy control subjects (Brewer 1997). 
Pancreatic Effects 
In  an  early  group  of  patients  from  Brewer’s  study,  therapeutic  doses  of  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  were 
found  to  cause  elevations  of  serum  levels  of  the  pancreatic  enzymes,  lipase,  amylase,  alkaline 
phosphatase to slightly above the normal range after a few weeks of treatment, which returned to the 
high  normal  range  after  about  1  year.  Although  suggesting  pancreatitis,  these  changes  were  not 
accompanied by any clinical symptoms of pancreatitis or cholestasis and they are thought to be due to 
a benign induction of the enzymes in the pancreas and liver (Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan 1989). The data from 
all  170  patients  for  whom  data  was  available  confirm  that  zinc  therapy  is  associated  with  a  rise  in 
29/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
levels of lipase, amylase and alkaline phosphatase to the upper limit of the normal range over the first 
year. Levels then appear to decrease slightly over subsequent years. 
Furthermore, although the amylase and lipase levels of two patients with Wilson’s disease who were 
given  very  high,  supratherapeutic  doses  of  zinc  (200  mg  four  times  daily)  for  10  days,  increased 
markedly, levels had returned to normal on follow up 6 months later, and no symptoms of pancreatitis 
were  reported.  In  addition,  when  rats  were  administered  up  to  25  times  the  therapeutic  dose  of  zinc 
acetate on a weight-for-weight basis for 2 months, no lesions of the pancreas were found. This effect 
of  zinc  therefore  seems  to  be  due  to  benign  induction  of  the  enzymes,  given  that  human  alkaline 
phosphatase  is  a  known  zinc  metalloenzyme  and,  in  bacteria  at  least,  so  are  amylase  and 
phospholipase (Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan 1989). 
Liver Enzymes 
Judging the significance of elevation in hepatic enzymes is difficult since these may rise transiently in 
Wilson’s disease patients due to incidental stresses (Brewer 1992). However, 11 out of 148 patients in 
the main cohort (9 with a neurological and 2 with a hepatic presentation) showed an increase in ALT 
higher than twice the upper limit of normal without evidence of subsequent normalisation. They had 
normal  pre-treatment  levels  except  for  one  who  had  already  borderline  values  while  on 
tetrathiomolybdate. In six patients, these elevated values were the last data available, after a treatment 
period  of  1  to  6.5  years,  and  it  is  therefore  impossible  to  determine  whether  this  raise  was  only 
transient; in the worst case (228 UI/L) an increase in AST (147 UI/L) was associated. In five patients, 
raised  values  were  repeatedly  recorded  over  several  years,  the  first  occurrence  being  observed  after  
1 week (in combination with trientine) to 3 years of treatment. Overall, eight of these 11 patients were 
reported  to  be  non  compliant  or  had  high  urine  copper  levels,  whereas  another  patient  was  taking 
antidepressants which could also affect liver function. 
Blood Lipid Effects 
There have been some reports in literature that treatment with zinc at doses of 50-300 mg/day causes a 
reduction  in  high  density  lipoprotein  (HDL)  cholesterol  in  males  but  not  females  (Hooper  1980; 
Freedland-Graves 1982; Chandra 1984; Black 1988). This observation raises a potential concern that 
long-term treatment with zinc could be atherogenic. 
This  issue  has  been  investigated  in  detail  in  a  subset  of  11  female  and  13  male  Wilson’s  disease 
patients  from  Brewer’s  study  (Brewer  1991).  A  statistically  significant  reduction  in total cholesterol 
(by about 10%) and in HDL cholesterol (by about 20%) was observed over a mean treatment period of 
about 2 years, but only in males. There were no statistically significant changes in either variable in 
females, or in triglyceride, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels or the ratio of total cholesterol to 
HDL-cholesterol in either sex. Since the latter ratio is an overall measure of cardiovascular risk, taking 
into  account  deleterious  effects  of  a  low  HDL-cholesterol  and  the  beneficial  effect  of  a  low  total 
cholesterol,  the  overall  cardiovascular  risk  in  both  sexes  was  not  altered  by  zinc  therapy.  
This was later confirmed in the whole adult cohort of Brewer's study. 
However,  in  the  paediatric  cohort  from  Brewer’s  study,  the  mean  HDL/total  cholesterol  ratio 
decreased  by  about  10%  from  0.295  to  0.267  (p=0.004)  during  the  first  year  of  zinc  maintenance 
therapy  (Brewer  2001).  Although  these  effects  are  modest  and  probably  without  cardiovascular 
consequence at this age, they may indicate some degree of copper deficiency due to over treatment, as 
these results are similar to those found in animals or humans depleted of copper (Klevay 2001). 
Renal function 
There were no notable changes in mean levels of, or clinically significant changes in, serum creatinine, 
blood urea nitrogen, and urinary protein levels in Brewer’s study. 
30/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Use in Pregnancy and Lactation 
The  available  data  on  the  use  of  zinc  salts  during  pregnancy  in  patients  with  Wilson’s  disease 
comprise  42  pregnancies  in  25  patients  from  Brewer’s  study  with  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  (Brewer 
2000)  and  Hoogenraad’s  study  with  zinc  sulphate (Hoogenraad 2001). No other cases of the use of 
zinc therapy for Wilson’s disease during pregnancy have been found in the literature. 
In  Brewer’s  group  of  19  patients  (7  presymptomatic,  8  with  neurological,  3  with  hepatic,  1  with 
unknown presentation) 30 pregnancies resulted in four miscarriages  and 26 live births. Zinc therapy 
was  used  throughout  gestation  in  all  except  two  cases,  in  which  it  was started in  the second  month.  
At the end of gestation, zinc was administered at the daily dose of 25-75 mg in most cases (62%); in 
31%  of  the  cases  the  daily  dose  was  maintained  at  150  mg  and  in  2  cases  (8%)  the  dose  had  to  be 
increased  to  200  mg.  Two  infants  from  these  26  pregnancies  had  a  congenital  abnormality: 
microcephaly,  which  resulted  in  death  one  hour  after  birth  and  a  correctable  heart  defect  which 
required surgery at 6 months of age. It is of interest to note that a low serum copper concentration in 
pregnant  women  during  midgestation  is  a  risk  factor  for  anencephaly  (Buamah  1984)  and  that  both 
mothers had relatively low levels of copper in urine and blood. 
In Hoogenraad’s group of 6 patients with 12 pregnancies, all patients were treated with 136-205 mg of 
zinc daily in three divided doses. One pregnancy ended with a miscarriage, 10 with normal live births 
and in one case the foetus died at 28 weeks gestation when the patient, who had portal hypertension, 
died of variceal haemorrhage. In this last case, no assessment of the effect of zinc therapy was made. 
Pooling  data  from  these  two  studies:  from  a  total  of  42  pregnancies,  36  resulted  in  live  births,  
5 in miscarriages (11.9%) and one was prematurely ended because of maternal death. Of 36 live births 
there  were  two  cases  with  congenital  abnormalities  (5.6%).  The  miscarriage  rate  is  similar  to  that 
experienced in the general population of 10-15%. The rate of major congenital abnormalities may be 
somewhat  higher  than  that  found  in  the  general  population  of  about  2-4%,  although  this  cannot  be 
confirmed because of the very small sample size. 
Zinc  is  known  to  appear  in  breast  milk  in  humans  (Byczkowski  1994;  Krachler  1999)  and  so  zinc-
induced copper deficiency could develop in breast-fed babies. 
Hepatic impairment: 
Patients with cirrhosis (as in Wilson’s disease) tend to have reduced plasma levels of zinc when given 
therapeutically. It is therefore unlikely that therapeutic doses of zinc will accumulate in such patients, 
and such accumulation has not been noted in the studies performed on Wilson’s disease patients, most 
of whom have some degree of cirrhosis. 
Two  patients  of  a  series  of  16  died  from  hepatic  decompensation  and  advanced  portal  hypertension 
after being changed from penicillamine to zinc therapy. Therefore caution should be exercised when 
switching patients with portal hypertension from a chelating agent to Wilzin, when such patients are 
doing well and the treatment is tolerated.  
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Possible interactions of zinc acetate dihydrate with other medicines  do not seem to be relevant with 
respect to safety issues. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Only one patient is known to have discontinued therapy due to an adverse event in Brewers study of 
zinc acetate dihydrate as maintenance therapy in 170 patients with Wilson’s disease. This was due to 
nausea  in  a  patient  with  gastric  irritation  due  to  the  zinc  therapy.  This  is  a  very  low  rate  of 
discontinuation due to intolerance (<1%). 
31/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the larger of the controlled studies in which zinc sulphate (at zinc doses similar to those proposed in 
the SPC) was compared with penicillamine (at standard doses) in 67 patients with Wilson’s disease, 
adverse  events  causing  treatment  discontinuation  were  also  systematically  reported  (Czlonkowska 
1996). Overall, the discontinuation rate due to adverse events was clearly greater with penicillamine 
than zinc sulphate (2/33 [6%]). The causes of these discontinuations were and abdominal pain (1 case) 
and anaemia (1 case) with zinc sulphate. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
GALZIN has been marketed by Teva Pharmaceuticals in the USA since March 1997 as maintenance 
treatment in Wilson’s disease for patients who have previously been treated with chelating agents.  
Based on the sales up to the end of 2001 and assuming that 50 mg and 25 mg capsules are used in the 
recommended  dosage  regimes,  an  exposure  to  about  1045 patient-years  of  treatment  has  been 
estimated. During this period, Teva received no reports of serious adverse events and reports of non-
serious adverse events in only four patients, as follows: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hallucinations likely due the progression of Wilson’s disease. 
Dyspepsia and severe lower abdominal cramps with nausea and vomiting after increased dose to 
50 mg t.i.d. 
Burning in throat followed by cough after taking GALZIN for an unclear indication (probably 
part of a wide range of nutritional supplements used by the patient).  
Anaemia and two large bleeding gastric ulcers. 
No ADR report was received in 2002 and there was one report of nausea and vomiting in 2003.  
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Available studies and case reports detail a total of 255 patients who have been treated with zinc acetate 
dihydrate  or  sulphate  at  daily  doses  very  similar  to  those  proposed  in  the  SPC  for  a  total  of  1024 
patients-years. This includes a significant exposure in paediatric cases of 53 patients for a total of 216 
patient-years.  In  addition,  it  is  estimated  that  since  GALZIN  was  marketed  in  the  USA  a  further 
1045 patient-years  of  exposure  has  occurred.  For  an  orphan  indication,  this  represents  a  substantial 
body of experience. 
Despite  this  substantial  exposure,  the  only  adverse  event  that  has  been  consistently  (less  than  10%) 
associated  with  the  use  of  zinc  salts  is  gastric  intolerance  and  this  rarely  leads  to  treatment 
discontinuation.  The  four  manifestations  of  digestive  intolerance,  which  have  been  reported  post-
marketing  and  may  be  related  to  zinc,  represent  a  very  low  reporting  rate  of  adverse  events  in  the 
context of over 1000 patient-years of treatment. 
Overtreatment  carries  the  risk  of  copper  deficiency,  which  is  especially  harmful  for  children  and 
pregnant women. 
Elevations  of  serum  alkaline  phosphatase,  amylase  and  lipase  may  occur  after  a  few  weeks  of 
treatment, with levels usually returning to high normal within the first one or two years of treatment. 
In  addition  to  copper  monitoring,  laboratory  follow-up  including  haematological  surveillance  and 
lipoproteins  determination  should  be  performed  to  detect  early  manifestations  of  copper  deficiency, 
such as anaemia and/or leukopenia, and decrease in HDL cholesterol and HDL/total cholesterol ratio. 
Non-clinical reproduction toxicology studies performed with different zinc salts showed no evidence 
of embryotoxicity, foetotoxicity or teratogenicity. Data on a limited number of exposed pregnancies in 
patients  with  Wilson’s  disease  give  no  indication  of  harmful  effects  of  zinc  on  embryo/foetus  and 
mother.  Wilzin  should  only  be  used  during  pregnancy  when  clearly  necessary.  It  is  extremely 
important  that  pregnant  Wilson’s  disease  patients  continue  their  therapy  during  pregnancy.  
Which  treatment  should  be  used,  zinc  or  chelating  agent  should  be  decided  by  the  physician.  
Dose adjustments to guarantee that the foetus will not become copper deficient must be done and close 
monitoring of the patient is mandatory. 
32/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
 
Breast-feeding  should  be  avoided  during  Wilzin  therapy  because  zinc-induced  copper  deficiency  in 
the breast-fed baby may occur.  
Applicant’s  own  generated  data,  together  with  the  published  literature,  are  sufficient  to  fulfil 
requirements as set out in the Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended.. 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable.  At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion  there 
were some outstanding quality issues which were not deemed to have any impact on the benefit/risk 
profile.  Thus,  the  applicant  committed  to  provide  the  necessary  information  as  follow-up  measures 
within  an  agreed  timeframe,  and  to  submit  variations  if  required  following  the  evaluation  of  this 
additional information. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Preclinical studies have been conducted with zinc acetate and with other zinc salts. Pharmacological 
and  toxicological  data  available  showed  large  similarities  between  zinc  salts  and  among  animal 
species.  The  weight  of  evidence,  from  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  tests,  suggests  that  zinc  has  no  clinically 
relevant  genotoxic  activity.  Reproduction  toxicology  studies  performed  with  different  zinc  salts 
showed  no  clinically  relevant  evidence  of  teratogenicity.  No  conventional  carcinogenicity  study  has 
been conducted with zinc acetate dihydrate, but considering the absence of relevant genotoxic effects 
and the long-term clinical experience, such studies are not considered necessary. 
Efficacy 
Wilson's disease (hepatolenticular degeneration) is an autosomal recessive metabolic defect in hepatic 
excretion of copper in the bile. 
The  active  moiety  in  zinc  acetate  dihydrate  is  zinc  cation,  which  blocks  the  intestinal  absorption  of 
copper  from  the  diet  and  the  reabsorption  of  endogenously  secreted  copper.  Zinc  induces  the 
production  of  metallothionein  in  the  enterocyte,  a  protein  that  binds  copper  thereby  preventing  its 
transfer into  the blood. The  bound  copper is then eliminated in the stool following desquamation of 
the intestinal cells. 
The  efficacy  goal  of  lifelong  maintenance  anticopper  therapy  is  to  slowly  deplete  the  body's  excess 
copper and to prevent the reaccumulation of copper, thereby preventing further copper toxicity. 
Wilzin in three administrations was shown to be effective in significantly reducing copper absorption 
and inducing a negative copper balance. 
Brewer's study as well as supportive studies from literature demonstrates the efficacy of zinc treatment 
by  ensuring  copper  balance,  improving  clinical  symptoms  and  liver  function  tests  in  most 
symptomatic  cases,  and,  preventing  the  occurrence  of  clinical  signs/symptoms  in  presymptomatic 
patients. Adequate metabolic control was also obtained in the paediatric cohort.  
Dosage  should  be  adjusted  according  to  therapeutic  monitoring.  The  aim  of  the  treatment  is  to 
maintain  the  plasma  free  copper  below  250 microgram/l  and  the  urinary  copper  excretion  below 
125 microgram/24 h.  Wilzin  treatment  should  be  initiated  under  the  supervision  of  a  physician 
experienced in the treatment of Wilson’s disease. 
Safety 
The only adverse event that has been consistently (less than 10%) associated with the use of zinc salts 
is  gastric  intolerance  and  this  rarely  leads  to  treatment  discontinuation.  Laboratory  monitoring  is 
33/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
necessary  to  prevent  overtreatment  with  risk  of  copper  deficiency,  which  is  especially  harmful  for 
children and pregnant women. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Given the invariably fatal nature of the disease, the efficacy and safety profiles of zinc as described, 
and the relative toxicity of currently available treatments for Wilson’s disease, the overall risk benefit 
assessment of Wilzin is positive.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of Wilzin in the treatment of Wilson’s disease was favourable and 
therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
34/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
Non-Clinical 
Aughey E, Grant L, Furman BL, Dryden WF. The effects of oral zinc supplementation in the mouse. 
J Comp Pathol. 1977;87:1-14. 
[Preclinical research, University of Glasgow, UK] 
Blum JJ. Observations on the role of sulfhydryl groups in the enzymatic activity of myosin. 
Arch Biochem Biophys. 1962;97:309-320. 
[Preclinical research, U. S Department of Health, Maryland, USA] 
Boyland E, Roe FJC. Long-term carcinogenicity tests of orally administered zinc and tin. 
Food Cosmet Toxic. 1963;1:161. 
[Preclinical research, Chester Beatty Research Institute, London, UK] 
Brierley  GP,  Jacobus  WE,  Hunter  GR.  Ion  transport  by  heart  mitochondria.  viii.  Activation  of  the 
adenosine  triphosphate  supported  accumulation  of  Mg++  by  Zn++  and  by  p-chloromercuri-
phenylsulfonate. J Biol Chem. 1967;242(9):2192-2198. 
[Preclinical research, Ohio State University, Columbus, USA] 
Brierley GP, Settlemire CT. Ion transport by heart mitochondria. ix. Induction of the energy-linked 
uptake of K+ by zinc ion. J Biol Chem. 1967;242(19):4324-4328. 
[Preclinical research, Ohio State University, Columbus, USA] 
Brink  MF,  Becker  DE,  Terrill  SW,  Jensen  AH.  Zinc  toxicity  in    the  weanling  pig.  J Animal  Sci. 
1959;18(2):836-842. 
[Preclinical research, Illinois Agricultural Experiment Station, Illinois, USA] 
Cabell CA, Earle IP. Additive effect of calcium and phosphorus on utilization of dietary zinc. 
J Anim Sci. 1965;24:800-804. 
[Preclinical research, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Maryland, USA] 
Cabell CA, Earle IP. Additive effect of calcium and phosphorus on utilization of dietary zinc. J Anim 
Sci. 1965;24:800-804. 
[Preclinical research, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Maryland, USA] 
Campbell JK, Mills CF. The toxicity of zinc to pregnant sheep. 
Environmental Research. 1979;20:1-13. 
[Preclinical research, Rowett Research Institute, Aberdeen, UK] 
Carvalho AP, Avivi Y. Effects of zinc on ATPase activity and superprecipitation of actomyosin from 
skeletal muscle of rabbit. Arch Biochem Biophys. 1966;113:617-628 
[Preclinical research, Institute for Muscle Disease, Inc., New York, USA.] 
Caujolle F, Chanh PH, Mamy G, Moulas F, Suong LTN. Toxicité comparée des sulphates de zinc et 
de cadmium (Comparative toxicity of zinc and cadmium sulphates). 
C R Acad Sci Paris.1964;258(1):375-377. 
[Preclinical research, CNRS, Toulouse, FRANCE] 
35/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Clark B, Porteous JW. The metal ion activation of the alkaline β-glycerophosphatase of rabbit small 
intestine. Biochem J. 1965;95:475-482. 
[Preclinical research, University of Aberdeen, UK] 
Cooper  HK.  Preliminary  studies  on  the  differential  removal  of  products  formed  in  the  DNA  of 
various rat organs after chronic administration of a low dose of zinc. Toxicology. 1985;34:261-270. 
[Preclinical research, Lehrstuhl für Biologie, Aachen, GERMANY] 
Cox DH, Harris DL. Effect of excess dietary zinc on iron and copper in the rat. 
J Nutr. 1960;70:514-520. 
[Preclinical research, Department of Animal Diseases, Georgia, USA] 
Cox DH, Harris DL. Reduction of liver xanthine oxidase activity and iron storage proteins in rats fed 
excess zinc. J Nutr. 1962;78:415-418. 
[Preclinical research, Department of Animal Diseases, Georgia, USA] 
Cox  DH,  Schlicker  SA,  Chu  RC.  Excess  dietary  zinc  for  the  maternal  rat,  and  zinc,  iron,  copper, 
calcium and magnesium content and enzyme activity in maternal and foetal tissues. 
J Nutr. 1969;98(14):459-466. 
[Preclinical research, University of Pennsylvania, USA] 
De Szilvay G. L'inluenza cancerogena dello zinco nell'acqua potabile (the cancerogenic influence of 
zinc in the drinking water). Minerva Med. 1964;55:1504-1505. 
[Preclinical research, University of Brema, GERMANY] 
Dewar WA, Wight PAL, Pearson RA, Gentle MJ. Toxic effects of high concentrations of zinc oxide 
in the diet of the chick and laying hen. Br Poult Sci. 1983;24:397-404. 
[Preclinical research, Agricultural Research Centre, Scotland, UK] 
Domingo JL, Gómez M, Jones MM. Concurrent administration of D-penicillamine and zinc has no 
advantages over the use of either single agent on copper excretion in the rat. 
Toxicology. 1998;126:195-201. 
[Preclinical research, University of Reus, SPAIN & University of Nashville, USA] 
Drinker  KR,  Thompson  PK,  Marsh  M.  An  investigation  of  the    effect  upon  rats  of  long-continued 
ingestion of zinc compounds, with especial reference to the relation of zinc excretion to zinc  intake. 
Am J Physiol. 1927b;81(2):284-306. 
[Preclinical research, University of Boston, USA] 
Drinker KR, Thompson PK, Marsh M. An investigation of the effect of long-continued ingestion of 
zinc, in the form of zinc oxide, by cats and dogs, together with observations upon the excretion and 
the storage of zinc. Am J Physiol. 1927;80(1):31-64. 
[Preclinical research, University of Boston, USA] 
Drinker KR, Thompson PK, Marsh M. An investigation of the effect of long-continued ingestion of 
zinc, in the form of zinc oxide, by cats and dogs, together with observations upon the excretion and 
the storage of zinc. Am J Physiol. 1927;80(1):31-64. 
[Preclinical research, University of Boston, USA] 
36/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Duncan GD, Gray LF, Daniel LJ. Effect of zinc on cytochrome oxidase activity. 
Proc Soc Exp Biol Med. 1953;83:625-627. 
[Preclinical research, U. S. Plant, Soil and Nutrition Lab., Cornell University, USA] 
EMEA.  Note  for  Guidance  on  Environmental  Risk  Assessment  of  Medicinal  Products  for  Human 
Use. CPMP/SWP/4447/00. London, 24 July 2003, 1-22. 
[Note for guidance, EMEA, London, UK] 
EMEA.  Note 
CPMP/SWP/4446/00. London, 27 June 2002, 1-24. 
[Note for guidance, EMEA, London, UK] 
for  guidance  on 
specification 
limits 
for 
residues  of  metal  catalysts. 
Feaster  JP,  Hansard  SL,  McCall  JT,  Davis  GK.  Absorption,  deposition  and  placental  transfer  on 
Zinc65 in the rat. Am J Physiol. 1955;181:287-290. 
[Preclinical research, Florida Agricultural Experiment Station, USA] 
Forbes RM, Yohe M. Zinc requirement and balance studies with the rat. J Nutr. 1960;70:53-57. 
[Preclinical research, University of Illinois, USA] 
Franz RD. Toxicitäten einiger Spurenmetalle (Toxicities of some trace metals). 
Arch Exper Pathol U Pharmakol. 1962;244:17-20. 
[Preclinical research, University of Berlin, GERMANY] 
Geisswein M. Über chronische Zinkvergiftüng bei Ratten (Chronic zinc poisoning in rats). 
Virchow's Arch Path Anat. 1959;332:481-493. 
[Preclinical research, University of Bonn, GERMANY] 
Gilmour D, Griffiths M. The action of 2,4-dinitrophenol on myosin. 
Archr Biochem Biophys. 1957;72:302-315. 
[Preclinical research, Australian Institute of Anatomy, Camberra, AUSTRALIA] 
Grant-Frost DR, Underwood EJ. Zinc toxicity in the rat and its  interrelation with copper. 
Austral J Exp Biol. 1958;36:339-345. 
[Preclinical research, Institute of Agriculture, University of western Australia, AUSTRALIA] 
Gross P, Harvalik Z, Runne E. Vitamin deficiency syndrome in the albino rat precipitated by chronic 
zinc chloride poisoning. J Invest Dermat. 1941;4(5):385-398. 
[Preclinical research, University of Columbia, USA] 
Guthrie J, Guthrie OA. Embryonal carcinomas in Syrian hamsters after intratesticular inoculation of 
zinc chloride during seasonal testicular growth. Cancer Research. 1974;34:2612-2613 
[Preclinical research, Southampton Hospital, UK] 
Hagan EC, Radomski JL, Nelson AA. Blood and bone marrow effects of feeding zinc sulphate to rats 
and dogs. J Am Pharm Asss (Scient. Ed). 1953;42(11):700-702. 
[Preclinical research, FDA, Washington, USA] 
Hahn  F,  Schunk  R.  Untersuchungen  über  die  akute  Zinkvergiftung  (Investigations  into  acute  zinc 
poisoning). Naunyn- Schmiedebergs Arch Exper Pathol U Pharmakol. 1955;226:424-434. 
[Preclinical research, University of Dusseldorf, GERMANY] 
37/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
Halme VE. Uber die cancerogene wirkung von zinkhaltigem Trinkwasser (The carcinogenic action of 
drinking water that contains zinc). Vitalstoffe-Zivilisationskrankhuten. 1961;6:59-66. 
[Preclinical research, University of Helsinki, FINLAND] 
Heller VG, Burke AD. Toxicity of zinc. 
J Biol Chem. 1927;74:85-93.  
[Preclinical research, Oklahoma Agricultural Experiment Station, USA] 
Heth  DA,  Hoekstra  WG.  Zinc65  absorption  and  turnover  in  rats.  1.  a  procedure  to  determine  zinc65 
absorption and the antagonistic effect of calcium in a practical diet. 
J Nutr. 1965;85(4):367-374. 
[Preclinical research, University of Wisconsin, USA] 
Hogan GR, Cole BS, Lovelace JM. Sex and age mortality responses in zinc acetate-treated mice. 
Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 1987;39:156-161. 
[Preclinical research, East Texas University, USA] 
Hove E, Elvehjem CA, Hart EB. The effect of zinc on alkaline  phosphatases. 
J Biol Chem. 1940;134:425-442. 
[Preclinical research, University of Wisconsin, USA] 
James LF, Lazar VA, Binns W. Effects of sublethal doses of certain minerals on pregnant ewes and 
foetal development. Am J Vet Res. 1966;27(116):132-135. 
[Preclinical research, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Ithaca, N.Y., USA] 
Johnson D Jr, Mehring AL, Savino FX, Titus HW. The tolerance of growing chickens for dietary 
zinc. Poultry Sci. 1962;41:311-317. 
[Preclinical research, Limestone Products Corporation, New Jersey, USA] 
Kim ZW, Rosenthal SP. The effect of orally administered zinc sulphate (ZnSO4) on healing incised 
wounds. J Surg Res. 1970;10(12):597-599. 
[Preclinical research, University of New York, USA] 
Klussendorf RC, Pensack JM. Newer aspects of zinc metabolism. 
J Am Vet Med Assoc. 1958;132:446-450. 
[Preclinical research, Veterinary Medical Services, Indiana, USA] 
Kulwich R, Hansard SL, Comar CL, Davis GK. Copper, molybdenum and zinc interrelationships in 
rats and swine. Proc Soc Exper Biol Med. 1953;84:487-491. 
[Preclinical research, University of Tennessee, USA] 
Kunkel HO. The effect of zinc on the oxidation of Krebs cycle intermediates by rat liver and kidney 
homogenates. Arch Biochem Biophys. 1951;31:251-261. 
[Preclinical research, Cornell University, New York, USA] 
Lastra MAD, Pastelin R, Herrera MA, Orihuela VD, Aguilar AE. Increment of immune responses in 
mice perinatal stages after zinc supplementation. Arch Med Res. 1997;28(1):67-72. 
[Preclinical research, University of Mexico, MEXICO] 
Lee  DY,  Brewer  GJ,  Wang  Y.  Treatment of Wilson's disease with zinc.  vii.  Protection of the liver 
from copper toxicity by zinc-induced metallothionein in a rat model. 
J Lab Clin Med. 1989;114(6):639-645. 
[Preclinical research, University of Michigan, USA] 
Leonard A, Gerber GB. Zinc toxicity: does it exist? 
38/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
J Am Coll Toxicol. 1989;8(7):1285-1290. 
[Preclinical Toxicology, Teratogenicity and Mutagenicity Unit, University of Louvain, BELGIUM] 
Llobet JM,  Domingo JL,  Colomina MT, Mayayo E, Corbella J. Subchronic oral toxicity of zinc in 
rats. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 1988;41:36-43. 
[Preclinical research, University of Barcelona, SPAIN] 
Llobet JM, Domingo JL, Colomina MT, Paternain JL, Corbella J. Toxicidad en ratas del zinc 
administrado oralmente. (Oral route toxicity in rats). Rev San Hig Pub. 1988;62:1439-1446. 
[Preclinical research, University of Barcelona, SPAIN] 
Lü J, Combs GF Jr. Effect of excess dietary zinc on pancreatic exocrine function in the chick. 
J Nutr. 1988;118:681-689. 
[Preclinical research, Cornell University, New York, USA] 
Magee AC, Matrone G. Studies on growth, copper metabolism, and iron metabolism of rats fed high 
levels of zinc. J Nutr. 1960;72:233-242. 
[Preclinical research, Carolina Agricultural Experiment Station, North Carolina, USA] 
McCall JT, Mason JV, Davis GK. Effect of source and level of dietary  protein on the toxicity of zinc 
to the rat. J Nutr. 1961;74:51-57. 
[Preclinical research, Florida Agricultural Experiment Station, USA] 
Mehring AL, Brumbaugh JH, Titus HW. A comparison of the growth of chicks fed diets containing 
different quantities of zinc. Poultry Sci. 1956;35:956-958. 
[Preclinical research, Limestone Products Corporation, New Jersey, USA] 
Mengó MS, López C, Frasquet I, Ocón CD, de Armiño MVA. Alteraciones de diversos parámetros 
hematológicos  tras  el  tratamiento  con  acetato  de  cinc.  (Changes  of  several  haematological  values 
after treatment with zinc acetate). Sangre. 1990;35(3):227-230 
[Preclinical research, University of Valencia, SPAIN] 
Moss DW. Influence of metal ions on the orthophosphatase and inorganic pyrophosphatase activities 
of human alkaline phosphatase. Biochem J. 1969; 111(3):22P. 
[Preclinical research, University of Edinburgh, UK] 
Mulhern  SA,  Stroube  WB  Jr,  Jacobs  RM.  Alopecia  induced  in  young  mice  by  exposure  to  excess 
dietary zinc. Experientia. 1986;42:551-553. 
[Preclinical research, FDA, Washington, USA] 
Mutagenic  Evaluation  of  Compound  FDA  71-49,  Zinc  Sulphate  USP.  Litton  Bionetics,  Inc., 
Kensington,  MD  for  Food  and  Drug    Administration.  Washington,  DC.  :  US  Department  of 
Commerce Publication PB-245251, April, 1974. 
[Preclinical research, Litton Bionetics Inc., Maryland, USA] 
Mutagenic  Evaluation  of  Compound  FDA  75-14.001314-13-2,  Zinc  Oxide  USP.  Litton  Bionetics, 
Inc.,  Kensington,  MD  for  Food  and  Drug  Administration.  Washington,  DC.  :  US  Department  of 
Commerce Publication PB-257880, February, 1976. 
[Preclinical research, Litton Bionetics Inc., Maryland, USA] 
Mutagenic Evaluation of Compound FDA 75-72.000557-05-1, Zinc Stearate USP. Litton Bionetics, 
Inc.,  Kensington,  MD  for  Food  and  Drug  Administration.  Washington,  DC.  :  US  Department  of 
Commerce Publication PB-279265, May, 1977. 
[Preclinical research, Litton Bionetics Inc., Maryland, USA] 
O'Dell  BL,  Savage  JE.  Effect  of  phytic  acid  on  zinc  availability.  Proc  Soc  Exp  Biol  Med. 
1960;103:304-306. 
39/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
[Preclinical research, University of Missouri, USA] 
Ott EA, Smith WH, Harrrington RB, Beeson WM. Zinc toxicity in ruminants.1. effect of high levels 
of dietary zinc on gains, feed consumption and feed efficiency of lambs. 
J Animal Sci. 1966;25(2):414-418. 
[Preclinical research, Purdue University, Indiana, USA] 
Ott  EA,  Smith  WH,  Parker  HE,  Harrrington  RB,  Beeson  WM.  Zinc  tolerance  and  toxicity  studies 
with calves. J Animal Sci. 1964;23(4):1217. 
[Preclinical research, Purdue University, Indiana, USA] 
Potter  VR,  Dubois  KP.  Studies  on  the  mechanism  of  hydrogen  transport  in  animal  tissues.  vi. 
Inhibitor studies with succinic dehydrogenase. J Gen Physiol. 1943;26:391-404. 
[Preclinical research, University of Wisconsin, USA] 
Reeves  PG,  O'Dell  BL.  An  experimental  study  of  the  effect  of  zinc    on  the  activity  of  angiotensin 
converting enzyme in serum. Clin Chem. 1985;31(4):581-584. 
[Preclinical research, University of Missouri, USA] 
Richmond CR, Furchner JE, Trafton GA, Langham WH. Comparative metabolism of radionuclides 
in mammals-1. Uptake and retention of orally administered Zn65 by four mammalian species. Health 
Phys. 1962;8:481-489. 
[Preclinical research, University of California, USA] 
Roberson RH, Schaible PJ. The availability to the chick of zinc as the sulphate, oxide or carbonate. 
Poultry Sci. 1960a;39(4):835-837. 
[Preclinical research, University of Michigan, USA] 
Roberson RH, Schaible PJ. The availability to the chick of zinc as the sulphate, oxide or carbonate. 
Poultry Sci. 1960a;39(4):835-837. 
[Preclinical research, University of Michigan, USA] 
Roberson RH, Schaible PJ. The tolerance of growing chicks for high levels of different forms of zinc. 
Poultry Sci. 1960b;39:839-896. 
[Preclinical research, University of Michigan, USA] 
Roberson RH, Schaible PJ. The tolerance of growing chicks for high levels of different forms of zinc. 
Poultry Sci. 1960b;39:839-896. 
[Preclinical research, University of Michigan, USA] 
Roberson RH, Schaible PJ. The zinc requirement of the chick. 
Poultry Sci. 1958;37:1321-1323. 
[Preclinical research, University of Michigan, USA] 
Ronwin E. Properties of human plasmin. Canad J Biochem Physiol. 1962;40:49-55. 
[Preclinical and clinical researchs, University of Minnesota, USA] 
Sadasivan V. Studies on the biochemistry of zinc. 3. Further investigations on the influence of zinc 
on metabolism. Biochem J. 1952;52:452-455. 
[Preclinical research, Haffkine Institute, Bombay, INDIA] 
Sadasivan V. Studies on the biochemistry of zinc. Effect of feeding Zn on the liver and bones of rats. 
Biochem J. 1951;48:527-530. 
[Preclinical research, Haffkine Institute, Bombay, INDIA] 
Sadasivan V. Studies on the biochemistry of zinc. Further investigations on the influence of zinc on 
metabolism. Biochem J. 1952;52:452-455. 
40/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
[Preclinical research, Haffkine Institute, Bombay, INDIA] 
Sadasivan V. The effect of intake of zinc on metabolism. Current Sci. 1950;19(4):129-130. 
[Preclinical research, Haffkine Institute, Bombay, INDIA] 
Sahyun M. Effect of zinc on insulin and its mechanism. 
Am J Physiol. 1939;125:24-30. 
[Preclinical research, Frederick Stearmand Company, Detroit, USA] 
Salant W. The pharmacology of heavy metals. 
J Ind Hyg. 1920;2:72-78. 
[Preclinical research, USA] 
Santon  A,  Giannetto  S,  Sturniolo  GC,  Medici  V,  D'Incà  R,  Irato  P,  Albergoni  V.  Interactions 
between Zn and Cu in LEC rats, an animal model of Wilson's disease. 
Histochem Cell Biol. 2002;117:275-281. 
[Preclinical research, University of Padua, Padua, ITALY.] 
Scott DA, Fisher AM. Studies on the pancreas and liver of normal and of zinc-fed cats. 
Am J Physiol. 1938;121:253-260. 
[Preclinical research, University of Toronto, CANADA] 
Settlemire  CT,  Matrone  G.  In  vivo  effect  of  zinc  on  iron  turnover  in  rats  and  life  span  on  the 
erythrocyte. J Nutr. 1967;92:159-164. 
[Preclinical research, North Carolina State Universiry, USA] 
Smith EL, Bergmann M. The peptidases of intestinal mucosa. 
J Biol Chem. 1944;153:627-651. 
[Preclinical research, Rockfeller Institute, New York, USA] 
Smith SE, Larson EJ. Zinc toxicity in rats: antagonistic effects of copper and liver. 
J Biol Chem. 1946;163(1):29-38. 
[Preclinical research, Agricultural Research Administration, New York, USA] 
Smyth HF Jr, Carpenter CP, Weil CS, Pozzani UC, Striegel JA, Nycum JS. Range-finding toxicity 
data: list vii. Am Ind Hyg Assoc J. 1969;30(5):470-476. 
[Preclinical research, University of Pittsburg, USA] 
Stewart AK, Magee AC. Effect of zinc toxicity on calcium, phosphorus and magnesium metabolism 
of young rats. J Nutr. 1964;82(2):287-295. 
[Preclinical research, University of North Carolina, USA] 
Sutherland EW. Activation of phosphoglucomutase by metal-binding agents. 
J Biol Chem. 1949;180:1279-1284. 
[Preclinical research, Washington University, St Louis, USA] 
41/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
Teratologic Evaluation of FDA 71-49 (Zinc Sulphate) in Mice, Rats and Hamsters. Food and Drug 
Research  Labs,  Inc.  for  Food  and  Drug  Administration.  Washington,  DC.:US  Department  of 
Commerce Publication, PB-221805, February, 1973. 
[Preclinical research, Food and Drug Research Laboratories Inc., New York, USA] 
Teratologic Evaluation of FDA 71-49 (Zinc Sulphate) in Rabbits. Food and Drug Research Labs, Inc. 
for  Food  and  Drug  Administration.  Washington,  DC.:US  Department  of  Commerce  Publication, 
PB-267191, June, 1974. 
[Preclinical research, Food and Drug Research Laboratories Inc., New York, USA] 
Thompson ED, McDermott JA, Zerkle TB, Skare JA, Evans BLB, Cody DB. Genotoxicity of zinc in 
4 short-term mutagenicity assays. Mutation Research. 1989;223:267-272. 
[Preclinical research, Procter and Gamble Company, Cincinnati, USA] 
Thompson  PK,  Marsh  M,  Drinker  KR.  The  effect  of  zinc  administration  upon  reproduction  and 
growth  in  the  albino  rat,  together  with  a  demonstration  of  the  constant  concentration  of  zinc  in  a 
given species, regardless of age. Am J Physiol. 1927;80:65-74. 
[Preclinical research, University of Boston, USA] 
Van Campen DR, Scaife PU. Zinc interference with copper absorption in rats. 
J Nutr. 1967;91:473-476. 
[Preclinical research, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Ithaca, N.Y., USA] 
Van Reen R. Effects of excessive dietary zinc in the rat and the interrelationship with copper. 
Arch Biochem Biophys. 1953;46:337-344. 
[Preclinical research, The John Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA] 
Wilkins JH. A note on the toxicity of zinc chloride. 
Vet Rec. 1948;60(8):81-84. 
[Preclinical research, Veterinary Experimental Station, Salisbury, UK] 
Ysart G,  Miller  P, Croasdale M, Crews H, Robb P, Baxter M, de L'Argy C, Harrison N. 1997 UK 
Total  Diet  Study    Dietary  exposures  to  aluminium,  arsenic,  cadmium,  chromium,  copper,  lead, 
mercury, nickel, selenium, tin and zinc. Food Additives and Contaminants. 2000;17(9):775-786. 
[Review, Food Standards Agency, London, UK] 
Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V, Brewer GJ, Abrams GD, Main B, Giacherio D. Treatment of Wilson's disease 
with zinc. v.  Changes in serum levels of lipase, amylase, and alkaline phosphatase in patients with 
Wilson's disease. J Lab Clin Med. 1989;114(5):520-526. 
[Preclinical and clinical researches, University of Michigan, USA] 
Ziff M. On the adenosine triphosphate-myosin system. 
Proc Soc Exper Biol and Med. 1942;51(2):249-251. 
[Preclinical research, College of Physicians, New York City, USA] 
42/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
Clinical 
Alexiou D, Hatzis T, Koutselinis A.  
Oral zinc therapy as a long term treatment of Wilson’s disease: about a child treated for 4 years. Arch 
Fr Pediatr 1985; 42: 447-9. 
August D, Janghorbani M, Young VR.  
Determination of zinc and copper absorption at three dietary Zn-Cu ratios by using stable isotope 
methods in young adults and elderly subjects.  
Am J Clin Nutr 1989; 50: 1457-63.  
Beer WH, Johnson RF, Guentzel MN, et al.  
Human placental transfer of zinc: normal characteristics and role of ethanol.  
Alcohol Clin Exp Res 1992; 16: 98-105.  
Black MR, Medeiros DM, Bruneti E, Welke R.  
Zinc supplements and serum lipids in young adult white males.  
Am J Clin Nutr 1988; 47: 970-5.  
Brewer GJ, Dick RD, Johnson VD et al. 
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc XVI : Treatment during the pediatric years 
J Lab Clin Med 2001 ;137:191-8 
Brewer GJ, Dick RD, Johnson VD, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc: XV Long-term follow-up studies.  
J Lab Clin Med 1998; 132: 264-78. 
Brewer GJ, Hill GM, Prasad AS, et al.  
Oral zinc therapy for Wilson’s disease. 
Ann Int Med 1983: 99: 314-20. 
Brewer GJ, Johnson V, Dick RD, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with ammonium tetrathiomolybdate. II. Initial therapy in 33 
neurologically affected patients and follow-up with zinc therapy.  
Arch Neurol 1996; 53: 1017-25. 
Brewer GJ, Johnson V, Kaplan J.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc: XIV. Studies of the effect of zinc on lymphocyte function.  
J Lab Clin Med 1997; 129: 649-52. 
Brewer GJ, Johnson VD, Dick RD, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc XVII: Treatment during pregnancy. Hepatology 2000;  
31: 364-70. 
Brewer GJ, Terry CA, Aisen MD et al. 
Worsening of neurologic syndrome in patients with Wilson’s disease with initial penicillamine therapy. 
Arch Neurol 1987; 44: 490-493 
Brewer GJ, Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V, Johnson V, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc: XI. Interaction with other anticopper agents. 
J Am Coll Nutr 1993; 12: 26-30. 
Brewer GJ, Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V, Johnson V.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc IX: Response of serum lipids.   
J Lab Clin Med 1991; 118: 466-70. 
Brewer GJ, Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V.  
43/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wilson disease.  
Medicine 1992; 71:139-64. 
Brewer GJ. 
Recognition, diagnosis, and management of Wilson’s disease. 
Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 2000, 223, 39-46. 
Buamah PK, Russel M, Milford-Ward A et al. 
Serum copper concentrations significantly less in abnormal pregnancies. 
Clin Chem; 1984; 30:1967. 
Burkhart KK, Kulig KW, Rumack B.  
Whole-bowel irrigation as treatment for zinc sulfate overdose.  
Ann Emerg Med 1990; 19: 1167-70, 1990.  
Byczkowski JZ, Gearhart JM, Fisher JW.  
“Occupational” exposure of infants to toxic chemicals via breast milk.  
Nutrition 1994; 10: 43-8.  
Capocaccia L, Merli M, Piat C. et al.  
Zinc and other trace elements in liver cirrhosis.  
Ital J Gastroenterol 1991; 23: 386-91.  
Castilla-Higuero L, Romero-Gomez M, Suarez E, Castro M.  
Acute hepatitis after starting zinc therapy in a patient with presymptomatic Wilson’s disease. Hepatology 
2000; 32: 877. [Letter] 
Chandra RK.  
Excessive intake of zinc impairs immune response.  
JAMA 1984; 252: 1443-6.  
Chobanian SJ.  
Accidental ingestion of liquid zinc chloride: local and systemic effects.  
Ann Emerg med 1981; 10: 91-3.  
Cohen NL, Keen CL, Lonnerdal B, Hurley LS.  
The effect of copper supplementation on the teratogenic effects of triethylenetetramine in rats.  
Drug Nutrient Interact 1983; 2: 203-10.  
Cossack ZT, Bouquet J 
The treatment of Wilson’s disease in paediatrics: oral zinc therapy versus penicillamine. 
Acta Pharmacol Toxicol (Copenh) 1986; 59 (Suppl 7): 514-7. 
Cowan GAB.  
Unusual case of poisoning by zinc sulphate.  
BMJ 1947; April 5: 451-2. 
Czlonkowska A, Gajda J, Rodo M.  
Effects of long-term treatment in Wilson’s disease with D-penicillamine and zinc sulphate.  
J Neurol 1996; 243: 269-73. 
Dahlman T, Hartvig P, Löfholm M, et al.  
Long-term treatment of Wilson’s disease with triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride (trientine).  
Q J Med 1995; 88: 609-16. 
De Groote WJ, Sabbe MB, Meulemans AI, et al.  
An acute zinc chloride poisoning in a child: was chelator therapy effective?  
44/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eur J Emerg Med 1998; 5: 67-9. 
Deiss A, Lee GR and Cartwright GE. 
Hemolytic Anemia in Wilson’s disease. 
Ann Intern Med 73: 413-418,1970 
Desbriere R, Roquelaure B, Sarles J, Boubli L.  
Pregnancy in a patient treated with trientine dihydrochloride for Wilson's disease.  
Presse Medicale 1998; 27: 806 [Letter]. 
Devesa R, Alvarez A, de las Heras G, Ramon de Miguel J.  
Wilson's disease treated with trientine during pregnancy.  
J Ped Gastroenterol Nutrit 1985; 20: 102-3  
Dubois RS, Rodgerson DO, Hambridge KM.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with triethylene tetramine hydrochloride (trientine).  
J Ped Gastroenterol Nutr 1990; 10: 77-81. 
Emery P and Mackay IR. 
Compliance and Wilson’s disease. 
Lancet 1986, 1388. 
Ferenci P.  
Wilson’s disease.  
Ital J Gastroenterol Hepatol 1999; 31: 416-25. 
Fiske DN, McCoy HE, Kitchens CS. 
Zinc-induced sideroblastic anemia: Report of a case, review of the literature, and description of the 
hematologic syndrome.  
Am J Hematol 1994; 46: 147-50. 
Freedland-Graves JH, Friedman BJ, Han W-H, et al.   
Effect of zinc supplementation on plasma high-density lipoprotein cholesterol and zinc. Am J Clin Nutr 
1982; 35: 988-92.  
Galzin™ (zinc acetate) capsules.  
US Prescribing information.  
Gate Pharmaceuticals, 1997. 
Henderson LM, Brewer GJ, Dressman JB, et al.  
Use of zinc tolerance test and 24-hour urinary zinc content to assess oral zinc absorption.  
J Am Coll Nutr 1996; 15: 79-83. 
Hill GM, Brewer GJ, Juni JE, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc. II. Validation of oral 64copper with copper balance.  
Am J Med Sci 1986; 292: 344-9. 
Hill GM, Brewer GJ, Prasad AS, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc. I. oral zinc therapy regimes. Hepatology 1987; 7: 522-8.  
Hoogenraad TU, Van Hattum J, Van den Hamer CJA.  
Management of Wilson’s disease with zinc sulphate. Experience in a series of 27 patients.  
J Neurol Sci 1987; 77: 137-46. 
Hoogenraad TU.  
Wilson’s disease.  
Chapter 7 Treatment, P138-178 - Amsterdam: Intermed Medical Publishers, 2001. 
45/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hooper PL, Visconti L, Garry PJ, Johnson GE.  
Zinc lowers high density lipoprotein-cholesterol levels.  
JAMA 1980; 244: 1960-1.  
Huang C-C. Chu N-S.  
Wilson’s disease: resolution of MRI lesions following long-term oral zinc therapy.  
Acta Neurol Scand 1996; 93: 215-8. 
Jacob RA, Sandsted HH, Munoz JM, et al.  
Whole body surface loss of trace elements in normal males.  
Am J Clin Nutr 1981; 34: 1379-83.  
Keen CL, Lonnerdal B, Hurley LS.  
Drug-induced copper deficiency: a model for copper deficiency teratogenicity.  
Teratology 1983b; 28: 155-6 [Letter]  
Keen CL, Mark-Savage P, Lonnerdal B, Hurley LS.  
Teratogenic effects of D-penicillamine in rats: relation to copper deficiency. Drug Nutrient Interact 
1983a; 2: 17-34.  
Klevay LM, 
Using Zinc to remove copper from pediatric patients with Wilson’s disease (letter) 
J Lab Clin Med, 2001; 138; 2141. 
Krachler M, Rossipal E, Micetic-Turk D.  
Trace element transfer from the mother to the newborn – investigations on triplets of colostrum, maternal 
and umbilical cord sera. 
Eur J Clin Nutr 1999; 53: 486-94. 
Lang CJG, Rabas-Kolominsky P, Engelhardt A.  
Fatal deterioration of Wilson’s disease after institution of oral zinc therapy. Arch Neurol 1993; 50: 1007-
8. [Letter] 
Lee DY, Brewer GJ, Wang Y.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc. VII. Protection of the liver from copper toxicity by zinc-
induced metallothionein in a rat model.  
J Lab Clin Med 1989; 114: 639-45. 
Lee HH, Hill GM, Sikha VK, et al.  
Pancreaticobiliary secretion of zinc and copper in normal persons and patients with Wilson's disease.  
J Lab Clin Med 1990; 116:283-8. 
Lee HH, Prasad AS, Brewer GJ, Owyang C. 
Zinc absorption in human small intestine 
Am J Physiol 1989; 256:G87-91 
Lewis MR, Kokan L.  
Zinc gluconate: acute ingestion.  
J Toxicol Clin Toxicol 1998; 36: 99-10.  
46/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Mahajan SK.  
Zinc in kidney disease.  
J Am Coll Nutrit 1989; 8: 296-304.  
Maracek Z and Graf M.  
Pregnancy in penicillamine treated patients with Wilson’s disease. 
New Eng J Med 295 : 841 -842, 1976 
Martindale 2002 
Zinc 
Mayet IY.  
Low-dose zinc therapy for maintenance of Wilson’s disease.  
Clin Pharm 1990; 9: 951-3. 
Menkes JH.  
Menkes disease and Wilson disease: two sides of the same copper coin. Part II: Wilson disease.  
Eur J Paediatr Neurol 1999; 3: 245-53. 
Meyboom RHB & Brodie-Meijer CCE 
Metal antagonists : penicillamine. Chap23 ; 724-734 
In : Meyler’s 2000 - Side Effects of Drugs, MNG Dukes, JK Aronson – 14th Edition 
Milanino R, Deganello A, Marrella M et al.  
Oral zinc as initial therapy in Wilson’s disease: two years of continuous treatment in a 10-year-old child  
Acta Paediatr 1992, 81: 163-6. 
Murphy JV.  
Intoxication following ingestion of elemental zinc.  
JAMA 1970; 212: 2119-20.  
Najda J, Stella-Holowiecka B, Machalski M.  
Low-dose zinc administration as an effective Wilson’s disease treatment.  
Biol Trace Element Res 2001; 80: 281-4. 
Netter P., Bannwarth B., Faure G.  
Adverse effects of D-penicillamine. A cooperative study by the French Regional Drug Surveillance 
Centers 
J Rheumatol ; 1988; 15; 11; 1730-2 
Nève J, Hanocq M, Peretz A, et al.  
Absorption and metabolism of oral zinc gluconate in humans in fasting state, during, and after a meal.  
Biol Trace Element Res 1992; 32: 201-12.  
Oelshlegel FJ, Brewer GJ.  
Absorption of pharmacologic doses of zinc.  
In: Brewer GJ, Prasad AS (eds). Zinc metabolism: Current aspects in health and disease. New York: 
Alan R Liss Inc, 1977: 299-311. 
Pasqualicchio M, Marrella M, Moretti U et al.  
Oral zinc sulphate treatment in Wilson’s disease.  
Acta Physiol Hung 1990; 75 (Suppl): 233-4. 
47/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Porea TJ et al. 
Zinc-induced anemia and neutropenia in an adolescent. 
J.Pediatr 2000; 136:688-90 
Prasad AS.  
Clinical, biochemical and pharmacological role of zinc.  
Ann Rev Pharmacol Toxicol 1979; 20: 393-426.  
Ramadori G, Keidl H, Hütteroth Th et al.  
Oral zinc therapy in Wilson’s disease – an alternative to D-penicillamine. Z Gastroenterol 1985;  
23: 25-9.  
Rosa FW.  
Teratogen update: penicillamine.  
Teratology 1986; 33: 127-31.  
Rossaro L, Sturniolo GC, Giacon G, et al.  
Zinc therapy in Wilson’s disease: Observations in five patients.  
Am J Gastroenterol 1990; 85: 665-8. 
Scheinberg IH, Jaffe ME and Sternlieb I. 
The use of trientine in preventing the effects of interrupting penicillamine therapy in Wilson’s disease. 
New Eng J Med 1987, 317:209-213. 
Scheinberg IH, Sternlieb I.  
The long term management of hepatolenticular degeneration (Wilson’s disease). 
Am J Med 1960, 29 : 316-333. 
Scheinberg IH, Sternlieb I.  
Wilson’s disease. Major problems in internal medicine. 
Vol 23. Philadelphia: WB Saunders Company, 1984. 
Shimon I, Moses B, Sela BA, Dolev E.   
Hemolytic episode in a patient with Wilson's disease treated with zinc.  
Isr J  Med Sci 1993; 29: 646-7 
Spencer H, Kramer L,  
Osis D. Zinc metabolism in man.  
J Environ Pathol Toxicol Oncol 1985; 5: 265-78. 
Sternlieb I,  
Wilson disease and pregrancy.  
Hepatology ; February 2000 
Sturniolo GC, Mestriner C, Irato P, et al.  
Zinc therapy increases duodenal concentrations of metallothionein and iron in Wilson’s disease patients.
Am J Gastroenterol 1999; 94: 334-8. 
Tankanow R.M. 
Pathophysiology and treatment of Wilson’s disease, 
Clin Pharm; 1991; 10; 839-49 
48/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taylor HG, Samanta A.  
Penicillamine in rheumatoid arthritis. A problem of toxicity.  
Drug Safety 1992; 7: 46-53. 
Tschumi P, Floersheim GL.  
Tolerance of large doses of oral zinc sulfate.  
Schweizerische Medizinische Wochenschrift 1981; 111: 1573-7.  
Us Prescribing Information for Cuprimine® capsules 
(Penicillamine) May 1999 
Us Prescribing Information for Syprine® capsules 
(Trientine Hydrochloride) May 1999 
Van Caillie-Bertrand M, Degenhart HJ, Visser HKA, et al.  
Oral zinc therapy of Wilson’s disease.  
Arch Dis Child 1985; 60: 656-9 
Vargas Zapata CL, 
Melo MRR, Donangelo CM. Maternal, placental and cord zinc components in healthy women with 
different levels of serum zinc.  
Bio Neonate 1997; 72: 84-93. 
Veen C, van den Hamer CJA, de Leeuw PW.  
Zinc sulphate therapy for Wilson’s disease after acute deterioration during treatment with low-dose D-
penicillamine.  
J Int Med 1991; 229: 549-52. 
Walshe JM and Dixon AK. 
Maintenance therapy: dangers of non-compliance in Wilson’s disease. 
Lancet 1986, April 12, 845-847. 
Walshe JM,  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc sulphate.  
British Medical Journal, September 1984 ; 558 
Walshe JM, Yealland M.  
Chelation treatment of neurological Wilson's disease.  
Quart J Med 1993; 86: 197-204.  
Walshe JM. 
Management of penicillamine nephropathy in Wilson’s disease: A new chelating agent. 
Lancet 1969, December 27, 1401-1402. 
Walshe JM.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with trientine (triethylene tetramine) dihydrochloride. 
Lancet 1982; March 20: 643-7. 
Walshe JM.  
The management of pregnancy in Wilson's disease treated with trientine. 
 Quart J Med 1986; 58: 81-7.  
Walshe JM.  
Wilson's disease presenting with features of hepatic dysfunction: a clinical analysis of eighty-seven 
patients. 
Quart J Med 1989; 70: 253-63.  
Weigand E.  
49/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Absorption of trace elements: Zinc.  
Int J Vitamin Nutr Res Suppl 1983; 25: 67-81. 
Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V, Brewer GJ, Abrams GD, et al.  
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc. V. Changes in serum lipase, amylase and alkaline phosphatase 
in patients with Wilson’s disease. 
J Lab Clin Med 1989; 114: 520-6. 
Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan V, Grider A, Nostrant T, et al. 
Treatment of Wilson’s disease with zinc: X. Intestinal metallothionein induction.  
J Lab Clin Med 1992; 120:380-6. 
50/50 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
