22 October 2015 
EMA/674875/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Veraseal  
International non-proprietary name: human fibrinogen / human thrombin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/003914/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000 Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
1. Recommendation..................................................................................... 5 
2. Executive summary ................................................................................. 6 
2.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................... 6 
2.2. About the product ................................................................................................ 6 
2.3. The development programme/compliance with CHMP guidance/scientific advice .......... 6 
2.4. General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP ............................................. 7 
2.5. Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier ............................. 7 
3. Scientific overview and discussion .......................................................... 8 
3.1. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
3.1.1. Introduction ..................................................................................................... 8 
3.1.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 9 
3.1.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 10 
3.2. Non clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
3.2.1. Pharmacology ................................................................................................. 15 
3.2.2. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 15 
3.2.3. Toxicology ...................................................................................................... 15 
3.2.4. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 17 
3.2.5. Discussion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 17 
3.2.6. Conclusion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 17 
3.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 17 
3.3.1. Pharmacokinetics ............................................................................................ 18 
3.3.2. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 18 
3.3.3. Discussion on clinical pharmacology .................................................................. 18 
3.3.4. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 18 
3.3.5. Clinical efficacy ............................................................................................... 18 
3.3.6. Discussion on clinical efficacy............................................................................ 27 
3.3.7. Conclusions on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 29 
3.3.8. Clinical safety ................................................................................................. 29 
3.3.9. Discussion on clinical safety .............................................................................. 32 
3.3.10. Conclusions on clinical safety .......................................................................... 33 
3.4. Pharmacovigilance system .................................................................................. 33 
3.5. Risk management plan ....................................................................................... 33 
4. Orphan medicinal products.................................................................... 34 
5. Benefit risk assessment ........................................................................ 34 
5.1. Conclusions ....................................................................................................... 37 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 2/37 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE 
ALT 
aPTT 
AST 
CBC 
CMH 
CRF 
CSR 
DSMB 
EC 
FS 
FS Grifols 
HTC 
IB 
ICF 
ICH 
Ig 
INR 
IRB 
ITT 
MC 
MedDRA 
NAT 
NHTC>10 
PP 
PTFE 
RBC 
REB 
SAE 
SAF 
SAP 
SWFI 
T0 
T3, T4, T5, T7, and T10 
adverse event 
alanine aminotransferase 
activated partial thromboplastin time 
aspartate aminotransferase 
complete blood count 
Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
case report form 
clinical study report 
Data Safety Monitoring Board 
Ethics Committee 
fibrin sealant 
Fibrin Sealant Grifols 
hemostatic time category 
Investigator's Brochure 
informed consent form 
International Conference on Harmonisation 
immunoglobulin 
international normalized ratio 
Institutional Review Board 
intent-to-treat 
manual compression 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
nucleic acid testing 
non-hemostatic time category: persistent bleeding at the TBS 
beyond the 10-minute observational period 
per protocol 
polytetrafluoroethylene 
red blood cell 
Research Ethics Board 
serious adverse event 
subject authorization form 
statistical analysis plan 
sterile water for injection 
time of randomization 
hemostatic assessment of the TBS at 3, 4, 5, 7, and 10 minutes 
following TStart 
TClosure 
time of completion of the surgical closure by layers of the 
exposed surgical field containing the TBS (when the last skin 
closure stitch is put in) 
TCompletion 
time of completion of surgical incision closure (when the last 
skin closure stitch is put in) of the last exposed field, regardless 
Tend 
Toff 
Ton 
TStart 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
of whether it was the field containing the TBS 
time of the end of FS Grifols application 
time of the proximal clamp release 1 minute after the end of 
FS Grifols application 
time of clamps reapplication after identifying the TBS 
time of the start of the study treatment (FS Grifols or MC) 
application 
Page 3/37 
 
 
 
 
 
TBS 
TTH 
ULN 
WBC 
target bleeding site 
time to hemostasis 
upper limit of normal 
White Blood Cell 
Disclaimer 
VeraSeal and FS Grifols are used interchangeably in the AR. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 4/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Recommendation 
Based on the review of the data and the Applicant’s response to the CHMP LoQ on quality, safety 
and efficacy, the CHMP considers that the application for VeraSeal for supportive treatment where 
standard surgical techniques are insufficient, for improvement of haemostasis in vascular surgery 
and as a suture support in vascular surgery is not approvable since findings from a GCP inspection 
of the study sites raised serious questions about the data from the main study submitted in support 
of the application. 
Questions to be posed to additional experts 
N/A 
Inspection issues 
GMP inspections 
N/A 
GCP inspections 
A routine GCP inspection of study IG402 at 4 sites (2 clinical investigator sites, the sponsor site 
and the site where the TMF is located) has been requested. The outcome of this inspection and the 
satisfactory responses to its findings are an integral part of this procedure and were received on 7 
September 2015. 
The findings observed at the three sites inspected have a relevant impact on the quality and 
integrity of the data. The ethical conduct of the trial was not affected. Several GCP breaches where 
identified at all sites inspected including the sponsor and the affiliate and all of them along with the 
CRO critical performance contributed to the fact that data are not considered trustworthy. The 
investigational sites are considered non GCP compliant and the sponsor processes, procedures and 
practices departed in numerous occasions of GCP. 
Documentation and reporting of efficacy data. 
Some data included in the CSR could not be verified during the source data verification process as 
they were not in any of the source documents used at sites. This has an impact on data 
consistency and of course and on data integrity. 
Documentation and reporting of Safety Data. 
At the sites discrepancies on surgical and non-surgical events were observed and a deficient 
management of safety documentation. At sponsor and its affiliate the deficiencies were more 
around the absence of tracking of cases, limited review of safety information included in the CSR 
and its consistency with data at sites which is a monitor’s CRO responsibility but ultimately a 
sponsor responsibility. 
In conclusion, the efficacy and safety data submitted for the inspection are considered by the 
inspection team not acceptable for the evaluation by the CHMP in relation to the application for 
marketing authorisation presented to the Agency. 
The CHMP accepts and supports this conclusion, as the interpretation of measures and procedures 
required by the protocol as optional by the investigational sites and the sponsor and the sheer 
amount of documented protocol deviations were reasons for concern already at D80. Doubt 
regarding the study’s internal consistency and external validity as well as suitability as a one 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 5/37 
 
 
 
pivotal trial were constantly expressed and those concerns have been confirmed by the inspection 
outcome.  
New active Substance status 
Based on the review of the data the CHMP considers that the active substance human fibrinogen, 
human thrombin contained in the medicinal product VeraSeal is not to be qualified as a new active 
substance in itself. A number of comparable fibrin sealants, licensed by either decentralised or 
centralized procedures, are available on the market. 
2.  Executive summary 
2.1.  Problem statement 
The human fibrin adhesion system initiates the last phase of the physiological blood coagulation 
system leading to the formation of a semi-rigid fibrin clot: fibrinogen, the main structural protein in 
the blood responsible for forming clots, is proteolytically cleaved and converted into fibrin 
monomers by thrombin. The fibrin monomers polymerize to form insoluble fibrin. Thrombin also 
activates endogenous factor XIII, that catalyses the formation of covalent bonds between 
molecules of fibrin to form a cross-linked clot capable of resisting dissolution. The presence of 
calcium ions (Ca++) is required for most reactions that lead to the generation of active thrombin. 
The clot adheres to a variety of proteins, such as collagen, fibronectin, von Willebrand factor, and 
cell surface receptors, contributing to anchoring the fibrin clot to the injured site. As wound healing 
progresses, increased fibrinolytic activity is induced by plasmin and decomposition of fibrin to fibrin 
degradation products is initiated. 
The use of human plasma proteins as tissue sealants dates back to early last century. The concept 
of using plasma fibrinogen mixed with thrombin to form a biological adhesive was reported 
approximately 70 years ago. Commercial concentrates rich in clottable fibrinogen became available 
in Europe in the late 1970s, and, more recently, commercial fibrin sealant (FS) products were 
licensed for use in the United States of America (USA). Intended benefit of the FS application is to 
support local hemostasis, to “glue” surface of injured tissues in order to obtain adaptation or 
sealing of surfaces, to support sutures, or to improve repair or healing. 
2.2.  About the product 
VeraSeal is a frozen, S/D treated and double-nanofiltered fibrin sealant (FS) consisting of two 
components: Fibrinogen and Thrombin, both derived from pooled human plasma. Thrombin 
contains human Albumin as excipient. The product is presented in a two syringes which are held 
together by a syringe holder designed by Grifols. Each syringe contains equal amounts of frozen 
Fibrinogen and Thrombin). 
The newly developed FS Grifols is intended for local application and a local effect. It imitates the 
final stage of blood coagulation, i.e. the natural process of clot formation: soluble Fibrinogen is 
cleaved by Thrombin and consequently forms an insoluble network of fiber bundles – the fibrin clot.  
After non-clinical studies were performed, a clinical development plan has been designed to assess 
the safety and the efficacy of FS Grifols in the surgical setting as adjunct to local haemostasis. 
2.3.  The development programme/compliance with CHMP 
guidance/scientific advice 
Applicable Guidelines: 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 6/37 
 
 
 
Guideline on the Clinical Investigation of Plasma Derived Fibrin Sealant/ Haemostatic Products 
(CPMP/BPWG/1089/00); Points to Consider on Application with 1.Meta-Analyses; 2.One-Pivotal 
Study’ (CPMP/EWP/2330/99).  
The requirements of both guidelines have not been fulfilled regarding the submitted phase II/III 
trial. However, as there are 3 phase III trials in surgery ongoing, it can be assumed that GL 
requirements will be fulfilled by the full dossier, when it is ultimately available. 
No national or EMA scientific advice was received by the company. 
2.4.  General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP  
GMP 
A valid GMP certificate has been provided for all manufacturing and testing site. The manufacturing 
plant in which human Fibrinogen (component 1) as well as human Thrombin (component 2) are 
manufactured is subject to inspections at suitable intervals and conforms to GMP requirements. 
GLP 
All nonclinical toxicity studies were conducted consistent with ICH Nonclinical Testing Guidelines 
but not in compliance with the Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) Regulations. 
Final reports of all single dose toxicology studies in both animal species used (mouse and rat) 
indicate no GLP compliance. 
A certificate on the GLP status of the toxicity studies, issued by the collaborating centre or the 
Quality Assurance Unit, should be provided by the applicant (nonclinical OC 2). 
GCP 
The applicant confirms that the submitted study IG402 was conducted in accordance with GCP and 
ICH guidelines, ethical principles of the Declaration of Helsinki, and local regulations. 
VeraSeal has been selected for a routine GCP inspection, involving two investigator sites in Spain, 
the sponsor in Spain and the site in the United States where the TMF is located. The preliminary 
inspection report indicated a high number of critical findings and GCP non-compliance. The final 
integrated inspection report was received on 7 September 2015, stating that the quality and the 
integrity of the data are not robust enough to accept them for supporting the marketing 
authorisation application submitted to the EMA for approval. 
2.5.  Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier 
• 
Legal basis 
Optional  scope  according  to  Article  3(2)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004,  Annex  3(2)(b) 
(Significant innovation or interest of patients at EU level); Article 8(3) application, (i.e dossier with 
administrative, quality, pre-clinical and clinical data) 
•  Accelerated procedure 
N/A 
•  Conditional approval 
N/A 
•  Exceptional circumstances 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 7/37 
 
 
 
N/A 
•  Biosimilar application 
N/A 
•  1 year data exclusivity 
N/A 
•  Significance of paediatric studies 
A  PIP  decision  dated  Oct  24,  2014  granting  a  deferral  until  March  2021  was  submitted  by  the 
applicant. 
3.  Scientific overview and discussion 
3.1.  Quality aspects 
Comment on quality dossier (Module 3): 
With regard to Module 3 the dossier was presented in an insufficient and not well organized 
manner, i.e.  
  CTD template organization was not followed consequently – the main part of Module 3 was 
presented in section 3.2.P., whereas section 3.2.S. included only few parts. The applicant´s 
argumentation that the manufacturing process of VeraSeal is a continuous one and therefore 
not divided into drug substance and drug product (as there is no distinct intermediate drug 
substance defined). This approach is generally accepted, but it should be reminded that the 
presentation of the respective dossier should reflect this continuous process and therefore all 
data provided shall be put together. 
  Many parts of the dossier could not be found easily as they were included into sections where 
they are not expected (assuming that the CTD format is properly followed).  
  Some reports could not be found in the dossier under the quoted document number, but under 
a different one. No explanation for the false quotations was given and the finding of the 
respective reports was quite time consuming.  
Overall, the whole presentation of Module 3 reveals lack of a continuous organisation. 
3.1.1.  Introduction 
VeraSeal is a solution for sealant, containing two active substances: Human fibrinogen and Human 
thrombin.  
Human plasma-derived fibrin sealant Grifols is supplied as a single-use kit with two separate pre-
filled syringes containing sterile frozen solutions of human fibrinogen (Component 1) and human 
thrombin with calcium chloride (Component 2) assembled on a syringe holder. A single use sterile 
applicator tip is also provided. 
VeraSeal mimics the last stage of the human coagulation system. Fibrin generation is the final 
stage of the coagulation system inducing the formation of a semi-rigid fibrin clot: fibrinogen, the 
primary protein responsible for the clot formation, is proteolytically cleaved into fibrin monomers 
by the action of thrombin. The fibrin monomers polymerise to form soluble fibrin.  
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 8/37 
 
 
 
The product is intended for epilesional use only in supportive treatment in surgery where standard 
surgical techniques are insufficient for improvement of haemostasis, and as a suture support in 
vascular surgery. 
3.1.2.  Active Substance 
Human Fibrinogen (component 1) (complies with Monograph 0903 “Fibrin Sealant Kit”, Ph. 
Eur.) 
Human Thrombin (component 2) (complies with Monograph 0903 “Fibrin Sealant Kit”, Ph. Eur.) 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Manufacture 
Both components of VeraSeal are manufactured based on Cohn´s fractionation. Due to continuous 
manufacturing process of both components of FS Grifols from fractionation to the final component, 
there is no distinct intermediate active substance stage. Therefore, active substances sections are 
not included beside the information on control of raw materials used in the manufacture of 
fibrinogen and thrombin component. Information on the entire fractionation process is presented 
and included in the Finished Product section. 
Characterization 
Biochemical characterization was extensively performed on a total of three industrial lots using 
different test methods. Testing was done on the active substances in order to give evidence on 
identification, potency, protein content, etc. as well as on degradation products such as polymers. 
Content of excipients used for manufacture and the amount of process-related impurities, e.g. 
solvent detergent reagents were also defined.  
Special focus was laid on the clot structure and its characterization. As fibrin sealants are used as 
biodegradable tissue sealants to control haemorrhages demonstration of appropriate clot formation 
of the product is essential. As a result the following in vitro characterization studies were 
performed in order to demonstrate clot formation: 
 
Tensile strength: mechanical properties of formed clots 
  Clot structure by confocal microscopy 
  Macroscopic study of clot polymerization and fibrinolysis 
The characterization studies seem to be appropriately performed and give sufficient information on 
the fibrin sealant components. Questions regarding test methods in the course of the 
characterization studies were clarified by the applicant. 
Process controls 
Details on process controls are found in the Finished Product section. 
Stability 
Stability studies have been performed with the defined process intermediates for both components. 
No significant changes in any parameters were observed. The proposed holding times are justified. 
The proposed storage periods are justified based on the respective data of stability investigations. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 9/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Human Fibrinogen (Component 1) 
A stability study was conducted on three lots of fibrinogen intermediates in order to verify the 
stability profile. 
The samples were stored at a temperature-controlled chamber or freezer by simulating the storage 
conditions during production process in transparent polyethylene bags. 
The results obtained showed no signs of instability. 
Therefore the claimed storage periods for the intermediate products seem appropriate. 
Human Thrombin (component 2) 
3 lots of each process intermediate were studied. Two steps were studied. 
Three lots of the first intermediate were stored simulating industrial conditions and two lots of the 
second intermediate were also stored simulating the industrial process storage conditions.  
3.1.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical Development 
Description of the product 
The active substances, fibrinogen (component 1) and thrombin (component 2) of VeraSeal are 
derived from human plasma. 
The choice of excipients is justified and their functions explained. Both components are filled in 
syringes. The container closure system complies with Ph. Eur. requirements. 
Pharmaceutical development 
Human Fibrinogen (Component 1) 
Detailed descriptions on the individual process steps and their development were given. S/D 
treatment was successfully implemented for inactivation of enveloped viruses, followed by the 
removal of S/D reagents and fibrinogen purification from accompanying proteins.  
Special focus was laid on viral safety of the product, therefore double nanofiltration was 
implemented: in a first step nanofiltration with 35nm pore size was evaluated in order to eliminate 
viruses larger than 35nm. At a later stage in development a 20nm filtration was additionally 
implemented and subsequently follows 35nm filtration in order to reduce small viruses, preferably 
those which are highly resistant to other inactivation/removal processes, i.e. non-enveloped 
viruses.  
For product concentration to the desired protein concentration another step was implemented, 
followed by final adjustment of the drug product. 
Human Thrombin (component 2) 
Thrombin is obtained from the fractionation of pooled plasma. Intermediate product is obtained by 
alcohol fractionation based on the Cohn method. A chemical treatment for viral inactivation with 
organic solvent and detergent is performed. Thrombin is then purified from S/D reagents. Several 
optimizations on that process step were done during the whole development phase. Then a double 
nanofiltration through two 15 nm pore size filters connected in series is performed. Implementing 
double nanofiltration was considered to offer greater robustness to this step. 
Final sterile filtration is performed before the aseptic filling of the syringes. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 10/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Human Fibrinogen (Component 1) and Human Thrombin (component 2) 
Batch consistency: Reproducibility and batch consistency for both components at a final scale was 
performed in the Fibrin Sealant facilities with several process runs, resulting in representative lots 
for each product presentation.  
Microbiological attributes: Both components of VeraSeal undergo a purification process including 
viral safety steps (S/D treatment, double nanofiltration) and are sterile filtered before aseptic filling 
into syringes. The syringes are sterilized. The applicant has a system in place (GMP for sterile 
medicinal products) to control microbiological contamination throughout the manufacturing process 
of VeraSeal.  
At this stage of the procedure insufficient information was provided on the development section. 
The applicant justified these questions sufficiently but one question for the Thrombin component 
was not sufficiently answered. Therefore, the question about formulation development and 
excipients is still open. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacturing process 
Human Fibrinogen (Component 1)  
Human fibrinogen is obtained from human plasma fractionation according to a procedure based on 
Cohn’s method. The intermediate undergoes solvent/detergent treatment. Fibrinogen is purified 
and nanofiltered through 35 nm and 20 nm pore size. Subsequently, the bulk undergoes sterile 
filtration before the syringes are aseptically filled.  
Human Thrombin (component 2) 
Thrombin of FS Grifols is obtained from fresh plasma fractionation, according to the Instituto 
Grifols’ production method.  
After obtaining the intermediate, a chemical treatment for virus inactivation using organic solvent 
and detergent is carried out. Next, purification of thrombin is performed. Then a double 
nanofiltration through two 15 nm pore size filters connected in series is carried out. Final sterile 
filtration and aseptic filling in syringes is performed.  
Several questions are raised regarding the manufacturing process due to the limited information 
provided on the individual process steps. Questions about filters – repeated use, reprocessing and 
removal of the aggregate forms in the manufacturing process for the Fibrin component are not 
solved yet. Additionally, a question about – validation of one step of the Thrombin component is 
not answered sufficiently by the applicant. 
Process controls 
The applicant has established in-process controls and defined acceptance criteria at critical steps of 
the manufacturing process of both components to assure that the process is controlled. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 11/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product specification 
VeraSeal complies with the Ph. Eur. monograph “Fibrin sealant kit” 0903. 
Appropriate finished product specifications are set for the product and are sufficiently justified. 
Stability of the product 
The conditions used in the stability studies are according to relevant ICH stability guidelines. Long-
term stability study with conformance lots are still on-going.  
Human Fibrinogen (Component 1) and Human Thrombin (component 2) 
Data of two long term stability studies have been submitted. The data received from both studies 
so far are in accordance with the specifications.  
Further a stability study under stress conditions was as well performed. The data of this stress 
study show that VeraSeal is stable even under stress conditions over a defined period of time. 
The data provided so far show adequate stability and are acceptable. However, additional stability 
data throughout the marketing authorization procedure are still required for the Fibrin component.  
In-use stability (stability after thawing) of VeraSeal was investigated at three different 
temperatures for up to several hours. For the thawed product only data at the beginning of shelf 
life are available at the moment. Appropriate data at the end of the proposed shelf life have not 
been submitted, although the study should have been already completed. No evidence of the 
stability behaviour at the end of the shelf life was given. 
The claimed in-use stability is acceptable based on the data provided. 
Human Albumin 20% Grifols – excipient of component 2  
A summary report of stability results of the human albumin 20% Grifols was provided. Stability 
data were submitted by the applicant. 
Adventitious agents 
Human Fibrinogen (Component 1)  
Viral safety 
The Fibrinogen manufacturing process includes two dedicated virus inactivation/removal steps, S/D 
treatment and double nanofiltration (35nm and 20nm filtration). Additionally other steps were 
evaluated for their contributory effect for removal of non-enveloped viruses which are known as 
highly resistant to several inactivation/removal processes. 
S/D treatment: Effective (> 4log 10) virus inactivation for all viruses tested within 120 minutes (at 
the most) with 90% S/D reagent and also PRV was inactivated below the limit of detection in the 
robustness investigations. 
Double nanofiltration: The fibrinogen manufacturing process includes sequential double 
nanofiltration by Planova 35N followed Planova 20N filters as specific virus removal step. For 
viruses larger than 35nm (e.g. HIV, PRV, BVDV, WNV) the double nanofiltration shows satisfying 
reduction factors (> 4log 10) and also for the small non-enveloped viruses HAV and PPV effective 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 12/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reduction rates (> 4log10) were found. For the large viruses the 20nm filtration step is considered 
as additional safety step. 
Additional steps: The results show effective reduction of HAV (> 5log 10) and just 2log 10 for PPV. 
Based on the data provided, it could be demonstrated, that these additional steps can be 
considered contributory to viral safety of fibrinogen.  
TSE safety 
Two studies were conducted in order to estimate the capacity of the production process of Fibrin 
Sealant components (Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin) to remove Transmissible 
Spongiform Encephalopathies (TSE)-causing agents. Additional steps contribute to the elimination 
of TSE agents, therefore they would eliminate the physico-chemical forms of the protein.  
The results obtained in the experiments show that the process during Fibrinogen production 
partially removes the TSE-causing agent used as a model of the variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease 
causing agent, irrespective of the type of spike and that the additional steps can be considered as 
contributory step for TSE safety of fibrinogen. 
Nanofiltration 20nm: A laboratory-scale study investigated the capacity of the nanofiltration step of 
the Grifols Fibrinogen production process to remove Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy 
(TSE)-causing agents experimentally spiked in the process intermediate prior to the nanofiltration 
step.  
The results reveal that the nanofiltration step is effectively capable to remove TSE agents and can 
therefore be considered as relevant prion reduction step in the manufacturing process of 
fibrinogen. 
Human Thrombin (component 2) 
Viral safety 
The Thrombin manufacturing process includes two dedicated virus inactivation/removal steps, 
Solvent / Detergent treatment and double nanofiltration. Additionally two process steps were 
assessed for virus removal. 
In summary, validation studies performed are considered sufficient and the manufacturing process 
of thrombin is effective for inactivation/removal of enveloped and non-enveloped viruses.  
Adventitious agents for human Albumin 20% Grifols (excipient of component 2) 
Relevant virus inactivation steps and further manufacturing steps were investigated. In summary, 
the virus validation studies performed are considered sufficient and adequate.  
TSE safety of Human Thrombin (component 2) 
Two studies were conducted in order to estimate the capacity of the production process of Fibrin 
Sealant components (Human Fibrinogen and Human Thrombin) to remove Transmissible 
Spongiform Encephalopathies (TSE)-causing agents. 
Different manufacturing steps of Thrombin from which a reduction in the prion load was expected 
by the applicant was experimentally tested in laboratory scale studies.  
These laboratory-scale studies investigated the capacity of the different steps and of the double 
nanofiltration step through 15 nm pore-size of the Grifols Thrombin production process. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 13/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results reveal that the different production steps are effectively capable to remove TSE agents 
and can therefore be considered as relevant prion reduction step in the manufacturing process of 
thrombin. The TSE studies are in accordance the relevant guidelines.   
TSE safety for human Albumin Grifols (excipient) 
The applicant presented a summary report where the potential prion-removal capacity of the 
manufacturing process of Grifols 20% human albumin was estimated.  
Based on the risk assessment the risk of a contamination with the addition of human albumin 20% 
Grifols as a stabilizer of thrombin (component 2) is very low. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The active substances are human fibrinogen and human thrombin. In the manufacturing process of 
thrombin, another excipient from biological origin is used. The selection of viruses for validation 
studies included both enveloped and non-enveloped viruses with a wide range of physico-chemical 
characteristics and in general follows the recommendations of the available guidance documents. 
The validation strategy and choice of viruses are considered acceptable.  
The submitted validation studies (viral safety and TSE agents) and overall information provided are 
sufficient to demonstrate acceptable adventitious agents control. 
Active substance 
Human Fibrinogen + Thrombin (component 1 + component 2): 
The chemical-pharmaceutical documentation and Expert Report in relation to VeraSeal / Fibrinogen 
Component are of sufficient quality in view of the present European regulatory requirements. 
The control tests and specifications for the active substances are adequately drawn up. 
Based on the results from the stability studies presented no significant changes in any parameters 
were observed. The proposed holding times are justified. 
Finished product 
Human Fibrinogen (component 1): 
The development of the product has been described, the choice of excipients is justified and their 
functions sufficiently explained. 
Several product specific parameters and process variables were investigated and the data provided 
demonstrate fulfilment of all predefined acceptance criteria.  
The conditions used in the stability studies are according to the ICH stability guideline. The control 
tests and specifications for the finished product are adequately drawn up. 
Long-term stability study with conformance lots is still ongoing. 
Human Thrombin (component 2): 
The development of the product has been described, the choice of excipients is justified and their 
functions explained. 
Process Validation was sufficiently performed for the different manufacturing steps of thrombin. 
The product specifications cover appropriate parameters for the intended dosage form. 
The batch analysis results show that the finished product meets the specifications proposed.  
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 14/37 
 
 
 
 
The conditions used in the stability studies are according to the ICH stability guideline. The control 
tests and specifications for the finished product are adequately drawn up. 
Long-term stability study with conformance lots is still ongoing.  
In summary, prior to granting marketing authorisation a number of concerns as outlined in the 
LoOI should be adequately addressed by the Applicant. 
Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In conclusion, based on the review of the quality data provided, the CHMP considers that the 
marketing authorisation application for VeraSeal could be approvable from the quality point of view 
provided that the Applicant gives satisfactory responses to the List of Outstanding Issues (LoOI).  
3.2.  Non clinical aspects  
3.2.1.  Pharmacology 
Characterisation of the pharmacological potential of the product is appropriate. The company 
conducted primary pharmacodynamic studies in-vitro and in two different animal species in vivo in 
its indication as adjuvant to hemostasis in surgery. In vitro coagulation after application of FS 
Grifols seemed to be immediate and satisfactory. The in vivo haemostatic effect was tested in 
cardiac, vascular and liver surgery in pigs and 2 vascular surgery studies in rabbits. In 1 study of 
each species FS Grifols was compared to other already licensed fibrin sealants (Tisseel®, Evicel® 
and Crosseal®).  
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies and no studies on pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
were performed since FS Grifols’ components (Fibrinogen and Thrombin) are normal constituents of 
human plasma, which is agreed.  
Specific non-clinical conventional safety pharmacology studies of FS Grifols were not conducted, 
which is, due to the nature of the product, considered appropriate.  
Overall,  the  presented  preclinical  studies  reveal  evidence  that  FS  Grifols  will  exert  hemostatic 
effects as desired.  
3.2.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No pharmacokinetic studies have been performed by the applicant, which is, due to the nature of 
the product and the only topical application, considered acceptable. The product acts locally and 
does not distribute, appreciably to distal tissue or organs. The fibrin clot generated by FSG is 
metabolized according to the fibrinolytic and phagocytic process that metabolizes endogenous 
fibrin. 
3.2.3.  Toxicology 
Six single dose toxicity studies with the fibrinogen component of the Fibrin Sealant (FS) Grifols 
VeraSeal were conducted in mice and rats. VeraSeal is intended for topical use, although in the 
single dose toxicity studies, fibrinogen was administered by the intravenous (i.v.) route to 
guarantee systemic exposure of the product and thereby evaluate a possible worst-case-scenario in 
the clinical setup. 
The test article was administered i.v. at one nominal dose  during one preliminary study and two 
main acute toxicity studies in the mouse and the rat, respectively. The main single dose toxicity 
studies were designed to evaluate hematology, clinical chemistry, necropsy, and histopathology 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 15/37 
 
 
 
data after a single administration, with further evaluations conducted 2 weeks later to assess 
delayed toxicity and/or recovery. 
The two main studies only vary in using different lots of fibrinogen. One main study in each animal 
species was performed with product nano-filtered by DV 50nm and DV 20nm. In the second main 
study animals were administered by intravenous route with fibrinogen nano-filtered with Planova 
35nm and Planova 20nm. 
No toxicity studies have been performed with thrombin, the second component of the FS Grifols. . 
Lack of the acute toxicity studies for thrombin was justified because of the following facts: 
• 
• 
• 
Thrombin is thrombogenic protein and it cannot be administered intravenously 
Thrombin is natural precursor is circulating in human plasma 
Excess thrombin (if any) is inactivated by protease inhibitors that are present in blood 
Possible toxic effects were evaluated during the FSG safety studies in cardiac and vascular surgery 
on pigs and in vascular surgeries in rabbits. 
Neurobehavioral data was generated by the Irwin test through all acute toxicity studies. A 
complete evaluation of the symptomatology, the intensity thereof, the time of appearance and 
reversibility produced by the test article was considered in order to obtain the toxicological profile 
of the product, taking into account the characteristics of the topical-use of the product in humans. 
Overall, the presented findings of the toxicological studies do not provide evidence for enhanced 
toxicological potential of fibrinogen, one of the two components of VeraSeal used in the acute 
toxicity studies. 
The toxicological studies of VeraSeal evaluated: (1) test product toxicity after single-dose 
intravenous administration in two different rodent species by intravenous route and (2) the 
symptomatology, the intensity thereof, the time of appearance and reversibility produced by the 
test article. 
The LD50 of FS Grifols fibrinogen component was adequately evaluated. No mortality occurred. 
An editiorial mistake has to be recognized. In the Nonclinical overview of the Dossier (2.4.01. page 
10) provided by the applicant, it is stated that four Wistar rats (two male, two female) were given 
the product by intravenous bolus. In the final report of the preliminary rat study (015/02), the 
specified number of animals used is repeatedly mixed up (5 males and 5 females on page 12 / 2 
animals per sex on page 14 / as well on page 14 just several lines below: one group made up of 5 
males and 5 females…). 
Due to the tables indicating the results of the preliminary rat study, it can be assumed, that 2 
animals/sex have been used. However, the correct animal numbers should be indicated in all future 
citations of this study. 
The omission of the genotoxicity studies of FSG as a whole and of fibrinogen and thrombin is 
considered acceptable. Studies on carcinogenicity and reproductive and developmental toxicity 
have not been performed. The omission of such studies is justified. 
No other toxicity studies were done. The immunotoxicity of xenogenic proteins (human fibrinogen, 
human thrombin) for tested animals was observed during the primary pharmacodynamics studies. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 16/37 
 
 
 
3.2.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Exemption from the need for an environmental risk assessment was claimed by the applicant with 
reference to the Guideline on Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal Products for Human use 
CHMP/SWP/4447/00. 
The active substance is a natural substance, the use of which will not alter the concentration or 
distribution of the substance in the environment. Therefore, Fibrinogen and Thrombin are not 
expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
3.2.5.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
One in vitro study and five in vivo studies in pigs and rabbits characterized haemostatic efficacy of 
FS Grifols. The effects observed were comparable to other fibrin sealants and showed that FSG is 
effective in haemostasis and tissue sealing in different animal models. There was lack of thrombotic 
complications within scope of intended use of FSG. 
The presented findings of the toxicological studies do not provide evidence for enhanced 
toxicological potential of fibrinogen, one of the two components of VeraSeal used in the acute 
toxicity studies. The toxicological studies of VeraSeal evaluated: (1) test product toxicity after 
single-dose intravenous administration in two different rodent species by intravenous route and (2) 
the symptomatology, the intensity thereof, the time of appearance and reversibility produced by 
the test article. The LD50 of FS Grifols fibrinogen component was adequately evaluated. No 
mortality occurred. 
In addition, results of preclinical and clinical studies support the local tolerance of FSG. 
Taken together, the submitted preclinical data support the human use of VeraSeal. 
3.2.6.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
The preclinical testing strategy is regarded as appropriate in view of the facts that the product is a 
preparation of a human protein, clinical experience has already been obtained and data for other 
Fibrinogen Sealant products is available. The applicable regulatory guidelines were taken into 
consideration adequately. 
From the nonclinical perspective, the application for VeraSeal is approvable. 
3.3.  Clinical aspects 
• 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Desig
n 
Study 
Posolog
y 
Study 
Objective 
Duration  Gender 
M/F 
Median 
Age 
Subjs 
by 
arm 
entere
d/ 
compl. 
Efficacy: 
duration 
of the 
surgical 
interventi
on; 
Safety: 6 
mo follow 
up 
Study 
ID 
IG402 
No. of 
study 
centre
s / 
locatio
ns 
5/  
Canada
, 8/UK,  
6/ES 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Diagno
sis 
Incl. 
criteria 
Require
d one of 
a list of 
predefin
ed 
elective, 
open 
peripher
al 
vascular 
surgical 
Primary 
Endpoint 
time to 
hemostasi
s (TTH), 
measured 
in 
minutes 
from the 
start of 
treatment 
applicatio
n at the 
Page 17/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prelimin
ary Part 
Primary 
Part 
First 2 
subje
cts at 
each 
site; 
Open 
label 
single 
blind 
2 FS 
Grifols (3 
mL) kits 
2 FS 
Grifols (3 
mL) kits; 
Manual 
compress
ion 
Familiarisa
tion with 
FS Grifols 
and study 
procedures
; safety 
Efficacy 
and safety 
72/72 
111/11
0 FS 
Grifols 
57/57 
MC 
procedu
res 
target 
bleeding 
site (TBS) 
during 10 
min 
observati
onal 
period 
17 
(23,6%) 
/55 
(76.4%); 
Age: 70 
FS: 15 
(13.6%)/
95 
(86.4%); 
MC: 18, 
(31.6%)/
39, 
(68.4%) 
Age:  
FS: 69  
MC: 67 
3.3.1.  Pharmacokinetics 
3.3.2.  Pharmacodynamics 
3.3.3.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
3.3.4.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Since  FS  Grifols  is  intended  for  epilesional  use  only  and  intravascular  administration  is 
contraindicated,  no  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  been  performed  in  man.  In  addition,  the 
product's  action  is  based  upon  the  well  known  physiological  process  of  the  final  steps  of  the 
coagulation cascade and no specific pharmacodynamic studies were deemed needed. 
The  fibrin  clot  generated  by  FS  Grifols  is  metabolized  according  to  fibrinolytic  and  phagocytic 
processes that metabolize endogenous fibrin. Clinical pharmacological studies were not performed. 
This is accepted. 
3.3.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies 
The dossier encompasses only a single phase II/III study, IG402, in vascular surgery. 
Searching the EU Clinical Trials Register, the following ongoing phase III studies can be identified: 
IG1101: A Prospective, Single-blind, Randomized, Phase III Study to Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of Fibrin Sealant Grifols (FS Grifols) as an Adjunct to Hemostasis during Peripheral 
Vascular Surgery 
IG1102: A Prospective, Single-blind, Randomized, Phase III Study to Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of Fibrin Sealant Grifols (FS Grifols) as an Adjunct to Hemostasis During Parenchymous 
Tissue Open Surgeries 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 18/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IG1103: A Prospective, Single-blind, Randomized, Phase III Study to Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of Fibrin Sealant Grifols (FS Grifols) as an Adjunct to Hemostasis During Soft Tissue Open 
Surgeries  
For all three trials, 2014-06-16 is given as the start date. All three trials are also briefly described 
in the RMP. 
Considering the submitted phase II/III study IG402 in context with the three ongoing phase III 
trials identified in the EU clinical trials register, the CHMP is lead to the conclusion that the 
company closely follows the advice given in the CHMP guideline on the clinical development of 
fibrin sealants, despite not having received scientific advice for this clinical development 
programme. Acceptable models for different surgical bleeding situations have been chosen by the 
company, ie. soft tissue surgery and parenchymal organ surgery. An additional trial in vascular 
surgery is replicating the clinical investigation from phase II, which is fully endorsed. 
However, it is not fully understood why this clearly premature dossier with only a single available 
finished study, the design and conduct of which can in no way satisfy the demanding requirements 
for a single pivotal trial, is submitted for review concerning a marketing authorisation at the time 
being. 
Trial IG402 
Design: Single-blind randomized phase II/III study consisting of 2 phases. In the Preliminary 
phase, the first two subjects per centre were treated with FS Grifols in an open label manner to 
ensure that the local study teams familiarized themselves with the technique of FS Grifols 
application and with the intra-operative procedures required by the protocol.   
In the Primary phase, subjects were randomized 2:1 to VeraSeal or manual compression. This part 
of the study was single blind, as the investigator could not be blinded due to the differences in the 
treatment arms. 
Population: Male or female patients at least 18 years old in UK and Spain and at least 3 years old 
in the Canadian centres undergoing one of a list of 20 predefined peripheral vascular surgeries 
involving either an arterial patch angioplasty or an arterial anastomosis utilizing 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) or Dacron grafts. 
Treatments: All of the preliminary part participants (N=72) were treated with FS Grifols.  
The subjects from the part II of the study were treated intra-operatively with FS Grifols or manual 
compression after randomization (2:1). 
The study protocol presents the dosage and method of application of FS Grifols as follows:  
“FS Grifols is for local use only. It is not to be applied intravascularly. It should be used topically 
and applied on the surface of bleeding tissue only. Before the application of FS Grifols, the target 
surface area was to be as dry as possible, as can be achieved by gently sponging the target area 
with sterile gauze or sponge immediately before the application of FS Grifols. FS Grifols was only to 
be applied with the supplied administration device. It was to be dripped onto the desired area to 
produce a thin, even layer over the application area. The tip of the applicator was to be kept as 
close as possible to the desired tissue without touching the tissue.” And “The initial quantity of FS 
Grifols applied was to be sufficient to entirely cover the intended application area with a thin, even 
layer. If the hemostatic effect was incomplete after the initial application of FS Grifols, or the TBS 
re-bled within a 10-minute observational period, an additional amount of FS Grifols could be 
applied at the TBS, if necessary, until all prepared FS Grifols had been used (up to two kits of FS 
Grifols). “ 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 19/37 
 
 
 
For subjects randomized to MC, after randomization and clamp removal, direct MC was applied 
immediately to the TBS using gauze or laparotomy pads. 
Endpoints: For surgical procedures in both the Preliminary Part (I) and the Primary Part (II), a 10-
minute observational period followed the start of study treatment application (TStart) at the TBS, 
and hemostasis was assessed at predetermined time points.  
The primary efficacy endpoint of the study is time to hemostasis (TTH), measured in minutes 
from the start of treatment application (TStart) at the TBS to the achievement of hemostasis at 
that site or to the end of the 10-minute observational period if hemostasis has not yet been 
achieved. 
The precise TTH was not observed in this study. However, if hemostasis had not been achieved at a 
given assessment time point, but had been achieved at the next assessment time point, then it 
was inferred that the true TTH was between the 2 assessment time points. 
Therefore, TTH, although not observed directly, was ascertained as falling into 1 of 5 hemostatic 
time categories (HTCs) or the non-HTC as follows: 
1. HTC≤3: ≤3 minutes from TStart to hemostasis. 
2. HTC>3 to ≤4: >3 minutes to ≤4 minutes from TStart to hemostasis. 
3. HTC>4 to ≤5: >4 minutes to ≤5 minutes from TStart to hemostasis. 
4. HTC>5 to ≤7: >5 minutes to ≤7 minutes from TStart to hemostasis. 
5. HTC>7 to ≤10: >7 minutes to ≤10 minutes from TStart to hemostasis. 
The following cases were considered to be treatment failures: 
1. Persistent bleeding at the TBS beyond the 10-minute observational period. 
2. Severe (brisk and forceful) bleeding according to the Investigator’s judgment at the TBS during 
the 10-minute observational period. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints 
The secondary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
1. Cumulative proportion of subjects achieving hemostasis at the TBS at each of the 5 HTCs  
2. Prevalence of treatment failure 
Time to haemostasis is a commonly used primary efficacy endpoint for vascular surgery trials and 
therefore acceptable. The secondary endpoints are appropriate, however, they represent only a 
slightly different evaluation of the primary endpoint. There is an apparent lack of other, clinically 
relevant endpoints which could have provided a more complete picture of the efficacy of FS Grifols 
than the TTH during the 10 minute observational period at the TBS. Transfusion requirements, 
postoperative rebleeding at TBS, reoperation at TBS, postoperative blood loss, graft thrombosis or 
occlusion, length of hospital stay come to mind. 
Statistical design and analysis aspects 
The Applicant informed that flexible block sizes (of size 3 or size 6) had been used. This strategy is 
very favourable in the presence of single-blinding, as this is a valid means to reduce the potential 
to anticipate the next treatment. Around one third of the trial population (50 patients) had already 
been randomized when relevant changes on the primary endpoint were introduced in the Statistical 
Analysis Plan (SAP). This is problematic in the single blind trial. However, after request the results 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 20/37 
 
 
 
for the primary analysis from the Clinical Study Protocol, predefined prior to first patient 
randomization, was provided and this analysis allowed a conclusion on efficacy consistent with the 
one discussed previously. 
Strong statistical evidence is needed for this single-pivotal trial to achieve the compelling evidence 
as outlined in the respective EMA Points to Consider. The trial had however been planned at the 
usual 5%, two-sided level. While on request it was shown that the relevant statistical tests 
performed could achieve a level of p<0.00125 (i.e. the equivalent criterion for the one-pivotal trial 
setting), the sole p-value of a test statistic is however only one aspect. The Clinical Study Protocol 
and the SAP had specified a proportional odds model for analysis of TTH. Following a pre-test 
however, the primary endpoint analysis had been changed (based on a procedure set during the 
course of the trial) and a CMH test was applied. This represents a data dependent decision and was 
of concern regarding inflation of the type I error. Similarly, control for the factor ‘graft type’ was 
initially not foreseen, but such was included in the statistical analysis. On request the predefined 
proportional odds model has been provided, and as discussed this showed that the conclusions 
were not impacted by these changes in the primary analysis.  
The sample size was low, and no subgroup analysis at all had been performed. On request, some 
subgroup analyses (by gender, age, bleeding intensity, graft type) were performed. However, 
these are necessarily of even smaller sample size, thus uncertainty remains regarding the 
treatment effect in these subgroups, resulting in limited persuasiveness of these analyses. In 
addition the statistical test performed is not considered sensitive to address consistency over 
subgroups. Together with clinical concerns, including the insensitive measurement of the primary 
endpoint and resulting uncertainty on the effect size as well as lack of secondary endpoints it is 
questioned, that the stringent evidence for ‘exceptionally compelling’, ‘internal and external 
validity’ and ‘internal consistency’ of the data as outlined in the EMA ‘Points to Consider on 
Application with 1.Meta-Analyses; 2.One-Pivotal Study’ (CPMP/EWP/2330/99) is achieved with this 
single trial.   
Participant flow  
A total of 240 subjects underwent vascular surgery in the Preliminary (I) or Primary (II) part of the 
study. Of these, 72 were treated with FS Grifols in the Preliminary Part (I) of the study, 111 were 
randomized to receive FS Grifols in the Primary Part (II) of the study, and 57 were randomized to 
MC treatment in the Primary Part (II) of the study. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 21/37 
 
 
 
 
 
Treated with FS in 
Preliminary Part 
(n=72)  
Randomised in 
Primary Part 
(n=168)  
Allocated to FS (n=111) 
Received FS (n=110) 
Did not receive FS due to 
severe bleeding at TBS (n=1) 
Allocated to MC  (n=57) 
Received allocated intervention 
(n=57) 
The following tables summarize types of vascular surgery procedures performed: 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 22/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
Studied Period: Date of First Enrollment: 20 October 2008; Date of Last Completed: 5 May 2014 
The protocol states that: Overall study duration is expected to total 17 months, including 5 months 
for study set-up and Ethics Committee (EC)/Institutional Review Board (IRB)/Research Ethics 
Board (REB) approval, and 6 months for recruitment. There is a 6-month observational period for 
viral safety and immunogenicity follow-up assessments. 
It is not clear why this not overly large study took 6 years to finish. The long timeframe could 
introduce bias into the study as the fields of vascular surgery and anaesthesia continually evolve 
and the standard treatment modalities are subject to change  (e.g. suture materials, suture 
techniques, improved management of anticoagulation during and after surgical procedures, novel 
anticoagulants, perioperative medication with statins and antiplatelet drugs, improved fluid and 
blood products management etc.) thus casting doubt on the internal consistency and external 
validity of this trial. 
The applicant was asked to elaborate why the study duration is distinctly longer than expected (65 
vs. 17 months) and if changed treatment standards are expected to have an impact on the 
outcomes of the trial. The grounds cited by the applicant (regulatory difficulties with clinical trial 
approval, suboptimal selection of treatment centres, slow enrollment) are acknowlegdeg. However, 
the claim that treatment modalities remained unchanged over the 6 year study duration has to be 
further substantiated by the company. 
Protocol deviations 
There is a multitude of protocol violations (filling 460 pages of report), classified mostly as minor, 
as for nearly every patient one or more lab tests have not been done or visits were outside of the 
specified timeframes. 
The sheer amount of protocol deviations is astounding and leads to the conclusion that even 
though the assessment during the 10 minutes efficacy observation period has been done diligently, 
the rest of the patient evaluation was done rather halfheartedly. The applicant was asked to 
comment on the amount of protocol violations and how this may impact on the reliability of the 
conclusions. The Applicant is of the opinion that these minor protocol deviations do not impact on 
the validity of the study outcomes. However, it is not easily comprehensible why study sites were 
employed that lacked the facilities for undertaking study procedures required by the protocol. If 
procedures apart from determining the primary efficacy endpoint were superflous, they didn’t need 
to be defined in the protocol in the first place and were not to be complacently skipped if they 
didn’t appear convenient for individual sites.  
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 23/37 
 
 
 
 
In addition, what is  more worrying is that the inability of study sites to perform basic laboratory 
evaluations like liver, kidney or coagulation panels leads inevitably to the inclusion of patients who 
would have met exclusion criteria as defined in the protocol (e.g. pre-operative  INR ≥2.0; pre-
operative aPTT ratio ≥ 1.5; pre-operative serum creatinine > 2 × ULN; pre-operative AST or ALT > 
2.5 × the ULN). 
Treatment centres 
19 treatment centres recruited subjects. centre 28 in Surrey, UK, did not enrol any patients, but 
screened one subject who turned out to be an intraoperative screening failure. 
Five of the 18 centres are classified as small sites (having enrolled < 3 patients in one or both 
treatment arms in the primary part). 6 sites have participated in the preliminary part of the trial, 
but did not enrol any patients in the primary part. The applicant was asked to discuss if this 
phenomenon reflects on the usability of the FS Grifols kit. 
The company cited as reasons for the lacking enrolment of subjects inadequate or insufficient 
human resources being dedicated to the study, administrative reasons within the site such as 
internal issues between the investigative staff and the centre’s management, unavailability of 
suitable patients for enrollment and lack of genuine interest in study participation and enrollment 
of subjects (reflected as absence or poor pre-screening/screening activity for prolonged periods). 
The arguments of the applicant are acknowledged but considered to reflect poor selection of 
treatment centres for this study. 
Summary of main efficacy results 
All efficacy analyses were performed using Primary Part (II) subjects to compare the efficacy of FS 
Grifols and MC. Subjects who were randomized to MC but received FS Grifols at the TBS in error or 
received  FS  Grifols  at  a  non-TBS  were  categorized  under  the  MC  group  in  the  ITT  population  for 
efficacy analyses. 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy 
as well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table XXX. Summary of efficacy for trial IG402  
Title:  A  Prospective,  Single-blind,  Randomized,  Phase  II/III  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety 
and  Efficacy  of  Fibrin  Sealant  Grifols  (FS  Grifols)  as  an  Adjunct  to  Hemostasis  During 
Peripheral Vascular Surgery 
Study 
identifier 
IG402 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 24/37 
 
 
 
 
Design 
This trial consists of 2 parts: a Preliminary Part (I) and a Primary Part (II). 
Preliminary  Part  (I):  All  subjects  enrolled  in  the  Preliminary  Part  (I)  were  treated  with 
FS Grifols. This part of the trial had 2 main objectives: 
1)  To  ensure  that  local  study  teams  familiarized  themselves  with  the  technique  of  FS 
Grifols application and with the intra-operative procedures required by the protocol. To 
meet this objective, the first 2 subjects at each 
site were enrolled and treated with FS Grifols. 
2)  To  assess  the  clinical  safety  of  FS  Grifols.  Treatment  of  20  subjects  with  FS  Grifols 
was considered sufficient for an initial assessment of clinical safety. 
Primary  Part  (II):  Subjects  in  this  part  were  randomly  allocated  in  a  2:1  ratio  to 
treatment  with  FS  Grifols  or  manual  compression  (MC).  The  2  main  objectives  of  this 
part were as follows: 
1) Assessment of the safety of FS Grifols. 
2) Assessment of the efficacy of FS Grifols. 
Duration of main phase: 
10 min 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase: 
not applicable 
Hypothesis  Superiority 
Treatments 
groups 
FS 
Grifols 
preliminary 
N=72 
FS Grifols primary 
Manual compression 
N=110 
N=57 
Endpoints 
and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
<label> 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Database 
lock 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Primary Analysis 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  of  the  study  is 
time  to  hemostasis  (TTH),  measured  in  minutes 
from  the  start  of  treatment  application  (TStart) 
at  the  TBS  to  the  achievement  of  hemostasis  at 
that  site  or  to  the  end  of  the  10-minute 
observational  period  if  hemostasis  has  not  yet 
been achieved. 
TTH,  although  not  observed  directly,  was 
ascertained as falling into 1 of 5 hemostatic time 
categories (HTCs) or the non-HTC as follows: 
1.  HTC ≤ 3:  ≤ 3  minutes  from  TStart  to 
hemostasis. 
2.  HTC>3  to  ≤ 4:  >3  minutes  to  ≤ 4  minutes 
from TStart to hemostasis. 
3.  HTC>4  to  ≤ 5:  >4  minutes  to  ≤ 5  minutes 
from TStart to hemostasis. 
4.  HTC>5  to  ≤ 7:  >5  minutes  to  ≤ 7  minutes 
from TStart to hemostasis. 
5.  HTC>7  to  ≤10:  >7  minutes  to  ≤10  minutes 
from TStart to hemostasis 
A  non-hemostatic time  category,  NHTC>10,  was 
defined as persistent bleeding at the TBS 
beyond the 10-minute observational period (i.e., 
>10 minutes from TStart). 
Cumulative  proportion  of  subjects  achieving 
hemostasis at the TBS at each of the 5 HTCs 
Prevalence of treatment failures 
Page 25/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population 
time 
description 
Descriptive 
statistics 
estimate 
variability 
and 
point 
and 
Effect 
per 
estimate 
comparison 
Intent to treat 
Treatment group  FS 
Grifols 
preliminary  
FS 
primary  
Grifols 
Manual 
compression 
Number 
subjects 
TTH≤3 
of 
72 
110 
57 
41 (56.9) 
51 (46.4) 
15 (26.3) 
TTH>3 but ≤4 
11 (15.3)  
18 (16.4) 
3 (5.3) 
TTH>4 but ≤5  
5 (6.9) 
13 (11.8) 
10 (17.5) 
TTH>5 but ≤7  
3 (4.2) 
5 (4.5) 
4 (7.0) 
TTH>7 but ≤10   5 (6.9)  
10 (9.1) 
9 (15.8) 
Treatment 
failure 
7 (9.7) 
13 (11.8) 
16 (28.1) 
haemostatic 
the 
First 
category 
Primary endpoint: 
TTH≤ 3* 
of 
Secondary endpoint: 
Treatment failure 
Comparison 
groups 
test 
statistic 
variability 
statistic  
P-value 
Comparison 
groups 
test 
statistic 
variability 
statistic 
P-value 
FS 
Grifols 
primary 
vs. 
MC 
46.4% vs. 26.3%  
Not done 
CMH row mean score p<0.001 
FS Grifols primary vs. MC 
11.8 % vs. 28.1 %  
Not done 
Fisher’s Exact test p<0.016 
The slightly more favourable results in the preliminary part could be explained by the severity of bleeding at 
the  TBS,  which  was  mild  for  51.4%  and  moderate  for  48.6%  of  subjects,  while  in  the  primary  part    TBS 
bleeding intensity was moderate for most of the subjects in each of the FS Grifols (90.9%) and MC (91.2%) 
groups. 
*p-value  relates  to  the  CMH  statistic  for  the  primary  endpoint  representing  the  ordinal  scale  of  TTH,  point 
estimates represent the proportion of patients with haemostatic success within the first 3 minutes. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 26/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Age 65-74 
(Older subjects number 
/total number) 
Age 75-84 
(Older subjects number 
/total number) 
Age 85+ 
(Older subjects number 
/total number) 
IG402 
101/239 
52/239 
7/239 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses AND meta-analysis) 
N/A 
Supportive study(ies) 
N/A 
3.3.6.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The applicant has submitted one finished study in vascular surgery, while three additional clinical 
trials (in peripheral vascular surgery, parenchymal organ surgery and soft tissue surgery) which 
represent the usual spectrum of the clinical investigation for fibrin sealants, were started in June 
2014 and are ongoing. The submitted trial IG402 is a single blind phase II/III study in peripheral 
vascular surgery with a preliminary phase, in which all patients were treated with VeraSeal, and a 
primary phase, in which patients were randomized 2:1 to VeraSeal or manual compression. 
Study IG402 suffers from a number of weaknesses: 
It was clearly planned as an exploratory phase II/III study and not as a single pivotal phase III 
trial, thus there are a number of methodological shortcomings. 
For a single pivotal trial considerably stronger statistical evidence than the usual two-sided type I 
error of 5% is needed. This aspect could be met by p<0.00125 as achieved by the relevant 
statistical analyses, however the sole p-value of a test statistic is only one aspect of type I error 
control within a trial. The applicant had changed the statistical test following a pre-test, and during 
the course of the single blinded trial. These late specifications and remaining ambiguity in the test 
statistic introduced further multiplicity and potential for inflation (inclusion of a stratification factor 
for ‘graft type’, collapsing of categories, pooling of sites). Altogether these statistical deficiencies 
did not contribute to establishing compelling evidence. However, these concerns on the type I error 
could be resolved by providing a range of requested analyses, which altogether were capable to 
demonstrate that the conclusions from these additional analyses remained the same and thus the 
type I error was not inflated. In addition to these statistical aspects, further concerns regarding the 
study duration, non-availability of subgroup analyses and possible selection bias undermined the 
convincing power of the trial. The concern on selection bias could be resolved, supported by 
sensitivity analysis and the fact that a flexible block size was used. Some additional analyses by 
year of randomization have been added, however some more sensitive analyses are needed to 
finally rule out that the overall analysis results are not driven by a specific time-period during the 
trial. In addition while some subgroup analyses have now been provided, these are not considered 
to be very informative, but still additional analyses are requested to provide more informative 
results on the treatment effect estimates and confidence intervals. 
In addition, the number of patients receiving VeraSeal, compared to development programmes of 
similar medicinal products is limited. Only 72 patients were exposed to the IMP during the non-
randomized preliminary phase of the trial and 110 patients were randomized to VeraSeal during 
the primary phase of IG402, with 57 patients receiving manual compression. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 27/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The efficacy evaluation encompasses a 10 minutes observation of haemostatic efficacy after the 
administration of fibrin sealant or applying manual compression. This 10 minute observation 
window is not supported by clinically relevant secondary endpoints that would be expected in a 
pivotal trial, like rebleeding, reoperation, transfusion requirements, length of hospital stay, graft 
occlusion etc. 
Initially, no subgroup analyses were foreseen for trial IG402, which is not in accordance with the 
GL on Points to Consider on Application with One Pivotal Trial (CPMP/EWP/2330/99). Such analyses 
would have been especially relevant for this application as IG402 is the sole source of clinical data 
for FS Grifols at the time being. The Applicant has now submitted post hoc subgroup analyses 
regarding gender, age >/<65, type of bleeding at TBS and type of graft. Although the selected 
subgroups can be considered as relevant, the performed subgroup analyses have limited 
convincing power. Methodologically, the CMH test is not sensitive and informative to address 
consistency of treatment effects, and therefore additional analyses using the POM are requested. 
Nevertheless, the limited value of the subgroup analyses is also based on their small sample sizes, 
leaving room for large uncertainty, questioning the generalizability to a larger patient population.  
The duration of this small study is excessively long, the expected duration stated in the protocol 
was 17 months, while the actual time to finish the trial was 6 years (Oct 2008 - May 2014). The 
long timeframe could introduce bias into the study as the fields of vascular surgery and 
anaesthesia continually evolve and the standard treatment modalities are subject to change, e.g. 
suture materials, suture techniques, improved management of anticoagulation during and after 
surgical procedures, novel anticoagulants, perioperative medication with statins and antiplatelet 
drugs, improved fluid and blood products management etc. All of these factors are not reassuring 
regarding the study’s internal consistency (including constancy of the treatment effect over time) 
and external validity. Regarding the comparability of the clinical situation, the applicant has merely 
stated that treatment modalities in vascular surgery and perioperative management have not 
changed without presenting any supporting data or literature. Although 19 treatment centres were 
active, only 18 were able to recruit subjects. Five of the 18 centres are classified as small sites 
(having enrolled < 3 patients in one or both treatment arms in the primary part). 6 further sites 
have participated in the preliminary part of the trial, but did not enrol any patients in the primary 
part. The Applicant has cited inadequate or insufficient human resources being dedicated to the 
study, administrative reasons within the site such as internal issues between the investigative staff 
and the centre’s management, unavailability of suitable patients for enrollment and lack of genuine 
interest in study participation and enrollment of subjects (reflected as absence or poor pre-
screening/screening activity for prolonged periods). This is considered to reflect poor selection of 
treatment centres for this study. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
The population eligible for entry into the study was well balanced at baseline in treatment groups. 
All subjects in the ITT population were White, with the exception of 1 Asian subject. The majority 
of subjects in the study were male, but a greater proportion of subjects in the MC group (31.6%) 
than in the FS Grifols pooled group (17.6%) were female. Mean and median ages in the MC group 
(67.0 years) were near the FS Grifols ages group - mean (68.4 years) and median (70.0 years).  
In the Part I, the most common surgical procedure was abdominal aortic aneurysm resection and 
graft replacement -16/72 subjects (22.2%). In the Part II of the study, the most common surgical 
procedure was carotid endarterectomy – 23/110 subjects (20.9%) in FS Grifols group and 11/57 
subjects (19.3%) in MC group. The proportions of subjects treated with FS Grifols overall were 
similar to those treated with MC for most types of vascular surgery. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 28/37 
 
 
 
The provided efficacy data show that VeraSeal is more effective than manual compression for the 
control of mild or moderate bleeding during a 10 minute observation period at the target bleeding 
site. 46.4 % vs. 26.3 % of patients in the ITT population could reach haemostasis below three 
minutes. This difference is statistically significant in favor of VeraSeal based on the CMH row mean 
score (p < 0.001). In the PP population, this result is mirrorred with 46.5 % vs. 27.1 % of patients 
achieving heamostasis in < 3 minutes. 
11.8 % vs. 28.1% of ITT patients experienced treatment failure at 10 minutes and had to be 
treated with further haemostatic interventions. In the PP population, 12.8 % vs. 33.3 % of patients 
were considered treatment failures. 
Apart from the ITT and PP analyses of the TTH and treatment failures, there were no further 
subgroup or sensitivity analyses prespecified and there are no further efficacy endpoints available. 
3.3.7.  Conclusions on clinical efficacy 
It is acknowledged that vascular surgery is a challenging indication for a fibrin sealant and that 
VeraSeal has shown an improved haemostatic effect in comparison to manual compression in the 
10 minute efficacy observational period in the overall population. However, the imprecise primary 
endpoint with haemostatic time categories of unequal size (i.e. ≤3, >3 to ≤4, >4 to ≤ 5, >5 to ≤
7, and >7 to ≤10 minutes), which is not supported by any relevant secondary endpoints, together 
with all other shortcomings of this trial (e.g. small sample size, no prespecified subgroup analyses, 
multitudes of protocol deviations...) are seen as prohibitive to the utilisation of this trial as the sole 
support for a possible MA of FS Grifols. 
Major concerns still remaining include the lack of secondary endpoints, the limited information 
based on the small sample size gained from subgroup analyses regarding consistency, and the 
representativeness of the study population to allow generalization to a wider patient population. 
Beyond this, despite it is accepted that a treatment effect in the overall trial population is 
demonstrated, the extent of the treatment effect size of Veraseal is not well established. This is 
partly based on the statistical analyses provided, but beyond this is also seriously affected by 
imprecise categorical data collection for the primary haemostasis endpoint. 
Furthermore, the fact that the phase II/III study IG402 is only a small part of the clinical 
investigation programme, which consists of 3 additional ongoing phase III studies (in soft tissue 
surgery, parenchymal organ surgery and peripheral vascular surgery) is seen as an indication that 
the Applicant did not initially intend to rely on a one pivotal trial strategy. 
However, the final integrated inspection report has made clear that the quality and integrity of the 
data from this trial are not robust enough to be accepted as support of a MA and should be 
disregarded by the CHMP. As trial IG402 is the sole trial contained in the dossier, no reliable data 
to demonstrate the efficacy of FS Grifols remain. 
3.3.8.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
In the submitted trial 186 patients received the investigational product. Subjects who were 
randomized to MC but received FS Grifols at the TBS in error or received FS Grifols at a non-TBS 
were categorized to FS Grifols for safety analyses. Thus the safety population differs from the ITT 
population. 
Subjects were monitored from the time of informed consent to Post-Operative Week 6 ± 4 days for 
assessment of AEs, adverse drug reactions, and SAEs. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 29/37 
 
 
 
The mean amount of FS Grifols used at the TBS was 4.5 mL among subjects in the safety 
population treated with FS Grifols (pooled), but exposure was lower in the Preliminary Part (I) (3.7 
mL) than in the Primary Part (II) (5.0 mL).  
The amount of FS Grifols used in non-TBS sites is not shown. This is due to the fact that the 
amount of product applied was not captured in the CRF. 
Adverse events 
Adverse Events by Relationship 
In the FS Grifols pooled group, 16 subjects (8.6%) experienced any AE that was considered 
potentially related. In the MC group, 2 subjects (3.8%) experienced any AE that was considered 
potentially related.  
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 30/37 
 
 
 
 
 
Among subjects in the FS Grifols pooled group, no AEs were reported that were considered 
probably related to the study treatment, 2 subjects (1.1%) each experienced an AE that was 
considered to be possibly related to the study treatment (post-procedural hemorrhage and wound 
infection), and 14 subjects (7.5%) experienced at least 1 event that was considered unlikely 
related to the study medication. All other events were considered unrelated to the study treatment 
(with the exception of 1 AEs with missing causality). Among subjects in the MC group, no AEs were 
reported that were considered to be possibly or probably related to the study treatment, and 2 
subjects (3.8%) experienced AEs that were considered unlikely to be related to treatment. All other 
events were considered unrelated to the study treatment.  
In addition to the subjects who had AEs classified as possibly or probably related described 
previously, 14 subjects (7.5%) in the FS Grifols pooled group experienced at least 1 event that was 
considered unlikely related to the study medication. With the exception of nausea, hematoma, and 
pyrexia (each 2 subjects, 1.1%), no event was reported as unlikely related for more than 1 
subject. These events were procedural pain, wound complication, wound dehiscence, post 
procedural discharge, graft hemorrhage, seroma, wound hemorrhage, vomiting, dyspepsia, 
abdominal pain, abdominal distension, hypotension, postoperative wound infection, wound 
infection, hepatic enzyme increased, blood creatinine increased, headache, atelectasis, food 
intolerance, anemia, back pain, pruritus, and rash. In the MC group, the AEs that were considered 
unlikely to be related to treatment were peripheral edema, decreased hemoglobin, and arrhythmia.  
Graft hemorrhage was considered potentially related to FS Grifols and reported as severe for 1 
subject (0.5% of the FS Grifols pooled group).  
Moderate events that were potentially related were reported for 7 subjects (3.7%) in the FS Grifols 
pooled group: nausea and wound infection (each 2 subjects [1.1%]) and, in 1 subject (0.5%) 
each, abdominal pain, vomiting, post procedural hemorrhage, procedural pain, wound hemorrhage, 
hematoma, pruritus, and rash. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
Serious adverse events 
Three subjects in the FS Grifols pooled group (1.6%) and no subjects in the MC group experienced 
SAEs that were considered potentially related to study treatment: post procedural hemorrhage was 
possibly related, graft hemorrhage was unlikely related, and wound infection was unlikely related.  
Subject 23-004, treated with FS Grifols in the Preliminary Part (I), experienced an AE of moderate 
peripheral artery aneurysm. Although the reported action taken was hospitalization or prolonged 
hospitalization, the event was not reported as an SAE, per protocol, because it was an elective 
procedure performed due to a preexisting condition that had not worsened from baseline. 
Deaths 
Seven subjects (3.7%) in the FS Grifols pooled group and 1 subject (1.9%) in the MC group had 
any AE with outcome of death. The events with outcome of death that were reported for subjects 
treated with FS Grifols were myocardial infarction, acute myocardial infarction, cardiac failure, 
chronic cardiac failure, cardio-respiratory arrest (in the SOC cardiac disorders) and cerebrovascular 
accident and cerebral infarction (in the SOC nervous system disorders). The subject in the MC 
group experienced post procedural complication (acutely ischemic colon in the SOC injury, 
poisoning, and procedural complications) and multi-organ failure (in the SOC general disorders and 
administration site conditions) with outcome of death.  
All events with outcome of death were considered unrelated to study treatment, and all were 
reported as severe. The cerebrovascular accident (FS Grifols, Preliminary Part [I]) and the multi-
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 31/37 
 
 
 
organ failure with post procedural complication (MC) were categorized as surgical AEs, defined as 
events that happened from the end of the surgery (after the completion of the surgical closure by 
layers of the last exposed surgical field [TCompletion] until 24 hours after the end of surgery or 
until recovery from anesthesia, whichever was later. All other AEs with outcome of death occurred 
after that time. 
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory investigations comprised complete blood count, serum clinical chemistry, urinanalyses 
parameters, coagulation parameters and viral safety. 
For complete blood count and serum clinical chemistry comparisons of change from baseline cannot 
be assessed since several baseline assessments were not done. The applicant acknowledged that 
assessment of several laboratory parameters was not done at baseline. Although these missing 
data are captured as protocol violations this is another hint for demonstrating the poor conduct of 
this clinical trial. Since this is the only trial submitted for this application the final outcome of the 
inspection report should be awaited before a final conclusion can be drawn.No concerns arise from 
the virology results. 
Safety in special populations 
Elderly were included in the clinical trial. No safety data are available in the paediatric population. 
Immunological events 
Patients were only tested for antibodies against human coagulation factor V, human thrombin and 
human fibrinogen if they had prolonged postoperative coagulation times that were not explained by 
any of the medical conditions listed in the protocol. 
No new positive results were observed at the end of the study. Of the 15 subjects who met the 
protocol criteria for antibody testing, only Subject 15-003 in the FS Grifols pooled group was found 
to have a post-baseline positive result for anti-factor V antibodies, but further investigation 
revealed that the subject had a positive result at baseline as well.  
Figure 1.  SOPs and validation reports for antibody testing (ELISA based) against human 
Thrombin, human Factor V/Va and human Fibrinogen were provided within the responses to the 
D120 LoQ. SOPs include detailed descriptions of assay instructions as well as continuative guidance 
in case a sample reveals to be “potentially positive”. Such samples have to be investigated for their 
specificity with regard to the respective antibody (i.e. antibodies against Thrombin, Factor V/Va, 
Fibrinogen).  
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No specific interaction studies were performed. 
The information given in the SmPC corresponds to the applicable Core SmPC for fibrin sealants. 
Discontinuation due to AES 
No subject discontinued due to an adverse event according to table 14.1.1.3 Subject Disposition 
(ITT). 
3.3.9.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Safety data are derived from one submitted clinical study investigating safety and efficacy of FS 
Grifols in vascular surgery. The safety population comprises 186 patients. Since some of the 
patients randomized to MC received FS Grifols at the target bleeding site in error or received FS 
Grifols at non target bleedings sites, the number of patients in the safety population differs from 
the ITT population. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 32/37 
 
 
 
The amount of FS Grifols used in non-TBS sites (81) cannot be presented with respect to 
description of non-TBS sites and the estimate amount of FS Grifols since documentation of this 
information was not foreseen in the study protocol. 
In the FS Grifols pooled group (Preliminary and Primary Part) adverse events that were considered 
potentially related were reported for 16 subjects (8.6%) while in the MC group 2 subjects (3.8%) 
experienced any AE that was considered potentially related. All potentially related AEs occurring in 
the FS Grifols pooled group are adequately reflected in the SmPC. 
Safety with regards to adverse events related to thrombotic events, immunogenicity, anaphylactic 
reactions and adverse events potentially related to (re)bleeding at TBS seems to be comparable 
between patients receiving VeraSeal and patients receiving MC. 
Three subjects in the FS Grifols pooled group (1.6%) and no subjects in the MC group experienced 
SAEs that were considered potentially related to study treatment: post procedural hemorrhage was 
possibly related, graft hemorrhage was unlikely related, and wound infection was unlikely related. 
Seven subjects (3.7%) in the FS Grifols pooled group and 1 subject (1.9%) in the MC group had 
any AE with outcome of death. All events with outcome of death were considered unrelated to 
study treatment. 
No concerns regarding immunogenicity arise from the presented data. 
The applicant acknowledged that assessment of several laboratory parameters was not done at 
baseline. Although these missing data are captured as protocol violations this is another hint for 
demonstrating the poor conduct of this clinical trial. The final integrated inspection report confirms 
that data from this trial are not robust enough to support a MAA and should be disregarded by the 
CHMP. 
3.3.10.  Conclusions on clinical safety 
The safety database is considered rather small for a new product and also compared to that of 
other licensed fibrin sealants. In addition, findings from a GCP inspection of the study sites raised 
serious questions about the data from the main study submitted in support of the application. 
As trial IG402 is the sole trial contained in the dossier, no reliable data to demonstrate the safety 
of FS Grifols remain. 
3.4.  Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considers that the Pharmacovigilance system summary submitted as described by the 
applicant fulfils the requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC.  The applicant’s 
pharmacovigilance system summary includes a reference to the location where the 
pharmacovigilance system master file for the medicinal product is kept and provides proof that the 
applicant has the services of a qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance and has the 
necessary means to fulfil the tasks and responsibilities listed in Title IX of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
3.5.  Risk management plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.1 is acceptable.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application was of the opinion that due to 
the concerns identified with this application, the risk management plan cannot be agreed at this 
stage. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 33/37 
 
 
 
4.  Orphan medicinal products 
N/A 
5.  Benefit risk assessment 
Benefits  
Beneficial effects 
The VeraSeal kit is composed of 2 syringes containing sterile frozen solutions of human fibrinogen 
and human thrombin with calcium chloride assembled on a syringe holder. VeraSeal is intended for 
local application by dripping onto the bleeding site. 
The efficacy of VeraSeal was investigated in a single blind, randomized phase II/III study in 
subjects undergoing one of 20 predefined kinds of peripheral vascular surgery. The study consisted 
of two parts: in the preliminary part, the first 2 patients per centre were treated open label with 
VeraSeal, in the primary part, subjects were randomized 2:1 to FS Grifols or manual compression. 
The primary endpoint was defined as time to haemostasis in minutes, investigated in a 10 minute 
observational window. However, TTH was not reported in minutes, but in 5 haemostatic categories, 
e.g <3 minutes, ≥3 but <5 minutes and so on. 
In the primary part of the trial, 110 patients were treated with VeraSeal and 57 with MC. Of those 
patients in the ITT analysis population, 46.4% vs. 26.3% achieved haemostasis in less than 3 
minutes, while 11.8 % vs. 28.1 % of patients experienced treatment failure (defined as TTH > 10 
minutes). The PP analysis produces similar results. 
The Grifols sealer components production processes include a double nanofiltration step to remove 
especially small viruses like Parvo B 19 virus and HAV.  
Fibrinogen (component 1) 
The applicant supposes that the double nanofiltration step of the fibrinogen production process can 
be considered as a double virus removal step. Nanofiltration through Planova 35N is used to pre-
filter the spiked material to guarantee monodispersed viruses in the material to be filtered through 
Planova 20N. The results have shown that most viruses larger than 35 nm are removed by 
filtration through Planova 35N, with no residual infectivity detected in the Planova 35N filtrate in 
any of the cases, recovering most of the spiked viruses in the Planova 35N retentate. The filtration 
through Planova 20N increases the safety of the step even further with respect to small type of 
virus. 
For Fibrinogen 20nm nanofiltration showed a good virus removal capacity for HAV and PPV (as a 
model virus for Parvo B 19 virus). 
Thrombin (component 2) 
For component 2 nanofiltration is performed with two 15nm filters. The company could show in the 
virus removal studies that the larger viruses (HIV, Pseudorabies Virus, Bovine Viral Diarrhoea 
VirusandWest Nile Virus) were removed effectively through the Planova 15N filters with no residual 
infectivity detected in any of the experiments performed. 
The smallest viruses assessed (HAV and PPV) provided a Reduction Factor of 6.56 log10/ml and 
6.14 log10/ml respectively. 
The nanofiltration data provided show that the virus removal steps in the manufacturing processes 
of the two components of VeraSeal contribute effectively to the safety of the product. With regard 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 34/37 
 
 
 
 
to technical innovation the CHMP cannot identify new or innovative technical improvement in this 
manufacturing step as the applied technique is widely used in plasma fractionation for just a long 
time.  
It is of course acknowledged that the implementation of double nanofiltration adds to additional 
viral safety and leads therefore to a final product with a high safety standard. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
The primary endpoint is not supported by clinically relevant secondary endpoints, like transfusion 
requirements, postoperative rebleeding at the target bleeding site (TBS), reoperation at TBS, 
postoperative blood loss, graft thrombosis or occlusion, length of hospital stay, as they were not 
investigated in this trial. The efficacy observation is limited to the 10 minute evaluation.  
Initially, no subgroup analyses were foreseen for trial IG402, which is not in accordance with the 
GL on Points to Consider on Application with One Pivotal Trial (CPMP/EWP/2330/99). Such analyses 
would have been especially relevant for this application as IG402 is the sole source of clinical data 
for FS Grifols at the time being. The Applicant has now submitted post hoc subgroup analyses 
regarding gender, age >/<65, type of bleeding at TBS and type of graft. Although the selected 
subgroups can be considered as relevant, the performed subgroup analyses have limited 
convincing power. Methodologically, the CMH test is not sensitive and informative to address 
consistency of treatment effects, and therefore additional analyses using the POM are requested. 
Nevertheless, the limited value of the subgroup analyses is also based on their small sample sizes, 
leaving room for large uncertainty, questioning the generalizability to a larger patient population.  
The duration of this small study is excessively long, the actual time to finish the trial was 6 years 
(Oct 2008 - May 2014). The long timeframe can have introduced bias into the study as the fields of 
vascular surgery and anaesthesia continually evolve and the standard treatment modalities are 
subject to change, e.g. suture materials, suture techniques, improved management of 
anticoagulation during and after surgical procedures, novel anticoagulants, perioperative 
medication with statins and antiplatelet drugs, improved fluid and blood products management. 
The claim that the clinical situation has remained unchanged was not further substantiated by the 
applicant. While some additional analyses have been provided to investigate consistency of the 
treatment effect over time, further more sensitive statistical analyses would have been requested 
to assess whether the overall treatment effect is driven by a specific time-period.  
6 of 18 treatment centres contributed in the preliminary part, but did not enrol patients in the 
primary part. The reasons for this cited by the company include lack of resources, lack of interest 
or internal issues which is a reflection of poor selection of treatment centres.  
With respect to single-blinding the long study duration and the changes made in the statistical 
analysis plan on the primary endpoint are of concern. For this single pivotal trial strong statistical 
evidence is needed. While the statistical test performed could achieve a level of p<0.00125, the 
sole p-value of a test statistic is however only one aspect. The applicant has changed the statistical 
test following a pre-test, inflating the type I error. Furthermore changes on the statistical test were 
introduced during the course of the single blinded trial and some ambiguity in the specifications 
remained. While it could be shown that relevant analyses resulted in the same conclusions, some 
remaining issues on consistency of the results prior and after the changes and the robustness of 
the primary analysis model need to be addressed.  
The trial results are still not reassuring regarding the study’s internal consistency and external 
validity. Subgroup analyses are based on small sample sizes, and further analyses investigating 
treatment effect sizes would have been requested. Altogether these deficiencies undermine the 
convincing power of the trial and do not contribute to establishing compelling evidence. In addition, 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 35/37 
 
 
 
findings from a GCP inspection of the study sites raised serious questions about the data from the 
main study submitted in support of the application. As data from trial IG402 have to be 
disregarded, no proof of efficacy for FS Grifols remains as the dossier is currently based only on 
data from this single phase II/III study. 
Furthermore, three phase III studies in surgery are ongoing and indicate that the phase II/III 
study IG402 was not intended as a one pivotal trial.  
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
Safety data are derived from one submitted clinical study investigating safety and efficacy of FS 
Grifols in vascular surgery. The safety population comprises 186 patients including all patients from 
the preliminary (n=72) and primary part (n=114) who received FS Grifols. Since some of the 
patients randomized to MC received FS Grifols at the target bleeding site in error or received FS 
Grifols at non target bleedings sites, the number of patients in the safety population differs from 
the ITT population. Patients were monitored from the time of informed consent to post-operative 
week 6 ± 4 days for assessment of AEs, adverse drug reactions and SAEs. 
Adverse events that were considered potentially related were reported for 16 subjects (8.6%) 
receiving FS Grifols and for 2 subjects (3.8%) treated by manual compression, respectively. 
Three subjects in the FS Grifols pooled group (1.6%) and no subjects in the MC group experienced 
SAEs that were considered potentially related to study treatment: post procedural hemorrhage was 
possibly related, graft hemorrhage was unlikely related, and wound infection was unlikely related. 
Seven subjects (3.7%) in the FS Grifols pooled group and 1 subject (1.9%) in the MC group had 
any AE with outcome of death. All events with outcome of death were considered unrelated to 
study treatment. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Safety data are derived from only one submitted study and the safety database is considered 
rather small for a new product and also compared to that of other licensed fibrin sealants. 
Furthermore, some of the patients received VeraSeal at non target bleeding sites after application 
to the target bleeding site and efficacy evaluation. However, no efficacy evaluation was foreseen 
for using VeraSeal at non target bleeding sites and no detailed information can be given about the 
amount of VeraSeal used at non TBS. Although all subjects receiving VeraSeal are included in the 
safety population regardless if they received VeraSeal at TBS or non TBS, a thorough assessment 
might be hampered by missing details about the use of this new investigational product. However, 
the applicant is not able to retrospectively collect all the requested information since this was not 
foreseen in the study protocol and therefore no such data are available for all patients. 
Assessment of several laboratory parameters was not done at baseline. This included parameters 
defined as exclusion criteria in the protocol (e.g. coagulation, hepatic or renal parameters > 2x 
ULN) Although these missing data are captured as protocol violations this is another hint for 
demonstrating the poor conduct of this clinical trial. Findings from a GCP inspection of the study 
sites raised serious questions about the data from the main study submitted in support of the 
application As data from trial IG402 have to be disregarded, no proof of safety for FS Grifols 
remains as the dossier is currently based only on data from this single phase II/III study. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 36/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects 
The achievement of reliable haemostasis of surgically inflicted injuries to tissues and vessels is a 
necessary part of every operation. VeraSeal has shown that it shortens the time to achievement of 
haemostasis after vascular surgery at a target bleeding site with mild to moderate bleeding in 
comparison with manual compression and also has a reduced rate of treatment failure, where the 
bleeding site had to be treated with further haemostatic options after the end of the 10 minutes 
efficacy period. The observed adverse events are comparable to those of other fibrin sealants. 
However, as the submitted efficacy and safety data cannot be regarded as reliable, no definitive 
conclusions can be drawn. 
Benefit-risk balance 
The favourable short-term primary efficacy endpoint is not supported by clinically relevant 
secondary endpoints, which could extend the efficacy evaluation beyond the 10 minute observation 
period, or corroborated by appropriate subgroup or sensitivity analyses. In addition, the incomplete 
picture on adverse events of special interest together with the many protocol violations where 
prescribed laboratory tests were not done, the limited size of the safety database and the profound 
weaknesses of the methodological approach do not allow a comprehensive overview of the 
intended and unintended consequences of administration of VeraSeal. In summary, this clinical 
study is not considered able to generate the necessary compelling evidence expected from a single 
pivotal trial. 
Discussion on the benefit-risk assessment 
In general, the imprecise primary endpoint with haemostatic time categories of unequal size  
(i.e. ≤3, >3 to ≤4, >4 to ≤ 5, >5 to ≤7, and >7 to ≤10 minutes), which is not supported by any 
relevant secondary endpoints, together with all other shortcomings of this trial (e.g. small sample 
size, no prespecified subgroup analyses, multitudes of protocol deviations...) are seen as 
prohibitive to the utilisation of this trial as the sole support for a possible MA of FS Grifols. 
Major concerns that still apply include the lack of secondary endpoints, the limited information 
based on the small sample size gained from subgroup analyses regarding consistency, and the 
representativeness of the study population to allow generalization to a wider patient population. 
Beyond this, despite it is accepted that a treatment effect in the overall trial population is 
demonstrated, the extent of the treatment effect size of Veraseal is not well established. This is 
partly based on the statistical analyses provided, but beyond this is also seriously affected by 
imprecise categorical data collection for the primary haemostasis endpoint. 
In addition to the inherent shortcomings already discussed, findings from a GCP inspection of the 
study sites raised serious questions about the data from the main study submitted in support of the 
application. Therefore data from trial IG402 study have to be disregarded. In consequence, no 
proof of efficacy or safety for FS Grifols remains as the dossier is currently based only on data from 
this single phase II/III study. 
5.1.  Conclusions 
The overall Benefit  /Risk of Veraseal is negative. 
Veraseal 
Assessment report  
EMA/674875/2015 
Page 37/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
