30 April 2020 
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Withdrawal assessment report 
Fingolimod Mylan  
International non-proprietary name: fingolimod 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005282/0000 
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Recommendation ..................................................................................... 5 
2. Executive summary ................................................................................. 5 
2.1. Problem statement ............................................................................................... 5 
2.2. About the product ................................................................................................ 5 
2.3. The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance/Scientific Advice ......... 6 
2.4. General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP ............................................. 6 
2.5. Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier.............................. 7 
3. Scientific overview and discussion .......................................................... 8 
3.1. Quality aspects .................................................................................................... 8 
3.1.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
3.1.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................... 9 
3.1.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 11 
3.1.4. Discussion and conclusions on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ....... 15 
3.2. Non clinical aspects ............................................................................................ 15 
3.2.1. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ......................................................... 16 
3.2.2. Conclusion on non-clinical aspects ..................................................................... 16 
3.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 16 
3.3.1. Exemption ...................................................................................................... 17 
3.3.2. Pharmacokinetics............................................................................................. 17 
3.3.3. Pharmacokinetic conclusion .............................................................................. 24 
3.3.4. Pharmacodynamics .......................................................................................... 24 
3.3.5. Additional data ................................................................................................ 24 
3.3.6. Post marketing experience ................................................................................ 24 
3.3.7. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 24 
3.3.8. Conclusions on clinical aspects .......................................................................... 26 
3.4. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 26 
3.4.1. Safety Specification ......................................................................................... 26 
3.4.2. Pharmacovigilance plan .................................................................................... 28 
3.4.3. Risk minimisation measures .............................................................................. 28 
3.4.4. Summary of the risk management plan .............................................................. 29 
3.4.5. Overall Conclusion on the RMP .......................................................................... 30 
3.5. Pharmacovigilance system ................................................................................... 30 
4. Benefit/risk assessment ........................................................................ 30 
4.1. Conclusions ....................................................................................................... 30 
4.2. Pharmacovigilance system ................................................................................... 30 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 2/30 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
AE         
ANOVA   
Adverse event 
Analysis of variance 
AP 
API 
Applicant's Part (or Open Part) of ASMF 
           Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient 
ASM                Active Substance Manufacturer 
ASMF 
AUC       
BMI        
CI          
Cmax  
CNS  
CoA 
CRFs  
CRO 
CRS  
CV 
EMA  
Active Substance Master File = Drug Master File 
Area under the curve 
Body-mass index 
Confidence interval 
Maximum plasma concentration 
Central nervous system 
Certificate of Analysis 
Case Report Forms  
Clinical Research Organization 
Chemical Reference Substance (official standard) 
Coefficient of Variation 
European Medical Agency 
EPCRS   
European Pharmacopoeia Chemical Reference Substance 
FING  
GCP  
GPL  
Fingolimod 
Good clinical practice 
Good laboratory practice 
HDPE 
            High-density polyethylene 
HPLC               High Performance Liquid Chromatography 
HSGC    
Headspace Gas Chromatography 
IEC 
IPC 
IR 
Independent Ethics Committee 
In-process control 
Infrared 
K2EDTA  
Potassium (K2) Ethylene Diamine Tetraacetic Acid 
KF  
Karl Fisher 
LC-ESI-MSMS   Liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectroscopy 
LDPE 
Low-density polyethylene  
LLOQ    
Lower limit of quantitation 
MAH 
MRI  
MS  
MS 
NLT 
NMT 
Marketing Authorisation holder 
Magnetic resonance imaging 
Multiple sclerosis 
Mass Spectrometry 
Not less than 
Not more than 
Ph. Eur. 
European Pharmacopoeia 
QA  
QC 
RH 
RP 
RSD 
S1P  
SLS 
SOP  
Quality assurance 
Quality Control 
Relative Humidity 
Restricted Part (or Closed Part) of ASMF 
Relative standard deviation 
sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor 
Sodium lauryl sulfate 
Standard Operating Procedure 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 3/30 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
t 1/2  
Tmax       
USP/NF  
UV 
Half-life 
Time to maximum plasma concentration 
United States Pharmacopoeia/National Formulary 
Ultraviolet 
WIRB    
Western Institutional Review Board 
XRPD 
X-Ray Powder Diffraction 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 4/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of the data and the Applicant’s responses to the CHMP questions on quality, 
safety and clinical development, the generic application for Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules is 
not approvable in the claimed indication: 
“Treatment  as  single  disease  modifying  therapy  in  highly  active  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis 
for the following groups of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 10 years and older:  
• Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least one 
disease  modifying  therapy  (for  exceptions  and  information  about  wash-out  periods  see  sections  4.4 
and 5.1).  
or  
•  Patients  with  rapidly  evolving  severe  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis  defined  by  2  or  more 
disabling  relapses  in  one  year  and  with  1  or  more  Gadolinium  enhancing  lesions  on  brain  MRI  or  a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI.”, 
since  quality  and  clinical  major  objections  remain,  which  preclude  a  recommendation  for  marketing 
authorisation at the present time. More details on these are available in the report below. 
Questions to be posed to additional experts 
N/A 
Inspection issues 
GMP inspection(s) 
No pre-approval inspections are requested. 
GCP inspection(s) 
No trigger for inspection was identified from the data provided for the BE-study. 
2.  Executive summary 
2.1.  Problem statement 
N/A 
2.2.  About the product 
The product Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules has been developed by Mylan, as a generic to the 
innovator’s product Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules, Novartis Europharm Limited. 
Both the test and the reference product contain the same active ingredient i.e. fingolimod 
hydrochloride. 
One bioequivalence (BE) study has been performed with the originator. The test product (Fingolimod 
Mylan, 0.5 mg hard capsules, Batch number: 1001046) and the reference product (Gilenya, 0.5 mg 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 5/30 
 
 
 
 
hard capsules, Batch number: S0105) were compared in the fasting conditions (Study No. FING-
15026). 
Proposed indications 
Fingolimod Mylan is indicated as single disease modifying therapy in highly active relapsing remitting 
multiple sclerosis for the following groups of adult patients and paediatric patients aged 10 years and 
older:  
• Patients with highly active disease despite a full and adequate course of treatment with at least one 
disease modifying therapy (for exceptions and information about washout periods see sections 4.4 and 
5.1).  
or  
•  Patients  with  rapidly  evolving  severe  relapsing  remitting  multiple  sclerosis  defined  by  2  or  more 
disabling  relapses  in  one  year  and  with  1  or  more  Gadolinium  enhancing  lesions  on  brain  MRI  or  a 
significant increase in T2 lesion load as compared to a previous recent MRI. 
2.3.  The development programme/Compliance with CHMP 
Guidance/Scientific Advice 
The CHMP Guidelines were followed. 
The applicant has conducted one fasting bioequivalence study on 0.5 mg strength in accordance with 
the Guideline on the Investigation of bioequivalence and Fingolimod product-specific bioequivalence 
guidance (EMA/CHMP/154812/2016). 
The applicant did not receive CHMP Scientific Advice pertinent to the clinical investigation. 
2.4.  General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP  
GMP 
The QP declaration for fingolimod hydrochloride is based on on-site audit at the active substance 
manufacturing site. The declaration is made on behalf of the QPs from batch release sites and bulk 
product manufacturer. Acceptable standards of GMP are in place for this product at all sites responsible 
for the manufacture, primary packaging, secondary packaging, quality control testing and batch 
release. For manufacturing site outside the Community (bulk manufacture site) a copy of GMP 
certificate issued by the competent authority in the Community is enclosed.   
GLP 
As applicant did not submit new non-clinical studies, this paragraph is considered non-applicable. 
GCP 
The applicant confirmed that the bioequivalence study FING-15026 was performed in accordance with 
the protocol, relevant SOPs, pertinent requirements of EMA, the ethical requirement of Directive 
2001/20/EC, the ICMR Ethical guideline, International Conference on Harmonization (ICH), Guidance 
on Good Clinical Practice and Declaration of Helsinki.  
Moreover, the applicant has also confirmed that the bioequivalence study FING-15026, carried out 
outside the European Union, meets the ethical requirements of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 6/30 
 
 
 
 
For the analytical, PK and statistical site, the applicant has provided a list of GCP and GLP inspections. 
The  most  recent  inspection  by  an  EU  MS  Inspectorate  was  undertaken  by  the  MHRA  in  2014.  No 
significant issues of non-compliance were identified.   
For  the  clinical  site,  the  applicant  clarified  in  response  to  the  CHMP  request,  that  this  site  no  longer 
initiates new studies in support of clinical Bioavailability and Bioequivalence programs due to a change 
in  business  scope  and  provided  a  list  of  GCP  inspections  conducted  prior  to  2018.  Inspections  were 
undertaken by the FDA in 2014, 2015 and 2017, where no significant issues of non-compliance were 
identified.  Competent  European  authorities  have  not  inspected  the  clinical  site.  However,  the  clinical 
site  was  monitored  for  Quality  Assurance  and  no  specific  concerns  were  identified  during  the 
assessment of the dossier that would trigger the request for inspection.  
In response to the CHMP request, the applicant submitted the Monitoring Report of the bioequivalence 
study FING-15026. The data confirmed that the study was closely monitored by the sponsor for 
compliance with the procedures described in the protocol (FING-15026).  
2.5.  Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier 
Legal basis 
•  Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force for not 
less than 8 years in the EEA:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Gilenya 0.5 mg capsules, hard 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: (17-03-2011) 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
− 
 Union  
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/11/677/001-006 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union /Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Gilenya 0.5 mg capsules, hard 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: (17-03-2011) 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
− 
 Union 
•  Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/11/677/001-006 
Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Union provisions in force and to 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 7/30 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Gilenya 0.5 mg capsules, hard (EU/1/11/677/001-
006) as reference product sourced from United Kingdom (BE study FING-15026) 
•  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Limited 
•  Date of authorisation: (17-03-2011) 
•  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
−  Marketing authorisation number(s): EU/1/11/677/001-006 
•  Bioavailability study number(s): BE study FING-15026 
Orphan designation 
Not Applicable. 
Similarity with orphan medicinal products 
The application did not contain a critical report pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 
and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 847/2000, addressing the possible similarity with 
authorised orphan medicinal products.  
Derogation(s) from orphan market exclusivity 
Not Applicable. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable. 
3.  Scientific overview and discussion 
3.1.  Quality aspects 
3.1.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as immediate release, hard gelatin capsules containing 0.5 mg of 
fingolimod hydrochloride as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: 
-  Capsule content: calcium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate, glycine, silica, colloidal anhydrous, 
magnesium stearate. 
-  Capsule shell: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), yellow iron oxide (E172), red iron oxide (E172). 
-  Printing ink: shellac (E904), dehydrated alcohol, isopropyl alcohol, butyl alcohol, propylene glycol 
(E1520), ammonia solution, black iron oxide (E172), potassium hydroxide, purified water. 
The product is available in PVC/Aclar-Alu blisters, PVC/PE/PVdC-Alu blisters and HDPE bottles.  
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 8/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.2.  Active Substance 
General Information 
Fingolimod hydrochloride is an immunomodulating active substance used in treatment of multiple 
sclerosis. It is described in the Ph. Eur. (monograph 04/2019:2988). An ASMF procedure is followed. 
Figure 1 Structural formula: 
Molecular formula: C19H34ClNO2 
Molecular weight: 343.9 
Fingolimod hydrochloride is non-hygroscopic, freely soluble in water and methanol, soluble in ethanol 
and freely soluble in the range from pH 1.2 – 4.5.  
It does not contain any chiral or asymmetric carbon atoms; hence, it does not exhibit stereoisomerism. 
Fingolimod hydrochloride exhibits polymorphism. The test for identification of polymorph by XRPD is 
part of drug substance release and stability specifications. According to XRPD data of three consecutive 
production scale batches Mylan Laboratories Limited consistently produces one crystalline form. 
Stability of polymorphic form when stored at 5 ± 3°C is confirmed by results of stability studies. 
Manufacture, process controls and characterisation  
The synthesis route for fingolimod hydrochloride consists of five chemical transformations. The short 
description of the synthesis in the Applicant`s part of the ASMF is followed by the detailed description 
of every step from starting material in Restricted Part. Question regarding reagents listed in 
Applicant`s part was appropriately resolved in the Response to CHMP Day 120 Questions, all the 
reagents used in manufacturing process have been included in the flow diagram and route of 
synthesis. 
According to the information in the Restricted Part reprocessing and blending procedures are used. The 
Applicant’s Part was properly updated with this information in the Response to CHMP Day 120 
Questions. The information about reprocessing procedure has been deleted from ASMF in the Response 
to CHMP Day 180 Questions as no reprocessing has been used so far and the ASMF holder has no 
experiences with the reprocessing. 
The proposed starting materials are acceptable as both show compliance to ICH Q11 and the EMA 
Guideline on the Chemistry of active substances as starting material (sufficient number of chemical 
steps, well established specification to ensure the quality of starting material, sufficiently characterised 
starting material by IR, UV, NMR and mass spectroscopy, suitable control of potential genotoxic 
impurities). Supplier`s name, address and synthesis are provided. Specification for starting materials 
with impurity control, analytical procedures for the control of starting material and certificate of 
analysis are presented. 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 9/30 
 
 
 
 
 
For in-process controls and intermediate testing specifications and details of analytical procedures are 
provided. The discussion on carry-over of impurities from the starting material is provided.  
With the results of analyses provided in the Response to CHMP Day 180 Questions, it was 
demonstrated that the nitrosamine impurities were not present in the intermediate diester and in final 
API, however the validations of the methods are deficient. At least summary of the method validation 
should be provided. The limit of detection is far below the acceptable intake of impurities. On the other 
hand, the carry-over of nitrites is not completely excluded and there is no control of nitrosamine 
impurities in any stage of the API manufacturing process, although the risk of formation of N-
nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) cannot be excluded. Hence, it is found necessary to include the control 
for presence of nitrosamines. It is recommended to include the appropriate limit for NDMA in the 
specification for intermediate or in the specification of API. The complete validation for this analytical 
procedure should be also provided. As not adequate response for this issue was provided in the 
Response to CHMP Day 180 Questions, the major objection has not been resolved and remains. 
Structure elucidation and chemical properties of active substance are documented via different 
analytical techniques (IR spectroscopy, UV spectroscopy, NMR spectroscopy (1H-NMR and 13C-NMR), 
mass spectrometry, elemental analysis and XRPD analysis).  
Potential impurities have been identified and the origin of each impurity is stated. The exclusion of 
three Ph.Eur. impurities in the specification of final active substance is adequately elaborated. The 
carryover of impurities from starting material onwards is discussed and an appropriate control strategy 
is defined. 
The contents of all solvents used in the manufacturing process of API are controlled in the specification 
of the active substance. In addition, benzene was found to be not detected in drug substance batches. 
Palladium (Class-2B) is used in the manufacturing process of drug substance. The results obtained for 
palladium with validated ICP-MS method in three production scale batches of drug substance are below 
detection limit and under 30% of ICH Q3D limit. No other metal catalyst or reagents which could 
contribute to the elemental impurities are used in the manufacturing process of drug substance. 
Hence, the results for ICH Q3D Class-1 and Class-2A elements are sufficient. A minor question about 
Zn control has been resolved in the Response to CHMP Day 180 Questions.  
Discussion on the carry-over of (potential genotoxic) impurities and residual solvents from both 
starting materials into the final drug substance is provided and all relevant parts of ASMF (AP and RP) 
updated accordingly. An appropriate control strategy has been defined. Nevertheless, the ASMF holder 
should resolve the issue regarding the potential presence of NDMA. 
Specification, analytical procedures, reference standards, batch analysis, 
and container closure 
Proposed specifications for fingolimod hydrochloride from drug product manufacturer include tests for 
appearance, solubility (Ph. Eur.), identification (IR, chloride, PXRD), water content (Ph. Eur.), sulfated 
ash (Ph. Eur.), related substances (HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (HSGC) and particle size (in 
house).Specification limits are set according to the Ph. Eur. monograph for fingolimod hydrochloride 
and general requirements of Ph.Eur. Additional test parameters are residual solvents, identification of 
polymorph and particle size. The limits for residual solvents are in line with the ICH Q3C limits. 
Stability indicating parameters are included in stability testing. The test parameters included in the 
specification are adequate, and the corresponding acceptance limits are considered justified. The drug 
product manufacturer control fingolimod hydrochloride in line with the specification of drug substance 
manufacturer in ASMF and with additional test for particle size. Regarding the particle size question 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 10/30 
 
 
 
raised in CHMP Day 120 Questions, the applicant has made a review on particle size batch data. The 
data on more recent batches confirm the specification.  
Description of analytical procedures is provided for all specified tests. The in-house HPLC analytical 
procedure is used for assay of active substance and for related substances instead of Ph.Eur. method. 
In order to prove that the in-house methods are equivalent to the Ph.Eur. monograph methods, an 
equivalency study has been carried out for related substances and assay. The results obtained from 
both in-house method and Ph.Eur. monograph method are comparable and meet the acceptance 
criteria. Therefore, the in-house method for determination of related substances for fingolimod 
hydrochloride is comparable to that of Ph.Eur. monograph method. The analytical results for 
demonstrating the stability indicating nature of HPLC method for assay and related substances (in-
house method) are provided. 
In addition, analytical procedures for residual solvents and methods used in the carry-over studies of 
potential impurities are sufficiently validated. 
The analytical results for three production scale batches are provided and are in compliance with the 
proposed specification. The provided batch analysis data confirm consistency of the manufacturing 
process and the quality of the drug substance. The data on more recent batches are provided in the 
Response to CHMP Day 120 Questions. 
For evaluation of active substance fingolimod hydrochloride Ph.Eur. and working standard, USP 
Fingolimod System Suitability reference standard and impurities (A, B, C, D, G, I, alcohol analogue) 
standards are used.  
The active substance is stored in LDPE bag inserted in black polyethylene bag and outer triple 
laminated aluminium bag, placed in HDPE drum. The provided information on description and control of 
the container closure system for the drug substance is considered satisfactory. 
Stability 
Stability studies (long term and accelerated) were carried out for three production scale batches under 
ICH conditions and the tested parameters are stability indicating. Storage under long-term (60 months 
at 5 ± 3°C) and accelerated conditions (6 months at 25°C ± 2°C, RH 60 ± 5%) showed no upward or 
downward trends, all results remain within specification up to 60 months.  
 The stability batches are tested as per old in-house specifications and test procedure. Nevertheless, 
the same batches are tested at 60-month time-point per specification and analytical procedures, given 
in currently submitted ASMF in sections S.4.1 and S.4.2, to justify the claimed re-test period. The 
results comply with specification. The ASMF holder confirms that for the future stability studies, 
specification and analytical procedures in sections S.4.1 and S.4.2 will be used. Moreover, the API is 
stored at restricted conditions, at 5°C ± 3°C, for which the provided results at 60-months time point 
are sufficient. Post-approval stability commitment is provided in Module 3 that every year one 
production batch will be added to the stability study program if manufactured and assessed as per 
long-term annual stability conditions as per specification and analytical procedures in sections S.4.1 
and S.4.2. 
3.1.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and Pharmaceutical Development   
Description and composition 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 11/30 
 
 
 
The finished product is formulated as immediate release hard gelatin capsules in 0.5 mg strength. 
According to the SmPC the recommended dose is one capsule taken orally once daily. The capsule is a 
No. 3 with brown-orange opaque cap and white opaque body. It is filled with white to off white powder. 
The capsule is axially printed with "MYLAN" over “FD 0.5” in black ink on both the cap and body. 
The qualitative composition of components of final drug product are presented in section 3.1.1 above.  
The capsules are purchased as pre-printed empty capsule shells, therefore, the finished product 
manufacturer does not test and release the individual ingredients of capsule shells. The capsule shells 
and printing ink are listed with supplier code(s), which are liable to administrative change. Any updates 
will be automatically incorporated provided the composition and material specifications for these empty 
hard gelatin capsule shells and printing ink remain unchanged.  
The product is presented in the following pack types; PVC/PE/PVdC - Alu blister pack, PVC/Aclar - Alu 
blister pack and high-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle pack. Bulk packs are proposed for holding the 
finished product before packaging or for transportation to any other approved re-packaging site in 
European Economic Area. 
Pharmaceutical development 
The purpose of the pharmaceutical development studies was to develop a generic version of the 
reference formulation Gilenya® (Fingolimod) 0.5 mg hard capsules of “Novartis Europharm Limited, 
UK”.  
The reference product is an immediate release product with low dose of active substance therefore 
content uniformity and maintenance of assay were considered critical criteria for selecting an 
appropriate manufacturing process. Wet granulation was evaluated but a dry granulation process was 
found more acceptable to maintain potency during processing. Manufacturing process was further 
optimized including roller compaction, milling and second blending. 
The qualitative composition of the excipients is different between proposed and reference product. 
Optimization studies were performed on the selection of fill weight, fillers and disintegrants. The 
excipients compatibility studies with drug substance have been performed. Test product and EU 
reference product exhibit similar impurity profile. 
The quality target product profile (QTPP) was defined and critical quality attributes (CQAs) were 
identified. These CQAs include assay, content uniformity, dissolution and related compounds. A risk 
assessment of the drug substance attributes, formulation variables and manufacturing process 
variables was performed to evaluate their impact on the drug product CQAs. 
The dissolution method was described in sufficient detail and choice of dissolution media is considered 
justified. As requested at d120 LoQ discriminatory power of proposed dissolution method has been 
proven for the proposed dissolution limit. A bioequivalence study between proposed Fingolimod 0.5 mg 
capsules and the reference product Gilenya® (fingolimod) 0.5 mg capsules (Novartis Europharm Ltd., 
UK) was performed. According to the applicant there is no difference in the unit composition and the 
manufacturing process principle of the biobatch and the proposed commercial batch. However, the 
proposed commercial manufacturing process uses a different compactor fitted with different mill 
equipment. Effect of the change in mill equipment was evaluated and demonstrated similarity of the 
produced capsules. In day 120 responses a discussion on the effect of different compactor fitted with 
different mill on similarity between biobatch and the proposed commercial batch has been provided. 
Similarity between the products made using the two compactor types has been proven. 
Comparative dissolution profiles, complementary to the in vivo bioequivalence study, between test 
product and European reference product were generated. In the Response to CHMP Day 120 Questions 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 12/30 
 
 
 
 
additional dissolution data of the reference product and submission batches manufactured at the 
proposed manufacturing site have been provided. 
The drug product is proposed for use in adult patients and paediatric patients of 10 years and older. As 
requested, some aspects of the specific needs of the paediatric population have been sufficiently 
discussed. As requested at day 180 additional discussion on the specific needs for paediatric population 
was provided. 
Standard container closure system is used (blister pack and HDPE bottle). Provided stability data 
confirm suitability and compatibility of container closure system with the drug product. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacturing process 
The manufacturing process is a standard dry granulation process. It is combined of several blending 
steps, dry granulation and final encapsulation. Comprehensive narrative description of the 
manufacturing process is provided. The level of detail in the description is found sufficient.  
In the Response to CHMP Day 120 Questions additional clarifications regarding the batch formula, 
potency calculation, overages of excipients and holding time of process intermediates have been 
provided. 
Filled capsules may be stored and transported as bulk product packaged in LDPE bag. Bulk packaging 
is appropriately described. In day 120 responses updated bulk stability data have been provided. 
The control strategy for these critical steps is based on the process development studies performed. As 
requested, the test frequency of specific in-process tests has been updated. 
The amount of dug substance in medicinal product is low (0,75 %) therefore the submission of process 
validation data is mandatory. The validation reports for three validation batches (proposed as a 
production-scale batch) are provided together with process validation protocol. In day 120 responses 
the production batch size has been redefined to submission batch size for which the process validation 
study has already been completed. 
Product specification, analytical procedures, batch analysis 
The proposed release and shelf-life specifications for Fingolimod Mylan tablets include tests for 
description, identification (HPLC), dissolution (HPLC), uniformity of dosage units (content uniformity), 
related compounds (HPLC), assay (HPLC), microbiological test (Ph. Eur.), colour identification (iron 
oxide, titanium dioxide), water (KF). 
The test parameters included in specifications are adequate, some limits have been tightened as 
requested. 
Specification limits for specified and any other unidentified impurity are in accordance with ICH Q3B. 
Nevertheless, in day 120 responses limits for specified and total impurities have been tightened in 
accordance with batch results. 
As requested, the specification limit for dissolution, shelf-life limit for assay and water content have 
been tightened. 
Analytical procedures and reference standards 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 13/30 
 
 
 
The analytical procedures used in the control of drug product are satisfactory described. Validation 
data of in-house analytical methods are in accordance with the requirements of the relevant ICH 
guidelines and acceptable. As requested, the applicant has demonstrated the discriminatory power of 
dissolution method in development section of documentation. 
In responses further information on reference standards has been provided. 
Batch analysis 
Batch analysis data for three submission batches and the biobatch are provided. The manufacturing 
site, date of manufacture, use and batch size of each batch are stated. The batch size corresponds to 
the production-scale batch. The analytical results for all batches are in compliance with the proposed 
specification. The provided batch results confirm consistency of the manufacturing process and 
uniformity of drug product.  
Container closure 
The specification, IR spectra and compliance certificates are provided for all the packaging materials of 
the container closure system (PVC/PE/PVdC - Alu blister, PVC/Aclar - Alu blister, HDPE bottle pack and 
LDPE bulk pack). As requested, a compliance statement to EU regulation 10/2011 for the sealant layer 
of the wad with induction seal has been provided. 
Stability of the product 
In day 120 responses the proposed shelf-life is 17 months with storage conditions: “Do not store 
above 25°C. Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture”. 
According to provided in-use stability data in-use shelf-life up to 180 days for HDPE bottle containing 
500 capsules is confirmed. This in-use period covers pack sizes stated in the Application Form (90 or 
100 capsules in bottle). In the response to CHMP Day 120 Questions in line with EMA Q&A (Part 2) no 
in-use shelf life was proposed. 
Three submission batches are included in stability testing program. The submission batches are 
proposed production scale batches and are representative for the commercial production. 
During stability studies following parameters are controlled: description, assay, dissolution, water, 
microbiological test and related substances. 
The stability of Fingolimod 0.5 mg capsules is being assessed at ICH accelerated i.e. 40 ± 2°C / 75 ± 
5% RH, intermediate i.e. 30 ± 2°C / 65 ± 5% RH and long-term stability conditions i.e. 25 ± 2°C / 60 
± 5% RH. The finished product batches have completed the stability study up to 6 months at 
accelerated and up to 12 months at intermediate and long-term stability conditions. The batches were 
stored in blister packs PVC/PE/PvdC, blister packs PVC/Aclar and HDPE bottles. 
All tested parameters remained within the applied acceptance criteria specification during storage 
under intermediate and long-term stability conditions. There is a trend of slightly increase of impurities 
but well within acceptable limits.  
In response to CHMP d120 Questions the applicant performed statistical evaluation on updated long-
term stability data according to the ICH Q1E guidance. Based on evaluation the shelf-life of the product 
was proposed. Major objection was resolved. 
Forced degradation studies were performed during validation of the assay and related test methods. 
Drug substance, drug product and analytical placebo were exposed to harsh environmental conditions. 
The observed degradation was low in acidic, basic, humid, hot and light conditions. The maximum 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 14/30 
 
 
 
degradation was observed at oxidative conditions. There are no significant interferences as the 
observed impurities are well resolved from the active and placebo peaks. Fingolimod is spectrally pure 
in all intentional stress conditions. As requested, the applicant has provided additional discussion in a 
view of stability indicating nature of HPLC related substances method. 
Photostability study was conducted as per ICH Q1B guideline and there were no out of specification 
results. Capsules are not photosensitive. 
Open pot stability study was performed by loading the sample into open containers exposed at 25 ± 
2°C / 60 ± 5% RH. The product was found to be stable at the studied open pot stability conditions. 
3.1.4.  Discussion and conclusions on chemical, pharmaceutical and 
biological aspects 
Drug substance 
Fingolimod hydrochloride is a well-known active substance with the Ph.Eur. monograph, which has 
been recently released (since April 2019). One source of active substance is proposed and ASMF 
procedure is used. The section Control of active substance by the drug product manufacturer is 
provided with information on specifications, analytical procedures and their validation. The reference 
standards from drug product manufacturer are provided. Most of the issues on active substances are 
satisfactorily addressed in the Response to CHMP Day 120 Questions and CHMP Day 180 Questions, 
however the major objection regarding nitrosamine issue remains unresolved.  
Drug product 
Major objection had been raised in relation to limited stability data. In response to CHMP d120 
Questions updated long term and intermediate stability data were provided. Statistical evaluation on 
updated stability data was performed and shelf life of 17 months proposed. Major objection was 
resolved. 
The drug product is proposed for use in adult patients and paediatric patients of 10 years and older. As 
requested, some aspects of the specific needs of the paediatric population were sufficiently discussed 
in the responses to CHMP Day 120 and Day 180 Questions.  
In the Response to CHMP Day 120 Questions for the reference product and the test product additional 
comparative dissolution data generated at three dissolution media were provided. The discriminatory 
power of the dissolution method has been demonstrated for revised dissolution limit. Additional data to 
demonstrate similarity of the produced capsules has been included at day 120 response. The 
description of manufacturing process is sufficient. Additional clarification has been provided regarding 
the batch formula and overages of excipients. The specification parameters set for the drug product 
are adequate, some limits have been tightened. Standard container closure system is used. 
The chemical-pharmaceutical documentation (Module 3) and Quality Overall Summary in relation to 
Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules are currently of sufficient quality in view of the present 
European regulatory requirements. 
3.2.  Non clinical aspects  
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of fingolimod are well known. As 
fingolimod is widely used, well-known active substances, the applicant has not provided additional 
studies and further studies are not required. Overview based on literature review is, thus, appropriate.  
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 15/30 
 
 
 
The impurity profiles of Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules were compared with European 
reference product Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules, marketed by Novartis Europharm Limited. Both test 
product and EU reference product exhibit similar impurity profile.  
In response to the CHMP request, the non-clinical overview dated October 25, 2019 was updated with 
adequate and comprehensive assessment of the impurities and degradants present in the drug 
substance and product along with what is known of their potential pharmacological and toxicological 
effects as requested. All impurities (organic, elemental and mutagenic) and residual solvents in drug 
substance and drug product are controlled within the ICH specifications, which is acceptable.  
3.2.1.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No Environmental Risk Assessment (ERA) was submitted. This was justified by the applicant, as the 
introduction of Fingolimod Mylan is considered unlikely to result in any significant increase in the 
combined sales volumes for all Fingolimod containing products and the exposure of the environment to 
the active substance. Thus, a risk for the environment is therefore not anticipated for Fingolimod. 
Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of fingolimod is widely used, well-
known active substances. It is agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. Overview based 
on literature review is appropriate. 
The impurity profiles of Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules were compared with European 
reference product Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules, marketed by Novartis Europharm Limited. Both test 
product and EU reference product exhibit similar impurity profiles. The impurity profiles have been 
discussed and was considered acceptable. 
The applicant’s justification for non-submission of an Environmental Risk Assessment is considered 
acceptable.  
The non-clinical aspects of the SmPC (Sections 4.6 and 5.3) are in line with the SmPC of the reference 
product Gilenya. 
3.2.2.  Conclusion on non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to approval of Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules from a non-clinical point 
of view.  
3.3.  Clinical aspects 
Relevant guidance documents for this assessment are the Fingolimod product-specific bioequivalence 
guidance (EMA/CHMP/154812/2016) and Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98) as well as the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation 
(EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/09).  
This centralised application concerns a generic application according to article 10(1) of Directive 
2001/83/EC for Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules. The originator product is Gilenya, which 
contains fingolimod hydrochloride as capsule, hard of Novartis, Europharm Limited authorised in the 
community on 17 March 2011 via the centralised procedure.  
One bioequivalence (BE) study has been performed using the originator, using the test product 
(Fingolimod Mylan 0.5 mg hard capsules) and the reference product (Gilenya 0.5 mg hard capsules). 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 16/30 
 
 
 
The applicant has provided a clinical overview, Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Morgantown, US. Report 
refers to 38 publications up to year 2018. Information stated in the clinical overview is up-to-date, 
adequately supported with the scientific literature. 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic, efficacy and safety profiles of fingolimod are well known. As 
fingolimod is a widely used, well-known active substance. An overview based on literature review is, 
thus, appropriate. The clinical overview adequately justifies the proposed indication.  
The claimed indication and method of administration of the proposed SmPC are in line with the SmPC 
of the reference product, Gilenya. The posology information of the SmPC is requested to be in line with 
that of the reference product, please refer to separate comments on PI. 
3.3.1.  Exemption 
Not applicable. 
•  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Table 1 
3.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
To support the application, the applicant has submitted a review of clinical data as well as one 
bioequivalence study`s report was presented for this application: 
Bioequivalence study No.: FING-15026 under fasting conditions 
Methods 
Study design  
This was a blinded, single-dose, randomized, three-period, three-treatment, crossover study to 
investigate the bioequivalence of Mylan’s Fingolimod capsules, 0.5 mg to Novartis Canada’s 
GILENYA® Capsules, 0.5 mg and to Novartis UK’s GILENYA® Capsules, 0.5 mg following a single, 
oral 0.5 mg (1 x 0.5 mg) dose administration in healthy male volunteers under fasting conditions. 
The study design employed (as a randomized fasting single dose cross-over design) is appropriate for 
the bioequivalence study according to the requirements of the Fingolimod product-specific 
bioequivalence guidance (EMA/CHMP/154812/2016). The study was conducted in two groups (Group-I 
and Group-II). The option of possible multi-cohort was mentioned in the protocol (The protocol cites 
“In the event that separate enrolment are necessary to complete the intended number of subjects, 
appropriate adjustment may be made to the statistical model to reflect the multi-cohort nature of the 
study”). In response to the CHMP request, the applicant clarified that two-stage design was not used 
for this study.   
The study was conducted under fasting conditions, which is acceptable as the drug product can be 
taken with or without food and the fasting condition is the most sensitive to identify differences 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 17/30 
 
 
 
 
 
between the formulations. As fingolimod is highly distributed in red blood cells, blood was used as 
matrix for the evaluation of fingolimod concentrations, which is acceptable. The measurement of the 
parent compound (fingolimod) in blood is in line with the requirements of the Fingolimod product-
specific bioequivalence guidance (EMA/CHMP/154812/2016). 
The study was conducted with 24 healthy, adult, male subjects in accordance with the protocol. 16 
subjects completed at least two periods of the study with test and EU reference product.  
In each group, the subjects received one tablet of either test (A) or reference products (B or C) 
randomly with 240 mL of ambient temperature on the day of dosing as per the randomization schedule 
under fasting conditions in each period of the study. Drug product was administered after at least 
10.00 hours overnight fasting. The total duration of the study was 3 months and 14 days from period-1 
check-in until the last blood sample collection of period-3 including a wash-out period of 28 days 
between each dosing.  
In response to the CHMP request to adequately justified a short wash-out period of 28 days or  conduct 
an additional bioequivalence cross-over study with sufficient wash-out periods between treatments, the 
applicant performed a second analysis using bioanalytical extrapolation to recalculate pre-dose 
concentration values for Periods 2 and 3 previously considered below the limit of quantitation (BLQ) 
and performed pharmacokinetic based extrapolations to strip away carryover to Periods 2 and 3. This 
new analysis was not considered acceptable as extrapolation based on a lower LLOQ was not possible 
considering the elimination half-life of the active substance in the concerned subjects in a period. Since 
the sampling period was only until 72h post-dose, there was no elimination half-life (washout should 
had been 6-9 days according to the innovator’s SPC and this cannot be determined based on a 3-day 
curve).  
Due to the fact that fingolimod has a very long half-life of 6-9 days, adequate wash-out periods 
between treatments in the cross-over study should be ensured. In this cross-over study, the washout 
period of 28 days is less than 5 half-lifes of the active substance, and thus not enough to avoid 
potential carry-over effects. Outstanding issue related to the inadequate study design still remains 
unresolved. 
Blood samples were collected in K2EDTA tubes at pre-dose (0.00 hours) and at intervals over 72.00 
hours after administration of dose, which is acceptable for a substance with a long half-life to 
characterize the plasma concentration-time profile. The issue regarding the frequency of blood 
sampling around the peak concentration of fingolimod to determine the Tmax accurately was resolved 
within the Applicant`s responses. It this it was explained that the expected Tmax is generally around 
12-16 hours as per Gilenya® label, therefore the applicant is of the opinion that sampling every 2 
hours from 2 to 20 hours is adequate: 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 24, 36, 48 and 72 hours. 
Due to the slow clearance, along with the large volume of distribution, blood concentration time curve 
is relatively flat. David (2012) provides a summary of single-dose fingolimod data with profiles similar 
to the bioequivalence study FING-15026. Additional timepoints after 24 hours would not have provided 
any more meaningful PK information. 
No other protocol deviations have been registered other than minor deviations from the blood sampling 
time points and two subjects did not complete study exit evaluation. The deviations in scheduled 
sampling time had no impact on study results as actual sampling times were used for PK calculations.  
In response to the CHMP request, the applicant submitted the table of schedule of events.  
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 18/30 
 
 
 
Test and reference products   
The  identity  of  all  three  tested  products  A,  B  (Canadian  submission)  and  C  (EU  submission)  are 
provided in the submission from the Applicant. However, only  information  of  the  test  formulation 
A  and  the  reference  formulation  C  for  EU  submission  are  presented  in  this  assessment 
report. 
The reference and test products are acceptable.  
In the response to Day 120 LoQ, a signed statement confirming that the test product has the same 
quantitative composition and is manufactured by the same process as the one submitted for 
authorisation is provided.  
Population(s) studied   
24 subjects (male) participated in this study. Subjects were dosed in two groups.  
In Group-I, a total of 20  healthy  subjects (subject numbers 1-6, 8-16, 18, 19, 22-24) who met the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria as mentioned in the study protocol were enrolled into the study. From 
Group I, Subject  number 01,  19  and  22 did not meet the pre-dose vital sign criteria prior to Period 
2 dosing. Subject  8 withdrew consent due to personal reasons prior to Period 2 dosing. Subject  16 
did not report to the clinic for Period 2 dosing. Subjects 18 and 23 withdrew consent due to personal 
reasons  prior  to  Period  3  dosing.  Subject  2  was  discontinued  due  to  a  positive  breathalyzer  test  at 
Period 3 check-in. Subject 11 withdrew consent due to personal reasons prior to Period 3 dosing. Two 
subjects (Subjects  5  and  15) had pre-dose concentrations greater than 5% Cmax, and were excluded 
from the statistical analysis for Canadian submission. 
In Group-II, a total of 4 healthy subjects (subject numbers 7, 17, 20-21) who met the inclusion and 
exclusion criteria as mentioned in the study protocol were enrolled into the study to ensure the dosing 
of 24 subjects.  
Fifteen (15) subjects completed the clinical phase of the study successfully.  
A  total  of  sixteen  subjects  (16)  completed  at  least  two  periods  of  the  study  with  test  and  EU 
reference  product  (C) and  were  included  in  the  pharmacokinetic  and  statistical  analysis for 
EU submission.  
The population chosen is according to the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev.1). Inclusion and exclusion criteria are acceptable and performed 
according to the protocol requirements. All the subjects were dosed as per the randomization. The 
reason of the withdrawal is acceptable. As response to the CHMP queries regarding withdrawn subjects 
from the study, the applicant adequately justified withdrawal of subjects 01, 02, 08, 11, 16, 18, 19, 
22, and 23 from the Study FING-15026 by presenting the Case Report Forms (CRFs) of those 
volunteers.  
Sample size determination 
According to applicant, the sample size estimation was based on assumption of ratio between 90%-
111% and an intra-subjects’ variability of 10%. A minimum of 12 subjects was calculated to be 
required to conclude bioequivalence with approximately 80% power. To account for withdrawal and 
dropouts, 24 subjects were randomized and dosed.  
Analytical methods  
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 19/30 
 
 
 
A validated high-performance liquid chromatography electrospray ionization tandem mass 
spectrometric method (LC-ESI-MS/MS) for the determination of fingolimod (FING) in K2EDTA human 
whole blood was used to assay all biostudy samples. Sample processing involved liquid-liquid 
extraction followed by LC-MS/MS analysis, using Analyst 1.5.1 software as the chromatography data 
system. 
The analysis of the blood samples for fingolimod were carried out by the Bioanalytical Department of 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc., Morgantown.  
A total number of 928 collected samples were received frozen from WVU Clinical and Pharmacologic 
Research, (Morgantown, WV) to the bioanalytical facility. However, only the primary set of samples 
(784 subject samples) was analysed for the biostudy. Samples were stored at -70°C from the date of 
initial sample collection on 01 Aug 2015, until the final day of sample processing on 18 Dec 2015, 
resulting in the maximum sample storage period of 139 days at -70°C. Stability of fingolimod in blood 
has been demonstrated for 488 days of storage at -70°C. 
The calibration curve for fingolimod ranged from about 50.00 – 600.00 pg/mL with a LLOQ of 50.00 
pg/mL used in subject sample analysis of Fingolimod. A weighted (1/C2) linear regression was 
performed to determine the concentration of the analyte. The quality control sample data for 
fingolimod were assessed with between-run precision of 3.79 – 5.63 % and accuracy of 95.38 – 
97.33%. 
The analytical method was validated, either pre-study and within study according to Guideline on 
bioanalytical method validation EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009.   
Long-term stability data of fingolimod in blood at -70°C for 488 days showed stability of the subject 
samples stored under these conditions for 139 days. 
The reasons for reanalysis of samples in each of the sample analysis are considered justified. 
The incurred sample reanalysis confirmed the reproducibility of the method.  
Certificates of analysis for reference and internal standard were included in the dossier. 
Analytical chromatograms of calibrant, QC and study samples (and corresponding sample sequences) 
from at least 20% of the subjects were included in the dossier. 
Neither carry–over, nor matrix effect was observed. 
Selectivity of the fingolimod in the presence of the fingolimod phosphate metabolite has been 
demonstrated. As well as selectivity of the fingolimod in presence of the metabolites (butanoic acid 
metabolite and ceramide metabolite M29 and ceramide metabolite M30) has been demonstrated in 
response to the CHMP request. Although no concomitant medication was given to subjects, the 
analytical method has been validated for selectivity for 20 over-the-counter medicinal products. 
In the Day 120 Assessment Report, some other concerns identified in the bioanalytical and validation 
reports were resolved within the Applicant`s Responses to the LoQ Based on the comment regarding 
the sensitivity of the lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ), the applicant re-estimated the FING-15026 
study concentration data based on extrapolation of the bioanalytical standard curve for all below the 
limit of quantitation (BLQ) values previously reported, down to a cut-off of 5 pg/mL. This response is 
not acceptable, partially based on that extrapolation based on a lower LLOQ is not possible considering 
the elimination half-life of the active substance in the concerned subjects in a period. Since the 
sampling period was only until 72h post-dose, there was no elimination half-life (washout should had 
been 6-9 days according to the innovator’s SPC and this cannot be determined based on a 3-day 
curve).   
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 20/30 
 
 
 
In addition, in cases where there is extension of the bioanalytical range, the method should be re-
validated according to the Guideline on Bioanalytical method validation.  
Therefore, the applicant is asked to re-validate the method with an extended range and submit new 
analytical method validation report.   
As a conclusion, this major objection combined with insufficient wash-out has not been resolved 
and remains. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables 
Single-dose  pharmacokinetic  parameters  for  fingolimod  were  calculated  using  non-compartment 
techniques. 
The following pharmacokinetic parameters were determined from the time and concentration data:  
The parameters calculated were AUC0-72, Cmax and Tmax 
Primary pharmacokinetic parameters: Cmax, AUC0-72  
Secondary pharmacokinetic parameters: Tmax 
The choice of pharmacokinetic variables is in line with the Fingolimod product-specific bioequivalence 
guidance (EMA/CHMP/154812/2016).  
Non-compartmental analysis approach has been used for estimation of pharmacokinetic parameters in 
bioequivalence study.  
In response to the CHMP request, the applicant informed that the Tmax Nonparametric Analysis was 
performed using the Wilcoxon’s Signed Rank Test. 
Statistical methods 
Statistical analysis were performed on the pharmacokinetic parameters using the General Linear 
Models Procedures (PROC GLM) of SAS Software (SAS Institute, Cary, NC). The model tested for 
treatment effects in the parameters means at an alpha level of 0.05.  
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) taking into account sequence, formulation, period and subject within 
sequence fixed effects was performed on the ln transformed Cmax and AUC0-72 parameters. 
Bioequivalence between the Test (Treatment A) and Reference (Treatment C) was tested by the 90% 
confidence intervals for the ratio of the population geometric means (T/R) for the parameters.  
Confidence intervals (CI) were determined for the ln- transformed AUC72, and Cmax for fingolimod using 
the treatments least squares means (LS-Means) obtained from ANOVA. 
Bioequivalence  was  concluded when the 90% confidence intervals of geometric least square mean 
ratio of the test and reference product falls within the acceptance range of 80.00 % -125.00% for ln-
transformed Cmax and AUC0-72. 
Pharmacokinetic  and  statistical  analyses  were  performed  on  the  16  subjects  who  completed  at  least 
two study periods with test and EU reference product. 
In response to the CHMP request, the applicant clarified that two-stage design was not used for this 
study.   
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 21/30 
 
 
 
Results 
The pharmacokinetic data were analysed as per the statistical method defined in the protocol. The 
pharmacokinetic and statistical analyses were performed on all three tested products (A, B and C). 
However, only data of the test formulation A and the reference formulation C are presented 
in this assessment report. This is in line with the Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence 
which states “In studies with more than two treatment arms (e.g. a three period study including two 
references, one from EU and another from USA, or a four period study including test and reference in 
fed and fasted states), the analysis for each comparison should be conducted excluding the data from 
the treatments that are not relevant for the comparison in question”. 
The pharmacokinetic variables of fingolimod of the Test and the Reference product (C) and statistical 
evaluation of fingolimod pharmacokinetic variables are shown in Table 2 and Table 3. 
Table 2 Pharmacokinetic parameters of Fingolimod of Test and Reference (EU submission); 
N=16 
Table 3 Statistical evaluation of Fingolimod pharmacokinetic parameters (EU submission); 
N=16  
Mean concentration-time profiles (semi-log and linear) of Fingolimod are depicted in Figure 2. 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 22/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Linear and Semi Log Plot: 
Selection of PK parameters, statistical evaluation of the PK parameters and the acceptance ranges for 
bioequivalence  are  in  accordance  with  the  bioequivalence  guideline  (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98  Rev.1 
Cor**). 
No subject reached Cmax at the first sample time. 
Based on the reference data, fingolimod reaches maximal blood concentrations (Cmax) in 12-16 hours. 
However, in this study delayed Tmax was observed for the test product ranged from 6 to 48 hours post 
dose  with  a  median  of  36.00  hours.  The  same  tendency  of  delayed  Tmax  was  also  observed  for  the 
reference product (C) ranged from 12 to 48 hours post dose with a median of 36.00 hours. This long 
absorption time is likely because fingolimod is absorbed along the length of the gastrointestinal tract. 
No concern is raised. 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 23/30 
 
 
 
  
 
No statistically significant treatment, or period or formulation effects have been identified for Cmax and 
AUC0-72 parameters.  
In the Day 120 Assessment Report, pre-dose levels of fingolimod observed for two subjects before 
period 2 or period 3 indicating an inadequate wash-out period, was regarded as a major objection.  As 
described in the Analytical methods section above, this major objection combined with a too high 
LLOQ has not been resolved and remains.  
Safety data 
All 24 subjects were included in the safety and tolerability evaluation. 
There were no deaths and other serious adverse events and withdrawals due to AE over the course of 
the study. Both the formulations (Test A and Reference C) were very well tolerated during the conduct 
of the study. The reported adverse events were mild in severity and only one AE (headache) possibly 
related to the study drug (Reference C). Adverse events observed in this study were in line with the 
known safety profile of the reference product. 
Missing case report forms were provided in Day 120 response to the CHMP request. 
3.3.3.  Pharmacokinetic conclusion   
Based on the presented bioequivalence study No: FING-15026 Fingolimod capsule, 0.5 mg is not 
considered bioequivalent with GILENYA capsule, 0.5 mg, as stated above, the presented 
pharmacokinetic documentation is not fully acceptable and major concerns have been identified.  
3.3.4.  Pharmacodynamics 
No new pharmacodynamics studies were presented and no such studies are required for this 
application. 
3.3.5.  Additional data 
N/A 
3.3.6.  Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available. The medicinal product has not been marketed in any country. 
3.3.7.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
To support the application, the company submitted one bioequivalence study and literature data on 
clinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety, which was considered appropriate and relevant for a generic 
product application. 
The bioequivalence study was designed, as a blinded, single-dose, randomized, three-period, three-
treatment, single-dose, crossover bioequivalence study to compare the bioavailability of 2 formulations 
of fingolimod under fasting conditions.  
The reference and test products are acceptable.  
Twenty-four healthy, adult, male subjects were enrolled in accordance with protocol. The study was 
conducted in two groups and in each group, the subjects received one capsule of either test or 
reference products (B or C) randomly as per the randomization schedule under fasting conditions. A 28 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 24/30 
 
 
 
days washout separated each period in group-I and group-II. Given a long terminal elimination half-life 
(t1/2) of fingolimod of 6-9 days, the washout period of 28 days between treatments in the cross-over 
study was not long enough to prevent any carry-over effect. The washout period should last at least 5 
times of the half-live of fingolimod (i.e. 30-45 days). In response to the CHMP request to adequately 
justify a short wash-out period of 28 days or conduct an additional bioequivalence cross-over study 
with sufficient wash-out periods between treatments, the applicant performed a second analysis using 
bioanalytical extrapolation to recalculate pre-dose concentration values for Periods 2 and 3 previously 
considered below the limit of quantitation (BLQ) and performed pharmacokinetic based extrapolations 
to strip away carryover to Periods 2 and 3. This new analysis was not considered acceptable, as 
extrapolation based on a lower LLOQ was not possible considering the elimination half-life of the active 
substance in the concerned subjects in a period. Since the sampling period was only until 72h post-
dose, there was no elimination half-life (washout should had been 6-9 days according to the 
innovator’s SPC and this cannot be determined based on a 3-day curve). Since fingolimod has a very 
long half-life of 6-9 days, adequate wash-out periods between treatments in the cross-over study 
should be ensured. The applicant was further asked to provide an analysis of only period 1 data (will 
resemble a parallel design study) for test and reference in order to avoid influence of carry-over 
effects. Furthermore, the applicant was asked to submit descriptive PK data for the primary PK 
parameters Cmax and AUC0-72 presented per period (1, 2 and 3) in order to understand the 
magnitude of the carry over. 
In the Day 180 response, the applicant submitted multiple analyses on the BE study data. Among them 
was a parallel analysis based on Period 1 data only (analysis 3), for comparison of Test to EU 
Reference. This analysis was limited in size, there were only 5 subject profiles for Mylan Test product in 
Period 1 and 6 subject profiles for the EU Reference product in Period 1 as this was a 3-period, 3-
treatment BE study and there was a number of dropouts and subjects excluded from bioanalysis. The 
data from those subjects did not meet the BE criteria for AUC0-72hr and Cmax. No conclusion could be 
drawn from this analysis due to limited in size (11 subjects).  
The applicant submitted an additional Analysis (4) in order to understand the magnitude of the carry 
over. The results of this analysis met BE criteria. However, since extrapolated data shows that 
carryover from period 1 to period 2 to period 3 occurred in 10 subjects (period 2) and in 11 subjects 
(period 3), such data should be excluded from bioequivalence calculation according to the current 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence. Therefore, this analysis is not considered acceptable. 
The applicant also submitted additional analyses based on the PK stripping method, such that the pre-
dose concentrations for Test or EU reference products were set at the extreme limits that would impact 
Kel estimation: 1) at high pre-dose extreme 50pg/mL, equal to the lower limit of validated assay, or 2) 
at low pre-dose extreme 12pg/mL, equal to the level required for assay validation to detect 5% 
corresponding Cmax. The results of these analyses met BE criteria.  However, the Analyses 5 and 6 
could not be accepted for the BE study, because this approach is not in accordance with the current 
Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence, also it is against the validated method criteria. Thus, 
an outstanding issue related to the inadequate study design still remains unresolved. 
Sixteen subjects completed at least two periods of the study with test and EU reference product and 
were included in the pharmacokinetic and statistical analysis for EU submission. From Group I, 3 
subjects (subject number 01, 19 and 22) did not meet the pre-dose vital sign criteria prior to Period 2 
dosing, 1 subject (subject number 08) withdrew consent due to personal reasons prior to Period 2 
dosing. One subject (subject number16) did not report to the clinic for Period 2 dosing. Two subjects 
(subject number 18 and 23) withdrew consent due to personal reasons prior to Period 3 dosing. One 
subject (subject 02) was discontinued due to a positive breathalyzer test at Period 3 check-in. One 
subject (subject 11) withdrew consent due to personal reasons prior to Period 3 dosing. The reason of 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 25/30 
 
 
 
the withdrawal is acceptable. Withdrawal of subjects has been documented. As well as the Case Report 
Form for subjects No.: 01, 02, 08, 11, 16, 18, 19, 22 and 23) ware submitted. 
The analytical method was validated, either pre-study and within study, however not entirely 
conducted according to Guideline on bioanalytical method validation EMEA/CHMP/EWP/192217/2009. 
All other concerns identified in the bioanalytical and validation reports were resolved. 
Based on the comment regarding the sensitivity of the lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ), the applicant 
re-estimated the FING-15026 study concentration data based on extrapolation of the bioanalytical 
standard curve for all below the limit of quantitation (BLQ) values previously reported, down to a cut-
off of 5 pg/mL. This major objection combined with insufficient wash-out periods has not been 
resolved and remains.   
The statistical method used for the pharmacokinetic analyses is considered acceptable. The ANOVA 
model used is adequate for a bioequivalence study. The study was conducted in two groups (Group-I 
and Group-II). The applicant clarified that two-stage design was not used for this study.   
The pharmacokinetics parameters measured/calculated are standard for a single-dose study. They are 
acceptable  and  according 
to 
the  Guideline  on 
the 
Investigation  of  Bioequivalence 
(CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1/ Corr **). 
Although the 90% confidence intervals for the ln-transformed AUC0-72h and Cmax are within the 80-
125% acceptance range, the CHMP considers that the generic application for Fingolimod Mylan capsule 
is currently not approvable, due to major objections that have been raised regarding the inadequate 
study design with insufficient wash-out combined with the lower LLOQ.  
Both the formulations (Test and Reference C) were very well tolerated during the conduct of the study. 
The adverse events mentioned above were in line with the known safety profile of the reference 
product and there are no new concerns arising from this study.  
The Clinical sections of the SmPC of Fingolimod Mylan are in accordance with the reference product 
Gilenya, Novartis Europharm Limited, UK (EU/1/11/677/001-00). 
3.3.8.  Conclusions on clinical aspects  
Based on review of the clinical data, the CHMP considers that the generic application for Fingolimod 
Mylan capsule is currently not approvable, due to unresolved major objections that have been raised 
regarding inadequate study design with a short washout period,  combined with a too high LLOQ, 
leading to difficulties to accurately determine if subjects were having pre-dose concentrations above 
5% of Cmax. 
3.4.  Risk management plan 
3.4.1.  Safety Specification 
Summary of the safety concerns 
The applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP. 
Table 4 Summary of safety concerns 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Bradyarrhythmia (including conduction defects and bradycardia 
complicated by hypotension) occurring post-first dose 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 26/30 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Hypertension 
Liver transaminase elevation 
Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES) 
Macular edema 
Infections, including opportunistic infections (PML, VZV, herpes viral 
infections other than VZV, fungal infection) 
Reproductive toxicity 
Bronchoconstriction 
Skin cancer (Basal cell carcinoma, Kaposi’s sarcoma, Malignant 
melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, Squamous cell carcinoma) 
Important potential risks 
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis-like (ADEM- like) events 
Convulsions 
Lymphoma 
Other malignant neoplasms 
Thrombo-embolic events 
QT interval prolongation 
Missing information 
Long-term use in pediatric patients, including impact on growth and 
development (including cognitive development) 
Elderly patients (≥65 years) 
Lactating women 
Patients with diabetes mellitus 
Patients with cardiovascular conditions including myocardial 
infarction, angina pectoris, Raynaud’s phenomenon, cardiac failure or 
severe cardiac disease, increased QTc interval, uncontrolled 
hypertension, patients at risk for bradyarrhythmia and who may not 
tolerate bradycardia, patients with second degree Mobitz type 2 or 
higher AV block, sick-sinus syndrome, sino-atrial heart block, history 
of cardiac arrest, cerebrovascular disease and severe sleep apnea 
Long-term risk of cardiovascular morbidity/mortality 
Long-term risk of malignant neoplasms 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 27/30 
 
 
 
Summary of safety concerns 
Unexplained death 
Switch from other disease modifying therapy 
The Applicant has submitted an updated risk management plan, version 1.2, dated 24-Mar-2020. 
No updates to the safety specification from the previous version 1.1 were made. The list of safety 
concerns is in line with the reference medicinal product. 
Having considered the data in the safety specification, the CHMP agrees that the safety concerns listed 
by the Applicant are appropriate.  
3.4.2.  Pharmacovigilance plan 
The Applicant states in this section that routine pharmacovigilance activities are considered adequate. 
No additional PhV activity is proposed by the Applicant. 
Overall conclusions on the PhV Plan  
The Committees, having considered the data submitted, are of the opinion that routine 
pharmacovigilance is sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. No additional 
pharmacovigilance studies should be required. 
The Committees considered that routine PhV remains sufficient to monitor the effectiveness of the risk 
minimisation measures. The generic Marketing authorisation holders should be required to submit 
PSURs and should review all the received pregnancy cases in yearly PSUR submissions. 
3.4.3.  Risk minimisation measures 
Table V.I has been updated with the update of safety concerns. 
3.4.3.1.  Routine risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures of the generic have been updated with the updated safety 
concerns of the originator. 
However, the Applicant is recommended to include the specific clinical measures/monitoring 
information for healthcare professionals in SmPC/PL when describing Routine risk minimisation 
activities recommending specific clinical measures to address the risk as requested in line with the 
originator. 
o  For the safety concerns Bradyarrhythmia and Unexplained death, the PL sections have been 
included. 
3.4.3.2.  Additional risk minimisation measures 
The additional risk minimisation measures have been updated. 
The planned distribution path is mentioned. 
The applicant has updated section V.2 with the Additional Risk Minimisation Measures: 
- 
Physician checklist for adult and paediatric population 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 28/30 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
Patient/Parent/Caregiver’s guide 
Pregnancy specific patient reminder card 
With reference to section V.3. Summary table of pharmacovigilance and risk minimisation activities by 
safety concern, the following sections have been added: 
o  Reproductive toxicity: section 5.3  
o 
o 
o 
Lymphoma: section 4.4  
Lactating women: section 5.3  
Long-term use in paediatric patients, including impact on growth and development 
(including cognitive development): Section 4.4 and corresponding PIL  
It has to be noted that the Patient/Parent/Caregiver’s guide is not named as a reminder guide in the 
originator. Part V.3 has been amended accordingly. 
Overall conclusions on risk minimisation measures 
The PRAC having considered the data submitted was of the opinion that in line with the reference 
product the proposed risk minimisation measures are sufficient to minimise the risks of the product in 
the proposed indication(s). 
3.4.4.  Summary of the risk management plan 
The Applicant has updated the Part VI “Summary of the risk management plan”, in line with the issues 
raised in other parts of the RMP. 
The following sentence has been corrected by the applicant: This is a summary of the risk 
management plan (RMP) for Fingolimod Mylan. The RMP details important risks of Fingolimod Mylan, 
how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Fingolimod 
Mylan's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
•  Annex 4: The specific adverse drug reaction follow-up questionnaires of the annex 4 should be in 
line with those of the originator. As mentioned in the GVP module V rev2, the MA holders are 
strongly encouraged to share the content of their questionnaire upon request from other MA 
holders. 
A confirmation that the follow-up questionnaires will be aligned with those of the originator is 
added in Annex 4. It is noted that, the Risk Management Plan of the innovator Gilenya requested 
via the Agency has not been received by the Applicant. 
•  Annex 6: Details of proposed additional risk minimisation measures: the following sentence has 
been deleted as required (or 0.25 mg once daily in paediatric patients 10 years of age and above 
with a body weight of ≤40 kg) from the paragraph starting with: - Fingolimod Mylan reduces 
peripheral blood lymphocyte counts, since it is not an approved dosing for Fingolimod Mylan. 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4.5.  Overall Conclusion on the RMP 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 1.2 could be acceptable if the 
applicant implements the changes to the RMP as detailed in the endorsed assessment report and in the 
list of outstanding issues in section 6.4. 
3.5.  Pharmacovigilance system   
The Applicant has provided the Summary of the Pharmacovigilance System version 16.0 dated May 16, 
2018. A statement is signed by the EEA QPPV and Head of Regulatory Affairs Europe, Mylan, ensuring 
that the Applicant has the necessary means to fulfil the tasks and responsibilities listed in Title IX of 
Directive 2001/83/EC and has at its disposal a qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance. 
The EU QPPV resides in the United Kingdom. PSMF is located at the same address where QPPV resides 
and carries out his tasks. 
It is considered that the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC.  
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
4.  Benefit/risk assessment 
Based on the review of the clinical data, the CHMP considers that the generic application for Fingolimod 
Mylan capsule, 0.5 mg is not approvable, due to a major objection that has been raised regarding 
inadequate clinical data. In addition, a new major objection that has been raised on quality on Day 180 
remains unresolved.  
4.1.  Conclusions 
The overall B/R of Fingolimod Mylan is negative at present due to major objections regarding Quality 
and Clinical issues.  
4.2.  Pharmacovigilance system   
None. 
Withdrawal assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/267761/2020  
Page 30/30 
 
 
 
 
 
