European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
Doc.Ref.EMEA/540171/2008 
WITHDRAWAL ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR  
Aflunov 
Common name: 
Prepandemic influenza vaccine (H5N1) (surface antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted) 
(A/VietNam/1194/2004) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/804 
This Withdrawal Public Assessment Report is based on the Day 180 assessment report, which is the latest 
assessment  report  adopted  by  the  CHMP  prior  to  the  Applicant’s  withdrawal  of  the  marketing 
authorisation application.  
This Withdrawal Public Assessment Report does not include all available information on the product as 
the  CHMP  assessment  of  the  applicant’s  responses  to  Outstanding  Issues  raised  by  CHMP  was  still 
ongoing.  It  should  therefore  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  Questions  and  Answers  Document  on  the 
withdrawal  of  the  marketing  application  for  this  product,  which  provides  an  overview  on  all  available 
information on the product at the time of the Applicant’s withdrawal. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
I.  RECOMMENDATION 
II. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
II.1  About the product 
II.2  General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP 
II.3  Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier 
III. 
III.1 
III.2 
III.3 
SCIENTIFIC OVERVIEW AND DISCUSSION 
Quality aspects 
Non clinical aspects 
Clinical aspects 
IV.  ORPHAN MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
V. 
BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT 
V.1  Benefits 
V.2  Risks 
V.3  Conclusions 
4 
4 
6 
11 
12 
13 
13 
15 
19 
36 
36 
37 
39 
39 
© EMEA 2008  
2/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
ADR  
AE  
BA  
BWP 
CDC  
CHMP  
CI  
CSR 
CTAB 
FAS  
GCP 
GLP 
GMP 
GMR  
GMT  
HA 
HI  
HPA  
HPAI 
ITT  
IM  
IU  
LoQ  
NA 
MAA  
MN  
MPH 
MRP 
NIBSC 
NIH  
PIP 
PP  
RG 
SAE  
SPC  
SRH  
SRID  
VEG 
VWP 
WHO  
Adverse reactions 
Adverse event 
Bioavailability 
Biologics Working Party 
Centers for Disease Control 
Committee for Human Medicinal Products 
Confidence interval 
Clinical Study Report 
Cetyl trimethylammonium bromide  
Full analysis set 
Good Clinical Practise 
Good Laboratory Practise 
Good Manufacturing Practise 
Geometric mean ratio 
Geometric mean titer 
Haemagglutinin 
Hemagglutination inhibition 
Health Protection Agency 
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza  
Intention to terat 
Intramuscular 
International units 
List of Questions 
Neuraminidase 
Marketing Authorisation Application 
Microneutralization 
Monovalent Pool Harvest 
Mutual Recognition Procedure 
National Institute for Biological Standards and Controls 
National Institutes of Health 
Paediatric Investigation Plan 
Per-protocol 
Reverse Genetics 
Serious adverse event 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Single radial hemolysis 
Single radial immunodiffusion 
Vaccine Expert Group 
Vaccine Working Party 
World Health Organization 
© EMEA 2008  
3/40 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
RECOMMENDATION 
Based on the review of the data and the Applicant’s response to the CHMP LoQ on quality, safety and 
efficacy, the CHMP consider that the application for Aflunov in the Prophylaxis of H5N1 avian influenza 
in adults and elderly (18 years of age and over), is not approvable since a major objection still remains, 
which precludes a recommendation for a marketing authorisation at the present time.   
The major objection precluding a recommendation of a marketing authorisation pertains to the principal 
following issue: 
Taking  into  account  the  results  of  the  CHMP  requested  inspection  of  the  pivotal  study  V87P4  and  in 
addition  the  outcome  of  an  earlier  Lithuanian  GCP  inspection,  and  the  events  at  two  further  sites  in 
Poland,  the  GCP  Inspectors  have  provided  the  following  assessment  of  the  GCP  compliance  of  study 
V87P4: 
•  The trial cannot be considered to have been conducted in accordance with GCP as required by Annex I 
of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
•  The  statement  provided  in  the  clinical  overview  and  in  the  Clinical  Study  Report  concerning  GCP 
compliance can no longer be considered valid. 
•  It is recommended that the study V87P4 is not used for evaluation in connection with the examination 
of Aflunov MAA. 
Therefore,  the  CHMP  considers  that  the  data  from  this  trial  should  not  be  taken  into  account  for  the 
evaluation of Aflunov MAA. 
II. 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Disease Background  
The H5N1 avian influenza strain is therefore the most likely candidate from which a pandemic strain may 
evolve. The current WHO phase of pandemic alert is the following: the new influenza virus subtype H5N1 
is causing disease in humans, but is not yet spreading efficiently and sustainably among humans. 
The  “Guideline  on  Dossier  structure  and  content  of  marketing  authorisation  applications  for  influenza 
vaccines  derived  from  strains  with  a  pandemic  potential  for  use  outside  the  core  dossier  context” 
(EMEA/CHMP/VWP/42326/2007)  identifies  three  potential  scenarios  of  use  of  vaccines  against  a 
potential influenza pandemic viral strain: 
- 
- 
- 
in  WHO  Phase  3  before  there  is  any  evidence  of  transmission  of  a  potential  pandemic  strain 
between  humans;  in  such  case,  the  degree  of  protection  that  might  be  conferred  to  immunised 
individuals in an actual pandemic situation cannot be predicted since the cross-antigenicity between 
strains in the avian influenza vaccines and the pandemic strain will be unknown; 
in WHO Phase 3 and/or later phases (4-5) for protection of those at high risk of exposure to avian 
influenza (e.g. poultry workers, veterinarians, laboratory workers); 
in WHO Phases 4 and 5 for pandemic preparedness (e.g. if the vaccine strain is considered a close 
enough match to a virus that had been shown to have significant transmission between humans). 
Novel influenza viruses may emerge following the reassortment of two co-circulating viral strains or from 
a series of genetic mutations in one strain. Pandemic influenza outbreaks occur when the resulting virus 
strain  transmits  efficiently  from  person  to  person  in  a  previously  unexposed  population.  A  pandemic 
© EMEA 2008  
4/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
outbreak  is  expected  to  spread  quickly  and  cause  substantial  global  morbidity  and  mortality.  The  daily 
incidence of cases for a new pandemic may peak in as little as 2 months after the first reported case and 
attack  rates  may  rise  above  40%  (Ferguson  NM,  Cummings  DA,  Fraser  C,  Cajka  JC,  Cooley  PC,  Burke  DS. 
Strategies for mitigating an influenza pandemic. Nature 2006 Apr 26). 
The  first  wave  of  a  pandemic  outbreak  may  be  largely  over  within  4  months.  A  specific  monovalent 
vaccine against the emerging strain will therefore have to be developed, registered and produced within a 
very  short  time.  Although  EMEA  has  consequently  introduced  guidelines  for  a  fast-track  licensing 
procedure for pandemic vaccines it is unlikely that manufacturers would be able to license and produce 
sufficient quantities within such a short time after identification and confirmation of a pandemic influenza 
viral strain. 
Since supply of the "fast track pandemic" vaccine will be limited, the production of a vaccine against a 
potential influenza pandemic viral strain during the interpandemic period may: 
• 
• 
• 
Permit early vaccination at the start of a pandemic (World Health Organization [WHO] phase 6) 
when the "fast track pandemic" vaccine is not yet available.  
Prime  during  pre-pandemic  stages  (WHO  phases  3  to  5)  to  reduce  mortality  against  a  closely 
matched pandemic strain. 
Reduce the  chance of an  emergence of a reassortant pandemic strain by vaccinating those (e.g., 
veterinarians,  poultry  workers,  operators  involved  in  the  manufacturing  of  vaccines  with 
pandemic-like strains, laboratory workers) at high risk of both avian and human virus infection. 
Even a vaccine of low efficacy may mitigate a pandemic. 
From mid-2003 until August 2007, a cumulative number of 327 confirmed human cases of avian influenza 
A/H5N1 (199 deaths) have been reported to WHO, originating from 10 countries worldwide. About 50% 
of these cases have been reported in 2006 and 2007, and it is likely that an increasing number of countries 
will be affected in the coming years.  
© EMEA 2008  
5/40 
 
 
 
II.1 
About the product 
Product Development Rationale 
This  application  is  intended  to  register  a  pre-pandemic  vaccine  (Aflunov,  indicated  in  the  dossier  as 
Fluad-H5N1)  for  prophylaxis  of  avian  A/H5N1  influenza,  outside  of  the  context  of  a  mock-up  core 
dossier, i.e. allowing for use before a pandemic is declared.  
With  the  exception  of  antigen  composition  and  dose,  the  candidate  vaccine  against  avian  A/H5N1 
influenza  (named  Aflunov)  is  identical  to  authorized  inter-pandemic  seasonal  Fluad.  This  egg-derived, 
surface-antigen,  inactivated,  influenza  vaccine,  adjuvanted  with  MF59C.1  (MF59)  is  produced  by  the 
identical manufacturing process.  
The  specifications  for  the  active  ingredient  (except  antigen  content)  and  composition  of  adjuvant,  in 
addition to the other excipients, are the same. The quality and stability profiles of both vaccines are also 
identical. 
Each dose of Aflunov contains:  
• 
• 
A/Vietnam/1194/2004(H5N1)-like  strain  7.5(*)  per  0.5  ml  dose  *expressed 
haemagglutinin  
in  µg 
Adjuvant:  MF59C.1  composed  of  9.75  mg  of  squalene,  polysorbate  80,  sorbitan  trioleate, 
sodium citrate, citric acid.  
© EMEA 2008  
6/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Excipients:  sodium  chloride,  potassium  chloride,  potassium  dihydrogen  phosphate,  disodium 
phosphate  dihydrate,  magnesium  chloride  hexahydrate,  calcium  chloride  dihydrate,  and  water 
for injections 
The  H5N1  virus  seed  used  in  the  production  of  the  vaccine  was  produced  from  Reverse  Genetics  (RG) 
technology. The Drug Substance in Fluad H5N1 are purified surface antigens prepared from the strain of 
influenza  virus  with  a  pandemic  potential  supplied  by  the  NIBSC  or  other  recognised  WHO  influenza 
reference centre. Monovalent Pooled Harvests comply with the relevant Ph.Eur. monograph of influenza 
vaccines,  surface  antigen,  inactivated.  The  MF59C.1  adjuvant  is  an  oil-in-water  emulsion,  composed 
mainly of squalene that is an intermediate metabolite in the synthesis of cholesterol, already contained in 
the licensed influenza vaccine Fluad. 
Novartis  V&D  S.r.l.  submitted  through  a  Centralised  Procedure  a  new  Marketing  Authorization 
Application (MAA) for the vaccine Aflunov (referenced as Fluad H5N1). This vaccine is intended for the 
prophylaxis of influenza before the pandemic situation is declared. 
This application takes into account the “Guideline on dossier structure and content of MAA for influenza 
vaccines  derived  from  strains  with  a  pandemic  potential  and  intended  for  use  before  the  pandemic  is 
declared”(EMEA/CHMP/VWP/263499/2006). 
Fluad  H5N1  is  manufactured  using  the  same  process  and  contains  the  same  adjuvant  used  for  Fluad,  a 
Novartis  seasonal,  trivalent  influenza  vaccine  licensed  thorough  a  MRP  (procedure  No.  IT/H/0104/001) 
and  marketed  in  several  European  countries  as  well  as  outside  Europe.  This  submission  consists  of  a 
dossier  for  Fluad  H5N1  derived  from  a  vast  collection  of  data  generated  on  selected  vaccine  licensed 
formulations equivalent to Fluad H5N1 (Novartis’ Agrippal and Fluad).  
On  18  October  2005  the  company  Chiron  (now  Novartis)  requested  Scientific  Advice  for  the  pandemic 
mock-up  application  (Centralised  Procedure  No.EMEA/H/C/000710/0000).  CHMP  advice  was  finalised 
during the plenary meeting on 12-15 December 2005 (EMEA/CHMP/SAWP/421363/2005).  
A  pandemic  mock-up  application,  in  accordance  to  the  CPMP/VEG/4717/03  “Guideline  on  Dossier 
structure  and  Content  for  Pandemic  Influenza  Vaccine  Marketing  Authorization  Application”  was 
submitted  in  January  2006,    and  obtained  positive  opinion  by  the  CHMP  and  was  granted  a  marketing 
authorisation under exceptional circumstances in the EU in May 2007 (EU/1/07/385/001-4). This mock-up 
vaccine is based on studies using H5N1, H9N2 and H5N3 strains manufactured and controlled according 
to an identical process as the one presented in this application. 
The licensed vaccine Fluad contains purified haemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA) antigens from 
the  surface  of  the  three  influenza  virus  strains,  type  A  and  type  B,  recommended  annually  for 
immunization by the WHO (World Health Organization) and the EMEA. The influenza virus strains are 
individually  grown  in  embryonated  chicken  eggs  and  inactivated  by  formaldehyde  treatment  before 
purification of the surface antigens and final formulation. The antigenic content and composition of Fluad 
is  the  same  as  that  for  Novartis’  influenza  subunit  vaccine,  Agrippal,  except  for  the  addition  of  the 
adjuvant. Agrippal has been registered in Italy since October 1986 and has been the subject of a Mutual 
Recognition  Procedure  in  all  the  other  EU  Member  States  (IT/H/102/01),  which  was  successfully 
completed on December 22, 1998 (Day 90). 
In compliance with the various applicable guidelines the nonclinical support for Fluad H5N1 is based on 
pharmacology  and  toxicology  studies  performed  with  the  ‘parent’  vaccine,  Fluad,  a  mouse  and  ferret 
challenge  studies  with  A/NIBRG-14  (H5N1)  antigens  adjuvanted  with  MF59  (Fluad  H5N1),  and  a 
reproductive toxicity study with Fluad H5N1 in rabbits.   
The  studies  with  MF59  adjuvant  alone  and  MF59  adjuvant  in  combination  with  a  wide  variety  of  non-
influenza antigens also contribute to the overall non-clinical assessment. During the development of MF59 
adjuvant  and  Fluad,  various  formulations  were  tested.  The  relationships  between  Fluad  H5N1,  Fluad, 
Agrippal,  MF59W.1  or  MF59-0  (water  formulations),  and  MF59C.1  (citrate  formulation)  is  illustrated 
below:  
© EMEA 2008  
7/40 
 
 
 
Adjuvant  Composition 
MF59-0 
MF59W.1 
MF59W.1 
Squalene, polysorbate 80, sorbitane trioleate, in water 
MF59C.1 
Squalene, polysorbate 80, sorbitane trioleate, citric acid monohydrate, sodium citrate dehydrate, in water 
Vaccine 
Drug substance 
Strain/dosage 
Adjuvant 
Agrippal 
Surface antigen, 
Inactivated 
Trivalent 
(15 µg HA/ strain) 
Not present 
Fluad 
Surface antigen, 
Inactivated 
Trivalent 
(15 µg HA/ strain) 
MF59C.1 
(0.25 ml) 
Focetria 
Surface antigen, 
Inactivated 
Monovalent H5N1 
(7.5 µg HA/ strain) 
MF59C.1 
(0.25 ml) 
Fluad H5N1 
(Aflunov) 
Surface antigen, 
Inactivated 
Monovalent H5N1 
(7.5 µg HA/ strain) 
MF59C.1 
(0.25 ml) 
Comments 
Seasonal vaccine. 
Licensed in EU 
(for adults and children) 
Seasonal vaccine. 
Licensed in EU 
(for elderly ≥65 years) 
Pandemic Mockup vaccine. 
Licensed in EU 
Avian flu vaccine. 
Same process than Fluad. 
Submiss. in Oct. 2006 
(for adults and elderly) 
Antigen choice 
Although there are various strains of avian influenza A virus, only H5N1, H7N3, H7N7, and H9N2 are 
known  to  cause  human  infections.  Of  these,  H5N1  is  responsible  for  the  recent  human  cases  above 
reported.  
© EMEA 2008  
8/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage of hemagglutinin (HA) and schedule 
Based on the EMEA-recommended HA content for interpandemic vaccines (CPMP/BWP/214/96) and the 
expected initial naivety of the population against a newly emerged pandemic strain, Novartis studies on 
pre-pandemic  Fluad  formulated  with  H5N3  (Fluad-H5N3)  investigated  the  effect  of  two  injections  of 
vaccines containing different amount of antigen: 7.5, 15, and 30 µg HA/injection (V7P37 and V7P37E1). 
The  results  show  that  with  all  doses  most  recipients  develop  serum  antibodies  after  two  injections. 
Although a subsequent trial run by the USA National Institutes of Health (NIH), (study DMID 04-019) on 
a Fluad-like vaccine including antigens from H9N2 (Fluad-H9N2) showed that even two injections of 3.75 
µg HA each also induced a satisfactory humoral immune response, subsequent formulations did not use 
such low antigen content.  
For the present evaluation the relevance of the immunogenicity induced by the vaccine containing 3.75 µg 
HA/dose  from  the  H9N2  formulation  is  unclear  since  it  is  known  that  H9  viral  antigens  induce  greater 
immune  responses  than  antigens  from  H5  viruses.  Overall,  immunogenicity  data  from  pre-pandemic 
Fluad-like vaccine formulated with H5N3 or H9N2 support the conservative decision of a two injection 
schedule  of  7.5  µg  HA  H5N1.  A  schedule  of  2  x  7.5  µg  HA  allows  for,  in  theory,  a  3-fold  increase  of 
production capacity, compared with the seasonal trivalent influenza vaccines.  
Adjuvant 
Studies  on  inactivated  vaccines  using  potentially  pandemic  strains  have  shown  that  more  antigen  per 
injection  and  more  than  one  injection  are  needed  to  elicit  immune  responses  comparable  to  those 
following  a  single  injection  of  a  seasonal  trivalent  inactivated  influenza  vaccine.  Use  of  an  adjuvant 
appears to reduce the amount of antigen required to elicit a sufficient immune response. 
As  clinical  trial  and  post-marketing  data  on  seasonal  Fluad  demonstrate  that  MF59  is  equally  safe  and 
potent  when  combined  with  different  influenza  strains,  it  was  selected  as  the  adjuvant  for  the  Novartis 
H5N1  avian  pre-pandemic  vaccine  (Fluad-H5N1).  As  the  composition  and  quantity  of  MF59  in  both 
seasonal  Fluad  and  Fluad-H5N1  are  identical,  this  adjuvant  is  expected  to  have  the  same  safety  and 
potency to protect against pandemic influenza strains. 
This  protection  may  extend  to  drifted  strains.  Hence,  even  a  poorly  matched  MF59-adjuvanted  vaccine 
can  prime  a  previously  naive  population  and  may  confer  a  certain  degree  of  protection  against  the 
pandemic  influenza  virus. Taken  together,  the  evidence  suggests  that  MF59 permits  lower  dosing  while 
simultaneously mitigating pandemics caused by other H5 strains. 
The Parent Vaccine, Seasonal Fluad 
Seasonal  Fluad  (surface-antigen,  inactivated  adjuvanted  with  MF59)  has  been  licensed  since  1997  and 
currently  is  the  only  adjuvanted  influenza  vaccine  on  the  global  market.  Fluad  was  registered  for  the 
prophylaxis  of  influenza  in  Europe  in  1997  and  is  currently  authorized  in  23  countries  worldwide. 
Consequently  there  is  an  extensive  clinical  database  on  its  safety  and  immunogenicity,  which,  as 
previously suggested, does not change after modification of the strain composition. 
Since the proposed antigen content of the pre-pandemic vaccine (2 x 7.5μg H5N1) is 3-fold less than that 
of  seasonal  Fluad  (15μg  H1N1,  15μg  H3N2,  15μg  B)  while  the  adjuvant  content  remains  the  same,  the 
Fluad safety database would be expected to overestimate the incidence rate for adverse reactions to Fluad-
H5N1. The "head to head" phase III trial (V87P4) has shown that safety profiles following two injections 
with 7.5μg Fluad-H5N1 are at least as good as those following two injections of seasonal Fluad.  
The clinical safety database on seasonal Fluad, which does not yet include the Fluad control (over 1000 
© EMEA 2008  
9/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects) in the phase III study V87P4, has been evaluated in clinical trials in adolescents (N=116), 18-64 
years (N=812) and the ≥65 years (N=12,818), beginning in the 1992/93 influenza season. Approximately 
14,000  subjects  were  administered  one  vaccination,  596  subjects  received  two  vaccinations  and  150 
subjects three vaccinations. During this period, more than 27 million doses have been distributed. 
Analysis of post-marketing data collected from September 1997 to April 2006 demonstrates a good safety 
profile (Table 2.5.5-3). 
Table 2.5.5-3 Case Distribution (N=385) by Special Search Categories 
Target Population 
While  authorized  seasonal  Fluad  is  indicated  for  those  aged  65 years  and  over,  it  is possible  that  in  the 
next pandemic about half the associated deaths would initially occur also among those younger than 65 
years of age. The proposed indication for Fluad-H5N1 therefore includes all adults (i.e., ≥18 years of age). 
and it is anticipated that a variation for the inclusion of the paediatric indication will be filed as soon as the 
appropriate clinical data will be available. 
The CHMP Day 120 LoQ solicited the compliance of a paediatric investigation plan.  
As  a  preliminary outline of  the  paediatric  studies  planned,  the  company  informs  that  a  Phase  II  clinical 
study to assess the safety and immune response of two doses, administered three weeks apart of Aflunov 
in paediatric subjects is planned to start within 2007 in Finland.  
A  protocol  for  this  study  has  been  submitted  [Study  V87P6:  A  Phase  II,  Randomized,  Controlled, 
Observer-blind,  Single-center  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Immunogenicity,  Safety  and  Tolerability  of  Two 
Doses of FLUAD-H5N1 Influenza Vaccine in Subjects aged 6 months to 17 years]. 
© EMEA 2008  
10/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.2 
General comments on compliance with GMP, GLP, GCP  
No GMP issues have been raised with the MAA for Aflunov. 
GLP aspects 
The non-clinical testing for Fluad supports the efficacy and safety of Fluad H5N1 and in general conforms 
with the available regulatory guidance for the non-clinical testing of influenza vaccines and adjuvant. For 
the  pharmacological  aspects,  the  immunogenicity  and  non-clinical  efficacy  (challenge  studies)  were  the 
objects of the non-GLP studies in mice and ferrets. The toxicology program reported in the specific part of 
the  dossier,  was  designed  on  appropriate  global  regulatory  requirements  for  the  non-clinical  testing  of 
vaccine  and  adjuvant  and  was  performed,  except  for  single-dose  toxicity  studies,  in  GLP  studies  that 
assessed local tolerability, single-and repeat-dose toxicity, and recovery or delayed responses.  
the  nonclinical  studies 
Finally 
that  have  been  performed  specifically  with  Fluad  H5N1, 
(immunogenicity/challenge  study  in  ferret  model  (Study  CBI-PCS-008)  and  the  “Reproductive  toxicity 
study in rabbits” (Study No.UBA00021) are in compliance with GLP. 
Relevant documentation is present with the various study reports on GLP aspects. 
GCP aspects 
CHMP has adopted a GCP inspection request of some sites in Poland of the pivotal clinical trial V87P4. 
The results of the GCP inspection are considered an integral part to the further evaluation of the dossier.  
A GCP inspection of the pivotal study V87P4, requested by CHMP, was conducted at 5 sites in Poland.  
Taking  into  account  the  results  of  the  CHMP  requested  inspection,  as  summarised  in  the  Integrated 
Inspection Report (IIR) issued on 7 April 2008, and in addition the outcome of an earlier Lithuanian GCP 
inspection  and  the  events  at  two  other  sites  in  Poland,  the  GCP  inspectors  provided  the  following 
assessment of the GCP compliance of study V87P4 in order to evaluate the full impact of the inspection 
findings as well as the critical GCP issues at sites not  inspected in the context  of the CHMP inspection 
request: 
a) The data from 4 out of 23 sites has been/has to be excluded;  
b)  The  data  from  other  4  inspected  sites  have  been  found  on  inspection  to  be  suitable  for  assessment 
purpose; 
c)  The remaining 15 sites have not been inspected. 
Considering that 4 out of 23 sites and 1042 out of 4560 subjects (corresponding to the 23% of subjects) 
have been excluded due to serious violation of GCP, the quality of the sponsor control must be regarded as 
questionable. The majority of the findings resulting in the exclusion of sites from the study analysis have 
not  been  identified  by  the  sponsor  or  sponsor’s  representatives’  action,  but  due  to  inspection  or  other 
external intervention (the sponsor did report the use of an unapproved patient recruitment advertisement to 
the Lithuanian ethics committee leading to the halting of the study there and the ensuing investigation, and 
the  exclusion  of  that  site  (031)  was  identified  in  the  submitted  clinical  study  report).    Of  the  remaining 
sites, the majority (15) have not been inspected and their quality cannot be assured. Other findings made 
during  the  inspection  such  as  inclusion  of  some  vulnerable  people  into  the  study,  inadequate  medical 
records,  changes  to  the  inclusion  criteria  without  appropriate  competent  authority/ethics  committee 
approval  and  lack  of  feedback  of  results  to  the  sites  also  support  the  conclusion  of  a  lack  of  adequate 
quality oversight of the study by the sponsor and the sponsor’s representative. 
Therefore based on all above facts: 
•  The  trial  cannot  be  considered  to  have  been  conducted  in  accordance  with  GCP  as  required  by 
Annex I of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
© EMEA 2008  
11/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The statement provided in the clinical overview and in the Clinical Study Report concerning GCP 
• 
compliance can no longer be considered valid. 
It  is  recommended  that  the  study  V87P4  is  not  used  for  evaluation  in  connection  with  the 
examination of Aflunov MAA. 
II.3 
Type of application and other comments on the submitted dossier 
This dossier is based on the Focetria dossier that received positive CHMP opinion on February 2007 and a 
Marketing Authorisation under exceptional circumstances in the EU in May 2007 (EU/1/07/385/001-4).  
The  Aflunov  MAA  was  the  first  application  for  a  pre-pandemic  vaccine.  All  the  EMEA guideline  were 
released after the application; also the assessment of the submitted risk management plan was premature 
as at that time the ad hoc expert group had not yet written the Core RMP for pre pandemic vaccine.  
© EMEA 2008  
12/40 
 
 
 
 
 
III. 
SCIENTIFIC OVERVIEW AND DISCUSSION 
III.1  Quality aspects 
A complete and independent application was filed by Novartis Vaccines & Diagnostics S.r.l. for Aflunov, 
an Influenza Vaccine for Human Use (Monovalent, H5N1, Surface Antigen, Inactivated, Adjuvanted with 
MF59C.1), for the prophylaxis of H5N1 avian influenza in adults and elderly (18 years of age and over). 
the 
This  application  has  been  prepared 
CHMP/VWP/263499/2006  guideline  and  in  accordance  with  the  recommendations  of  the  Scientific 
Advice. 
the  concepts  expressed 
into  account 
taking 
in 
As  Pandemic  viral  strains  may  be  highly  pathogenic,  they  could  need  attenuation  by  Reverse  Genetics 
(RG) technology in order to allow their use in production of egg-derived vaccines. The avian virus seed, 
strain H5N1, prepared from RG technology has been used for the production of Aflunov. 
Aflunov is manufactured with the same process and has the same adjuvant as Fluad, a Novartis seasonal, 
trivalent influenza vaccine that has been licensed since 1997 in Italy and since 2000 in 13 EU countries 
(Mutual Recognition Procedure No. IT/H/0104/001). It is currently on the market and from 1997 to 2006, 
more than 25 million doses of Fluad have been distributed worldwide. The company’s application for the 
pandemic  vaccine  “Focetria”,  based  on  the  same  H5N1  RG  strain,  and  produced  by  the  same 
manufacturing process, was approved by CHMP and granted a marketing authorisation under exceptional 
circumstances in the EU in May 2007 (EU/1/07/385/001-4). 
The MF59C.1 adjuvant contained in Fluad, Focetria, and Aflunov is an oil-in-water emulsion, composed 
mainly of squalene that is an intermediate metabolite in the synthesis of cholesterol. 
The formulation proposed for Aflunov, selected basing on the Clinical Trials performed using pandemic 
strains,  contains  7.5  µg  HA  of  antigen/dose  It  is  6-folds  lower  that  the  total  amount  of  HA  present  in 
conventional trivalent seasonal influenza vaccine, that is 15 µg HA per strain (i.e. 45µg HA/dose).  
The vaccine is presented as a suspension for injection in an emulsion in a pre-filled syringe (single dose). 
Most of the quality related issues pertaining to Aflunov have already been raised during evaluation of the 
Focetria  dossier  and  have  been  addressed  and  taken  into  account  by  the  company  for  the  present 
application. As a consequence, most of the Day 120 quality-related issues can be rated as solved for the 
present Aflunov application.  
No  major  objections  for  both  the  drug  substance  and  the  drug  product  were  included  in  the  Day  120 
CHMP List of outstanding issues. 
Regarding the “other concerns”, all questions have been satisfactory addressed.  
Active substance 
The  Drug  Substance  of  the  product  is  the  Monovalent  Pooled  Harvest  (MPH)  of  H5N1  avian  influenza  
vaccine,  surface  antigen,  inactivated.  It  is  a  buffered  suspension  containing  predominantly  the  purified 
outer membrane proteins, Haemagglutinin (HA) and Neuraminidase (NA), of the H5N1 avian influenza 
virus strain. 
Production  of  MPH  involves  the  cultivation  of  the  avian  influenza  virus  strain  in  embryonated  chicken 
eggs, harvesting of allantoic fluid, concentration and formaldehyde inactivation, followed by whole virus 
purification using sucrose gradient centrifugation and diafiltration.  
The HA and NA antigens from the surface of the purified whole virus are solubilised by treatment with a 
detergent  cetyl  trimethylammonium  bromide  (CTAB).  The  solubilised  antigens  are  then  separated  from 
the non-solubilised components of the virus by centrifugation. The resultant supernatants are treated with 
© EMEA 2008  
13/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a  polystyrene  based  resin  to  remove  CTAB.  The  polystyrene  resin  is  removed  by  filtration  and  the 
resulting MPH is filter sterilised. 
In  general  the  manufacturing  process  is  well  documented,  and  the  in-process  controls  through  the 
production  and  the  purification  process  are  extensive  and  assure  compliance  with  the  Ph.Eur.,  where 
required.  
A few issues, referring to the drug substance, were raised in the D120 CHMP list of questions.  
As  requested,  the  Applicant  has  completed  the  description of  a  few  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process, 
and  specified  the  critical  parameters  specifically  used  for  the  manufacturing  of  the  H5N1  NIBRG-14 
strain batches presented in the application. 
With regard to the stability of the drug substance, the data provided are consistent with a shelf -life of 18 
months  when  stored  at  2-8°C.    The  applicant  will  continue  to  collect  further  stability  data  for  the  drug 
substance  to  evaluate  the  possibility  of  an  extension  of  the  shelf-life  according  to  the  stability  protocol 
submitted; furthermore the potential impact of a long holding period on the quality of the finished product 
and  its  shelf  life  should  be  addressed  during  stability  studies.  In  addition,  currently  retesting  period  for 
biological substances is not acceptable.  
Concerning the primary seed quality-related issues that have come up in the course of the assessment in 
relation  to  the  use  of  a  reverse  genetic  (RG)  derived  influenza  strain,  the  Applicant  has  committed  to 
adhere to the requirement to update the dossier according to any future novel regulatory guidance, and to 
submit additional data for confirming the genetic stability of the RG derived virus strain included in the 
vaccine. 
Finished Product 
The Drug Product is a combination of MPH, MF59C.1 adjuvant bulk and buffer solutions.   
The MF59C.1 adjuvant is an oil-in-water emulsion, composed mainly of squalene that is an intermediate 
metabolite in the synthesis of cholesterol. 
Squalene is a commercially available natural product distilled from shark liver oil. It is then redistilled and 
supplied  by  qualified  manufacturers.  MF59C.1  Adjuvant  Bulk  is  manufactured  in  German  Novartis 
manufacturing site (Marburg) and then transported to Novartis Rosia (Italy).  
The process for the Final Bulk preparation consists is a mixing operation. The formulated suspension is 
filled into syringes. The potency of the vaccine is expressed as the concentration of the HA protein. 
In general, the manufacturing process is well documented, and the in-process controls assure compliance 
with  the  Ph.Eur.,  where  required.  A  few  issues,  referring  to  the  drug  product,  were  raised  in  the  D120 
CHMP list of questions.  
All  the  questions  concerning  the  manufacturing  and  control  of  the  drug  product  has  been  addressed 
satisfactorily and only a couple of issues remains to be solved by follow up measures. 
With  regard  to  the  stability  of  the  drug  product,  the  data  provided  are  consistent  with  a  shelf  life  of  18 
months  when  stored  at  2-8  °  C.  Updated  stability  data  for  the  pre-filled  syringes  of  H5N1  Aflunov  are 
provided justifying the proposed shelf life of 18 months when stored at 2-8°C. The Company commits to 
report  any  out-of-specifications  results  or  unexpected  trend  coming  from  any  future  stability  study  for 
Aflunov. 
If  the  marketing  authorisation  holder  wants  to  further  extend  the  shelf  life,  non-clinical  and/or  clinical 
investigation  might  be  considered  necessary  and  the  testing  program  should  be  discussed  with  the 
competent  authorities,  as  stated  in  the  “Guideline  on  influenza  vaccine  prepared  from  viruses  with 
potential 
the  core  dossier  context“ 
(EMEA/CHMP/VWP/263499/2006). 
intended  for  use  outside  of 
to  cause  a  pandemic  and 
© EMEA 2008  
14/40 
 
 
 
 
The  proposed  shelf  life  for  the  adjuvant  MF59C.1  of  3  years  when  stored  at  2-8  °C  is  sufficiently 
supported by data. 
Conclusion on Quality aspects 
In conclusion, all quality issues are resolved and, with regards to the quality of Aflunov, the application 
could be approved.  
III.2  Non clinical aspects  
Novartis  V&D  S.r.l.  submitted  through  a  Centralised  Procedure  a  new  Marketing  Authorization 
Application (MAA) for the vaccine Aflunov (referenced as Fluad H5N1). This vaccine is intended for the 
prophylaxis of influenza before the pandemic situation is declared. 
This application takes into account the “Guideline on dossier structure and content of MAA for influenza 
vaccines  derived  from  strains  with  a  pandemic  potential  and  intended  for  use  before  the  pandemic  is 
declared” (EMEA/CHMP/VWP/263499/2006). 
Fluad  H5N1  is  manufactured  using  the  same  process  and  contains  the  same  adjuvant  used  for  Fluad,  a 
Novartis seasonal, trivalent influenza vaccine licensed through a MRP (procedure No. IT/H/0104/001) and 
marketed in several European countries as well as outside Europe. 
This submission consists of a dossier for Fluad H5N1 derived from a vast collection of data generated on 
selected vaccine licensed formulations equivalent to Fluad H5N1 (Novartis’ Agrippal and Fluad).  
A pandemic mock-up vaccine, in accordance to the CPMP/VEG/4717/03 “Guideline on Dossier structure 
and  Content  for  Pandemic  Influenza  Vaccine  Marketing  Authorization  Application”  has  received  a 
marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances in the EU in May 2007 (EU/1/07/385/001-4). 
(Focetria) . This mock-up vaccine is based on studies using H5N1, H9N2 and H5N3 strains manufactured 
and controlled according to an identical process as the one presented in this application. 
In  the  first  application,  in  line  with  the  available  regulatory  guidance  for  the  non-clinical  testing  of 
influenza vaccines and adjuvant, the Company provided non-clinical programs for Fluad as support of the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  Aflunov.  This  was  the  pandemic-like  vaccine  based  upon  virus  surface  antigens, 
propagated  in  eggs,  of  strain  A/HongKong/1073/99  (H9N2)-like  strain  (A/Chichen/Hong  Kong/G9/97), 
adjuvanted with MF59C.1.  
Although no major objections regarding the non-clinical section have been raised, some aspects have been 
evidenced.  The  analysis  of  these  data  indicated  that  Aflunov  is  immunogenic,  and  that  the  antibodies 
induced by the vaccine cross-react with at least one heterologous strain of H5N1 virus both in mice and 
ferret. The vaccine was effective in preventing clinical signs of illness/death and viral replication in brain, 
lung and spleen, in mice challenged with homologous or heterologous virus.   
The protective efficacy data from the the studies on ferret are more persuasive, and therefore, at the time 
of the responses to LoQ the submission of the final report including statistical analysis of this study was 
warranted.  
Pharmacology  
The only question from the efficacy point of view regards the lack of the studies on cross-reactivity and 
cross-protection  of  the  candidate  vaccine.  So  EMEA  asked  the  applicant  to  investigate  this  aspect  in 
appropriate animal model. 
© EMEA 2008  
15/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In response to this question, Novartis has provided new data on cross-protection and cross-reactivity of the 
candidate vaccine by performing studies on mice and ferrets.  
Mouse  studies.  A  series  of  cross-protection/cross-reactivity  experiments  was  conducted  to  assess  the 
immune response and protection from homologous and heterologous viral challenge following vaccination 
with  Aflunov  and  non-adjuvanted  H5N1  antigens.  As  these  data  were  generated  and  are  owned  by  the 
NIH (National Institute of Health, US), an NIH report or a publication are not yet available. The Applicant 
updated the specific sections of the dossier (Sections 2.4, 2.6.2 and 2.6.3) and the results were described in 
detail in sub-section 2.6.2.2.  
The details of responses were reported in the section of Assessment of the responses to the CHMP List of 
Questions. 
Ferret studies. 
To date, two ferret homologous challenge studies have been performed. The summaries of the results of 
these studies have been added in the relative sections of Nonclinical overview and summaries.  
Study No. CBI-PCS-008: A study to determine the efficacy of an H5N1 influenza vaccine adjuvanted with 
MF59 in the ferret experimental challenge model. 
This study has already been presented in the dossier in section 4.2.1.1 [Study CBI-PCS-008]. Now new 
data on serological cross-reactivity have been obtained and the Sections 2.4, 2.6.2, and 2.6.3 of the dossier 
have been updated (a detailed summary of this study is presented in sub-section 2.6.2.2.1).  
Concerning  this  study,  EMEA  asked  the  Applicant  to  clarify  which  parameters  monitored  in  the  ferret 
showed a significant effect of the vaccine compared to control. The response and the relative assessment 
were reported in the section of Assessment of the responses to the CHMP List of Questions. However in 
the  last  analysis,  Novartis  underlined  that  the  results  of  the  ongoing  ferret  study  (see  below)  are  very 
straightforward.   
Study  No.  673-N106850:  Evaluation  of  the  protective  efficacy  of  Fluad  H5N1  vaccine  in  ferrets 
challenged with a highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus. 
In this ongoing study, Novartis plans additional studies to demonstrating nonclinical cross-protection and 
cross-reactivity. In this study, ferrets were vaccinated with Fluad H5N1 prior to challenge with a highly 
pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus, A/Vietnam/1203/04. The study design is summarized below: 
NonClin Table n. 1 - Experimental design -Study No. 673-N106850 
Group  N 
Treatment 
VaccinationDay 
HA Dose (ug); Volume (mL) 
Challenge day * 
0, 21, 42 
0, 21, 42 
21, 42 
42 
8  MF59 Control 
8  Fluad H5N1 
8  Fluad H5N1 
8  H5N1+CpG 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Study evaluations  (from beginning on study Day57 until the end of the study on Day84) 
-Body weights 
-Body temperatures 
-Clinical observations (twice daily) 
0; 0.5 
7.5; 0.5 
7.5; 0.5 
7.5; 0.53a 
65 
65 
65 
65 
(Days 42, 65 and 67) 
-Clinical chemistry 
-Haematology 
-Antibody analysis (HAI and MN assays) 
-Viral titer in nasal washes 
a the nominal volume contributed by the 250 micrograms of CpG (10 mg/mL as supplied) is 0.025 mL 
© EMEA 2008  
16/40 
 
 
 
 
*Ferrets were challenged on day 63 with approximately 0.6 mL of PBS containing a target 1×106 TCID50 Influenza 
A/Vietnam/1203/04 was instilled intranasally (0.3mL into each nostril). 
Major findings: Four of eight control animals died. There was no mortality in animals that received Fluad 
H5N1  vaccine.  Interim  body  weight,  body 
titers,  and  homologous 
immunogenicity  data  show  that  one  or  two  doses  of  Fluad  H5N1  were  immunogenic,  prevented  body 
weight loss and fever, and decreased nasal viral titers. 
temperature,  nasal  viral 
These studies indicate that Aflunov is immunogenic, and that the antibodies induced by the vaccine cross-
react  with  at  least  one  heterologous  strain  of  H5N1  virus  both  in  mice  and  ferret.  The  vaccine  was 
effective in preventing clinical signs of illness/death in mice and ferrets and viral replication in brain, lung 
and  spleen,  in  mice  challenged  with  homologous  or  heterologous  virus  and  in  ferrets  challenged  with 
homologous virus.   
Concerning  the  studies  on  ferret,  the  protective  efficacy  data  from  the  second  study  673-N106850  are 
more persuasive, and therefore, submission of the final report including statistical analysis of this study is 
warranted. 
Toxicology 
In the first application, the Company has provided the reproductive toxicity study design of Fluad H5N1 
in  rabbits  (Study  N°  UBA00021).  This  study  is  planned  according  to  the  EMEA  guideline  on  pre-
pandemic  influenza  vaccines  (Doc.  Ref.  EMEA/CHMP/VWP/263499/2006)  that  states  that  animal 
reproductive  studies  should  be  performed.  Therefore  EMEA  asked  to  the  Company  to  complete  this 
important study prior to authorization. 
As requested, Novartis has concluded this GLP reproductive and developmental toxicity study in rabbits. 
The sections 2.4, 2.6.6, and 2.6.7 have been updated and are included in this application. 
The  study  is  briefly  summarized  below  and  is  presented  in  detail  in  sub-sections  2.6.6.6,  2.6.7.13,  and 
2.6.7.14. 
Study  NoUBA00021:  Intramuscular  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  of  Fluad  H5N1  in 
rabbits, including a postnatal evaluation.  
The  object  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  potential  effects  of  Fluad  H5N1  on  reproductive  and 
developmental  toxicity  in  female  rabbits  and  their  fetuses  or  pups  when  administered  by  intramuscular 
injection  at  the  2  x  clinical  dose  of  7.5  μg,  before  mating  and  during  gestation.  The  study  design  is 
summarized below:  
NonClin Table n. 2 - Study No. UBA00021 – Study Design 
Dosage (μg)/Injection volume (mL)a 
Group 
Number of 
rabbits 
Day of study 1,15 and 29 
Day of gestation 7 and 20 
Rabbits assigned to Caesarean-sectioning (day 29 of gestation) 
1 
2 
20 
20 
0/0.5 
15/0.5 
Rabbits assigned to natural delivery (day 29 of lactation) 
3 
4 
20 
20 
0/0.5 
15/0.5 
0/0.5 
15/0.5 
0/0.5 
15/0.5 
Evaluations 
Maternal and 
embryofetal toxicity 
and teratogenic 
potential 
a Group 1 and 3 animals were administered saline as a control article. Group 2 and 4 animals were administered Aflunov (total 
volume 0.5 ml containing 15 μg antigen and 0.25 ml MF59 adjuvant). After 35 days on study, rabbits were mated (gestation day 
0). Group 1 and 2 animals were euthanized at the end of the gestational period, on or about day 29. 
© EMEA 2008  
17/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The design of this study is well organized to assess both reproductive and developmental toxicity. Under 
the  conditions  of  this  study,  Fluad  H5N1  is  well-tolerated,  does  not  cause  maternal  or  embryofetal 
toxicity,  is  not  teratogenic,  and  has  no  effects  on  post-natal  development.  Additionally,  the  vaccine  is 
immunogenic in maternal rabbits, in fetuses until to the first 4 weeks of life in F1 pups.  
The  results  of  this  study  are  reported  in  detail  in  the  Assessment  of  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  List  of 
Questions. 
Conclusions of Non Clinical aspects 
The  issues  on  cross-reactivity  and  cross-protection  can  be  considered  solved,  but  the  original  studies 
reports are lacking. The Applicant should provide them in order to complete the present Application. 
Considering  that  the  study  on  “Reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  of  Fluad  H5N1  in  rabbits, 
including  a  postnatal  evaluation”,  tested  relatively high  multiples  of  human  doses  for  a  vaccine  product 
(five exposures to levels approximately 30-fold the expected clinical exposure to 7.5 μg on a body weight 
basis) it can be supposed that Fluad H5N1 is safe also in the human use from this point of view. 
In  Study  N°  673/N106850  evaluation  of  the  protective  efficacy  of  Fluad  H5N1  vaccine  in  ferrets 
challenged with HPAI (highly pathogenic avian influenza) was performed: it is noted that only 4/8 control 
animals  died  following  challenge  with  the  HPAI  virus  A/Vietnam/1203/04,  whereas  100%  of  animals 
would be expected. The applicant should comment.  
Data on viral replication in different tissues (e.g. brain and lung) on ferrets Study N° 673/N106850 with 
HPAI should be provided.  
© EMEA 2008  
18/40 
 
 
 
 
III.3  Clinical aspects 
Clinical efficacy 
Overview of Clinical Pharmacology 
This section presents data and discusses the results for the early dose-findings studies on Fluad-H5N3 and 
Fluad-H9N2 using non-adjuvanted comparators. The results of these studies were the basis for the designs 
of the immunogenicity clinical trials on Fluad-H5N1. 
Serology according to CHMP criteria and MN assay results for Fluad-H5N3 and Fluad-H9N2 
In  studies  V7P37  and  V7P37E1  on  7.5-30μg  formulations  of  Fluad-H5N3,  GMRs  and  seroconversion 
results  based  on  HI  assays  were  substantially  lower  than  SRH  assay  after  the  second  and  third 
vaccinations and did not consistently meet CHMP criteria. HI seroprotection results did not meet CHMP 
criteria  after  any  of  the  three  vaccinations  for  any  formulation.  For  individual  subjects  SRH  GMT 
increases were 3 to 9 times larger than those assessed by HI assay, after the second vaccination, with an 
even larger difference after the third vaccination. It seems likely that these results are consistent with the 
earlier reports of lowered sensitivity of the HI assay to H5 viruses. 
It is unlikely that the HI assay insensitivity to the H5 virus strain was due to a low potency since both SRH 
and  MN  assay  results  demonstrated  strong  immune  responses.  Subject  samples  analyzed  using  the  MN 
assay in studies V7P37 and V7P37E1, demonstrated 2.64 to 3.25-fold mean titer increases above baseline 
after the second vaccination and 18 to 33-fold increases above baseline after the third vaccination. 
Although  MN  GMRs  were  not  as  high  as  those  assessed  by  SRH  assay  (SRH  =  18  to  23-  fold  above 
baseline) after the second vaccination, the boosted immune responses determined by both assays 21 days 
after  the  third  vaccination  was  comparable  (SRH,  34  to  35-fold  above  baseline).  Additionally,  in  study 
V7P37, an apparent inverse dose-response was noted for Fluad-H5N3 (e.g. SRH: 7.5μg GMR met CHMP 
criterion, but not 15μg or 30μg GMRs after the first vaccination). Although similar responses have been 
reported with other adjuvanted vaccines, sample sizes were too small to speculate on the immunogenicity-
enhancing  effects  of  MF59  in  relation  to  the  relative  quantities  of  antigen.  In  contrast,  for  Fluad-H9N2 
after two injections of 3.75μg, 7.5μg, 15μg, and 30μg HA all three CHMP criteria were met by HI assay. 
Results with MN assay for percentages of subjects with four-fold increase were similar to seroconversion 
(i.e,  4-fold-rise/sign.  increase)  as  assessed  by  HI.  However,  these  immunogenicity  data  have  little 
relevance to Fluad-H5N1 since H9 viruses induce greater immune responses than H5 viruses. 
Selection of dose, dose schedule, and formulation 
The first studies (V7P37 and V7P37E1) used Fluad-H5N3 and non-adjuvanted comparator because at that 
time an H5N1 strain that could be propagated in eggs was not available. However, H5N3 and H5N1 are 
antigenically  similar.  For  non-adjuvanted  formulations,  the  7.5μg,  15μg,  and  30μg  HA  H5N3  did  not 
induce a clear and consistent immune response after either one or two vaccinations. In contrast a single 
injection of 7.5-30μg of Fluad-H5N3 (Figure 2.5.3-1 and Figure 2.5.3-2) and 3.75 to 30μg of Fluad- H9N2 
already induced increases in GMTs after the first vaccination. These were further increased following the 
second vaccination. As the sample sizes were small and the 95% CIs broad, there was no evidence that 15 
and  30μg  HA  induced  greater  responses  than  7.5μg  HA  Fluad-H5N3.  Interestingly,  and  consistent  with 
published reports, there was a tendency across assays for the highest titers to be observed in recipients of 
the adjuvanted formulation with the lowest antigen content (7.5μg) of Fluad-H5N3. 
© EMEA 2008  
19/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cl_Figure n. 1 - Geometric Mean Ratios of Neutralizing Antibodies, Determined by MN, After One and 
Two Injections of Three Formulations of Fluad-H5N3 and Non-adjuvanted H5N3 Vaccine (V7P37) 
Cl_Figure n. 2 -  Geometric Mean Ratios of Heamagglutination Antibodies Determined by SRH After 
One and Two Injections of Three Formulations of Fluad-H5N3 and Non-adjuvanted H5N3 Vaccine 
(V7P37) 
Overall,  the  results  of  this  trial  (V7P37)  as  assessed  by  MN  and  SRH  assay  suggest  that  the  2x7.5μg 
Fluad-H5N3  is  sufficient  to  induce  an  immune  response  in  18-40  year  olds  with  no  benefit  of  higher 
formulations (i.e, 15μg or 30μg). 
Persistence and Third Injection (V7P37E1) 
In  study  titers  against  the  H5N3  strain  had  returned  to  undetectable  levels  in  adjuvanted  and  non-
adjuvanted  groups  after  17  months  as  measured  by  HI  and  MN  assays  and  SRH  assay  bordered  on 
undetectable  for  recipients  of  7.5  and  15μg  HA  but  were  higher  for  recipients  of  30μg  HA  H5N3.  A 
noteworthy 34- to 35-fold increase of titers over pre-booster levels were observed in recipients of Fluad-
H5N3 when assessed by SRH and 18- to 33-fold increases  were  observed when titers were assessed by 
MN assay, suggesting a strong induction of immunological memory after the primary vaccination. 
© EMEA 2008  
20/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protection against Heterovariants 
The ability for MF59 to induce broad cross-reactive immune responses could be crucially important in the 
early  response  to  an  emerging  pandemic,  when  global  demand  for  vaccine  would  exceed  production 
capability.  The  immunopotentiating  ability  of  adjuvants  could  not  only  optimize  the  use  of  limited 
antigen,  but  also  enhance  broader  cross-reactivity  against  drifted  strains.  Even  assuming  that  the  next 
pandemic  strain  is  a  mutation of  the  current  H5N1 strain  responsible  for  human  infection, the  antigenic 
characteristics of that mutation are not predictable. 
Comment: Follow-up data on antibody persistence and immune response to a heterologous booster dose 
should be assessed, even post approval. 
In the meantime, the lack of data as regards this concern should be mentioned in section 5.1 of the SPC. 
As  shown  in  two  H5N3  studies  (V7P37  and  V7P37E1),  antibody  titers  were  induced  by  Fluad-H5N3 
against  multiple  clinical  isolates  of  H5N1.  The  same  cross-reactivity  was  not  demonstrated  for  non-
adjuvanted  formulations,  it  can  be  hypothesized  that  MF59  could  cross-protects  and  primes  against 
antigenically  similar  avian  strains.  This  is  consistent  with  what  has  been  repeatedly  observed  for  inter-
pandemic seasonal Fluad. 
Inter-laboratory Consistency 
Given  the  inter-laboratory  variability  reported  for  serologic  assays,  demonstration  of  inter-laboratory 
correlation is an important element to support the validity of the immunogenicity results. As a matter of 
fact,  the  assessment  of  correlation  and  concordance  of  immunogenicity  results  from  the  large  phase  2 
study,  V87P1,  showed  a  good  agreement  between  the  Novartis  and  the  UK  HPA  for  both  the  HI  assay  
and  the  MN  assay.  These  correlations  were  comparable  to  those  noted  between  Baylor  College  of 
Medicine and CDC laboratories in study DMID 04-019. Intra-laboratory correlations were also high for 
the HI and MN assays. 
The Applicant concluded that correlation and concordance studies, based on subsets of V87P1 samples, 
showed excellent agreement in both HI and MN assay results produced by Novartis and HPA laboratories 
and  within  the  HPA  laboratory.  Thus,  both  laboratories  appear  to  be  measuring  the  same  immune 
responses with a high degree of consistency. The correlations between the University of Siena laboratory 
SRH and HPA laboratory HI and MN assay results, between the University of Siena laboratory SRH and 
Novartis  laboratory  HI  and  MN  assay  results,  and  within  the  Novartis  laboratory  are  lower  than  the 
correlations between HPA and Novartis, but are still quite high. In these instances, the laboratories also 
appear to be measuring the same immune response with an acceptably high degree of consistency. 
Conclusions of Clinical Pharmacology 
• 
• 
• 
Two  injections  of  7.5μg  Fluad-H5N3,  administered  21  days  apart,  produced  sufficient  levels  of 
antibody to meet all three CHMP criteria when assessed by SRH but not all criteria by HI. 
MF59 adjuvant significantly enhanced the immune responses, persistence, and probably trend of 
cross-protection could be observed. 
The general agreement between GMRs and the percentages of subjects achieving at least 4-fold 
increases in titers by MN and SRH indicate that pre-pandemic Fluad-H5 formulations induced a 
clear immune response. 
© EMEA 2008  
21/40 
 
 
 
Overview of Efficacy 
Clinical Studies 
Two clinical studies have been conducted with H5N3 strains to investigate regimen, adjuvant, and antigen 
amount. Based on the results of those studies, three studies have been conducted using Fluad formulated 
with H5N1 (Table 1). 
Cl_Table n. 1 - Overview of Studies 
© EMEA 2008  
22/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two H5N3 studies (V7P37 and V7P37E1), one H9N2 study, (DMID 04-019) and a small H5N1 (V87P2) 
study  enrolled only 18-60 year olds. Two large Fluad-H5N1 phase 2 and 3 studies (V87P1 and V87P4) 
enrolled adults both above and below 60 years of age. In general the study populations were representative 
of the target population for avian influenza vaccination. 
The first H5N3 study (V7P37) was conducted in healthy 18 to 40 year olds administered two injections of 
adjuvanted and non-adjuvanted vaccine formulated with 7.5, 15, and 30µg H5N3 viral strain. Seventeen 
months later, the same subjects were enrolled into an extension study (V7P37E1) and were given a third 
injection  of  the  same  formulation  previously  administered.  An  H9N2  study  (DMID  04-019)  was 
conducted by the NIH in the United States in 2005 on healthy adult subjects (18 to 34 years). This phase 1 
study  evaluated  the  immunogenicity  and  safety  of  3.75,  7.5,  15,  and  30µg  HA  Fluad-H9N2  and  non-
adjuvanted comparator. Although H9 viral strains are more immunogenic than H5 viral strains this study 
provided  useful  information  on  the  immunogenicity  and  reactogenicity  of  pre-pandemic  Fluad  when 
formulated with other potential pandemic strains. This is a small sample size study, but the results of these 
studies  suggested  that  two  7.5µg  HA  injections  of  H5N3  could  be  sufficient  to  induce  protective 
antibodies if MF59 adjuvant was used. 
Assessors’ comment: The potential need of the third dose of vaccine to be administered to achieve a good 
immunogenicity  should  be  evaluated  in  the  pre-pandemic  scenario,  because  the  real  benefit  of  a  pre-
pandemic vaccine use should be well defined. 
Therefore,  in  2006,  after  the  availability  of  the  H5N1  seed  virus,  a  larger  phase  2  confirmatory  study 
(V87P1) was performed to evaluate whether 7.5 and 15µg Fluad- H5N1 had a similar immunogencity and 
safety profile. Healthy subjects were stratified into adults below and above 60 years of age. The sample 
size of the per protocol population, which comprised 464 of the 486 randomized subjects, was sufficient to 
test  for  non-inferiority  (with  80%  power)  of  the  immune  response  induced  by  2x7.5µg  vaccinations 
compared with that induced by 2x15µg vaccinations, given 3 weeks apart. The 6 month safety follow-up 
is  completed  and  all  immunogenicity  of  the  primary  vaccination  and  in  a  subset,  a  booster,  has  been 
analyzed. Persistence, and safety for the 6 month follow-up of the primary vaccination are also evaluated. 
Six month follow-up safety data after the booster will be reported in an addendum to the CSR. 
Assessors’ comment: The CHMP guideline requests the complete evaluation of 6 month follow-up safety 
data after 2nd dose. 
Study V87P1 was powered to assess the non-inferiority of the 7.5μg formulation vs. the 15μg formulation. 
The lower limit of the 95% CI for HI GMT ratio of 7.5 over 15μg group for the total population was >0.5 
(0.68),  thus  demonstrating  that  the  immune  response  to  2x7.5μg  was  not  inferior  to  that  of  the  2x15μg 
formulation. In fact all point estimates for the percentages of seroprotected and seroconverted subjects, in 
addition  to  the  GMRs,  were  higher  in  the  adults  below  60  years  after  2x7.5μg  compared  with  2x15μg 
injections.  In  adults  above  60  years  the  immune  responses  showed  greater  similarity  between  both 
formulations.  Based  on  results  obtained  by  all  assays,  the  decision  was  made  to  choose  the  7.5μg 
formulation for registration. 
A  small  phase  2  H5N1  study  (V87P2)  on  adults  below  60  years  investigated  the  cellular  immune 
responses induced by two injections of 7.5µg or 15µg Fluad-H5N1 or 15µg non-adjuvanted comparator. 
Humoral immunogenicity, as advocated by CHMP, and safety parameters were also assessed. All data has 
been analyzed and presented up to 3 weeks after the first and second injection (i.e., first 6 weeks). The 6 
month safety follow-up of the primary vaccination is ongoing and this, together with immunogenicity and 
safety of a booster vaccination administered 6 months later will be reported in V87P2 CSR Part 2. 
A  large  phase  3  H5N1  study  (V87P4)  was  conducted  on  2927  adults  below  60  years  and  241  elderly 
subjects aged above 60 years. All subjects have received 2 x 7.5µg Fluad-H5N1 or 2 injections (total 45 
µg  HA/injection)  of  seasonal  Fluad  (randomization  3:1).  The  sample  size  is  sufficient  to  rule  out  AEs 
occurring  at  a  rate  of  0.1%  in  adults  below  60  years  and  1%  in  adults  above  60  years.  Safety  has  been 
© EMEA 2008  
23/40 
 
 
 
 
assessed and analyzed up to 3 weeks after the first and second injection (i.e., primary vaccination). The 6 
month follow-up of Fluad- H5N1 and seasonal Fluad will be reported in an addendum/Part 2 CSR. 
Assessors’ comment: The CHMP guideline requests the complete evaluation of 6 month follow-up safety 
data after 2nd dose. 
Study populations 
The total population exposed to Fluad-H5N1 is shown in Table 4. 
Cl_Table n. 4 - Study Populations Exposed to Fluad-H5N1 
Within each study, demographic characteristics were well balanced among groups and were stratified by 
age to include both adults below and above 60 years. As expected a higher percentage of adults above 60 
years  had  been  vaccinated  against  influenza  in  the  previous  years.  The  population  included  in  the 
immunogenicity analysis generally represents the overall population that would be expected to receive the 
vaccine if it was marketed. 
Given  the  limitations  of  the  HI  assay  to  measure  the  immunogenicity  of  pandemic  strains,  three 
serological assays (HI, SRH, and MN)  were used simultaneously to assess antibody responses to  H5N1 
viral antigens in all studies presented in this section. 
The  CHMP  criteria  for  assessment  of  seasonal  influenza  vaccines  were  used  to  evaluate  antibody 
responses to H5 obtained by HI and SRH. There is no corresponding correlate of protection for MN and 
therefore  GMRs  and  4-fold  increases  in  neutralizing  antibody  titers  above  baseline  may  be  the  most 
appropriate  measures  of  the  immune  response  since  they  account  for  baseline  and  interlaboratory 
variation. In addition, several published reports of H5 vaccines have used the 4-fold increase in MN titers 
as a correlate of protection. 
Immunogenicity Results 
In the absence of a main assay to determine antibody titers and given the lack of consensus regarding a 
correlate of protection for the H5N1 avian influenza vaccine the efficacy results are assessed by: 
• 
"Inhibiting  antibodies"  assayed  by  HI  and  SRH  using  the  correlates  of  protection  established  by 
CHMP for interpandemic strains. 
•  Titers ≥40, GMRs, and four-fold increases above baseline in neutralizing antibodies assayed by MN. 
© EMEA 2008  
24/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cl_Table n. 2 - HI and SRH Antibody Responses after Two Injections of Fluad-H5N1 
The  results  for  MN  titers  ≥40  and  4-fold  increases  were  generally  similar  to  those  obtained  for  SRH 
seroprotection  and  seroconversion  when  compared  for  adults  below  60  years  in  V87P1,  V87P2,  and 
V87P4.  Generally  for  adults  above  60  years  the  results  were  slightly  lower  when  assessed  by  MN.  As 
observed for SRH and HI, there was a tendency for higher responses in the 7.5 than 15μg formulation in 
adults below 60 years (Table 3). The closer agreement of GMR, seroprotection, and seroconversion rates 
between SRH and MN than between HI and SRH or MN, support reports of others that HI assay is not 
sensitive enough to measure antibodies to H5 pandemic strains. 
Cl_Table n. 3 - MN Response after Two Injections of the Fluad-H5N1: Non-elderly and Elderly Adults 
As shown in Table 5, for Fluad-H5N1 7.5µg, all CHMP criteria were  met by SRH in all studies and in 
both age groups. As far as HI is concerned, all three CHMP HI criteria were only met by adults below 60 
years  vaccinated  with  7.5µg  Fluad-H5N1  in  study  V87P2  and  by  adults  over  60  years  vaccinated  with 
both the 7.5µg and 15µg formulations in study V87P1. Across all studies the seroprotection criteria was 
commonly  not  met  with  HI  although  GMTs  increased  in  accordance  with  CHMP  requirements,  hence 
suggesting that naive subjects are less likely to attain high HI titers. 
© EMEA 2008  
25/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition there is a considerably lower immunogenicity that has been found with batches employed for 
the  safety  study  V87P4  as  compared  to  those  of  study  V87P1.  This  might  raise  the  question  whether  a 
third dose will be required for the complete protection at least in a pre-pandemic scenario. 
Results achieved in the V87P2 should be interpreted carefully, because of the small number of subjects 
enrolled. 
Cl_Table n. 5 - Assessment of CHMP Criteria after Two Injections of Fluad-H5N1 
Conclusions of Clinical Efficacy 
•   The detection of antibody by HI assay, is not adequately sensitive for the detection of antibody to avian 
hemagglutinin  and  cannot  be  used  to  assess  H5  vaccines.  Therefore,  in  order  to  have  a  more  precise 
assessment  of  the  immunogenicity  of  the  pre-pandemic  vaccine,  two  other  assays,  Single  Radial 
Hemolysis and Micro Neutralization, have been used. 
•   All three  assays show a significant increase in antibody titers after two injections administered three 
weeks apart and all CHMP immunogenicity criteria are met when using the SRH assay. 
•   The immune responses induced by 2x7.5μg Fluad-H5N1 was at least as good, if not better, than that 
induced by the 15μg formulation and induced immunological memory as shown by the booster response 6 
months later. Based on these results the 7.5μg formulation, which in addition to optimal immunogenicity 
offers also an option for dose-sparing, has been selected for registration. 
•   The MF59-adjuvanted H5N1 (clade 1) vaccine also induced antibodies that cross-reacted against clade 
2 H5N1 strain and there is no evidence that MF59 induced cell-mediated responses with a TH2 functional 
phenotype (generally associated with allergic reactions) while driving the production of memory cells. 
III.3.1 
Clinical safety 
Since  the  antigen  content  of  7.5μg  Fluad-H5N1  is  6-fold  less  than  that  for  licensed  seasonal  Fluad,  the 
safety  database  for  the  latter  is  expected  to  give  a  worst-case  estimate  of  incidence  rates  of  possible 
adverse reactions. The good safety profile of the licensed Fluad is based on extensive clinical experience 
in over 40 clinical trials on approximately 14,000 subjects in addition to post-marketing surveillance from 
more than 27 million doses sold. 
In  three  H5N1  studies,  safety  profiles  were  evaluated  in  3253  adults  below  60  years  following  6611 
injections  and  two  of  these  studies  also  evaluated  safety  in  414  adults  above  60  years  following  886 
© EMEA 2008  
26/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
injections: totalling 7497 injections in 3667 subjects. Over 99% of subjects enrolled were vaccinated and 
included in at least one safety analysis.  
Solicited AEs (local and systemic reactions) are selected local and systemic AEs routinely monitored in 
vaccine clinical studies as indicators of vaccine reactogenicity. It is recognized that each of these events, 
and particularly those of a systemic nature, may under some circumstances, in any individual subject, have 
a cause that is unrelated to the study vaccine. However, as a matter of convenience and in accordance with 
common clinical practice,  all such events occurring within 7 days after immunization are  herein termed 
solicited AEs. 
Most  solicited  reactions  to  Fluad-H5N1  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity,  onset  near  the  time  of 
injection, and lasted no more than a few days. The reactogenicity profiles of the 7.5μg and 15μg Fluad-
H5N1  formulations  were  similar.  Generally there  was  a  higher  incidence  rate  of  reactions  after  the  first 
when compared with the second and, where tested, the booster vaccination. Possibly or probably related 
AEs  were  infrequently  experienced  by  the  study  population,  were  temporally  related  to  the  time  of 
injection, were mild or moderate in severity and were caused by solicited adverse events ongoing past the 
7-day observation window or by other known common side effects of influenza vaccination. 
No  possibly/probably  related  SAEs  or  clinically  significant  AEs  were  experienced  by  subjects  of  any 
study  on  prepandemic  vaccines.  The  number  of  adolescents  and  adults  below  and  above  60  years 
vaccinated with pandemic and seasonal Fluad vaccines are summarized in Table 6. 
Cl_Table n. 6 - Safety Populations: Numbers of Subjects 
The safety profiles of three vaccines are reported in six studies: 
Fluad-H5N3 in studies V7P37 and V7P37E1 
• 
Fluad-H9N2 in study DMID 04-019 
• 
Fluad-H5N1 in studies V87P1, V87P2, and V87P4 
• 
The Fluad-H5N3 and Fluad-H9N2 studies were designed to investigate dose (7.5 - 30 μg and 3.75 - 30 μg 
HA,  respectively)  and  adjuvanted  versus  non-adjuvanted  formulations.  These  relatively  small  studies 
served as the basis of dose and formulation selection for the subsequent H5N1 studies. 
Fluad-H5N3 
The  first  study  (V7P37)  was  conducted  in  1999.  This  dose  ranging  (i.e.,  7.5,  15,  30  μg  HA/injection) 
Phase I pilot trial (Section 5.3.5.1) evaluated the safety of adjuvanted (Fluad-H5N3) and nonadjuvanted 
formulations  of  a  monovalent  H5N3  vaccine.  The  total  planned  enrollment  was  for  60  subjects  18-40 
years  of  age.  The  first  healthy  subjects  were  enrolled  and  administered  7.5μg  Fluad-H5N3  or 
nonadjuvanted comparator. These subjects were observed for at least a week after the first vaccination by 
telephone calls on days 3 and 7. Since no serious vaccine related event was reported in the first week after 
vaccination,  additional  subjects  were  randomized  into  the  15μg  Fluad-H5N3  or  nonadjuvanted  vaccine 
groups then, after a further week, into 30μg Fluad-H5N3 or nonadjuvanted vaccine groups. Three weeks 
after  the  first  injection,  subjects  received  the  same  dose  of  a  second  injection.  This  ethically  preferred 
© EMEA 2008  
27/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
approach allowed for the sequential evaluation of the tolerability of one and two injections of 7.5, 15, and 
30μg adjuvanted and nonadjuvanted H5N3 formulations. 
Up  to  65  subjects  who  were  previously  enrolled  in  V7P37,  described  above,  could  participate  in  the 
extension  study  V7P37E1.  A  total  of  28  subjects  were  enrolled  and  revaccinated  with  the  same 
formulation (7.5μg, 15μg, or 30 μg HA of Fluad-H5N3 or nonadjuvanted comparator) approximately 17 
months  after  the  primary vaccination. All  28  (100%)  subjects  completed  the  study  as  planned  and  were 
included in the analysis of safety. 
Fluad-H9N2 
A  third  study,  DMID  04-019,  was  conducted  on  96  healthy  non-elderly  adults  (18-34  years)  by  the 
National Institute of Health (NIH), Maryland, in 2005. This was a dose ranging study (3.75, 7.5, 15, 30 μg 
H9N2 HA) using Fluad-H9N2 and nonadjuvanted comparator. The two injections were given four weeks 
apart. Because all injections contained lower amounts of HA than registered seasonal Fluad, subjects were 
enrolled into all groups concurrently. Blood was drawn before and 28 days after each vaccination.  
Fluad-H5N1 
The phase 2 H5N1 study (V87P1) investigated non-inferiority of 2 x 7.5μg to 2 x 15μg Fluad-H5N1. A 
total  of  486  non-elderly  (18-60  years)  adult  and  elderly  (>60  years)  subjects  were  enrolled  out  of  a 
planned 460. Two vaccinations were administered 3 weeks apart. Six months later, 50% of the subjects 
also received a booster. Analysis of safety data are presented for: 
- 
Solicited  AEs  7  days  after  each  of  the  3  injections  after  each  1st,  2nd,  and  3rd  vaccination, 
respectively) 
All spontaneously reported non-solicited AEs for 3 weeks after the first and second injection 
Non-solicited AEs leading to premature withdrawal, or necessitating physician visit or assessed as 
an SAE up until the booster vaccination (6 months after the primary course) 
All other SAEs are reported up until the 20 JUN 2007. 
- 
Long-term  (6-month)  follow  up  after  booster  vaccination  is  ongoing.  This  will  be  reported  in  an 
addendum to the CSR. 
- 
- 
The phase 2 H5N1 study V87P2 investigated safety and immunogenicity. A total of 40 non-elderly (18-60 
years old) subjects were enrolled out of a planned 45 and given two injections of 7.5 or 15μg Fluad-H5N1 
or  15μg  H5N1  nonadjuvanted  vaccine,  three  weeks  apart.  Although  all  3-week  safety  follow-up  data  is 
completed (safety population = 40), long-term (6-month) follow up is ongoing. Six months after primary 
vaccination, the subjects will be given a booster and followed up for safety for a further 6 months. This 
will be reported in part 2 of the CSR.  
The  only  Phase  3  study  presented  in  the  dossier  is  study  V87P4,  an  immunogenicity,  safety  and 
tolerability study. In order to comply with EMEA guidance, a total of 4400 subjects (planned 4000 non-
elderly and 400 elderly subjects) were planned to be enrolled at a 3:1 ratio and to receive two injections of 
7.5μg Fluad-H5N1 or seasonal Fluad vaccine three weeks apart.  
The safety population consisted of 3155 H5N1 recipients (2927 aged 18-60 and 241 aged >60 years). All 
3-week safety follow-up data is completed, long-term (6-month) follow up is ongoing and is reported in 
Part 2 CSR. 
Assessors’ comment: The lack of 6 months safety data corresponds to a major concern. As the acceptable 
risk for a pre-pandemic vaccine should be the lower, the applicant is requested to submit the completed 
data set on safety profile. 
© EMEA 2008  
28/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Age 
Number of Subjects 
Adults: 18 to 60 years  
Total
Elderly: 61 years and above  
Aflunov 
n=2927  
Aflunov 
n=241 
Total
Total Study V87P4
3155
FLUAD 
n=977  
N=3904  
FLUAD 
n=810 
N=322  
4226 
Planned 
Aflunov 
n=3300  
FLUAD 
n=1100  
Total
N=4400  
The probability to detect at least one adverse event in the FLUAD-H5N1 vaccine group (overall and by 
age group) is reported in Table below by underlying rates of adverse events descending from 1% to 0.5‰. 
The probability of detection of at least one adverse event in the FLUAD-H5N1 vaccine group is consistent 
with the EMEA Guideline for influenza vaccines with avian strains (EMEA/CHMP/VWP/171037/2006). 
Cl_Table n. 7 - Percentage of Subjects with Possibly or Probably Related AEs, by Age group, 
Vaccination and Worst Severity 
Phase  2  and  3  clinical  trials  have  evaluated  safety  and  immunogenicity  of  Fluad-H5N1  in  non-elderly 
adults (V87P1, V87P2 and V87P4) and elderly (V87P1 and V87P4). The Phase 1 Fluad-H5N3 and Fluad-
H9N2 dose-finding studies used a limited number of subjects  (32 Fluad-H5N3 recipients  and 48 Fluad-
H9N2 recipients) and are considered as supportive for the safety profile of the Fluad-H5N1 vaccine. 
© EMEA 2008  
29/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cl_Table n. 8 - Summary Table of Safety Studies 
The number of subjects having received different antigen formulations of any pre-pandemic Fluad vaccine 
or a non-adjuvanted comparator vaccine and the number of doses administered are detailed in Table 9. 
Cl_Table n. 9 - Fluad-H5N1: Numbers of Subjects and Injections 
ND: not done 
A total of 14486 subjects were enrolled into 44 seasonal Fluad clinical trials and vaccinated. Of these, 117 
were  adolescents  (9–17  years),  916  adults  (18-60)  and  13454  elderly  (>60  years).  A  total  of  13737 
© EMEA 2008  
30/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
subjects  were  used  for  the  safety  analysis  of  non-solicited  AEs.  (It  should  be noted  that  the  design  of  a 
large safety trial, V7P35 [N=9198], did not include monitoring of solicited reactions). 
Although not formulated with influenza strains with a pandemic potential, the safety profiles of seasonal 
Fluad vaccine trials are also reported. Fluad seasonal vaccine contains 15μg HA of each H3N2, H1N1, 
and  B  viral  strains.  The  total  safety  database  consists  of  13,737  subjects  from  44  studies.  These  studies 
were carried out in non-elderly (18-60 years) and/or elderly (>60 years) adults. 
In  one  study  (V7P17)  a  two  vaccination  schedule  was  administered,  and  in  six  studies,  subjects  were 
invited to participate in an extension study one year later. Subjects were exposed to a third vaccination in 
two extension studies. For all other studies subjects received one injection. The substantial clinical safety 
database  for  seasonal  Fluad  presents  the  safety  profiles  of  subjects  administered  6-fold  the  antigen 
contained in the otherwise identical vaccine, Fluad-H5N1 (7.5 μg HA formulation). 
Conclusions of Clinical Safety 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Overall  reactogenicity  was  similar  between  the  FLUAD-H5N1  and  FLUAD  groups  both  for  the 
adults and for the elderly. 
Reactogenicity  was  generally  higher  for  the  adults  than  the  elderly  after  first  injection  (68%  vs. 
50%, respectively). Moreover, the severe reactogenicity for the FLUAD-H5N1 was lower than for 
the  FLUAD  group  (3%  vs.  7%,  respectively  with  p-value<0.001)  after  the  first  dose,  whereas 
similar severe reactogenicity was observed between the two groups in the elderly subjects and after 
the  second  injection  for  both  age  groups  (ranged  1%  -  2%  for  both  groups  with  p-value  ranging 
from 0.6 – 1.0). 
However, in both age groups and vaccine groups, the incidence of reactions tends to decrease after 
the second injection. 
For  both  the  adults  and  the  elderly,  local  reactions  were  reported  more  frequently  than  systemic 
reactions in both FLUAD-H5N1 and FLUAD groups. 
No fatal events were observed during pre-authorisation clinical studies. 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The applicant presented an incomplete Pharmacovigilance Plan, mainly based on the activities agreed for 
the core Pharmacovigilance Plan for pandemic flu vaccines (mock-up dossier). 
Considering  the  importance  of  the  RMP  for  a  pre-pandemic  vaccines,  EMEA  had  organised  an  Ad-hoc 
expert  meeting  on  the  Risk  Management  plan  for  Avian  influenza  vaccines.  According  to  the  results  of 
this meeting the EU- RMP for Fluad H5N1 has been revised. 
Risk Management Plan 
The objective of Pharmacovigilance Planning is to summarize important identified and/or potential risks 
prior to product launch, to identify important missing information for focus in the post-marketing period, 
and  to  detect  and  act  appropriately  on  any  relevant  signal  (including  definition  of  potential  at-risk 
populations).  Industry  and  regulators  have  identified  the  need  for  better  and  earlier  planning  of 
pharmacovigilance activities before a product is approved or a license is granted. 
The applicant submitted an up-dated RMP, in which is described the known Aflunov risk profile and the 
pharmacovigilance activity,   
© EMEA 2008  
31/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cl_Table n. 10 - PhV action plan 
Issue 
Severe allergic reactions, convulsion, 
syncope, neuritis, encephalitis, Guillain-
Barré syndrome, Bell’s palsy, 
tthrombocytopenia and vasculitis 
No data in children 
Limited data in elderly 
No data in pregnancy 
Effectiveness 
Concern 
Actions 
Potential safety concern based on 
pharmacological class (influenza 
vaccines in general) 
- Close monitoring in the context of enhanced 
passive surveillance; se RMP 
Potential target population for this 
vaccine 
Cannot be known before the 
outbreak of a pandemic 
Planned clinical trials  
- Study V87P6 study in children 
- Study V87P1 study in elderly 
- The applicant should plan an adequate 
register. 
- Collaboration with National authorities will 
be pursued when an interest in the use of the 
vaccine will be expressed by any additional 
European countries. 
The  product  development  rationale  has  been  described  in  detail  elsewhere;  as  a  preliminary  outline  of 
future paediatric studies planned, the company informs that a Phase II clinical study to assess the safety 
and immune response of two doses, administered three weeks apart of Fluad H5N1 in paediatric subjects 
is planned. 
Introduction 
From non clinical studies there are no emerging risk signal for Fluad and Aflunov. On the other hand, no 
dedicated  secondary  or  safety  pharmacology  addressing  potential  effects  on  cardiovascular,  respiratory 
and  CNS  parameters  were  performed  with  Fluad  H5N1.  However,  based  on  the  cardiovascular  and 
neurological  evaluations  performed  in  dogs  that  received  repeated  intramuscular  injections  of  MF59C.1 
adjuvant,  and  the  known  safety  of  influenza  antigens  and  Fluad  in  animals  and  humans,  the  risk  of 
unanticipated  secondary  or  safety  pharmacological  effects  in  vaccines  receiving  Fluad  H5N1  should  be 
considered  extremely  unlikely.  In  any  cases,  the  applicant  submitted  a  detailed  list  of  potential  risk  for 
which closed monitoring must be performed during the post-authorization phase. 
Regarding use of Aflunov during pregnancy and lactation the applicant declares that there is insufficient 
data  available  in  preclinical  and  in  humans  studies  to  adequately  assess  the  risks  of  immunisation  with 
Fluad  H5N1  during  these  situations.  Vaccination  should  be  assessed  on  an  individual  basis  and  in 
accordance with medical advice. 
Assessors’ comment: In case of use during pregnancy and lactation all the clinical and safety information 
should be collected, related also to the outcome of the pregnancy. The applicant should propose a useful 
register. 
Also the humans safety database is limited, due to the nature of the medicinal product; all the conducted 
clinical  studies  show  a  comparable  safety  profile,  similar  with  the  experience  with  other  authorized 
vaccines adjuvanted with MF59C.1. 
The summary safety findings for the Fluad H5N1 study (V87P1) in adult (18-60 years) and elderly (≥ 61 
years) subjects describes that the reactogenicity profile of both vaccines (with 7.5 μg HA/dose or with 15 
μg HA/dose) did not raise concerns regarding vaccine safety. The safety profile of both vaccines was at 
least as good as that of seasonal influenza vaccines. As expected, for both the adults and the elderly, the 
most frequently reported reactions were injection site pain, myalgia and headache. 
Potential  indicators  of  oculo-respiratory  syndrome  (ORS)  (i.e.  coughing,  wheezing,  chest  tightness, 
difficult breathing, sore throat facial edema, red eye and fever), irrespectively of the dose received, were 
reported by 21 (7%) of non-elderly adult and 6 (3.5%) of elderly subjects. This is in the same range as 
other  reports  on  ORS  in  clinical  studies  with  influenza  vaccines.  Adverse  events  judged  as  possibly  or 
© EMEA 2008  
32/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
probably related to vaccine administration were reported by 2 % - 5 % of the adult and elderly population 
and  were  mostly  mild  or  moderate  local  or  systemic  reactions  ongoing  past  the  seven  day  observation 
window. 
Cl_Table n. 11 - Overview V87P1 Safety: Subjects with at least a reactogenicity sign after any 
vaccination – Adults and Elderly 
The summary safety findings for the Fluad H5N1 study (V87P4) in adult (18-60 years) and elderly (> 60 
years) subjects (n=3155 for Fluad H5N1) confirms the data available from study V87P1; in total 4207 of 
the  4226  enrolled  subjects  were  included  in  the  safety  population  which  comprised:  3155  subjects  for 
Fluad H5N1 of which 2914 were in the adult group and 241 were in the elderly group and 1052 subjects 
for Fluad of which 971 were in the adult group and 81 were in the elderly group. 
The percentages of subjects reporting local reactions  in the Fluad H5N1 group (40%-57% in adults and 
26%-33% in elderly across injections) were similar to the Fluad group (42%-66% in adults and 16%-32% 
in elderly across injections). 
•  Adjuvant MF59C.1: 
The  adjuvant  MF59C.1  is  also  used  in  the  registered  inter  pandemic  Fluad,  hence  post  marketing  data 
might be used as possible indicators for the safety of Fluad H5N1. These data, again presented elsewhere 
in detail, confirm the data in the limited clinical safety database. With the exception of a higher frequency 
of mild local reactions, more noticeable in the early launch phase, Fluad presents a post marketing safety 
profile very similar to that of other established influenza vaccines. 
Safety specification 
•  Potential risks that require further evaluation: 
Type  B  reactions  are  mainly  attributable  to  the  susceptibility  of  the  subject  or  patient,  such  as  allergic 
reactions. After the use of registered influenza vaccines there are a few side-effects reported that belong to 
these so-called type B reactions, like transient thrombocytopenia, anaphylactic reaction, vasculitis, acute 
demyelinisating encephalomyelitis (ADEM) or Guillain-Barré-Syndrome. 
They appear due to a certain individual susceptibility resulting in an unpredictable different reaction in the 
immunosystem. 
None of these kind of adverse reactions was observed during the clinical studies; really clinical trials of 
Fluad  H5N1  have  detected  common  adverse  events,  but  cannot  be  sufficiently  powered  to  identify  low 
probability safety issues (e.g. incidence of Guillain-Barré Syndrome) or sub-group effects. 
No new potential risks have been identified. However, as is known for seasonal influenza vaccines, there 
are  a  number  of  adverse  events  of  special  interest,  which  have  been  reported  rarely  in  association  with 
influenza vaccination: 
Neuritis 
− 
© EMEA 2008  
33/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Convulsions (non febrile) 
Allergic Reactions (serious) 
Syncopes 
Encephalitis (incl. myeloencephalitis) 
Thrombocytopenia 
Vasculitis 
Guillain-Barré Syndrome 
Bell’s Palsy 
Autoimmune disease (e.g. multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, diabetes mellitus) 
•  Populations not Studied in the Pre-Authorization Phase 
Populations not studied in the pre-approval phase include: 
− 
children and youth: A planned phase II study in children will provide additional data 
The  use  of  vaccine  in  children  cannot  be  excluded  completely,  depending  on  the  development  of  the 
influenza. Any cases of paediatric use will be documented and followed up, as needed. 
Assessors’ comment: The applicant should describe how the off-label use in special populations will be 
monitored.  
According to what is known from registered influenza vaccines, there is no significant risk that requires 
further action at this point of time. From its posology and compounds the vaccine does not bear important 
risks for children. 
− 
− 
− 
pregnant or lactating women, 
patients with relevant co-morbidities, 
immunocompromised patients. 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
The  introduction  of  this  vaccine  to  the  market  will  be  unusual,  given  its  rationale,  and  the 
pharmacovigilance  (PV)  plan  must  consider  several  uncertainties:  Clinical  trials  of  Fluad  H5N1  have 
detected  common  adverse  events,  but  cannot  be  sufficiently  powered  to  identify  low  probability  safety 
issues (e.g. incidence of Guillain-Barré-Syndrome) or sub-group effects. 
Safety  experience  with  Fluad  has  relevance  due  to  the  production  process.  It  may  be  argued  that  Fluad 
H5N1 is not that different from a seasonal strain change – however, even though the risk may be similar, 
this has to be weighed against the benefit, which is different for the pre pandemic strategy as compared to 
the seasonal situation. 
Most  programs  for  vaccine  recommendation,  distribution  and  administration  are  country  specific.  A 
positive outcome of the application for a marketing authorization would not necessarily lead to use of the 
vaccine in all countries. 
Safety specification 
•  Potential risks that require further evaluation: 
Regulators  and  industry  agreed  to  especially  focus  on  priority  adverse  events  of  special  interest  for  the 
pandemic vaccine, for which common case definitions will be developed and used. 
Type  B  reactions  are  mainly  attributable  to  the  susceptibility  of  the  subject  or  patient,  such  as  allergic 
reactions. After the use of registered influenza vaccines there are a few side-effects reported that belong to 
these so-called type B reactions, like transient thrombocytopenia, anaphylactic reaction, vasculitis, acute 
demyelinisating encephalomyelitis (ADEM) or Guillain-Barré-Syndrome. 
© EMEA 2008  
34/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
They appear due to a certain individual susceptibility resulting in an unpredictable different reaction in the 
immunosystem. 
None of these kind of adverse reactions was observed during the clinical studies; rarely clinical trials of 
Fluad  H5N1  have  detected  common  adverse  events,  but  cannot  be  sufficiently  powered  to  identify  low 
probability safety issues (e.g. incidence of Guillain-Barré Syndrome) or sub-group effects. 
No new potential risks have been identified. However, as is known for seasonal influenza vaccines, there 
are  adverse  events  of  special  interest,  which  have  been  reported  rarely  in  association  with  influenza 
vaccination: 
The following events have been considered since they are already known with annual influenza vaccines: 
neuritis  and  other  serious  neurological  events  (including  Bell´s  palsy  and  Guillain-Barré-Syndrome), 
convulsions,  anaphylaxis  (fatal  and  life  threatening),  thrombocytopenia.  The  list  may  be  updated  as  the 
discussion continues. It is suggested that these events are especially monitored also for Fluad H5N1 after 
launch. They will be analysed in the Periodic Safety Update Reports. 
−  Neuritis 
−  Convulsions (non febrile) 
−  Allergic Reactions (serious) 
−  Syncopes 
−  Encephalitis (incl. myeloencephalitis) 
−  Thrombocytopenia 
−  Vasculitis 
−  Guillain-Barré Syndrome 
−  Bell’s Palsy 
−  Autoimmune disease (e.g. multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, diabetes mellitus) 
The  differences  between  national  influenza  vaccination  plans,  especially  as  to  possible  pre-pandemic 
vaccination  strategies,  make  it  difficult  to  define  harmonized  methods  for  additional  pharmacovigilance 
activities with respect to the safety of Fluad H5N1. In many countries insufficient or non-existing linkage 
between  vaccination  registries  and  epidemiological  data  create  obstacles  to  the  gathering  of  safety  data, 
such as hospitalisations. 
Some of the work initiated during several Workshop on Pandemic Influenza Vaccines Risk Management 
Plan  may  also  provide  insight  and  ideas  for  the  pre-pandemic  situation.  Groups  not  studied  in  clinical 
trials  need  to  be  specifically  evaluated. Children  and  youth,  though  not  studied,  are  not  in  the  currently 
proposed indication for Fluad H5N1, hence do not need special consideration at this time (see also section 
1.2.7 on pediatric off-label use). Other groups include: 
- pregnant or lactating women - patients with relevant co-morbidities - immuno-compromised patients. 
 The table below summarised the studies focused on the pharmacovigilance activities:  
© EMEA 2008  
35/40 
 
 
 
 
 
IV.  ORPHAN MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
N/A 
V. 
BENEFIT RISK ASSESSMENT 
Influenza  pandemics  have  occurred  at  irregular  intervals  throughout  human  history.  During  the  last 
century, three pandemics caused huge morbidity and mortality, social disruption and economic loss. The 
interval between the emergence of the pandemic strains in the Far East and the first cases in Europe was 3-
4 months. International air travel has increased considerably since the 1970’s making it therefore highly 
probable  that  the  next  influenza  pandemic  will  have  its  first  cases  in  Europe  within  weeks  of  its 
emergence. The first wave of a pandemic outbreak may be largely over within 4 months. 
It is unlikely that manufacturers would be able to produce sufficient quantities of vaccine to confront an 
emerging pandemic. Thus the production of a vaccine against a potential influenza pandemic viral strain is 
vital at three stages: 
•  during  the  inter-pandemic  period  in  order  to  reduce  the  chance  of  an  emergence  of  a  reassortant 
pandemic  strain  by  vaccinating  those  (e.g.,  veterinarians,  poultry  workers,  operators  involved  in  the 
manufacturing of vaccines with pandemic-like strains, laboratory workers) at high risk of both avian and 
human virus infection, 
• prime during pre-pandemic stages (WHO phases 3 to 5) to reduce mortality against a closely matched 
pandemic strain, 
• permit early vaccination at the start of a pandemic (WHO phase 6) when the pandemic vaccine is not yet 
available. 
Based on the global outbreaks of highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza, the H5N1  strain is the  most 
likely candidate from which a pandemic strain would evolve. From the start of the outbreaks in mid-2003 
until 29 June 2007, 317 people have been infected with laboratory-confirmed avian H5N1 influenza, 191 
of  whom  died.  The  antigenic  diversity of  circulating  H5N1  viruses  means  that  vaccines  prepared  in  the 
inter-pandemic period may not be appropriately matched to an emerging pandemic virus. 
Therefore,  cross-reactive  immune  responses  to  a  range  of  antigenic  variants  are  important  for  a  pre-
pandemic  vaccine.  Even  a  vaccine  of  relatively  low  efficacy  may  mitigate  a  pandemic.  If  there  is  an 
H5N1-based  pandemic,  a  pre-pandemic  vaccine,  even  if  incompletely  matched  to  the  pandemic  virus 
© EMEA 2008  
36/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(perhaps giving partial protection), will prevent more infections and deaths than waiting for the specific 
pandemic vaccine. In addition, vaccination is expected to be the  most effective and efficient strategy to 
mitigate a pandemic situation. 
MF59  has  been  shown  to  significantly  enhance  the  immune  response  to  a  wide  variety  of  vaccine 
constructs.  Fluad-H5N1  at  a  dose  of  7.5μg  of  antigen  is  able  to  reach  protective  levels  of  antibodies  in 
healthy adults and the elderly, and induces T-cell memory already after the first dose. Antibody responses 
were  boosted  by  subsequent  vaccination  with  an  adjuvanted  vaccine,  thus  confirming  that  primary 
vaccination with Fluad formulated with an H5 viral strain primes naive populations. In addition, Fluad-
H5N3 vaccine was able to induce broadly cross-reactive immune responses to a range of H5N1 antigenic 
variants  and  a  clade  1  Fluad-H5N1  vaccine  induced  cross-reactive  immune  responses  against  an  H5N1 
clade 2 strain; thus suggesting that a priming strategy would be useful against a future H5N1 pandemic. 
The overall reactogenicity profile of Fluad-H5N1 is similar to that of authorized seasonal Fluad, which is 
accepted  to  be  safe  and  comparable  to  conventional,  non-adjuvanted  inter-pandemic  influenza  vaccines 
based on over 27 million doses administered. Most of the reactions were mild in nature, of short duration 
and qualitatively similar to those induced by conventional influenza vaccines.  It is widely accepted that 
the adjuvant effect leading to increased immunogenicity is associated with a slightly higher frequency of 
local reactions (mostly mild pain) compared with conventional, non-adjuvanted influenza vaccines. There 
were fewer reactions after the second and third vaccination compared with the first. Overall, pre-pandemic 
Fluad-H5N1  has  a  good  safety  profile  consistent  with  those  observed  for  other  H5N1  adjuvanted, 
subvirion, or whole virion adjuvanted vaccines. 
As  with  any  rare,  catastrophic  occurrence,  it  is  impossible  to  determine  the  likelihood  of  an  H5N1 
pandemic. Therefore the benefit of a pre-pandemic vaccine is not easily to define. On the other hand, the 
cost of not having such a vaccine in the case of a pandemic would be grave: up to 50,000,000 died in the 
1918 influenza pandemic. Based on over 3000 subjects included into clinical trials, there is every reason 
to expect that this vaccine (which will be administered at 1/6 of HA content/injection of seasonal Fluad) 
will  be  just  as  safe  as  any  of  the  other  influenza  vaccines  which  are  given  to  a  large  fraction  of  the 
European population on an annual basis and are well accepted due to their excellent safety profiles. The 
pre-pandemic vaccine will only have to be administered twice for priming, not on an annual basis. 
Taken together, this represents a clear benefit for a Fluad-H5N1 pre-pandemic vaccine in the current pre-
pandemic situation of the world. 
In  conclusion,  Fluad-H5N1  containing  7.5μg  HA  has  a  good  immunogenicity  profile  together  with  a 
favourable  safety  profile  which  is  further  supported  by  the  safety  experience  gained  with  the  seasonal 
Fluad,  which  is  accepted  as  safe,  based  on  over  27  million  doses  sold  and  more  than  10  years  post-
marketing  experience.  Additional  safety  data  on  six  months  follow-up  after  the  second  dose  and  on  the 
effect of a booster dose are to be submitted for complete assessment with the additional immunogenicity 
data on 400 subjects. 
V.1 
Benefits  
⌦  Demonstrated benefits 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Two  injections  of  7.5μg  Fluad-H5N3,  administered  21  days  apart,  produced  sufficient  levels  of 
antibody to meet all three CHMP criteria when assessed by SRH. 
The general agreement between GMRs and the percentages of subjects achieving at least 4-fold 
increases in titers by MN and SRH indicate that pre-pandemic Fluad-H5 formulations induced a 
clear immune response. 
Consistent with the finding of others HI was more sensitive to H9N2 and seasonal strains than to 
H5 viral strains. 
All  three  assays  show  a  significant  increase  in  antibody  titers  after  two  injections  administered 
three weeks apart. and all CHMP immunogenicity criteria are met when using the SRH assay. 
MF59 adjuvant significantly enhanced the immune responses, persistence, and cross-protection. 
© EMEA 2008  
37/40 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The immune responses induced by 2x7.5μg Fluad-H5N1 was at least as good, if not better, than 
that  induced  by  the  15μg  formulation  and  induced  immunological  memory  as  shown  by  the 
booster response 6 months later. Based on these results the 7.5μg formulation, which in addition 
to  optimal  immunogenicity  offers  also  an  option  for  dose-sparing,  has  been  selected  for 
registration. 
In  both  age  groups  and  vaccine  groups,  the  incidence  of  reactions  tends  to  decrease  after  the 
second injection. 
For both the adults and the elderly, local reactions were reported more frequently than systemic 
reactions in both FLUAD-H5N1 and FLUAD groups. 
No fatal events were observed during pre-authorisation clinical studies. 
© EMEA 2008  
38/40 
 
 
 
⌦  Uncertain benefits 
• 
• 
Limited data in elderly 
Effectiveness to be evaluated 
V.2 
Risks  
⌦  Demonstrated risk 
• 
Neuritis;  Convulsions  (non  febrile);  Allergic  Reactions  (serious);  Syncopes;  Encephalitis  (incl. 
myeloencephalitis);  Thrombocytopenia;  Vasculitis;  Guillain-Barré  Syndrome;  Bell’s  Palsy; 
Autoimmune disease (e.g. multiple sclerosis, optic neuritis, diabetes mellitus).  
⌦  Uncertain risk 
• 
• 
• 
• 
no data in children 
pregnant or lactating women, 
patients with relevant co-morbidities and/or immuno-compromised. 
6 months safety data  
V.3 
Conclusions 
The pre-pandemic vaccine Aflunov is intended for use during the pre-pandemic phase or the first wave of 
avian  pandemia,  depending  on  each  National  recommendation  and  according  to  WHO  guidelines  that 
identified  three  basic  principles  that  should  guide  decisions  concerning  access  to  therapeutic  and 
prophylactic  measures:  (1)  efficiency  (maximizing  health  benefits,  preferably  in  terms  of  saving  most 
lives); (2) equity (avoiding discrimination); and (3) accountability (including measures to increase public 
awareness, facilitate consultation and improve transparency). 
The  principles  guiding  prioritization  may  differ  for  the  administration  of  vaccines.  While  vaccinating 
high-risk groups first might be appropriate in some circumstances, it would be unethical to have a system 
that would exclude persons who are at a lower, but still real, risk of infection. Under such circumstances, 
members  of  "low  risk"  groups  could  be  at  a  greater  disadvantage  than  those  deemed  to  be  at  high  risk. 
Finally,  efficiency  considerations  might  support  vaccinating  people  at  the  highest  risk  of  spreading  the 
virus (e.g. those at higher risk of infection) even if those people do not have the greatest risk of dying from 
their infection. But, as noted above, it may not be possible to predict which groups will be at higher risk of 
infection or death in the early stages of a pandemic. 
According  to  the  possible  use,  the  efficacy  and  the  safety  profile  of  Aflunov  was  evaluated  in  the  first 
phase in a subgroup of patient; with the responses to the LoQ120 the analysis on the complete dataset on 
the  immunogenicity  has  confirmed  the  preliminary  results:  the  demonstrated  benefits  claim  the  positive 
efficacy, as sufficient levels of antibody were meet with all three CHMP criteria when assessed by SRH 
and immunogenicity was also demonstrated by MN. Analysis of HI assay results demonstrated the non-
inferiority of 7.5µg dosage over 15µg dosage groups for the A/H5N1 influenza antigen. By HI after the 
second injection two out of three CHMP (CPMP/BWP/214/96) criteria were met in the adult population 
(the proportion of subjects achieving seroprotection was not met) whereas all three CHMP criteria were 
met by the elderly subjects above 60 years. 
The safety profile was evaluated in a complete dataset, as requested by CHMP guideline; Novartis started 
the study V87P4 in January 2007.  
© EMEA 2008  
39/40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This trial [Study V87P4] was carried out in Czech Republic, Lithuania and Poland, a total of 3168 subjects 
were enrolled and received Fluad-H5N1 (2927 adults and 241 elderly). This, together with trials V87P1 
and V87P2, could meet the minimum requirements of the EMEA guideline CHMP/VWP/42326/2007.  
This evaluation included the primary safety evaluation in all subjects and immunogenicity data in a subset, 
with data collected up to 3 weeks after the second dose (day 43). 
The follow-up data for the evaluation of safety at 6 months after the last dose of vaccine will be submitted 
as soon as possible.  
Considering the possible off-label use of Aflunov during the pandemic phase, the CHMP have agreed with 
the  need  of  a  PIP.  In  addition,  recent  data  analysis  of  human  H5N1  cases  (WHO  2006  –  human  H5N1 
data) show that the median age of all confirmed cases was 20 years. 50% of cases occurred in individuals 
younger  than  20  years  of  age  and  among  cases  under  10  years  of  age,  60%  being  aged  5-9  years.  The 
highest case fatality rate was reported in individuals aged 10-19 years (73%). 
Consequently the applicant has planned a phase II study on the potential vaccine for pandemic and pre-
pandemic use in children also, who might be not only most at risk of infection, but also responsible for the 
spread of the disease. The present study is therefore designed to evaluate the immunogenicity, safety and 
tolerability of two doses of FLUAD-H5N1 vaccine administered 3 weeks apart in subjects aged 6 months 
to 17 years. 
The study is well planned and all the requirements described in the CHMP guidelines are fulfilled. This 
study could collect important information about planning PIP. Since the vaccine is intended pre-pandemic 
use it could be used by children in the pre-pandemic period if a strategy of population priming is adopted. 
Therefore  a  PIP  is  requested  although  not  required  for  the  current  application  of  use  limited  to  adult 
subjects (aged 18 years or more).  
The  use  of  vaccine  in  children  cannot  be  excluded  completely,  depending  on  the  development  of  the 
influenza. The applicant should describe how the off-label use in paediatric area will be monitoring. Any 
cases of paediatric use should be documented and followed up. The applicant is also requested to describe 
the  methods  to  be  implemented  to  collect  all  information  about  pregnant  or  lactating  women  and  other 
not-studied population.  
© EMEA 2008  
40/40 
 
 
 
 
