EMA/231/2015  
EMEA/H/C/002396 
EPAR summary for the public 
Xadago 
safinamide 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Xadago. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Xadago. 
For practical information about using Xadago, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Xadago and what is it used for? 
Xadago is a medicine used to treat Parkinson’s disease, a progressive brain disorder that causes 
shaking, slow movement and muscular stiffness. It is used in addition to levodopa (a medicine 
commonly used to treat the symptoms of Parkinson’s disease) either alone or in combination with 
other medicines for Parkinson’s, in patients with mid- to late-stage Parkinson’s disease who are having 
‘motor fluctuations’. These fluctuations occur when the effect of levodopa wears off and the patient 
suddenly switches from being ‘on’ and able to move about to being ‘off’ and having difficulty moving 
about.  
Xadago contains the active substance safinamide. 
How is Xadago used? 
Xadago is available as tablets (50 and 100 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
Treatment should be started at a dose of 50 mg a day and the doctor may increase the dose up to 100 
mg a day based on patient’s need.  
For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Xadago work? 
In patients with Parkinson’s disease, certain cells in the brain that produce dopamine die, and as 
dopamine is involved in controlling movement, the patient's movement worsens over time. 
The active substance in Xadago, safinamide, is a ‘monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) inhibitor’. It blocks 
the enzyme monoamine oxidase type B (which breaks down dopamine), thereby helping to restore 
dopamine levels in the brain and improving the patient's symptoms. 
What benefits of Xadago have been shown in studies? 
Xadago, as an add-on treatment to levodopa with or without other medicines for Parkinson’s disease, 
has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two main studies involving 1,218 patients 
with late stage Parkinson’s disease who experienced fluctuations. In both studies, 6 months treatment 
with Xadago increased the time during the day during which patients were ‘on’ and able to move by 
30-60 minutes when compared with placebo. Another study showed maintenance of this effect for 24 
months. 
Xadago was also investigated as an add-on to treatment in 2 studies in patients with early Parkinson’s 
disease without fluctuations, but these studies did not show a clear benefit and the company did not 
pursue this use as part of the application. 
What are the risks associated with Xadago? 
The most common side effects with Xadago (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are insomnia 
(difficulty sleeping), dyskinesia (difficulty controlling movement), somnolence (sleepiness), dizziness, 
headache, worsening of existing Parkinson’s disease, cataract (clouding of the lens), orthostatic 
hypotension (drop in blood pressure when standing up), nausea (feeling sick) and falls. For the full list 
of all side effects reported with Xadago, see the package leaflet. 
Xadago must not be used in patients with severe liver problems, in patients treated with pethidine or 
other MAO inhibiting medicines, or in patients with certain conditions affecting the eyes. For the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Xadago approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Xadago’s benefits 
are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Committee 
concluded that the effect of Xadago on the daily time that patients lived without motor symptoms was 
of clinical relevance, also taking into account the response reported in the literature for other 
Parkinson’s medicines. This effect was also maintained in the long-term. Regarding safety, in overall it 
was considered acceptable.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xadago? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Xadago is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Xadago, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Further information can be found in the summary of the risk management plan. 
Xadago  
EMA/231/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Xadago 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Xadago on 24 February 2015.  
The full EPAR and risk management plan summary for Xadago can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more 
information about treatment with Xadago, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact 
your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 02-2015. 
Xadago  
EMA/231/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
