PART VI.: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR XADAGO (SAFINAMIDE) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Xadago. The RMP details important 
risks of Xadago, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about safinamide’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Xadago’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  safinamide  should  be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Xadago should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Xadago's 
RMP. 
I. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
Xadago is authorised for the treatment of patients with idiopathic  Parkinson disease, in mid-
to late-stage fluctuating patients receiving a stable dose of L-dopa alone or in combination with 
other Parkinson disease medications (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains safinamide 
as the active substance and it is given by oral route of administration as 50 or 100 mg tablets.  
Further information about the evaluation of Xadago’s benefits can be found in Xadago’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage link to the EPAR summary landing page:  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/xadago 
II.  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMISE OR FURTHER CHARACTERISE THE RISKS  
Important risks of Xadago, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Xadago’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct  use, in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
•  Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of safinamide is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
1  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.A. List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  Xadago  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered or 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns 
for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Xadago. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risk:  
Important Potential Risks:  
Missing information: 
•  Dyskinesia  
•  Teratogenicity 
•  Retinal degeneration in patients with Parkinson disease treated with 
safinamide 
•  Use in severe hepatic impairment. 
• 
Impulse control disorders (ICDs) 
•  Concomitant use of MAOIs, serotonergic drugs, and/or pethidine.  
•  Use in patients with history and/or presence of retinal disease  
•  Use of safinamide in patients aged<30 years  
•  Long term use >3 years 
•  Whether specific inhibitors of the amidases involved in the 
metabolism of safinamide to NW-1153, may increase the exposure 
of safinamide 
II.B.  Summary of important risks 
Important identified risks: Dyskinesia 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important identified risks: Teratogenicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk  identified  during  clinical  development  (clinical  trials  NW-
1015/016/III/2006, NW-1015/018/III/2006, 27919 (SETTLE) and Open-
label Extension (28850)).  
Known  drug  class  effect  (L-dopa,  MAO-B  inhibitors,  any  agent  with 
dopaminergic  properties)  (selegiline,  rasagiline;  Thomson  Reuters 
Healthcare, Drug Summary Information). 
Patients  on  L-dopa  alone,  or  in  combination  with  other  dopaminergic 
treatments are at risk for developing dyskinesia. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.4, 4.8 and 4.9 
PL sections 2, 3 and 4Routine 
A comprehensive reproductive toxicity study programme indicates that 
Safinamide  when  given  alone,  or  even  more  so  when  given  in 
combination with dopaminergic drugs, is predicted to increase the risk of 
adverse  developmental  and  perhaps  reproductive  outcomes  in  humans 
when  used  in  accordance  with  the  dosing  information  in  the  product 
label. 
Women of childbearing potential. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC section 4.6 
PL section 2 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
2  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risks: Retinal degeneration in patients with Parkinson disease treated Safinamide 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Retinal degeneration was observed in rat repeated-dose toxicity studies 
but not in monkey studies. 
The ocular effects of safinamide have been comprehensively evaluated 
using an ophthalmological examination in ~2000 patients in therapeutic 
studies,  including  the  measurements  of  retinal  change  using  Ocular 
Coherence Tomography (OCT) in over 300 patients on safinamide, and 
retinal  function using  electro-retinogram  (ERG)  in  a  single  center  in a 
limited number of patients.  
Review  of the data, and detailed statistical analyses did not detect any 
systematic difference in the incidence of newly abnormal, or worsening 
ocular function in safinamide treated patients compared to placebo. 
There was no difference in the incidence of adverse events relating to the 
lens or the retina in safinamide treated patients compared to placebo. 
Although  not  evident  in  the  clinical  data,  retinal  deterioration  is 
considered  an  important  potential  risk  in  patients  with  Parkinson’s 
disease  treated  with  Xadago.  Since  patients  with  history  of  retinal 
disease, including inherited conditions, were excluded from the studies, 
use of safinamide in these patients is contraindicated. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
However, as patients with history of retinal disease, including inherited 
conditions  were  excluded  from  the  studies,  use  of  safinamide  in  these 
patients is considered a potential risk. 
Patients with Parkinson’s disease treated with Xadago.  
Patients with history of retinal disease, including inherited conditions. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.3 
PL section 2 
Important potential risks: Use in severe hepatic impairment 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment were not eligible for safinamide 
clinical  studies,  and  therefore  data  in  this  patient  population  are  not 
available.  
Results  from  a  study  performed  in  patients  with  mild  and  moderate 
hepatic  dysfunction  (Study  28696)  indicated  higher  exposures  of 
safinamide,  but  without  any  clinically  important  changes  in  liver 
enzymes.  In  patients  with  mild  hepatic  impairment,  the  increase  in 
exposure  does  not  require  dose  adjustment.  In  patients  with  moderate 
hepatic impairment, the lower dose of 50 mg/day is recommended. 
Patients with mild, moderate or severe hepatic impairment. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 
PL section 2 
ICDs  can  occur  in  patients  treated  with  dopamine  agonists  and/or 
dopaminergic treatments. Some reports of ICDs have also been observed 
with other MAO-inhibitors.  No increase in incidence of ICD assessed 
using the QUIP in safinamide treated patients compared to placebo. 
Patients  with  a  medical  history  of  impulse  control  disorders  or 
concomitantly on other MAO-inhibitors. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
PL section 2 and 4 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important potential risks: Impulse control disorders (ICDs) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important potential risks: Concomitant use of MAOIs, serotonergic drugs, and/or pethidine 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Serious  adverse  events,  including  serotonin  syndrome,  have  been 
reported with the concomitant use of MAOIs, serotonergic drugs, and/or 
3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
pethidine. These patients were not included in safinamide clinical studies. 
As  this  may  be  a  class  effect,  it  has  been  considered  an  important 
potential risk. 
Patients  concomitantly  on  MAO-inhibitors,  serotonergic  drugs  and/or 
pethidine. 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC Sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5  
PL section 2 
Missing information: Use in patients with history and/or presence of retinal disease 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
SmPC sections 4.3 and 4.4  
PL section 2 
Missing information: Use of safinamide in patients aged<30 years  
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
None  
Missing information: Long term use >3 years 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
None 
Missing information: Whether specific inhibitors of the amidases involved in the metabolism of 
safinamide to NW-1153, may increase the exposure of safinamide 
Risk minimisation measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
SmPC sections 4.5 and 5.2  
In vitro investigation if applicable in future. 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the  post-
authorisation development plan. 
4  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.C. Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Xadago. 
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
None 
5  
 
 
 
 
 
 
