SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Anagrelide hydrochloride monohydrate is a novel imidazoquinazoline originally developed as an inhibitor 
of platelet aggregation but subsequently found to have value as a platelet-lowering agent for the treatment 
of patients suffering from Essential thrombocythaemia (ET). ET is one of a number of chronic 
myeloproliferative disorders characterised by an elevated platelet count due to an autonomous clonal 
proliferation of bone marrow megakaryocytes. The underlying cause of this proliferation is unknown. 
Platelet function is generally normal and the cells are able to undergo aggregation and to participate in the 
haemostatic process in a more or less normal manner. The diagnosis is one of exclusion of reactive 
causes and other myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs) according to internationally agreed criteria of 
the Polycythaemia Vera Study Group (PVSG).  The main criterion is a sustained platelet level of >600 
x 109/L for more than two months. 
It is estimated that the prevalence of ET in the European Union (EU) is 2-3 per 10,000 persons. 
ET is a condition that may affect anyone at any stage of life from childhood although the median age 
of presentation is 60 years. Literature and clinical experience indicate a preponderance of female 
patients between the ages of 25 and 50 years. 
Up to two thirds of patients with ET are asymptomatic and a significant number of patients are now 
being diagnosed as an incidental consequence of the analysis of full blood counts for other health 
reasons. Generally, the older patient is more likely to be symptomatic at presentation, although 
younger patients may present with major complications.   
The clinically important consequences of thrombocythaemia include an increased risk of spontaneous 
thrombosis and infarction, including stroke, capillary occlusion, angina, cardiac infarction, superficial 
venous thrombophlebitis, pulmonary embolism, and sometimes internal haemorrhage. Thrombosis can 
occur for example in cerebral, coronary, peripheral, and digital arteries and splanchnic veins. 
Vasomotor symptoms such as headache, erythromelalgia and visual disturbance are not uncommon. 
Although haemorrhage is less common than occlusive events, gastrointestinal and post-operative 
haemorrhage may cause major morbidity. Thus thrombohaemorrhagic complications represent the 
major cause of morbidity and mortality. Thrombocythaemia tends to continue for many years, provided 
that its vascular complications do not cause the death of the patient. In patients with ET there is a 7-fold 
increase in thrombotic events compared to a control population. 
After a long period some patients may develop more serious bone marrow disorders, including 
myelofibrosis and even leukaemia. The risk of transformation in the untreated disease into either 
myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia or acute leukaemia is very low, approximately 1.5%, but also a 
relationship between drug therapy and increased incidence of leukaemic transformation has been 
reported. As with many other medical conditions, the risks of the disease have to be weighed against 
the currently available therapies. 
The dilemma in ET is how best to manage the asymptomatic and symptomatic patient facing a life 
long disorder. The scenario (asymptomatic patient with a life long condition) has much in common 
with other (often silent) diseases such as ischaemic heart disease and hypertension.  Unlike these two 
conditions, the incidence of the disease is lower and treatment strategies are far less clearly defined. 
Clinical experience has shown the value of treatment once the platelet count has risen above 
approximately 650 x 109/L. The treatment goal is to decrease the platelet count in order to try to 
prevent thrombotic or haemorrhagic complications, with minimal drug toxicity. As ET is a chronic 
disease, there is a need for a well-tolerated long-term treatment. The standard treatment options for 
this disorder include the use of hydroxyurea and alkylating agents, both of which cause non-selective 
suppression of bone marrow elements. 
Hydroxyurea (HU) has become the standard therapy for the treatment of Essential Thrombocythaemia 
in the absence of any other acceptable alternative. HU is the only agent that is currently approved in 
the European Union for the treatment of Essential Thrombocythaemia, in a limited number of member 
states.  
1/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continuous treatment with HU has been demonstrated to reduce the platelet count to below 500 x 
109/L within 8 weeks in 80% of patients. The first clear demonstration that platelet-lowering 
cytoreductive therapy reduced the frequency of thrombotic events in a high-risk group came from a 
study that compared the use of HU with a non-treated control group. A six–fold reduction was found 
in the incidence of thromboembolic events for those treated with HU compared with the control group. 
This was confirmed in an updated progress report on the study five years later.   
HU is generally well tolerated, but in 3-8% of patients with ET, the drug has had to be suspended due 
to poor compliance. HU is a non-selective myelosuppressive agent, and sometimes adequate platelet 
count control cannot be achieved without unacceptable reductions in neutrophil count and/or 
haemoglobin level. However, in the long-term, loss of platelet control (or a rebound of platelet counts) 
and adverse events can occur (including refractory leg ulcers with their accompanying significant 
morbidity). There is concern that long-term HU treatment may be leukaemogenic, especially in those 
patients previously treated with alkylating agents: this is an important to consideration in the 
clinician’s decision-making process when deciding whether or not to treat younger patients, typically 
<60 years, and those considered to be at a higher risk of thrombohaemorrhagic complications. 
Therefore, HU is generally used in older patients considered to be at higher risk because of the 
presence of other factors including a high platelet count (of >1,000 or 1,500 x 109/L) and presentation 
with, or the presence of, cardiovascular complications.  
Two other non-platelet selective cytoreductive agents, busulphan and interferon alpha, are generally 
used in the EU ‘off-label’ for the treatment of ET.  
Interferon-alpha has shown therapeutic activity in ET to control excessive thrombocytosis. 
Advantages over current therapeutic options include lack of known leukaemogenic effects. 
Nevertheless, it must be administered parenterally and has a high incidence of associated adverse 
effects. 
Busulphan is an alkylating agent, which is well tolerated, but has leukaemogenic potential (as do all 
alkylating agents) and its use is therefore in principle limited to selected patients (over 70 years of 
age). 
Several other agents are effective with a more or less rapid response: Pipobroman, P32, Chlorambucil, 
Uracil mustard, Nitrosourea, Melphalan. However, alkylating agents and P32 should not be used 
initially, especially in younger patients, because of the leukaemogenic risk. 
In conclusion, a well-tolerated platelet selective agent is clearly needed as therapeutic alternative, 
especially in young patients.  
Anagrelide is approved for use in ET and other myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs) in the USA plus 
11 other countries and has been available in 29 countries on a compassionate use basis, including more 
than 13 EU countries. 
In  the  EU  Xagrid  (anagrelide)  is  approved  for  ”the  reduction  of  elevated  platelet  counts  in  at  risk 
essential  thrombocythaemia  patients  who  are  intolerant  to  their  current  therapy  or  whose  elevated 
platelet counts are not reduced to an acceptable level by their current therapy. 
An at risk essential thrombocythaemia patient is defined by one or more of the following features:  
>60 years of age or  
A platelet count >1000 x 109/l or  
A history of thrombo-haemorrhagic events.”. 
Treatment with Xagrid capsules should be initiated by a clinician with experience in the management 
of essential thrombocythaemia (ET). The recommended starting dosage of anagrelide is 1mg/day, 
which should be administered orally in two divided doses (0.5mg/dose). After one week the dosage 
may be titrated, on an individual basis, to achieve the lowest effective dosage required to reduce 
and/or maintain a platelet count below 600 x 109/l and ideally at levels between 150 x 109/l and 400 x 
109/l. The dosage increment must not exceed more than 0.5mg/day in any one-week and the 
recommended maximum single dose should not exceed 2.5mg. 
2/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Xagrid contains 0.61 mg of anagrelide hydrochloride monohydrate equivalent to 0.5 mg of anagrelide 
as active ingredient. It is presented in hard gelatine capsules.  
Other 
microcrystalline cellulose, magnesium stearate.  
The capsules are packaged in HDPE bottles with child-resistant cap, containing 100 hard capsules. 
ingredients  include  povidone,  crospovidone,  anhydrous  lactose, 
lactose  monohydrate, 
Active substance 
The  chemical  name  of  anagrelide  is  imidazo[2,1-b]quinazolin-2(3H)-one,  6,7  –dichloro-1,5-dihydro, 
monohydrochloride.  It  does  not  contain  any  chiral  centers  and  thus  it  does  not  exhibit  any  optical 
isomers.  
Anagrelide HCl is an off-white powder, non-hygroscopic and poorly soluble in most organic solvents 
(except DMSO and DMF). However, the gastrointestinal tract rapidly absorbs anagrelide and peak 
plasma concentrations are obtained about 1 hour after the intake.  
There is no evidence of polymorphism of the active substance despite carrying out the traditional 
polymorphism promotion studies using recrystallisation from various solvents. Upon heating, the salt 
is susceptible to loss of hydrogen chloride and reversion to the free base.  
There are five synthetic steps in the manufacture of anagrelide hydrochloride, the last being the 
conversion of the free base to the hydrochloride monohydrate. Then anagrelide HCl is subject to 
milling.  
The  starting  material  and  three  intermediates  of  the  synthesis  are  controlled  in  the  active  substance. 
There are two other potential impurities, which could be formed in the final step of the synthesis.  
Active substance specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for description, identity (IR), assay (HPLC), moisture 
(Karl  Fischer),  related  impurities  (HPLC),  residual  solvents  (GC),  heavy  metals  (USP)  and  particle 
size. 
The  analytical  methods  used  in  the  routine  controls  have  been  validated  and  thus  considered  to  be 
suitable. The impurity levels limits are justified by toxicological studies. 
A summary of the finished particle size data for 17 batches has been provided. The results show that 
micronisation of anagrelide HCl is very reproducible.  
It  has  been  proved  that  the  tests  and  limits  in  the  specification  are  appropriate  for  controlling  the 
quality of the active substance. 
Stability 
The parameters tested were water content, assay and impurities using the same methods as for release, 
which  were  stability  indicating.  Seven  batches  were  stored  at  25oC/60%  R.H.  for  60  months,  at 
30oC/60% R.H. for 12 months, and at 40oC/75% R.H for 6 months. Additional conditions tested were 
30oC for 60 months, 40oC and 50oC for 6 months. 
Anagrelide  HCl  was  stored  in  double  polyethylene  bags  and  placed  within  fiberboard  drums.  When 
stored under the various conditions described above, anagrelide HCl is stable and no particular trends 
are observed. A validated retest period has been assigned. 
Other ingredients 
All ingredients are tested to, and comply with, Ph Eur Requirements. Three excipients are of animal 
origin: magnesium stearate, lactose and gelatin. The applicant provided a CEP for magnesium stearate, 
gelatin and lactose. Confirmation is also provided from the supplier of lactose that the milk is sourced 
from healthy animals in the same conditions as milk collected for human consumption. 
Anagrelide  capsules  are  packaged  in  HDPE  bottles  containing  a  cotton  coil  filler  and  dessicant. 
Closure is a plastic child resistant cap with heat sealable foil lining. 
3/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Product development and finished product 
The development studies focused on four critical points: the active substance content uniformity, the 
development of a formulation, which could be filled in hard gelatin capsules, dissolution and stability 
of the finished product. 
Given the poor solubility and the low active dose of anagrelide, it was expected that finer particles 
were needed to faster dissolve and to more uniformly disperse in the formulation. For this reason 
micronisation has been performed and particle size specifications have been set. The justification of 
these specifications is based on retrospective data presented on 17 anagrelide batches.  
Commonly used excipients have been employed in the formulation. The compatibility between the 
active ingredient and the different excipients has not been investigated, but the stability studies 
indicate the suitability of the excipients in combination with the active ingredient. 
All batches used in the pivotal clinical studies have the same formulation as the product intended for 
the market. 
The manufacturing process is a standard wet granulation process followed by milling, blending and 
capsule filling and was chosen in order to improve the dissolution performance and the content 
uniformity results.  In process controls are stated. Validation data from four full-scale batches and two 
full scale batches manufactured in the final premises have been presented. The validation concerned 
the drying, mixing and filling step as well as the encapsulation operating parameters. All batches met 
the acceptance criteria for the release of the final product and all pre-defined quality and performance 
specifications established in the approved validation protocol were met.  
Product specification 
The products specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, identification (HPLC), 
assay (HPLC) degradation products (HPLC), average mass, uniformity of content (Ph.Eur.), 
dissolution and microbial purity. Batch analysis data from 35 production scale batches were presented. 
All batches met the test limits as defined in the release specification and test methodology valid at the 
time of batch release.  
The specification of the finished product complies with the requirements set in the current guidelines 
and batch analysis data confirm satisfactory uniformity. 
Stability of the product 
All stability studies were conducted in compliance with ICH requirements. The batches are tested for 
description, average capsule weight, assay, impurities and dissolution.  
Three validation batches were monitored up to 6 months under accelerated conditions (40 °C/75 
%RH) and up to 5 years at 25 °C / 45 % RH. The first 4 production batches have also been monitored 
according to the ICH guidelines with up to 36 months long-term stability. Two additional batches are 
being monitored for up to 5 years under long-term conditions  
The stability data indicate that anagrelide capsules 0.5mg, packaged in the intended marketed pack 
(HDPE bottles with desiccant, cotton coil and polypropylene cap) maintained their physical integrity 
and potency and there were no significant changes in the dissolution results. As suggested by the 
results obtained from all batches, the proposed shelf life for the commercially packaged product under 
the conditions specified in the SPC is acceptable. 
Discussion on Quality aspects 
The development of Xagrid has been undertaken over a long period and the greatest part of it prior to 
Note for Guidance on Development Pharmaceutics. However all critical aspects have been studied and 
the quality of the product is adequately established.  
The active substance is stable; it is well characterised and documented. The excipents are commonly 
used in this kind of formulation and the packaging material is well documented. The manufacturing 
process of the finished product has been adequately described. Stability tests indicate that the product 
under ICH guidelines conditions is chemically stable for the proposed shelf life. However at the time 
4/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
of the CPMP opinion a number of minor quality issues were unresolved. The applicant gave a 
commitment to resolve these issues as post opinion follow up measures. 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
GLP 
The preclinical data package included many studies that were undertaken prior to the introduction of 
GLP requirements. While the absorption and tissue distribution studies were not carried out according 
to GLP principles, all other pharmacokinetic studies and most toxicity studies were GLP compliant. 
The pivotal studies that support the clinical use of anagrelide (repeat dose studies of 1 and 12 months 
duration in rat and dog, reproductive toxicology studies and mutagenicity studies) were conducted in 
compliance with GLP regulations.  A small number of GLP-compliant studies were conducted with a 
human metabolite of anagrelide, RL603. 
Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies  
Anagrelide has been shown at therapeutic plasma concentrations (5-50 ng/ml) not to affect the mitotic 
development of early megakaryocyte precursors but to reduce the megakaryocytes development 
during the later postmitotic phase. It exerted a profound effect on megakaryocytes maturation reducing 
both megakaryocytes ploidy and diameter. The primary pharmacological effect of anagrelide is 
inhibition of the maturation of megakaryocytes leading to a reduction in platelet synthesis. These 
results have been confirmed in vivo.  
The factors that regulate megakaryocytes differentiation and development are still unknown. 
Thrombopoetin is the principal humoral agent involved in megakaryocyte development and platelet 
production. It is acting via its receptor c-mpl, which triggers on signal transduction the 
megakaryocytes proliferation and maturation. Anagrelide is a specific inhibitor of the c-mpl receptor 
of thrombopoetin. This inhibitor effect is dose related (5 ng/ml to 5 µg/ml). Anagrelide failed to 
inhibit IL-3 stimulated proliferation of megakaryocytes. This system thrombopoetin-c-mpl receptor is 
species specific, which could explain in why anagrelide acts only in man and not in other animal 
species. 
The main metabolite in all species is RL603 (2-amino-5,6-dichloro-3,4-dihydroquinazoline), which 
initially was considered responsible for part of the inhibitor effect of anagrelide. However, later 
studies confirmed that RL603 does not contribute to platelet lowering activity.  
In vivo studies  
Most early reports suggested that anagrelide (and its metabolite, RL603), did not have any effect on 
blood platelet numbers in animals. However, careful examination of the toxicology data (see table 
below), obtained after administration of anagrelide showed evidence for some reduction in the number 
of blood platelets although this was not of the same magnitude as in man.  
5/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum treatment-related change in platelet count during toxicity studies with anagrelide hydrochloride 
Study number and 
description: 
Occasion: 
mg salt/kg/day 
Platelet count (109/L) 
Males 
292-96-005 a 
1-year capsule dog 
Week 39 
Dose 
R00074-SPD422 
4-week dietary rat 
Week 4 
Dose 
292-96-006 
1-year dietary rat 
Week 13 
Dose 
Count 
Count 
Count ($) 
0 
120.5 
361.5 
1205 
# 
0 
120.5 
361.5 
1205 
# 
1123 
1024 
905 
1023 
# 
1050 
873 
921 
774** 
# 
0 
5 
50 
120 
360 
0 
5 
50 
120 
360 
1108 
1125 
980* 
903** 
988** 
1113 
1125 
941* 
1008* 
970* 
0 
10 
300 
600 
# 
0 
10 
300 
600 
# 
278 (11%) 
276 (41%) 
224 (47%) 
193 (47%) 
# 
292 (21%) 
353 (38%) 
281 (38%) 
249 (24%) 
# 
Females 
D00075-SPD422             4-
week capsule dog 
Week 4 
Dose 
Count 
0 
1 
10 
100 
300 
0 
1 
10 
100 
300 
302 
298 
298 
280 
235* 
329 
355 
237 
260 
204* 
a  The effect in the one year dog study was most apparent when counts were expressed as a percent of the pre-treatment value. 
# Three treated groups only 
$ Percentage change from predose 
Statistical significance :  * P<0.05,  ** P<0.01  
Secondary pharmacodynamics and safety pharmacology 
At in vitro doses of 1 µM, higher than those used to reduce platelet numbers in man (10 nM), 
anagrelide inhibits platelet aggregation by inhibition of cAMP PDE III in platelets. The effect on 
platelet aggregation occurs to a similar extent in animal and human blood. The metabolite RL603 has 
no inhibitor effect on the inhibition of platelet aggregation. Anagrelide produces the same effect on 
platelets as other inhibitors of cAMP PDE III such as amrinone and milrinone, and agents that 
stimulate adenylate cyclase such as prostaglandins E1 and I2. Vasodilatation and positive inotropy also 
arise from inhibition of c-AMP PDE III. The metabolite RL603 has no inhibitor effect on inhibition of 
platelet aggregation. A series of studies illustrate the positive inotropic, chronotropic and vasodilatory 
activity of anagrelide consistent with the inhibition of phosphodiesterase in cardiac and vascular muscle. 
Anagrelide did not significantly inhibit HERG tail current in HEK 293 cells transfected with HERG 
cDNA, suggesting no potential for prolongation of QT interval. In the doses for which, in rat and dog, 
cardiovascular effects are observed, the margin above the anagrelide exposure in subjects who 
received 1 mg anagrelide tid was about 13 fold for rat and about 3.4 fold for dogs on an AUC 0-24 
basis.   
Human exposure to RL603 is substantially greater than to anagrelide. At the lowest doses tested 
(5 mg/kg in rat and 1 mg/kg in dog), the margin above the RL603 exposure in subjects who received 
1 mg anagrelide tid was about 2 times for rat and dog on an AUC0-24  basis. 
At high concentrations (1-100µg/ml) anagrelide mixed with dog blood in vitro had no effect on 
erythrocytes or clotting time.  The higher doses reduced platelet loss over 30min, and the lower dose 
had no effect. In contrast in guinea pigs, anagrelide 1-10mg salt/kg led to a dose-related increase in 
bleeding time; anagrelide at 10mg salt/kg was comparable to aspirin at 10mg/kg.  
The safety pharmacology programme undertaken showed no effects of anagrelide on CNS in dogs 
at doses of 10 mg/kg. Further, in anaesthetised dogs, anagrelide 10 mg/kg ID did not affect airway 
resistance. Anagrelide showed a weak competitive inhibitor effect of 5-HT-induced contraction in the 
rat gastric fundus. In volume-loaded normotensive rats, 3-30 mg/kg anagrelide produced a fall of up to 
71 % in urine output and up to 67 % in sodium output over 4 hours. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The modest inhibitory activity of anagrelide towards CYP1A2 might indicate a potential for 
interaction with other co-administered drugs, which are primarily cleared by this enzyme such as 
theophylline and imipramine. RL603 showed considerably less inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 
than anagrelide. Anagrelide is also primarily metabolised by CYP1A2 and co-administered drugs and 
6/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dietary substances, which may be more potent inhibitors of this enzyme may reduce the clearance of 
anagrelide e.g. omeprazole, ciprofloxacin, fluvoxamine and grapefruit juice.  
In an in vitro study the anti-aggregatory effects of aspirin (100 µM) were clearly evident in response to 
collagen but were not (synergistically) increased by the presence of anagrelide.  In contrast, anagrelide 
in this in vitro system, showed only weak anti-aggregatory activity even at very high concentrations 
(>100  ng/ml),  which  were  increased  only  additively  in  the  presence  of  aspirin.  RL603  was  without 
anti-aggregatory activity consistent with a lack of PDEIII inhibitory properties.  
There is a limited potential effect of anagrelide in potentiating the anticoagulant effect of heparin. 
The combination of a single noneffect dose of anagrelide (0.03 mg salt/kg ID) with an experimental 
Ca++ channel blocker BMY-20064 (1m g/kg ID) in dogs significantly increased the coronary blood 
flow and ventricular contractile force produced by BMY-20064 alone. With respect to the interaction 
with heparin, anagrelide (10 mg salt/kg PO in the rat) was found to significantly potentiate the anti-
coagulating effects of heparin. These studies suggest a potential for anagrelide to enhance the actions 
of these agents although no untoward effects have been seen in the clinical usage of anagrelide.  
Pharmacokinetics 
Absorption  
Only indirect evidence of the extent of absorption of anagrelide is presented. However, the available 
toxicokinetic data and the clinical pharmacokinetics provide evidence of the oral absorption. In rats 
treated PO at 5 mg base/kg, 37% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in the urine. In rhesus 
monkeys treated PO at 4 mg salt/kg or IV at 1 mg salt/kg, 54% and 73 % respectively of the administered 
radioactivity was recovered in the urine indicating at least 74% of the oral dose was absorbed. While no 
comparable iv/oral data are available in dogs, toxicokinetic studies after doses of 1 and 10mg salt/kg 
(in capsules) have shown mean Tmax values of 1.5 and 4h respectively suggesting rapid and therefore 
possibly extensive absorption. After higher doses of 100 and 300mg salt/kg Tmax was achieved 
somewhat later suggesting a slower dissolution rate limited absorption, as would be expected for such 
a highly lipophilic drug.   
Pharmacokinetics of anagrelide and RL603 following a single oral dose 
Species/dose  
Mean  pharmacokinetic parameters  
Analyte 
AUC0-inf ± SD 
(ng·hr/mL) 
C max± SD 
(ng/mL) 
Tmax± SD 
(hours) 
 t1/2± SD 
(hours) 
Dog2 (males) 
1mg salt/kg/day 
Anagrelide 
RL603 
Rabbit3 (females) 
1mg salt/kg/day 
Anagrelide 
RL603 
38 ± 13 
142 ± 15 
124 ±66 
679 ± 153 
10.17± 2.86 
25.05± 8.0 
40.37± 34.6 
188 ± 88 
1.5(median) 
1.5(median) 
1(median) 
1.5(median) 
3.01 
2.91 
1.71 
2.01 
Man4 
1mg total dose 
Anagrelide 
RL603 
12.15 ± 6.88 
57.47± 32.47 
4.71 ± 2.6 
7.31± 3.2 
1.17 ± 0.5 
2.56 ±1.04 
1.36 ± 0.35 
5.60 ± 1.06 
1calcuated as ln2/(mean rate constant) 
2report no. D00075-SPD422-IIIA 
3 report no. L000076-SPD422-IIIA 
4 report no. X00358 SPD422 –IV 
5 report no 292-063, not into the original table, added by the assessor 
7/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Substantial plasma exposure to both drug and major metabolite (RL603) was demonstrated in rats, 
dogs, and rabbits. Exposure with respect to dose varied between species with rabbits displaying the 
highest levels. In rats, females tended to produce somewhat lower Cmax and AUC values for both drug 
and metabolite (RL603) while in dogs, general exposure tended to be higher in females.  Exposure to 
both drug and metabolite appeared to increase in a disproportionately greater manner with dose 
suggesting possible saturation of other clearance mechanisms in favour of conversion to RL603 
although this was more evident at the higher doses used in animals. 
The binding of both anagrelide and its major human metabolites to plasma proteins was measured in rats, 
dogs, rabbits (concentrations up to 5000 ng/ml) and man (concentrations up to 1000 ng/ml). Neither 
anagrelide, nor its major human metabolites RL603 and SPD604, are extensively bound to plasma 
proteins and as such drug-drug interactions as a result of plasma protein binding displacement are 
unlikely. 
A quantitative tissue distribution study conducted in the rat after oral administration of 14C-labelled drug 
at 5 mg base/kg showed higher radioactivity than in plasma from 21 h to 72 h in blood cells, kidney, 
liver, lungs. The lowest levels of tissue localisation were seen in the eyes, gonads and brain. No 
significant persistence of drug related material was evident in any tissue with concentrations generally 
falling to less than 10% of their 2h levels within approximately21h of dosing. 
Metabolism 
Biotransformation of anagrelide appears to be very extensive in all species examined with negligible 
amounts of the drug being excreted unchanged. There appears to be at least five metabolites in rat and 
dog urine including RL603 (and its glucuronide), the keto aldehyde SPD604 and the products of 
hydroxylation of the quinazoline ring. In man, metabolism appears to be rather simpler than in rats or 
dogs with just three major components comprising the N-glucuronide of RL603, RL603 itself (the 
most abundant), SPD604 and a small amount of unchanged drug in urine. 
RL603 does not contribute to the platelet lowering activity. In vitro screening against a broad range of 
receptors and enzymes showed little or no activity of RL603 on these systems. 
Despite the rapid and extensive in vivo metabolism, in vitro studies using human hepatocytes showed 
evidence of only very slow bioconversion. Using various expressed human cytochrome systems only 
CYP1A2 appeared to metabolise the drug but very slowly. Subsequently in vitro studies using human 
liver microsomal preparations and model substrates for the major cytochromes showed that anagrelide 
(but not RL603) appeared to inhibit the actions of CYP1A2. This inhibition occurred in the range of 
concentrations previously used to study the potential in vitro metabolism of the drug and probably 
explains the initial lack of in vitro metabolism of anagrelide.  With just a short (15 min) pre-incubation 
period this inhibition amounted to some 60% at 18.8 µM (~4.8µg/ml). 
In  contrast  to  these  human  in  vitro  studies,  Arochlor  124  induced  rat  liver  S9  (used  in  the  in  vitro 
mutagenicity  screens)  showed  extensive  metabolism  of  anagrelide  to  RL603  and  SPD604  providing 
reassurance  that  such  S9  incubates  used  in  the  in  vitro  genotoxicity  screens  would  have  resulted  in 
exposure to both of these human metabolites of the drug.  
Excretion 
Mean radioactivity recovered from 0 to 72 h in 4 male rats after 5 mg/kg PO was 37 % in urine and 50 
% in feces (total = 88 %), 97 % of the total radioactivity was excreted in 48h. In one other group of 3 
rats, recovery was 37 % in urine, 52 % in feces and 1.4 % in carcass (total = 90 %). In the rat there is 
evidence for biliary secretion from the significant amount of radioactivity appearing in the faeces after 
i.v. dosing (approximately44%). 
In studies in which the aim was to study metabolism, rat (n = 6), dog (n = 2) and monkey (n = 2), 75 
µg/kg, dose 27 µg/kg and 48 µg/kg orally respectively, % dose eliminated in 24 h urine were 40 %, 25 
% and 60 % (292-060). Following a 50 mg salt/kg dose to rats and dogs, urinary excretion accounted 
8/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for approximately 25% and 10% of the dose respectively. However, clearance in rat and dog cannot be 
estimated because of the lack of IV data. In 2 monkeys it was 0.04 – 0.02 l/h. Estimated elimination 
t1/2 are 3 h in dog, 1.9 in rabbit and 51 h in monkey. However, it should be noted that the data in 
monkeys are unreliable since no validation of the bioanalytical method was undertaken.  The PK 
parameters quoted here are almost certainly a reflection of contamination of the drug levels by co-
eluting metabolites.   
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
In vitro studies using human liver microsomal preparations and model substrates for the major 
cytochromes showed that anagrelide (but not RL603) appeared to inhibit the actions of CYP1A2 on its 
model substrate ethoxyresorufin. These results suggest anagrelide could elicit an inhibitory effect on 
its own metabolism, leading to a decrease of its clearance in repeated dose and consequently to an 
increase of the plasma concentration.  
No effects were seen in dogs on the kinetics of either anagrelide or hydroxyurea in the presence of the 
other when administered in the ratio of the clinically used doses (total doses of 2 mg anagrelide and 
500 mg hydroxyurea). 
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
Single oral doses of anagrelide were well tolerated with no deaths except in mouse dosed at 500 mg 
base/kg IP. Necropsy showed evidence of hemorrhagic ulceration of the gastro-intestinal tract. Signs 
of toxicity in other species were minimal, sporadic vomiting and diarrhoea in dogs and soft stools and 
inappetance in monkeys. These data provide reassurance on the acute toxicity of anagrelide in man, 
given the MHRD of <10mg/day. 
Repeat-dose toxicity 
The majority of the changes observed in the repeat dose toxicity studies can be attributed to the 
inhibition of cAMP phosphodiesterase III (PDEIII). It has been demonstrated that the inhibition of 
PDEIII leading to an increase in CAMP in platelets occurred with an IC50 of 5.4±1.4.10-8 mol/ml. This 
inhibition was shown to be implicated in the decreased aggregation of platelets induced by anagrelide. 
The IC50 was of a similar magnitude in a variety of animal tissues. Sporadic evidence of reduced 
platelet aggregation or enhanced bleeding was observed. 
In the rat cardiac fibrosis and myocarditis was observed at 1000 mg/kg after 27 days.  Increased 
incidence of cardiomyopathy was observed at 1205 mg/kg in the 12-month study in the rat. In monkey 
no histopathological changes were found in heart after 3 months of anagrelide administration at 
12 mg/kg.  At this dose the Cmax was estimated to be about 360 ng/ml, which constitutes a safety 
margin of 50-100 fold as compared to the human therapeutic exposure. 
In the dog, mild to marked, dose-related increases in heart rate (108-131 → 135-200 bpm) with a 
strong and rapid pulse were noted during the 1-month study at all dose levels (1, 10, 100 and 300 
mg/kg). The severity of these events diminished as the study progressed.  Evidence of a reduced blood 
pressure was seen only in males at week 4. Subendocardial haemorrhage, fibroblast proliferation and 
inflammation with focal myocardial degeneration and oedema occurred at 10 mg/kg/day and above.  
At 1 mg/kg/day 1:6 dogs had minimal chages.  In the 12-month dog study endocardosis, cardiac valve 
inflammation, haemorrhage and proliferative lesions of some coronary arteries occurred at 300 
mg/kg/day and above.  1/8 dogs at 1 mg/kg/day was affected. 
In the 12-month rat study adrenal gland enlargement could be observed in all treated males and benign 
pheochromocytomas were present in 3/19 males at the HD and 2/17 males and 1/18 females at MD.    
Medullary hyperplasia only occurred at all dose levels in males.  No effects on the adrenal medulla 
were observed in dogs. 
9/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Anagrelide had some effect on renal function, namely diuresis and plasma electrolyte excretion in rats 
and 50 mg/kg and above in the 1-month study and in the 12-month studies.  Increased kidney weight 
indicated an increased renal load in rats at 50 mg/kg and above.  Responses to water loss consistent 
with diuresis included increases in plasma creatinine, urea, haematrocrit, haemoglobin and red blood 
cell count. NOEL for the changes associated with diuresis in the 1-month rat study was 5 mg/kg/day. 
Also in the dog, changes in diuresis parameters were observed, accompanied by an equivocal increase 
in kidney weight. A decrease in plasma creatinine was the only corresponding change in the clinical 
chemistry parameters.  Minor decreases in red blood cell parameters (i.e. haematocrit, haemoglobin 
and red blood cell count) at 4 and 51 weeks only in dogs and 100 mg/kg/day and above may have been 
incidental or associated with the diuresis.   
There were increases in plasma cholesterol and decreases in triglycerides and a reduced incidence of 
fatty liver in rats at 50 mg/kg and above. Liver enlargement occurred in both rats and dogs. Higher 
incidences of some age-related changes of bile duct hyperplasia, hepatocellular necrosis and 
congestion were observed in the 12-month study.  No evidence of hepatic drug-related adverse events 
has emerged during clinical development, or use of anagrelide.  
Toxicokinetics 
Plasma exposure to both anagrelide and metabolite (RL603) was demonstrated in rats, dogs, and 
rabbits. Anagrelide and metabolite were monitored in clinical pharmacokinetic studies allowing 
calculation of the multiples of the clinical exposure observed in the pivotal toxicology studies.  
Comparisons were made with data from male animals for consistency with the clinical data (which is 
from male subjects only). The plasma AUC0-24 values in animal toxicology studies were up to 2671 
times (anagrelide) and 382 times (RL603) the AUC0-24 value in man after 1mg t.i.d. so providing 
evidence of substantial exposure margins in the animal safety testing programme.  
There was evidence of accumulation of the drug and metabolite on multiple dosing in the rat.   
Interspecies comparison 
The pharmacokinetics of anagrelide after oral dosing have revealed anagrelide to have a relatively 
short half-life of approximately1-3 h in all species examined (man, dogs and rabbits). Rat data are not 
appropriate for comparison due to the dietary means of dosing. The metabolite RL603 had a similarly 
short half-life in animals but this was somewhat longer (approximately5-6h) in man. 
The plasma ‘metabolite-to-drug’ ratio varied between species and the magnitude of the dose. In dogs this 
averaged about 4 at low dose. In rabbits the ratio was about 6.5.  In rats the ratio was nearer to or slightly 
less than unity while in man it ranged from 5-9. 
Genotoxicity 
Mutagenic potential of anagrelide and RL603 was assessed in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo 
studies. These studies on the genotoxic potential of anagrelide did not identify any mutagenic or 
clastogenic effects. 
Carcinogenicity 
Long-term carcinogenicity studies on anagrelide have not been conducted. An evaluation of the 
chemical structure of anagrelide and its main human metabolite for carcinogenic potential identified 
no relevant structural alerts. Furthermore, the 12-month rat toxicity study with anagrelide did not 
reveal any effects indicative of carcinogenic potential at doses providing a systemic exposure (AUC0-
24) that was over 2500 times greater than in patients given a 1 mg dose tid. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
Anagrelide showed no effect on fertility in male rats (0, 60, 120 and 240 mg salt/kg/day), but in 
females there was an increase in resorptions and pup mortality and an increase in the duration of 
10/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pregnancy and parturition at all dose levels.  The no effect dose level for maternal toxicity and 
reproductive effects in female rats was less than 60 mg salt/kg/day. 
There was no evidence of teratogenic potential in rats (0, 100, 300 and 900 mg salt/kg) (0, 1, 10 and 
20 mg salt/kg/day) but evidence of embrotoxicity (increased resorption, decreases in live foetuses and 
foetal weight, delayed cranial ossification) associated with reduced maternal body weight compared to 
controls was noted at all dose levels in rats.  In rabbits adverse effects on the foetus (increased 
resorptions and decreased live foetuses) were noted in a preliminary study (at 60 mg salt/kg/day and 
above), again associated with maternal toxicity.  At the no effect dose level for reproductive effects of 
20 mg salt/kg, the only maternal effects in rabbits were transient variations in body weight and food 
intake. Separate studies in non-pregnant rats and rabbits demonstrated high levels of both anagrelide 
and the metabolite, RL603, in plasma at the doses used in reproduction studies, although the rat data 
were derived from dietary dosing. 
In a peri- and post-natal study in rats the increase in maternal deaths at all dose levels (0, 60, 120 and 
240 mg salt/kg/day) was associated with erosions of the gastric mucosa or prolonged gestation and 
difficulties at parturition.  In consequence, the number of still births and deaths in the first 4 days post 
partum was increased and live litter sizes were reduced at all dose levels.  The increase in parturition 
time is consistent with phosphodiesterase inhibition by anagrelide causing smooth muscle relaxation 
via increases in cAMP.  The inhibition of uterine muscle contraction was considered to be responsible 
for prolongation of parturition and decreasing offspring viability.  
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An environmental assessment concluded that due to the limited patient numbers and low dose, use of 
anagrelide will not represent a risk to the environment and therefore no formal ecotoxicological 
studies have been conducted. Based on the action limit for PEC surface water of 10 ng/l, anagrelide 
hydrochloride is unlikely to represent a risk for the environment following its prescribed usage in 
patients. 
Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Anagrelide is a platelet-lowering agent showing selectivity for megakaryocytes. Its mechanism of 
action appears to be through primary inhibition of TPO/c-mpl receptor-mediated events in 
megakaryocytes leading to reduced maturation of the megakaryocytes and ultimately reduced platelet 
numbers.  
Although the pharmacokinetic package provided is rather limited, the toxicokinetic data and clinical 
pharmacokinetic studies provide adequate evidence that anagrelide is extensively absorbed. 
Anagrelide inhibits and is metabolised by CYP1A2.  However, the inhibition occurs at much higher 
levels than those expected at therapeutic exposure (about 900-fold) and is therefore considered not 
relevant for the clinical exposure. The presence of the human metabolites (RL603 and SPD604) in rat 
and dog plasma confirms, from a metabolic perspective, the suitability of these species as appropriate 
toxicological models for human safety evaluation. No drug-drug interactions were identified between 
anagrelide and hydroxyurea or aspirin. 
A comprehensive programme of toxicology studies has been conducted with anagrelide, apart from 
carcinogenicity testing which was omitted. High-dose selection for the pivotal studies was based on 
the results of preliminary non-GLP studies conducted to establish the maximum tolerable dose.  
Minimal plasma level data were obtained from the 12-month studies but estimates of systemic 
exposure can be extrapolated from the 1-month rat and dog studies. The low doses in some studies, 
including the 12-month studies, were set substantially above clinical doses/exposures, and in some 
cases this precluded the identification of a no-adverse effect dose level.  
Further, studies specifically addressing allergenic or immunogenic potential have not been conducted.  
However there was no evidence from the toxicity or general pharmacology studies that anagrelide has 
any effect on immune function or allergenic action and no relationship between the use of anagrelide 
11/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and such effects has been reported in patients. As anagrelide does not absorb significantly in the UVA 
region (320-400 nm) its phototoxic potential is low. 
The most important adverse effects identified in the pre-clinical safety evaluation programme consist 
of effects on the cardiovascular and the reproductive systems. 
The phosphodiesterase (PDE) in platelets is similar to a myocardial enzyme that regulates 
contractility.  Inhibition of this heart enzyme entails increased intracellular cAMP levels and Ca2+ 
levels in the myocardium.  Taken together with the hypotensive properties associated with peripheral 
smooth muscle relaxation, this mechanism is believed to be responsible for the inotropic, chronotropic 
and vasodilatory actions of anagrelide and the increased heart-related toxicity observed in the dog 
studies. After oral administration to the conscious dog, the minimum dose affecting blood pressure 
was about 1mg salt/kg. At this dose, other studies have shown that peak plasma concentrations of 
Anagrelide and RL603 are 3- and 7-fold respectively greater than those in man after a 1 mg tid dose.  
Although the dog is sensitive to drugs that affect cardiovascular function, the properties of anagrelide 
suggest a potential to increase cardiac workload and oxygen demand in man. The potential for 
inotropic and hypotensive effects of anagrelide should be considered when administering concurrently 
with other drugs that affect the cardiovascular system or to susceptible patients and anagrelide should 
be used with caution in patients that have cardiovascular disease or who otherwise have an increased 
susceptibility to cardioactive drugs (see clinical discussion). Moreover, the histopathological changes 
observed in the dog study (30-day and 52-week), not only in the myocardial area but also in the 
pericardium, should be noted.  
While there is no evidence of prolongation of QT interval by anagrelide itself there was an indication 
from an in vitro study that RL603 produces some slow onset inhibition of the HERG tail current.  
However this occurred at concentrations well above those circulating in plasma and, consistent with 
this, no effects on QT interval were seen in vivo in animals or in Phase 1 clinical studies. Therefore, 
the risk for QT prolongation due to anagrelide administration or of RL603 administration can be 
considered to be minimal. 
Anagrelide did not significantly affect respiration or autonomic responses in the dog. Further, a simple 
evaluation in the dog did not show any effects on behaviour, and that plus information from other 
toxicity tests can suffice to exclude important effects on the CNS. No formal examination has been 
made of effects on the gastrointestinal tract, but the lack of findings in the toxicity studies adequately 
excludes any notable effects, except at high doses.  
The renal effects of anagrelide are hypothesised to be mediated through the PDE inhibition as these 
enzymes are intimately involved in the regulation of renal function largely through cAMP- (PDEII) or 
cGMP (PDEV) mediated stimulation of the secretion of atrial natriuretic peptide and aldosterone.  As 
observed in the anagrelide studies, the main consequences of PDE inhibition on renal function are 
diuresis and natriuresis. Although anagrelide appears to be highly selective for PDEIII, selectivity may 
be substantially reduced at the high doses administered in the toxicity studies and up to now 
anagrelide's action on PDEV is unknown.   
Smooth muscle relaxation and increased levels of cAMP can stimulate fluid secretion into the 
intestine, a mechanism that may be responsible for the occurrence of soft faeces.  Consequently, loose 
stools, diarrhoea and emesis have been observed in dog and monkey, and these may indicate a 
potential for effects on gastrointestinal function in patients. 
The observed vaginal dilatation in rats may also be the result of smooth muscle relaxation and may be 
linked to the delays in parturition noted in some reproduction studies. 
Although the mechanism remains unclear, inhibition of PDE resulting in increased levels of cAMP 
and consequently increases in adrenalin may provide the proliferative stimulus for hyperplasia and 
pheochromocytoma, as has been reported for other PDEIII inhibitors, such as ismazoel and indolidan.  
The reduced incidence of pituitary adenomas in male rats at 1205 mg/kg in the one-year study is 
consistent with this mechanism.  Phaeochromocytomas and hyperplasia are induced in rats by a wide 
12/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
range of non-genotoxic agents, and although the mechanism remains unclear, the unusual sensitivity 
of the rat medulla, the ubiquitous nature of some of the inducing agents and the lack of any human 
counterpart of the rat lesion suggests that this increased incidence of phaeochromocytomas observed 
in the anagrelide-treated rats, could have little to no relevance for the human safety. 
In the 1-month rat study, a dose-related increase in the incidence and severity of sub-mandibular gland 
acinar hypertrophy and ductal cell degranulation and parotid gland acinar hypertrophy and ductal 
atrophy could be observed at all dose levels. Similar events have been reported in rats following the 
administration of cardiotonic phosphodiesterase inhibitors, which demonstrates that these changes are 
most probably directly related to phosphodiesterase inhibition by anagrelide.  
A number of drugs, including phenylbutazone and isoprenaline, cause an increase in salivary gland 
size in humans, and this has not been associated with clinically significant effects.  Formal clinical 
investigations and post-marketing surveillance have not reported any evidence for such an effect with 
anagrelide. 
The applicant conducted a programme of studies covering all the phases of the reproductive cycle 
although the programme does not comply in all respects with current international guidelines. The 
number of evaluated females in the fertility study (8-13/group) is lower than recommended (16-
20/group) and there were no assessments of reproductive function or behaviour of the offspring in the 
peri- and post-natal study. There were no sperm counts or assessment of sperm viability in the fertility 
study, but this is partly offset by the absence of histopathological change in the testis and 
epididymides in the repeat dose toxicity studies. There was no effect on fertility in male rats but in 
females there was an increase in resorptions and pup mortality, and an increase in the duration of 
pregnancy and parturition at all dose levels. The increase of resorptions is dose-related. Delayed 
cranial ossification was observed in rat at 100 mg/kg/day, but no effect was observed in rabbit at 20 
mg/kg/day. 
There are no pharmacokinetic data in pregnant animals and it is not known if anagrelide or drug-
derived material crosses the placenta or is excreted in milk. Maximum tolerated doses for the 
regulatory studies were selected following preliminary studies in rats and rabbits. Anagrelide should 
be used in pregnancy only when the benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the foetus. It is 
not known whether anagrelide is excreted in milk, but because of the potential for adverse effects to 
nursing infants it is recommended that either breast-feeding is discontinued or drug treatment is 
stopped.  
The findings in the genotoxicity tests, and in the 1-year repeated dose rat study and the absence of any 
structural alert, are reassuring and do justify the absence of carcinogenicity studies at the time of the 
marketing authorisation application (MAA). However, in order to substantiate the absence of 
leukomegenic potential of anagrelide as compared to the conventional therapy, the applicant should 
have provided more data on the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon. The applicant has 
therefore committed to provide information on the carcinogenic potential of anagrelide as a post-
approval commitment. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The primary pharmacological effect of anagrelide is the inhibition of the maturation of 
megakaryocytes, leading to a reduction in platelet synthesis: In vitro studies have indicated that 
anagrelide at therapeutic concentrations does not affect the mitotic expansion of developing early 
megakaryocytes precursors, but does affect megakaryocyte development during the later post-mitotic 
phase. Other studies showed that anagrelide exerted effects on megakaryocyte maturation, size and 
DNA content. Anagrelide induced left-shifted maturation and reduced both megakaryocyte ploidy and 
diameter. 
13/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Various studies also support that anagrelide’s actions in man are specific to the megakaryocyte 
lineage. This specificity may relate to an interaction between anagrelide and receptor or post-receptor 
events triggered by the binding of thrombopoietin (TPO) to its receptor, c-mpl. No effects of 
anagrelide were observed in IL-3-stimulated cells or in the absence of TPO. 
Primary pharmacodynamics 
Five single centre, double-blind, placebo controlled studies in healthy male volunteers (studies 1772, 
1773,  1775,  1776,  1777)  using  a  single  ascending  dose  or  multiple  doses  for  up  to  28  days  were 
conducted. 
Study 
reference 
1772 
Short title 
Single-dose, ex vivo platelet 
aggregation 
Subjects/ 
patients entered 
28M, aged 18-38 years 
Dose (mg) 
 Duration 
1mg, 2mg or 5mg 
anagrelide or placebo 
Single 
dose 
1773 
1775 
1776 
1777 
Multiple-dose, ex vivo platelet 
aggregation 
8M, aged 19-35 years 
1 mg bid anagrelide or 
placebo 
7 days 
Multiple-dose, effect on platelet 
count and ex vivo platelet 
aggregation 
Multiple-dose, effect on platelet 
count, platelet survival time and bone 
marrow histology 
Multiple-dose to investigate optimum 
dose interval and platelet reduction 
28M, aged 18-45 years 
0.5mg, 1mg bid or od 
anagrelide or placebo 
9.5 or 30 
days 
15M, aged 21-35 years 
0.5mg, 1mg 
anagrelide bid or 
placebo 
28 days 
24M, aged 22-49 years 
2mg anagrelide tid or 
qid or placebo 
3 days 
The thrombocytopaenic effect of anagrelide was first observed in study 1773.  A 1mg twice-daily dose 
for  7  days  in  6  healthy  male  volunteers  resulted  in  an  average  37%  decrease  in  platelet  count  from 
baseline. The study was terminated as a result of this finding and platelet counts continued to decline 
over a 3-day period following withdrawal of drug, recovering 5 days later.  
Study 1775 demonstrated that oral administration of anagrelide (0.5mg or 1mg twice daily for 9.5 days 
or 1mg once daily for 30 days) produced a delayed, dose-related reduction in platelet count.  Platelet 
count  returned  to  normal  one  week  after  cessation  of  treatment.    Platelet  survival  was  not  affected. 
Based on bone marrow aspirates from subjects receiving 1mg anagrelide twice daily, at day 10, it was 
concluded that the effect of anagrelide was not secondary to myelosupression or megaloblastosis.  
Similar  effects  on  platelet  count  were  reported  in  study  1776  were  anagrelide  (0.5mg  or  1mg  twice 
daily) caused peripherally circulating platelets to decrease in number. 
Study 1777 provided supportive evidence that the dosing regimen proposed for the early clinical trials 
(anagrelide qid) was appropriate. 
The above studies supported the proposal that for anagrelide to be effective in lowering platelet counts 
the patients should be treated for longer than 7 days. 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Platelet aggregation: 
Study 1772 demonstrated the effect of orally administered anagrelide on ex vivo platelet aggregation 
induced by ADP and collagen in platelet-rich plasma of treated subjects. Doses of 1 mg, 2mg and 5mg 
anagrelide inhibited low ADP-induced aggregation for up to 1, 3 and 6h, respectively. 
Study 1773 demonstrated the effect of anagrelide on ex vivo collagen- and ADP-induced platelet 
aggregation when administered to eight healthy subjects orally for up to 2 weeks. Placebo and 
anagrelide treated subjects showed similar decreases and increases in low ADP and low collagen 
14/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
concentrations. However, in the absence of a meaningful statistical analysis, the provided results were 
considered as inconclusive. 
Study 1775 demonstrated that anagrelide inhibited ex vivo ADP- and collagen-induced platelet 
aggregation from at least 1-9 h after dosing with 1mg (either once or twice daily), but had minimal 
effect with the 0.5mg dose (twice daily). One low value was observed 3h after dosing in one of the 3 
placebo-treated subjects. In subjects who received 1mg anagrelide once daily, administration of 
650mg aspirin on day 30 resulted in an additional reduction in platelet count compared to placebo. 
Cardiovascular effects: 
Significant falls in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure (22/15mmHg) were seen at 5mg single 
dose in study 1772 in normal volunteers. In the same study supine diastolic blood pressure was 
lowered following a single dose of 2mg. No significant changes in blood pressure were observed after 
a 1mg dose.  
During study 1773 changes in blood pressure and pulse rate were variable and no meaningful trends 
were detected. Bleeding time and ECGs were normal for all subjects and no abnormal laboratory 
results were noted.  
Study 1775 indicated that anagrelide 0.5mg or 1mg twice daily for 9.5 days resulted in a mean 
decrease (of 6mmHg) in erect diastolic blood pressure but no clinically significant changes in blood 
pressure were noted following administration of 1mg once daily for 30 days.  Results were variable 
and increases in systolic blood pressure were observed with 1mg twice daily. 
During study AGR-I-01-J, a statistically significant decrease in diastolic BP was seen at 4h in subjects 
treated with 0.5mg anagrelide under fasted conditions and at the 1mg and 2mg dosage level, but not in 
placebo-treated subjects. However, these events were not considered clinically significant. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic and safety data have been submitted from seven single centre phase I studies 
undertaken in Japan, UK, and in the USA. The provided studies were conducted between January 
1979 and September 2001 in healthy male and female volunteers aged between 18 and 45 years. 
Subjects received single oral doses ranging from 0.5 mg to 2 mg anagrelide.  
General pharmacokinetics 
Study AGR-I-01-J was a Phase I, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to examine the 
tolerance,  safety  and  pharmacokinetic  parameters,  and  to  assess  the  effect  of  food  on  the  relative 
bioavailability of single doses 0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg) of anagrelide in healthy male Japanese volunteers. 
26 healthy Japanese male volunteers aged 20-35 years were randomised into 3 groups as follows: 
0.5mg anagrelide, fasted and fed (8 subjects) or placebo, fed and fasted (2 subjects); 1mg anagrelide, 
fasted (6 subjects) or placebo, fasted (2 subjects); 2mg anagrelide, fasted (6 subjects) or placebo, 
fasted (2 subjects). 
Following an oral dose of 0.5, 1 and 2mg anagrelide after an overnight fast, anagrelide was rapidly 
absorbed, reaching a mean Cmax of 2.44, 4.86 and 10.54 ng/ml, respectively, at a median time of 1h 
(range 0.5-2h). Approximately proportional increases in mean AUC0-∞ (5.72, 12.82 and 26.74ng⋅h/ml) 
were also demonstrated. Inter-subject variability in the Cmax and AUC0-∞ of plasma anagrelide was 
observed at all dose levels, with less variability arising at the 1 and 2mg doses compared to the 0.5mg 
dose (fasted and fed).  
RL603 reached a mean maximum plasma concentration of 3.15, 8.55 and 29.35ng/ml at a median time 
of 2, 3 and 2.5h following an oral dose of 0.5, 1 and 2mg after an overnight fast, respectively. There 
was a disproportionately greater increase in mean AUC0-∞ (25.24, 73.25 and 198.53ng·h/ml) as a 
function of dose (at the 0.5, 1 and 2mg fasted dose levels, respectively). 
Following an oral dose of 0.5mg after a standard meal, anagrelide was more slowly absorbed than 
when dosed in a fasted state, with mean tmax more than doubled (2.88h versus 1.25h) and mean Cmax 
reduced by 44% (1.35 versus 2.44ng/ml), although bioavailability was only reduced by 20% (AUC0-∞ 
5.72 versus 4.57ng·h/ml).  Similar results were seen for RL603 with a doubling in mean tmax (4.00 
15/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
versus 1.94h), a 40% reduction in mean Cmax (1.88 versus 3.15ng/mL), and 28% decrease in 
bioavailability (AUC0-∞ 18.12 versus 25.24ng⋅h/ml). There was a statistically significantly higher Cmax 
(p = 0.0179), statistically significantly higher AUC0-∞ (p = 0.0108) and a statistically significantly 
earlier tmax (p = 0.0028) for anagrelide under fasting conditions compared with a standard meal given 
with 0.5mg anagrelide. 
The mean amount (ng) of anagrelide and percentage of total dose excreted in urine 24h post-
administration of 0.5mg, 1mg and 2mg anagrelide under fasted conditions was 63.4ng (0.013%), 
79.2ng (0.0078%) and 129.58ng (0.0065%), respectively. 
The mean amount (µg) of RL603 and percentage of total dose excreted in urine 24h post-
administration of 0.5mg, 1mg and 2mg anagrelide under fasted conditions was 114.63µg (32.96%), 
265.85µg (38.23%) and 536.8µg (38.59%), respectively. 
Absorption 
Study 13970-103 was a randomised, open-label, two-way crossover study in healthy volunteers (aged 
18-35  years)  to  evaluate  the  effect  of  food  on  the  oral  bioavailability  of  anagrelide.  28  healthy 
volunteers received a single 0.5mg dose of anagrelide on each of two occasions: one while the subject 
was fasted overnight, and one immediately after the subject had consumed a standard breakfast, with 
the order of fasted/fed dosing randomised.  Administration of the two single doses was to be separated 
by at least a 14-day washout period. 
Major changes occurred in the pharmacokinetic parameters when patients had ingested a standard 
breakfast compared to after an overnight fast. These changes included a clinically significant decrease 
in Cmax and a clinically significant increase in tmax.  An increase in t½ elimination was statistically 
significant but not considered to be clinically significant.  The overall effect of these changes was to 
broaden the plasma concentration versus time curve. Comparison of the AUClast and AUC0-∞ showed 
that more than 90% of anagrelide was eliminated within the 12 hours following ingestion. 
Elimination 
Study 1774, an open-label and single-dose study in five healthy volunteers, males, aged 18-35 years, 
was designed to define amounts of radioactivity in blood and plasma and excreted in urine and faeces 
as a function of time following a single oral dose of 1mg 14C-anagrelide, and to determine the amounts 
of anagrelide in plasma and urine and the urinary metabolite profile following a single oral dose of 
1mg 14C-anagrelide. No significant amounts of radioactivity were associated with the cellular 
components of blood. The main route of elimination was in the urine, as metabolites and 4 urinary 
metabolites were detected by HPLC, the main two of which (over the period 0-48 hours) accounted for 
44% and 24% of total radioactivity. 
Study 13970-107A objectives were to characterise the mass-balance of 14C-anagrelide after 
administration of a single oral dose of 14C-anagrelide in five healthy subjects (4 male, 1 female). Over 
the duration of the study the total dose of administered 14C was recovered in the urine (78.4%) and the 
faeces (20.2%). Sixty-one (61) % of radioactivity given was excreted in the 24 hours following 
administration (57% urine, 4% faeces) and by 72 hours over 90% had been excreted.  Excretion was 
virtually complete (>97%) by 120 hours. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
Studies SPD422-IV-101 and SPD422-IV-102 were two Phase I, single centre, open label, randomised, 
three-way crossover studies in healthy male volunteers, designed to investigate any possible effect on 
the plasma pharmacokinetic profile of Warfarin or Digoxin, and anagrelide and its metabolite RL603 
when anagrelide (1 mg) and Warfarin (10 mg) or Digoxin (0.5 mg) were co-administered. The safety 
and tolerability of these dosing regimens were also assessed. 
The rate and extent of absorption of Digoxin, as determined by the primary endpoints, AUC0-∞ and 
Cmax, were not affected by the co-administration of anagrelide. However, the secondary 
16/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetic endpoints t1/2, AUClast and β were marginally outside the bioequivalence criteria but 
this was not considered to be clinically significant. The pharmacokinetic parameters of anagrelide 
were unaffected by the co-administration of digoxin except for the Cmax for anagrelide which was 
marginally above the range for bioequivalence.  The increase in Cmax when anagrelide was co-
administered with Digoxin was small and not considered to be clinically significant. 
Warfarin (R and S) and anagrelide Cmax and AUC0-∞ values were also not affected when the two drugs 
were co-administered except the Cmax for anagrelide, which was marginally below the bioequivalence 
range in the presence of Warfarin. The secondary pharmacokinetic endpoints for both enantiomers of 
Warfarin and anagrelide were not affected when the two drugs were co-administered except for tmax 
for anagrelide and S-Warfarin which were slightly but not clinically significantly outside the 
bioequivalence range when the two drugs were co-administered. 
Special populations 
No formal studies in special patient groups (e.g. children, in subjects with renal or hepatic impairment) 
were performed. 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
The specific mechanism of action by which anagrelide reduces platelet count is not yet fully 
understood although it has been confirmed that anagrelide is platelet selective from in vitro and in vivo 
study information. In vitro studies of human megakaryocytopoiesis established that anagrelide’s 
inhibitory actions on platelet formation in man are mediated via retardation of maturation of 
megakaryocytes, and reducing their size and ploidy.  Evidence of similar in vivo actions was observed 
in bone marrow biopsy samples from treated patients. Anagrelide is an inhibitor of cyclic AMP 
phosphodiesterase III. 
Anagrelide's mechanism of action as a platelet-lowering agent clearly differs from that of other agents 
that are used in this context, such as hydroxyurea and interferon-alpha. These agents provide a non-
selective inhibition of haematopoesis and are used to reduce the number of erythrocytes and 
leukocytes as well as platelets in patients with myeloproliferative disorders. Hydroxyurea is a non-
selective cytotoxic agent that affects erythroid (BFU-E) and granulocytic-macrophage progenitors 
(CFU-GM) as well as cells of the megakaryocyte lineage. The wide-ranging antiproliferative effects of 
interferon-alpha are complex and do not involve a selective mechanism of action. As well as having 
direct cytotoxic activity there are also effects on the immunological regulation of progenitor cell 
growth, on gene regulation and modulation of the actions of cytokines. 
The ADME properties of anagrelide are considered as sufficiently well delineated in healthy subjects.    
Following oral administration of anagrelide in man, at least 70% is absorbed from the gastrointestinal 
tract. Anagrelide absorption is rapid and unaffected by dose. The pharmacokinetics of the parent 
compound appear linear over the 0.5-2.0 mg dose range, while exposure to the metabolite RL603, as 
well as the RL603/parent drug ratio, increased with dose. However, dose did not alter the terminal 
elimination half-life of RL603, suggesting increased rate of RL603 formation, or saturation of other 
clearance mechanisms for anagrelide. In fasted subjects, peak plasma levels occur about 1 hour after a 
0.5 mg dose; the plasma half-life is short, approximately 1.3 hours. As expected from its half-life, 
there is no evidence for anagrelide accumulation in the plasma. Additionally these results show no 
evidence of auto-induction of the anagrelide clearance.  
When a 0.5 mg dose of anagrelide was taken following food, its bioavailability (based on AUC 
values) was modestly reduced by an average of 14% when compared with drug administered to the 
same subjects in the fasted state.  The peak plasma levels were reduced by 45% and occurred 
approximately 3 hours after dosing. Excretion of the major urinary metabolite was decreased slightly. 
None of these changes induced by food were considered to be clinically significant.  
The preferred route of excretion was via the urine (78.4%). Anagrelide is primarily metabolised by 
CYP1A2; less than 1% is recovered in the urine as anagrelide.  Two major urinary metabolites, 2-
17/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amino-5, 6-dichloro-3, 4-dihydroquinazoline and N-(5,6-dichloro-3,4-dihydroquinazalin-2-yl)-2-
oxoacetamide have been identified. The mean recovery of 2-amino-5, 6-dichloro-3, 4-
dihydroquinazoline in urine is approximately 18-35% of the administered dose.  
It is known that CYP1A2 is inhibited by several medicinal products, including fluvoxamine and 
omeprazole, and such medicinal products could theoretically adversely influence the clearance of 
anagrelide.  
Anagrelide demonstrates some limited inhibitory activity towards CYP1A2 which may present a 
theoretical potential for interaction with other co-administered medicinal products sharing that 
clearance mechanism e.g. theophylline. 
Anagrelide is an inhibitor of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase III (PDE III). The effects of medicinal 
products with similar properties such as the inotropes milrinone, enoximone, amrinone, olprinone and 
cilostazol may be exacerbated by anagrelide.  
In vivo interaction studies in humans have demonstrated that anagrelide does not affect the 
pharmacokinetic properties of digoxin or warfarin. 
At the doses recommended for use in the treatment of essential thrombocythaemia, anagrelide may 
theoretically potentiate the effects of other medicinal products that inhibit or modify platelet function 
e.g. acetylsalicylic acid. An in vitro study in human whole blood demonstrated that the anti-
aggregatory effects of acetylsalicylic acid were additively, but not synergistically increased by the 
presence of anagrelide. However, during clinical development, no clear indication of any such effects 
have been observed with acetylsalicylic acid. The applicant will undertake a study in healthy male 
volunteers to assess the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects of anagrelide and aspirin when 
administered in combination as part of their post-approval commitments. 
A preclinical in vivo pharmacokinetic interaction study in the dog investigating the potential effects of 
anagrelide and hydroxyurea when given in combination demonstrated no adverse effects on the 
kinetics of either medicinal product.  
The potential interactions with anagrelide are adequately covered in the SPC. 
Pharmacokinetic studies have not been conducted in elderly patients or in patients with impairment of 
hepatic or renal function. The complete absence of PK data in the elderly is a major drawback for the 
use of anagrelide in this population. However, during the clinical development approximately 50% of 
the patients treated with anagrelide were over 60 years of age and no age specific alterations in dosage 
were required in these patients. The applicant will provide further pharmacokinetic data from a cohort 
of elderly patients post-marketing.  
For patients with renal and hepatic impairment the data are too sparse to conclude a safe use in these 
patients groups. A warning has been added in the SPC and the applicant has committed to perform 
additional studies post-marketing to generate pharmacokinetic data in both patients groups to obtain 
supplementary information.  
Essential thrombocythaemia is a rare condition in children. Therefore, there have been no formal 
clinical studies to establish safety and efficacy in this patient population. A limited number (12) of 
children (age range 5 – 17 years) with essential thrombocythaemia have been treated with anagrelide 
during clinical development. Anagrelide should be used in this patient group with caution until further 
data are available.  
Clinical efficacy  
Overview of Clinical Trials Programme 
With reference to efficacy and safety, this application is based on the results of six studies. With the 
exception  of  study  700-015,  all  trials  are  open  label,  non-randomised,  non-comparative  trials.  Two 
studies  are  designed  as  compassionate-use  studies  (studies  700-999  and  13970-301).  In  total,  1446 
patients  with  Essential  Thrombocythaemia  from  these  studies  were  evaluable  for  clinical  efficacy. 
Studies 700-013 and 700-015 are considered as supportive. 
18/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As indicated in the table below, the provided studies have not only been performed in patients with 
ET, but also in patients with thrombocytosis associated with other Myeloproliferative Disorders.  
Study 
reference 
700-012 
700-013 
700-014 
700-015 
700-999 
Up to 4 years 
72 – 773 days 
Up to 4 years 
Up to 5 years 
Short title 
Study design 
Patients entered 
Duration 
Dose-ranging  in  patients  with  ET  or 
PV 
O, SC 
Total: 44  
35 ET : 11 M, 24 F 
Up to 4 years 
Platelet  reduction  in  patients  with 
CML 
O, SC 
Total 4: 3 M, 1 F 
Up to 4 years 
Platelet reduction in patients with all 
MPDs 
O, SC 
Total: 498 
274 ET 
Comparison of anagrelide and HU in 
symptomatic patients 
O, R, C 
Total: 6 : anagrelide : 4 
3 ET : 3F  
Compassionate 
reduction in patients with all MPDs 
use, 
platelet 
O, SC 
13970-301 
Long-term  efficacy  and  safety  in 
patients with thrombocythaemia 
O, SC 
Total: 455 
242 ET 
Total: 3950 
2410 ET 
O open-label; SC self-controlled; R randomised; C controlled; M male; F female; ET essential thrombocythaemia; PV 
polycythaemia vera; CML chronic myelogenous leukaemia, MPD myeloproliferative disorder; HU hydroxyurea 
GCP 
Given the clinical studies predate ICH GCP and the fact that the responsibility for the studies have 
been transferred between different sponsors, the CPMP requested a GCP inspection of study 700-014. 
Objectives of study 700-014 were to determine the ability of anagrelide to reduce platelet count to  
≤600 x 109/l and maintain it within physiological range (130  to 400 x 109/l) in patients with 
thrombocythaemia secondary to a myeloproliferative disorder, and to determine the incidence of 
untoward side effects of anagrelide in this patient population. The study was conducted between 
September 1988 and February 1992. 
Two sites were inspected and the data of 19 patients were reviewed. The diagnosis of ET was 
confirmed for all patients but major/critical findings were identified for 9/19 patients, who were not 
excluded from the efficacy analysis. However, it is important to note that protocols of such an old 
study were not as rigorous as the actual defined ones. 
The conclusion of the GCP inspectors was that “the efficacy and safety data provided in the study 
report of the “pivotal” phase-II study (700-014) were not reliable” (see final integrated GCP 
inspection report). 
The applicant has provided assurance that studies (primarily Phase I) performed after 1992 have been 
conducted in accordance with GCP. Further, any studies that are conducted as part of follow-up 
measures/specific obligations post approval will be conducted to current GCP. 
Main and supportive clinical studies  
Main clinical studies 
Studies 700-012, 700-014 and 700-999 
Study 700-012 was a multi-centre, open-label, and self-controlled study in Essential 
Thrombocythaemia (ET) or Polycythemia Vera (PV) patients requiring platelet reduction.  
Efficacy was to be assessed after treatment of 4 subjects in each indication, prior to enrolling 
additional subjects. The study was to be terminated if no decrease in platelet count was observed after 
treatment of the initial 8 subjects for 2 weeks at dosages up to 4mg every 6 hours (16 mg/day). 
Study 700-014 was a multi-centre, open-label, self-controlled, and open-ended study for the treatment 
of subjects with thrombocythaemia.  
19/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 700-999 was an open-label, multi-centre, non-randomised, self-controlled study for treatment of 
subjects with ET who had failed other therapy, with enrolment on a compassionate use basis. 
Objectives were the following: 
Study 
Primary Objective(s) 
Secondary Objective(s) 
700-012 
700-014 
700-999 
-Whether platelet count can be lowered 
predictably in subjects with ET. 
-Whether a stable dose can be achieved for 
extended treatment 
-To  determine  the  ability  of  anagrelide  to  reduce 
the  platelet  count  at  or  near 
and  maintain 
physiologic range in ET subjects. 
-To determine the ability of anagrelide to reduce 
and maintain the platelet count at or near 
physiologic range in ET subjects. 
-Long-term safety data. 
-Effect of anagrelide on symptoms of ET. 
-Safety of anagrelide. 
-Effect of anagrelide on symptoms of ET. 
Studies mainly included ET patients 18 years of age or older, previously treated with a platelet-
reducing agent but who had a medical indication to change therapy, or who were contraindicated for 
using currently available platelet-reducing therapy. Pregnancy or lactation were defined as exclusion 
criteria. Study 700-012 included 35 ET patients and studies 700-014 and 700-999 included 274 and 
242 ET patients, respectively. Only those ET subjects who were treated with anagrelide for at least 4 
weeks were evaluated for a response. 
Prior therapies for thrombocythaemia for study 700-012 subjects were hydroxyurea (15 subjects), 
Aspirin (7 subjects), and Melphalan (2 subjects). Only one subject had not received any therapy prior 
to enrolment. Prior therapy was unknown for 13 subjects (37.2%). 
In study 700-014, prior treatments for ET were hydroxyurea (163/274, 60%), aspirin (85/274, 31%), 
dipyridamole (27/274, 10%), and busulfan (18/274, 7%). Sixteen subjects also had received 32P, seven 
subjects received Chlorambucil, and five subjects received Interferon. Prior therapy was unknown for 
32 subjects (11.7%). In study 700-999, most of patients received hydroxyurea (79.3%). Two subjects 
received prior therapy that was not identified. 
The planned starting dosage ranged from 2 mg/day to 4 mg/day. Subsequent doses were planned to be 
individually adjusted to maintain platelet count <600 x 109/l and ideally between 130 - 400 x 109/l. 
Mean anagrelide dose administered at initiation of therapy ranged from 2.3 mg/day to 4.3 mg/day. 
Individual subject dosages ranged from 0.5mg/day to 13mg/day. 
RESULTS 
- Primary efficacy variables 
Primary efficacy endpoints were “Complete” and “Partial response”, and “the days to complete or 
partial response”. “Complete response (CR)” was defined as a reduction in platelet count to ≤600  x 
109/L or by ≥50% from baseline value and maintenance of that reduction for at least 4 weeks.  
“Partial response (PR)” was defined as a 20% to <50% reduction in platelet count maintained for at 
least 4 weeks. Failure to respond: a less than 20% reduction in platelet count from baseline value. 
Response to anagrelide treatment: 
Study 
700-012 
700-014 
700-999 
N 
34 
254 
242 
Responders 
CR 
28/34 (82%) 
201/254 (79%) 
145/242 (59.9%) 
PR 
2/34 (6%) 
20/254 (8%) 
24/242 (9.9%) 
Number of days to response 
CR 
18.5 
18.6 
23.0 
PR 
15.6 
13.2 
19.0 
Oral administration of anagrelide resulted in a significant reduction in and maintenance of platelet 
counts from a baseline mean of 1 297 x 109/L to within or near physiological range (150-400 x 109/l) 
in the majority of ET subjects during the study.  
20/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Secondary efficacy variables 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were mainly “decrease in mean platelet count”, “platelet count rebound 
during  treatment  interruption”,  “symptoms  secondary  to  Thrombocythaemia”  and  “association 
between mean platelet count and symptoms”. 
Decrease in mean platelet count: 
Study 700-012: The mean platelet count for the ET ITT population just prior to initiation of anagrelide 
therapy was 1,297 x 109/l. These mean counts showed a progressive decrease from baseline over time 
on therapy. 
Study 700-014: The mean platelet count for the ET ITT population just prior to initiation of anagrelide 
therapy was 1,045 x 109/l. Mean values up to four years showed a progressive decrease from baseline 
over time on therapy. 
Study 700-999: By the fourth week of treatment, the mean platelet count decreased from a base line 
value of 1,123 x 109/l to 684 x 109 /l. For the remainder of the study, the mean platelet count ranged 
between 441 and 628 x 109/l. 
Platelet count rebound during treatment interruption: 
Treatment interruption was defined as any discontinuation in anagrelide therapy that was of 3 or more 
day’s duration. Any interruption of less than 3 days was considered as on treatment. Rebound was 
defined as any increase in platelet count that occurred during treatment interruption. 
Study 700-012: Of the 10 subjects, nine did not have platelet counts on the day they stopped 
anagrelide treatment and/or the day they restarted anagrelide treatment.  
Study 700-014: Of the 70 subjects, only 14 had platelet counts on the day they stopped anagrelide 
treatment and the day they restarted anagrelide therapy. All subjects who had a treatment interruption 
experienced an increase in platelet count during the interruption period. 
Study 700-999: Of the 46 subjects, only 8 had platelet counts on the day they stopped anagrelide 
treatment and the day they restarted anagrelide therapy.  An analysis of these 8 subjects showed that 
while off treatment (5-79 days), there was a clinically and statistically significant (p<0.005) increase 
in platelet count, indicating that continued treatment with anagrelide was necessary to maintain 
reduced platelet count. 
Symptoms secondary to thrombocythaemia: 
The number of reports of symptoms secondary to thrombocythaemia tended to decrease during the 
duration of the studies, corresponding to the decrease in mean platelet count over time on treatment.  
The number of subjects reporting symptoms decreased over time on treatment as well. The symptoms 
specifically associated with thrombocythemia are presented in the following table. 
Gastrointestinal bleeding 
Easy cutaneous/subcutaneous bruising/bleeding 
Epistaxis 
Hemoptysis 
Bleeding at other sites 
Recurrent arterial thrombosis 
Angina 
Recurrent pulmonary embolism 
Intestinal ischemia 
Transient ischemic attacks 
Erythromegalia 
Digital ischemia 
Distal ischemic ulcers 
Recurrent venous thrombosis 
Acral paresthesia 
Thrombocythaemia related symptoms decreased dramatically after the first month of treatment. The 
rate of events was the same during the first month and the 11 following months. Moreover, the annual 
rate decreased by two fold from year 1 to year 2. 
Study 13970-301 
Study 13970-301 was an open-label, multicentre study, designed to determine the efficacy and long-
term safety of anagrelide for the reduction and control of platelet count, and thrombohaemorrhagic 
symptoms, in patients with ET, PV, chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML), or other 
Myeloproliferative Disorders (MPD) who entered from studies 700-012, 700-014 and 700-999 and in 
those not previously exposed to anagrelide who entered study 13970-301. 
21/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The planned starting dosage was 2 mg/day. Subsequent doses were planned to be adjusted to maintain 
platelet count between 150 - 600 x 109/l. The mean anagrelide dose administered at initiation of 
therapy was 2 mg. Mean daily doses of just below 2mg/day were reached by the end of month 1 and 
then mean doses remained fairly constant throughout the rest of the study, although there was a slight 
increase in the mean values up to the end of month 6. Individual subject dosages ranged from 
0.5mg/day to 13mg/day. 
Study 13970-301 mainly included ET patients 18 years of age or older previously treated with a 
platelet-reducing agent but who had a medical indication to change therapy, or who were 
contraindicated for using currently available platelet-reducing therapy. Pregnancy or lactation were 
exclusion criteria. Prior therapies for thrombocythaemia for ET subjects were mainly hydroxyurea, 
aspirin, busulfan, and interferon. The efficacy evaluable ET population comprised 934 patients. 
RESULTS 
- Primary efficacy variables 
The primary efficacy endpoint for this study was only “Complete response (CR)”, which was defined 
as a reduction in platelet count to ≤ 600x109/l or ≥ 50% from baseline at least 4 weeks after dosing 
with anagrelide had started. 
Overall, 628 of the 934 efficacy evaluable ET patients (67.2%) showed a complete response to 
treatment. 
Complete response rates were generally consistent across the ET population subgroups, with the 
complete response rate ranging from 61.0 % to 70.8%. There were no significant differences in 
complete response rates according to age, gender or ethnicity.  
- Secondary efficacy variables 
Secondary endpoints were “partial response to treatment” and “time to complete or partial response”, 
“actual platelet count reduction”, “relationship between platelet count levels and thrombo-
haemorrhagic symptoms”, “anagrelide dosing”, “use of other cytoreductive treatments”, “response to 
anagrelide in patients experiencing thrombotic or haemorrhagic symptoms at baseline” and 
“concomitant use of aspirin”. 
Percentage of patients who partially responded to treatment: 
Partial response rates were then defined as a reduction in platelet count of 20% to <50% from baseline 
and maintenance of the reduction for at least 4 weeks during the platelet reduction phase of the study. 
In the global analysis of sub-groups, PR rates ranged from 9.6% to 14.7%. Elevated platelet count 
group and treatment intolerant group had the highest proportion of patients (14.7% and 14.1% 
respectively) partially responding to treatment. There was globally no difference in partial response 
rates regarding age, gender, and ethnic origin.  
Proportion of patients who completely or partially responded to treatment: 
In the global analysis, 78.7% of ET patients showed either a CR or PR to treatment. All patient 
subgroups showed similarly high total response rates, ranging from 75.2% to 85.3%. ET patients 18 to 
<60 years responded slightly more than those aged over 60 years (82.1% vs 76.8%). There was 
globally no difference in total response rates regarding gender and ethnic origin. 
Time to complete or partial response: 
The median time to measured complete or partial response for ET patients was 71 days in the overall 
efficacy evaluable population. 
Platelet count: 
Mean platelet counts for ET patients at baseline were 1089.5.109/l. Platelet counts ranged from just 
above 650x109/l up to 3620x109/l. Mean platelet counts decreased to <600x109/l by the end of month 
2 and continued to decrease until the end of first year, after which counts tended to remain stable until 
the end of year 3. There was a further decrease in mean values after this time. 
22/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Relationship between platelet count levels and symptoms secondary to ET: 
A reduction in symptoms secondary to thrombocythaemia was seen in parallel with a reduction in 
mean platelet counts produced by anagrelide. In the overall efficacy evaluable ET population the 
incidence of the thrombohaemorrhagic symptoms (epistaxis, transient ischaemic attack, 
GI haemorrhage, peripheral ischaemia, haemorrhage, venous thrombosis, pain, bleeding tendency, 
skin ulcer) were in some cases 2 – 3-fold lower during treatment than pre-treatment. The incidence of 
symptoms in this population during treatment were much lower than that reported in the safety 
population during treatment. 
Anagrelide dosing: 
Overall, there were no marked differences in mean anagrelide daily doses between the safety- and the 
overall efficacy evaluable ET population, other than marginally lower doses in the CML group (mean 
doses of between 1.7 – 1.9mg/day for most of the study). Mean anagrelide daily dose (range: 
2.0mg/day – 2.4mg/day) in the ET subgroups did not differ significantly. No consistent dosage 
adjustment was required for renally impaired patients. 
Supportive studies  
In order to provide support for this revised indication, a subgroup analysis of ET patients from study 
13,970-301 who were intolerant to their previous therapy or whose platelet count could not be 
controlled by their previous therapy was produced.  This consisted of reproducing all the tables 
originally submitted with the 13,970-301 report for the patient group specified above. 
RESULTS 
- Primary efficacy variables 
Overall, 480 of the 725 efficacy evaluable ET patients (66.2%) showed a complete response to 
treatment. (Platelet reduction <600x109/L or 50% reduction from baseline) 
Complete response rates were generally consistent across the ET population subgroups, with the 
complete response rate ranging from 61.3 % to 69.1%.  
There were no major differences in CR rates according to age, gender or ethnic origin. 
- Secondary efficacy variables 
Secondary endpoints were “partial response to treatment” and “time to complete or partial response”, 
“actual platelet count reduction”, “relationship between platelet count levels and thrombo-
haemorrhagic symptoms”, “anagrelide dosing”, “use of other cytoreductive treatments”, “response to 
anagrelide in patients experiencing thrombotic or haemorrhagic symptoms at baseline” and 
“concomitant use of aspirin”. 
Percentage of patients who partially responded to treatment: 
In  the  global  analysis  of  sub-groups,  PR  rates  ranged  from  9.7%  to  14.3%.  There  was  globally  no 
difference in partial response rates regarding age, gender, and ethnic origin.  
Proportion of patients who completely or partially responded to treatment: 
77.4% of ET patients showed either a CR or PR to treatment. All patient subgroups showed similarly 
high  total  response  rates,  ranging  from  75.6%  to  83.5%.  There  was  globally  no  difference  in  total 
response rates regarding age group, gender and ethnic origin. 
Time to complete or partial response: 
The median time to measured complete or partial response for ET patients was 73 days in the overall 
efficacy evaluable population. 
23/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Platelet count: 
Mean platelet counts for ET patients at baseline were 1059.9x109/l. Platelet counts ranged from just 
above 650x109/l up to 3620x109/l. Mean platelet counts decreased to <600x109/l by the end of month 
2 and continued to decrease until the end of first year, after which counts tended to remain stable until 
the end of year 5. 
Relationship between platelet count levels and symptoms secondary to ET: 
A reduction in symptoms secondary to thrombocythaemia was seen in parallel with a reduction in 
mean platelet counts produced by anagrelide. In the overall efficacy evaluable ET population the 
incidence of the thrombohaemorrhagic symptoms (epistaxis, transient ischaemic attack, 
GI haemorrhage, peripheral ischaemia, haemorrhage, venous thrombosis, pain, bleeding tendency, 
skin ulcer) were in some cases 2 – 3-fold lower during treatment than pre-treatment. The incidence of 
symptoms in this population during treatment were much lower than that reported in the safety 
population during treatment. 
Anagrelide dosing: 
Overall, there were no marked differences in mean anagrelide daily doses between the safety- and the 
overall efficacy evaluable ET population. Mean anagrelide daily dose, approximately 2mg/day in the 
ET  subgroups  did  not  differ  significantly.  No  consistent  dosage  adjustment  was  required  for  renally 
impaired patients. 
Study 700 015 and study 700 013 
Study 700 015 was defined as an open-label, active-controlled, and randomised study. Patients 
entering the study were randomised to receive either anagrelide or hydroxyurea without blinding. One 
hundred and forty patients were planned. However, patients and physicians did not consent to 
treatment with hydroxyurea because of concerns about its leukaemogenic potential. Therefore, the 
study was abandoned after six patients had been enrolled. Platelet count was reduced by 
approximately 70% after 4 months of anagrelide therapy and was maintained within the specified 
limits for up to 26 months. Due to the small number of included patients, no conclusion can be drawn 
from this study. 
Study 700 013 was defined as an open-label, 2-centre, non-randomised, and self-controlled phase I/II 
study, and was designed to determine whether anagrelide can reduce the platelet count in patients with 
chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML). The inclusion of 14-25 patients was initially planned. 
However, only four patients were analysed (ITT), and 3 patients were evaluable. The low recruitment 
was due to the small number of study centres.  
During the first month of therapy mean platelet count dropped by 41% from pre-treatment level.  
During two months of therapy mean platelet count dropped by 69% from pre-treatment level. 
Efficacy information from Authorisation for Temporary Use (ATU) 
A cohort Temporary use Authorisation for anagrelide was granted in France in January 2002 and ET 
patients were enrolled from June 2002. The ATU indication could be considered as very close to the 
currently proposed indication (resistant, refractory or intolerant to hydroxyurea). Four hundred and 
fifty one (451) ET patients were enrolled as of March 2003. Of these 451 patients, 162 (36%) had not 
previously received anagrelide. Of these 162 ET patients, 75 (46%) had a baseline platelet count 
recorded and 30 (19%) had a post-baseline platelet count recorded. 
The applicant has provided a list of tables presenting platelet count information for four groups of ET 
patients: all platelet count data recorded; patients with both a baseline and a post-baseline platelet 
count; patients with a baseline platelet count >650x109/L; patients with both a baseline platelet count 
>650x109/L and a post-baseline platelet count. 
24/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with both a baseline and a post-baseline platelet count, the mean platelet count recorded 
during the 91 days prior to enrolling in the study, is reduced from 889x109/l to 625x109/l for the 91 
days following enrolment (N=28).  A further reduction in mean platelet count to 566x109/L is seen for 
the period 92 to 182 days after enrolment (N=7).  Similar results are globally presented in all the 
provided tables. 
No formal conclusions could be reasonably drawn from the ATU data as limited data on baseline 
platelet count are available: Of the 162 new ET patients, 75 (46%) have a baseline platelet count 
recorded and 30 (19%) have a post-baseline platelet count recorded but as the collection time points 
were not part of the CRF, they were therefore not defined. Further, it should be pointed out that the 
primary aim of the ATU is focused on safety aspects.  Nevertheless, the provided data globally 
confirm a trend in favour of a platelet count decrease after anagrelide treatment in patients resistant, 
refractory or intolerant to hydroxyurea.  
Efficacy information from publications  
The applicant presented information from recent publications in support of the efficacy assessment of 
anagrelide. The review of the publications indicates  that anagrelide reduces elevated platelet count to 
below 600x109/l. The time to response was up to a maximum of 17 weeks, similar to the response 
times observed in the clinical trials. Of note, the mean number of weeks to onset of either complete or 
partial response was approximately 2-3 weeks in studies 700-012, 700-014, and 700-999. In study 
13970-301 the number of weeks to total response was approximately 10 weeks. 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The goal of treatment in patients with ET is to reduce the platelet count and subsequently to prevent 
and reduce the incidence of thrombo-haemorrhagic complications. Xagrid is effective in reducing the 
platelet count of ET patients (overall response rates ranged from 75 % to 85 % within 2 to 9 weeks 
according to various studied populations) and is considered by experts within the field of haematology 
to compare favourably to other available cytoreductive agents, which are not platelet-selective agents, 
which are not always well tolerated, and are associated with increased risk of long-term side effects, 
which can induce treatment failures. 
The safety and efficacy of anagrelide as a platelet-lowering agent has been evaluated in four open-
label, non-controlled clinical trials (study numbers 700-012, 700-014, 700-999 and 13970-301) 
including approximately 4500 patients with myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs). However, none of 
them is comparative. In study 13970-301 the evaluable efficacy ET population totalled 934 patients 
and treatment lasted for up to 5 years. Therefore, this study provided the majority of the data and is the 
only study performed in patients whose therapeutic status could be considered as being in line with the 
indication.  
In patients with essential thrombocythaemia complete response was defined as a decrease in platelet 
count to ≤600 x109/l or a ≥50% reduction from baseline and maintenance of the reduction for at least 4 
weeks. Efficacy of anagrelide was demonstrated in reducing platelet count in the majority of patients. 
In studies 700-012, 700-014, 700-999 and study 13970-301 the time to complete response ranged from 
4 to 12 weeks. In all studies, in terms of platelet count, complete response rate was 60% -70%, and 
partial response ~10%. 
In study 13970-301, 628 of the efficacy evaluable ET patients (67.2%) showed a complete response to 
treatment. Patients who became intolerant to their previous therapy, and cytoreductive drug naive 
patients showed a lower complete response rate compared with the other subgroups.  
Further, mean platelet counts decreased progressively over time from baseline levels (1089.5x109/l) to 
<600x109/L after receiving treatment for 2 and 3 months, respectively, during the dose titration phase 
of the study. Mean platelet counts decreased further but stabilised at levels between 400 and 600 
x109/l over the duration of the study.  
25/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two subgroups of patients within study 13970-301 were considered as being of particular interest: 
those patients who were intolerant to their existing therapy and those who had failed to be adequately 
controlled on their existing therapy. These subgroups included a significant number of patients (725) 
for the efficacy evaluation of the ET population. In these subgroups combined 66.2% achieved 
complete response (CR). The provided efficacy data indicate that there is no significant difference in 
the median time to complete or partial response, and in the number of complete/partial responders 
across the age ranges. 
The number of reports of ET symptoms related to thrombocythaemia (thrombotic, haemorrhagic or 
vasomotor symptoms) decreased during the treatment, corresponding to the decrease in mean platelet 
count over time on treatment, particularly after the first month of treatment. The rate of events was the 
same during the first month and the 11 following months. Moreover, the annual rate decreased by two 
fold from year 1 to year 2. These data are reassuring in such a chronic disease even if only few 
patients were evaluable after two years of treatment. However, clinical benefit in terms of 
thrombohaemorrhagic events has not been convincingly demonstrated. 
Concern was raised over the validity of the endpoints used in the studies. The reduction of platelet 
count to ≤600 x 109/l or by ≥50% from baseline value has not the same therapeutic meaning, since a 
significant number of patients have generally platelet count over 1.5 x 109/l. Literature data suggest 
that complete response definition could have been platelet decrease under 400 x 109/l (within the 
upper limit of the physiological range) or at least under 600 x 109/l, without taking into consideration a 
reduction by ≥50% from baseline value. However, it should be acknowledged that definitions of 
response rates was, and is still not, standardised and various definitions of a complete and partial 
response can be found in the literature. Furthermore, medical practice at the time of the conduct of the 
studies aimed to bring about a significant reduction in platelets, generally to ≤600 x 109/l. It was 
acknowledged that the ideal objective was to reduce platelets to ≤400 x 109/l or within the upper limit 
of the physiological range, however this could rarely be achieved. 
Interruption of anagrelide treatment for more than 3 days results in a significant increase in platelet 
count, indicating that continued treatment with anagrelide is probably necessary to maintain a reduced 
platelet count. It appears that re-treatment with anagrelide can induce a re-decrease in platelet count, 
but no relevant information on the level of this re-increase (probably due to insufficient number of 
remaining patients) was available. Due to the lack of provided individual data, reasons for treatment 
interruption are not clear. It is also impossible to state whether or not in some cases an increase in 
platelet count during treatment, could be interpreted as a treatment resistance. 
In some cases it was difficult to determine whether anagrelide alone was responsible for platelet 
decrease as there is evidence that some patients received anagrelide concomitantly with other 
cytoreductives. Prior to entry into study 13970-301, 31.6 % (24.8 % in the ET group and 42.4% in the 
non-ET group) of patients were receiving cytoreductive treatment for ET and in the majority of the 
cases this was hydroxyurea. It is argued that some investigators might have considered it unethical to 
stop treatment with hydroxyurea before commencing anagrelide treatment, as there can be a rebound 
effect on platelets when hydroxyurea treatment is stopped and as it may take some weeks before 
anagrelide is titrated to an effective dose, which will reduce platelets to the desired level. Furthermore, 
in order to minimise potential (or observed) side effects of hydroxyurea and anagrelide, investigators 
administered both drugs concomitantly in some patients as this enabled lower doses of each drug to be 
used whilst still adequately controlling platelet counts. 88% (200) of ET patients in the efficacy 
evaluable population who received hydroxyurea concomitantly only received one episode of treatment 
and 51% of these patients took hydroxyurea concomitantly for less than a month and a further 24% for 
more than a month but less than 6 months. Due to the low quality of such old protocols and studies, it 
would be extremely difficult to determine whether anagrelide alone was responsible for the platelet 
decrease in the population of patients who received hydroxyurea concomitantly. 
Given the clinical studies predate GCP and the fact that the responsibility for the studies has been 
transferred between different sponsors, the CPMP requested a GCP inspection of study 700-014. Two 
sites were inspected and the data of 19 patients were reviewed. The diagnosis of ET was confirmed for 
26/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
all patients but major/critical findings were identified for 9/19 patients, who were not excluded from 
the efficacy analysis. However, it is important to note that protocol of such an old study was not as 
rigorous as current ones would be expected to be. The conclusion of the GCP inspectors was that “the 
efficacy and safety data provided in the study report of the “pivotal” phase-II study (700-014) were 
not reliable”. Although a new efficacy and safety analysis could theoretically be performed 
(excluding all patients who did not meet the pre-defined inclusion criteria and all patients for whom 
major protocol deviations were identified), it was considered that complementary data from named 
patient/ compassionate use in EU would provide more pertinent information than data taken from a 
reanalysis of old and low quality studies. There is a wide clinical experience since anagrelide is 
marketed in USA since 1997, and available in EU for compassionate use. Studies performed by the 
applicant after 1992 were conducted in accordance with ICH GCP. Further, any studies that are 
conducted as part of follow-up measures/specific obligations post approval will be conducted to 
current GCP. 
The activity of anagrelide has been sufficiently demonstrated in terms of its ability to decrease platelet 
counts in ET patients. The data provided from both publications/abstracts and Named 
patient/Compassionate Use Programmes confirm the efficacy of anagrelide: mean platelet count for 
new patients was reduced after enrolment in the ATU and mean platelet count for patients already 
controlled prior to enrolment into the ATU maintained this control on anagrelide. However, it should 
be pointed out that the primary aim of the ATU is focused on safety.   
No comparative trial was performed with Xagrid and this omission could be considered as adequately 
justified by the applicant, mainly due to ethical reasons and accumulated experience. However, in 
order to provide further complementary data on long-term safety and efficacy the applicant will 
conduct a randomised clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of anagrelide and hydroxyurea 
as a post-marketing commitment.  
Clinical safety 
Introduction 
The assessment of safety is mainly based upon clinical data from studies 700-012, 700-013, 700-014, 
700-015, 700-999 and 13970-301. The purpose of study 13970-301, which provides the majority of 
the safety information available, was to gather efficacy and safety data on the use of anagrelide in 
thrombocythaemia secondary to a myeloproliferative disorder (MPD) and to provide long-term safety 
data in patients who entered from studies 700-012, 700-014 and 700-999 and in those not previously 
exposed to anagrelide. 
In addition to these studies, the applicant provided data from Compassionate Use Programmes and 
post-marketing experience. 
A cohort Temporary Use Authorisation (ATU) for Xagrid was granted in France in January 2002 and 
following submission of the MAA in March 2002, 451 patients were enrolled into the ATU from June 
2002. Most of them correspond to the new indication, which is the scope of this MAA (this 
Compassionate Use Programme only included ET patients at risk who are resistant, refractory, or 
intolerant to hydroxyurea). The cohort ATU allows Xagrid to be made available prior to a Marketing 
Authorisation approval as the following conditions are met: Xagrid is intended to treat a serious and 
rare condition; there is a strong presumption of efficacy, an acceptable safety profile and a MAA has 
been filed. However, the cohort ATU provides only supportive information on the effectiveness of 
Xagrid and focuses on the safety. Essential Thrombocythaemia patients who correspond to the above 
defined indication are included in a “cohort ATU”, and are treated and monitored according to criteria 
fully defined in a protocol for therapeutic use and data collection. 
The applicant has also provided a preliminary analysis of the safety data from the stopped anagrelide-
arm of the ongoing UK MRC PT1 study (see below).  
27/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
4600 patients have been exposed to anagrelide during clinical trials, approximately 40 % males and 60 
% females. The defined evaluable safety population comprised 3027 patients. Although the protocols 
stated that the patients had to be at least 18 years of age, 16 younger patients received anagrelide. The 
average age ranged from 57.2 to 63.6 years (range 5 to 98 years). Most of patients were aged 60 years 
or more (57.3% in the study 13970-301). 
Adverse events and serious adverse events 
26.3%  of  all  patients  experienced  a  serious  adverse  event  (SAE).  The  ET  group  reported  a  higher 
percentage for drug-related SAEs (8.3%) than all patients (7.5%). 
Number of serious adverse events in study 13 970-301: 
Number of patients with a SAE (%) 
SAEs related to study drug (%) 
ET 
N= 2251 
466 (20.7) 
80 / 959 (8.3) 
All 
N= 3660 
961 (26.3) 
150 / 1997 (7.5) 
SAEs occurred most frequently in the cardiac body system (6.3%) with congestive cardiac failure, in 
the gastrointestinal body system (3.6%) with gastrointestinal haemorrhage. The incidence of chronic 
myeloid leukaemia (CML) is higher in the non-ET group, but this population includes patients with 
CML. The inotropic and vasodilatory effects of anagrelide are considered responsible for the majority 
of the SAEs.  
Serious adverse events with an incidence of ≥ 2,0% from study 13 970-301: 
Number of patients (%) 
Safety population 
Number of patients with a SAE 
Cardiac 
Cardiac failure congestive 
Gastrointestinal 
Gastrointestinal haemorrhage NOS 
Blood and lymphatic system 
Chronic myeloid leukaemia 
Infections and infestations 
Pneumonia NOS 
General and administration site conditions 
Death NOS 
Nervous system 
Cerebrovascular accident 
Vascular 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
Surgical and medical procedures 
Neoplasm, benign and malignant 
ET 
N = 2251 
466 (20,7%) 
128 (5,7%) 
46 (2,0%) 
65 (2,9%) 
36 (1,6%) 
52 (2,3%) 
5 (0,2%) 
59 (2,6%) 
36 (1,6%) 
67 (3,0%) 
19 (0,8%) 
73 (3,2%) 
38 (1,7%) 
92 (4,1%) 
45 (2,0%) 
52 (2,3%) 
41 (1,8%) 
All 
N = 3660 
961 (26,3%) 
232 (6,3%) 
79 (2,2%) 
130 (3,6%) 
75 (2,0%) 
160 (4,4%) 
53 (1,4%) 
143 (3,9%) 
84 (2,3%) 
149 (4,1%) 
52 (1,4%) 
125 (3,4%) 
69 (1,9%) 
189 (5,2%) 
111 (3,0%) 
98 (2,7%) 
82 (2,2%) 
The incidence of SAEs were twice as high in the older patient population (<60 years) compared with 
patients aged 18-60 years. In the older patients, the most commonly recorded SAEs were cardiac 
disorders (congestive cardiac failure). There were no clinically relevant differences between males and 
females in the reporting of SAEs. 
The number of patients experiencing an adverse event (AE) was nearly 100% and an average of  4.7 to 
5.4 events are reported per patient. The severity of AEs as mild (38.6%) or moderate (23.9%). For all 
patients groups, 18.4% of all events reported were regarded as related to anagrelide therapy. 
Number of adverse events in study 13 970-301 
Number of patients with an AE (%) 
AEs related to study drug (%) 
ET 
N= 2251 
2 242 (99.6) 
2 184 / 10 820 (20.2) 
All 
N= 3660 
3 645 (99.6) 
3 330 / 18 139 (18.4) 
28/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most common adverse event assessed as related to anagrelide by investigators was headache 
(13.3% to 38.3% according to the considered study). Other common drug-related AEs overall included 
palpitations, oedema/fluid retention, nausea/vomiting, diarrhoea, dizziness and abdominal pain. The 
adverse events were reported consistently across the various groups with the exception of headache 
which appeared at a much higher incidence in the ET population of study (14.5%) than CML group 
(7.7%). 
The incidence of transformations to acute leukaemia / myelodysplasia syndrome in ET patients was 
2.1% (47/2251). It was higher in the all patient group, mainly due to the incidence in the CML 
population. Most of ET patients had received hydroxyurea and/or another cytotoxic agent prior to or 
during treatment with anagrelide. Only 2 ET patients had received anagrelide alone but they did not 
have a clear diagnosis of ET at entry to the study and were already in an accelerated phase of 
leukaemia. There was only one ET patient who had acute myeloid leukaemia, considered as drug-
related by the investigator. In nine other ET patients who also developed acute myeloid leukaemia, 
this was recorded as not related to study drug. 
Patient with transformations of the underlying malignancy from study 13970-301  
Number of patients who had a transformation 
Type of transformation 
Chronic Myelogenous Leukaemia 
Acute leukaemia / Myelodysplasia 
Myelofibrosis 
Polycythaemia 
Unknown (lost to follow-up) 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Number of patients (%) 
ET 
N = 2251 
69 (3,1%) 
1 (<0,1%) 
47 (2,1%) 
15 (0,7%) 
2 (0,1%) 
4 (0,2%) 
All 
N = 3660 
259 (7,1%) 
2 (0,1%) 
232 (6,3%) 
19 (0,5%) 
2 (0,1%) 
4 (0,1%) 
In study 700-13, 100% of patients discontinued anagrelide due to either an adverse event or 
ineffectiveness in platelet reduction. In study 700-15, one patient discontinued because he died from 
myocardial infarction (death unrelated to anagrelide). 
23.1% of patients withdrew due to an adverse event in the study 13970-301. There were more 
discontinuations from the ET population (29.2%) than non-ET (16.9%), but information about adverse 
events leading to withdrawal are not available in this study. 
64.6% of patients were still on study after 6 months of treatment and only 1.1% after 5 years. This is 
explained by a high number of patients who discontinued (580 patients (31,1%) in the ET population 
and 1158 (38,3%) in the all population after 5 years) or were lost to follow-up (1287 (68,9%) in the 
ET population and 1869 (61,7%) in the all population). 
Numbers of patients present (%) 
Time 
Baseline 
Month 6 
1 Year 
3 Years 
5 Years 
ET 
1867 (100,0) 
1252 (67,1) 
937 (50,2) 
295 (15,8) 
21 (1,1) 
Non-ET 
1160 (100,0) 
702 (60,5) 
479 (41,3) 
86 (7,4) 
13 (1,1) 
All 
3027 (100,0) 
1954 (64,6) 
1416 (46,8) 
381 (12,6) 
34 (1,1) 
Deaths 
A total of 530 deaths were reported in the safety studies, but in most cases, they were related to the 
disease. Taking the ET population as a whole, a total of 25 treatment-related deaths occurred out of a 
total population of 2654, yielding an incidence of 0.9%. The cause of death was provided in 18 out of 
the 25 treatment related cases. The overwhelming majority of deaths were due to cardiovascular 
disease (8/18) with the remainder dying from a variety of causes including pulmonary disease, CVA, 
lymphoma and multi-organ failure. 8 deaths were labelled NOS (7 out of the 25 treatment related 
29/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cases and 1 unrelated): the cause of death was “unknown”, but the medical histories of these patients 
were provided. One patient was lost to follow-up, 6 were known to have significant co-morbidity that 
may have been the cause of death. One remaining patient had platelet counts over 1 million with 
anaemia and leucopoenia.   There are no unexpected findings in the ET population as a whole (related 
and unrelated deaths). The 6 most frequent Body Systems reported for cause of death can be ranked 
from highest to lowest: cardiac, cerebrovascular, respiratory diseases, blood & lymphatic, infection 
and vascular.  
Laboratory findings 
During clinical studies, mean values for haemoglobin and haematocrit gradually decreased but 
remained within the reference range. White blood cells remained within normal limits for ET patients 
throughout the study. Cases of thrombocytopaenia were reported in all studies with an incidence 
varying from 1% to 2.7%. 
Clinical laboratory parameters including liver and renal function tests remained within normal limits 
for the duration of the study. 
Concomitant medications 
During the study 13 970-301, concomitant medications were taken by 79.9% of patients overall. Many 
patients received concomitantly cytoreductive drugs and anagrelide: hydroxyurea was taken by 31.6% 
of patients overall (24.8% in the ET group and 42.4% in the non-ET group), interferon by 4% and 
busulfan by 3.3%. Aspirin was the second most common concomitant medication (26.3%). It should 
be noted that a comparison of prior and concomitant medications shows a large rise in the use of 
acetaminophen (from 1.8% to 9.3%). Other frequently taken medications were furosemide, 
allopurinol, ranitidine, digoxin.  
Post-marketing experience 
Anagrelide  was  first  granted  a  marketing  authorisation  in  the  USA  in  March  1997  for  essential 
thrombocythaemia  (ET)  and  subsequent  approvals  for  polycythaemia  vera  (PV),  chronic  myeloid 
leukaemia  (CML)  and  all  other  myeloproliferative  disorders  (MPDs).  It  is  approved  in  11  other 
countries  and  until  approval  in  the  EU  was    available  in  29  countries  on  a  named  patient  / 
compassionate use programme. 
From March 1997 to January 2003, the  global patient-years exposure is estimated to be in excess of  
60000 patient years. 
Since the product was marketed in 1997, there have been worldwide a total of 570 patient cases 
reported globally (healthcare professional and consumer reports) with a total of 1174 events, i.e. on 
averageover 2 events per case. The majority of the events were considered by the reporters as to be 
related to  anagrelide and 47% were serious. 
Analysis of the post-marketing data reveals that body system group in with the largest number of 
reported events is  cardiac disorders (16.1%) with the most common events being  palpitations, 
congestive heart failure, tachycardia and myocardial infarction,; the majority of these events 
(excluding palpitations) were serious. The nervous system disorders is the second  most common 
group (13.1%) with the most commonly reported adverse events of  headache, often considered as 
serious; cerebral infarction and transient ischaemic attacks were also noted. The third most common 
body system group is gastrointestinal disorders (11.4%) with adverse events of diarrhoea, nausea 
abdominal pain and pancreatitis (14 cases, all considered serious). The body system group 
investigations (11.3%) refer to laboratory analysis events such as blood creatinine increased, 
haematocrit or haemoglobin decreased, liver function test abnormal. Renal failure and renal 
impairment were also reported as serious, in 0.7% and 0.3% of patients respectively. The other body 
system demonstrating a frequent occurrence of adverse events is respiratory disorders (8.7%) with 
dyspnoea, pleural effusion, cough and lung infiltration. It should be noted that three cases of 
pericardial effusion and nine  cases of pleural effusion have been reported since anagrelide was 
marketed. Females experienced more adverse events than males, but this may reflect the population 
receiving the drug (higher incidence of ET in females: versus males). There were more serious adverse 
30/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
events reported in the elderly group (>65 years, for both males and females) than in the younger 
patients as would be expected. 
Two cases involving exposure of anagrelide in pregnancy was recorded. In the first case the patient, 
36 years old, was receiving anagrelide during the first 8 weeks and 6 days of pregnancy. She 
experienced pre-eclampsia and baby was delivered by caesarean section at 32 weeks. The baby 
developed necrotising enterocolitis and thrombocytopenia (17x109/L), requiring platelet support. 
Platelet count normalised and no further transfusions were required. The reporter did not provide a 
causality for the two events in relation to anagrelide. In the second case, the patient whose age was 
unknown had been receiving anagrelide for 2 months when she discovered she was 6 weeks pregnant. 
No additional outcome information is available. 
One patient diagnosed with a myeloproliferative disorder (not specified) experienced acute leukaemia. 
He had been treated previously with hydroxyurea.  
16 deaths were reported during the reporting period: 1 death is related to anagrelide (progressive 
dyspnoea with lung cancer), 4 deaths are possibly related (arrythmia, cerebral haemorrhage, renal 
failure) and 8 are not assessed; the 3 other cases are regarded as not related. 
Safety information from ATU 
It is to be noted that among all 451 patients included in the cohort ATU, only 13 cases of serious 
adverse events were reported. The only reported case of death concerned a patient who presented a 
rhabdomyolysis, from which he recovered, but died 3 weeks later due to ischemic cardiac 
insufficiency. This case was considered as serious and unexpected. 
Another patient developed an allergic reaction 20 days after the start of Xagrid, treatment was stopped 
and the patient recovered. This case can be considered as serious unexpected. 
The most frequently reported cases concerned cardiovascular effects (96 cases) with palpitations 
(33/96), Myocardial infarction (18/96) and cardiac failure (19/96). 67 cases were reported under 
Nervous system disorders (headache and migraine mostly reported (34/67)). There were 14 cases of 
pancreatitis among the 51 cases reported under gastro-intestinal system disorder. Further, 8 cases of 
pulmonary hypertension were reported under vascular system disorders among 32 cases.  
It should be highlighted that the collection of safety information from ATU in France was still 
ongoing at the time of approval and such information is reported to the authorities on a 
regular basis. 
Safety information from the MRC PT1study 
The MRC PT1 study is an ongoing randomised controlled trial (non-GCP and not sponsored by the 
applicant). This is a three armed study: the high risk ET patient arm compares anagrelide plus aspirin 
versu HU plus aspirin with a long-term planned follow-up: PT1 (Primary Thrombocythemia Trial – 
Medical Research Council UK 1997 – a long-term active comparator randomised controlled trial in 
patients with risk stratified ET).  
Primary objectives (in high-risk patients) were to compare the effect of hydroxyurea and anagrelide on 
the incidence of vascular events, and to compare the efficacy of hydroxyurea and anagrelide in terms 
of reducing elevated platelet counts. 
Secondary  objectives  (in  intermediate-  and  high-risk  patients)  were  to  establish  whether  each 
treatment modality alters the risk of leukaemic or myelofibrotic transformation. 
It  was  initially  proposed  to  include  as  many  patients  as  possible  including  previously  diagnosed 
patients regardless of whether or not they had received treatment previously. High-risk patients were 
defined as ET Patients having any of the following features: 
•  Age ≥ 60 years 
•  Platelet count > 1000x109/l (current or previous) 
•  History of ischaemia, thrombosis or embolic events (including erythromelalgia) 
•  Haemorrhage considered to be related to PT 
31/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Presence of hypertension or diabetes 
Since low-dose aspirin has been shown to reduce minor ischaemic symptoms in patients with 
thrombocythaemia, it was decided to administrate aspirin to both arms. This group of high-risk 
patients was randomised into 2 further arms: aspirin (75 mg) + hydroxyurea (407 patients) versus 
aspirin (75 mg) + anagrelide (0.5 mg twice daily) (408 patients). 
Recruitment  commenced  in  July  1997  and  was  closed  in  August  2002.  A  total  of  815  high-risk 
patients entered the study. 
In September 2003, the CPMP received information that the anagralide plus aspirin arm of the MRC 
findings  of  progressive  myelofibrosis  and 
PT1 
thrombohaemorrhagic events.   
trial  had  been  discontinued, 
following 
A preliminary analysis of these data (from the high-risk group) revealed an excess of serious adverse 
events in the anagrelide arm. These events included a small number of patients (6 of a total of 400 ET 
patients) who have shown progressive myelofibrosis. Preliminary analysis has also revealed an excess 
of patients with cardiovascular (17 patients in the anagrelide arm vs 9 patients in the hydroxyurea arm) 
and haemorrhagic (21 patients in the anagrelide arm vs 8 patients in the hydroxyurea arm) events, 
though survival between the 2 arms of the trial showed no difference. The differences between the two 
treatment arms were not statistically significant. Overall cardiovascular events, as observed in the 
MRC PT1 trial, occurred in 5% of patients in the hydroxyurea arm vs 7% in the anagrelide arm.  
Further  data  from  the  MRC  PT1  study  will  be  reviewed  in  November  2004  as  part  of  the  annual 
review by the MRC Leukaemia Trials Steering Committee. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Overall anagrelide has been administered in clinical trials to 4 600 patients during a period from 1988 
to 1997. The safety of anagrelide has been examined in 4 open label clinical studies. In 3 of the studies 
(700-012, 700-014 and 700-999), 942 patients who received anagrelide at a mean dose of 
approximately 2mg/day were assessed for safety. In these studies 22 patients received anagrelide for 
up to 4 years. The safety data submitted by the company are mainly based on the study 13 970-301 
which is the largest of all of the studies in terms of number of patients and length of exposure. In the 
latter study 3660 patients who received anagrelide at a mean dose of approximately 2mg/day were 
assessed for safety.  In this study 34 patients received anagrelide for up to 5 years. Confirmed start 
dates of therapy were only available for 3027 patients (the ‘defined’ safety population) and parameters 
involving exposure time have been based on this subset of patients.  
544 of the patients from studies 700-012, 700-014 and 700-999 were transferred into study 13970-301, 
529 of which were included in the safety population, lack of information preventing the inclusion of 
the remaining 15 patients.  
It must be noted that many patients withdrew from studies (38.3% discontinued and 61.7% were lost 
to follow-up). Finally only 34/3027 patients received anagrelide during five years with only 21 in the 
ET indication. The high percentage of patients who discontinued due to an AE (23.1%) is a concern 
since ET is a chronic disease and drugs used to treat it are supposed to be given on long-term basis.  
Anagrelide as Agrylin has been available as a marketed product in the USA since March 1997 and via 
a named patient or compassionate use programme in EU. From March 1997 to January 2003, the 
global patient-years exposure is estimated to be in excess of 60000 patient years. The safety data 
provided by the post-marketing reports confirm the safety profile that had been made during the 
clinical trials. 
In order to provide further reassurance for the use of anagrelide in the proposed indication, the 
applicant performed analyses of the available European Compassionate use data to support the dose, 
the efficacy and safety of Xagrid. The applicant provided data on e.g. 451 ET patients who are 
currently treated with anagrelide through a Compassionate Use Programme (ATU or Temporary 
Authorisations for Use). Most of them correspond to the indication, which is the scope of this MAA 
(this Compassionate Use Programme only included ET patients at risk who are resistant, refractory, or 
32/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intolerant to hydroxyurea). The  review did not identify any new safety issues with regard to 
anagrelide other than one confirmed case of rhabdomyolysis possibly related to anagrelide.  
In total 601 deaths are reported in the MAA, in the ET population 197 patients (8,8%) died in study 
13,970-301 and another 10 deaths were reported in the other clinical trials. Taking the ET population 
as a whole, a total of 25 treatment-related deaths occurred out of a total population of 2654, yielding 
an incidence of 0.9%. In absence of controlled data, a comparison with the standard population 
indicates that the overall number of deaths reported in the ET population is expected. The cause of 
death was provided in 18 out of the 25 treatment related cases. The majority of deaths were due to 
cardiovascular disease (8/18) with the remainder dying from a variety of causes including pulmonary 
disease, CVA, lymphoma and multi-organ failure. Finally, the casue of death was unknown in 8 cases. 
However, there are no unexpected findings in the ET population as a whole (related and unrelated 
deaths). 
Thrombosis and haemorrhage are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with ET. Those 
over 60 years of age, a history of thrombosis or ischemic events and platelet counts over 1000 x 109/l 
are considered to be at highest risk. Many patients in the anagrelide clinical studies would fall within 
this high-risk category.  
The  most  commonly  reported  drug  related  adverse  reactions  were  headache  occurring  at 
approximately  14%,  palpitations  occurring  at  approximately  9%,  fluid  retention  and  nausea  both 
occurring  at  approximately  6%,  and  diarrhoea  occurring  at  5%.  These  adverse  drug  reactions  are 
expected based on the pharmacology of anagrelide (inhibition of phosphodiesterase III). Gradual dose 
titration may help diminish these effects. 
The applicant has provided safety data presented by age and disease. The overall AE/SAE incidence 
rates for the >65 years of age group are slightly higher when compared to the data presented on the 18 
to <60 group. The incidence of SAEs were twice as high in the older patient population. In the older 
patients,  the  most  commonly  recorded  SAE  was  congestive  cardiac  failure.  Therefore,  anagrelide 
should be used with caution in this population. The safety data in elderly clearly shows the need for 
further analysis of this patient group. The lack of comparative data is considered a drawback. 
With reference to the issue of leukaemic transformation, a review of the clinical safety database has 
shown no increased risk of transformation to acute leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndrome in patients 
that have received anagrelide for up to 7 years. It should be pointed out however that this is quite a 
short term. 
Of 2654 ET patients from studies 700-012, 700-014, 700-999 and 13970-301, 54 (2.0%) patients 
transformed to acute leukaemia/myelodysplasia. However, a majority of these patients had received 
cytoreductive therapy before anagrelide. Only 1 of 390 (0.3%) of ET patients who had not received 
cytoreductive therapy recorded a transformation to acute leukaemia/myelodysplasia.  
The above seems to support the possibility that treatment with cytoreductive agents results in a higher 
incidence of leukaemic transformations in patients diagnosed with ET.  
Nevertheless, the potential occurrence of leukaemic transformations should be carefully monitored 
post-marketing. 
Cases of cardiomegaly and congestive heart failure have been reported with use of anagrelide and are 
considered  to  be  uncommon  “real”  effects.  In  ET  patients  who  have  a  high  risk  of  cardiovascular 
complications  due  to  the  disease,  it  is  still  difficult  to  establish  a  possible  link  between  observed 
cardiovascular effects and direct toxic effect of Xagrid.  
A preliminary analysis of the data from the high-risk group of the MRC PT1 study revealed an excess 
of serious adverse events in the anagrelide arm. These events included a small number of patients (6 of 
a total of 400 ET patients) who have shown progressive myelofibrosis. Preliminary analysis has also 
revealed an excess of patients with cardiovascular (17 patients in the anagrelide arm vs 9 patients in 
the  hydroxyurea  arm)  and  haemorrhagic  (21  patients  in  the  anagrelide  arm  vs  8  patients  in  the 
hydroxyurea  arm)  events,  though  survival  between  the  2  arms  of  the  trial  showed  no  difference. 
33/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall  cardiovascular  events,  as  observed  in  the  MRC  PT1  trial,  occurred  in  5%  of  patients  in  the 
hydroxyurea arm vs 7% in the anagrelide arm. 
Although, the differences between the two treatment arms were not statistically significant, it should 
be  noted  that  these  are  small  patient  numbers  and  the  clinical  significance  rather  than  the  statistical 
significance should be considered when discussing this safety concern. 
Anagrelide should be used with caution in patients of any age with known or suspected heart disease, 
and only if the potential benefits of therapy outweigh the potential risks. Anagrelide is an inhibitor of 
cyclic  AMP  phosphodiesterase  III  and  because  of  its  positive  inotropic  effects,  a  pre-treatment 
cardiovascular 
echocardiography, 
electrocardiogram)  is  recommended.  Patients  should  be  monitored  during  treatment  for  evidence  of 
cardiovascular effects that may require further cardiovascular examination and investigation. 
investigation 
examination 
(including 
further 
such 
as 
The potential cardiovascular risk associated with the use of anagrelide should be carefully monitored 
post-marketing  and  includes:  vasodilatation;  tachycardia;  palpitations;  congestive  heart  failure; 
decrease in blood pressure; cardiomegaly and myocardial infarction. 
Anagrelide is an inhibitor of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase III (PDE III). Therefore, concomitant use 
of  anagrelide  with  other  phosphodiesterase  (PDEIII)  inhibitors  such  as  milrinone,  amrinone, 
enoximone,  olprinone  and  cilostazol  is  not  recommended.  The  potential  risks  and  benefits  of  the 
concomitant  use  of  anagrelide  with  acetylsalicylic  acid  in  patients  with  a  platelet  count  greater  than 
1500 x 109/l and/or a history of haemorrhage should be assessed before treatment is commenced. 
Potential interactions are adequately addressed in the SPC. 
There  are  only  limited  data  available  on  the  use  of  anagrelide  in  the  paediatric  population  and 
anagrelide should be used in this patient group with caution. 
Further, there are no adequate data from the use of anagrelide in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have  shown  reproductive  toxicity.  The  potential  risk  for  humans  is  unknown  and  the  use  of  Xagrid 
during  pregnancy  is  not  recommended.  Mothers  should  discontinue  breast-feeding  when  taking 
Xagrid. 
Currently, there are no specific data available in patients with impaired renal function and/or hepatic 
function. The potential risk and benefits of anagrelide therapy in these patients should be assessed 
before treatment is commenced and doses are to be titrated on an individual patient basis. Hepatic 
metabolism represents the major route of drug clearance and liver function may therefore be expected 
to influence this process although no specific dosage recommendations can be made. Due to the lack 
of data, Xagrid is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic and/or renal impairment. 
The applicant has committed to undertake an open label, single dose, phase 1 study to compare the 
pharmacokinetics and tolerability of anagrelide in healthy subjects and subjects with severe renal 
impairment and subjects with moderate hepatic impairment. 
The safety issues identified during clinical trials and post-marketing experience have been 
appropriately addressed in the SPC and Package Leaflet. Furthermore, the safety points identified will 
be closely monitored by the applicant in future PSURs - possible cardiovascular toxicity (myocardial 
infarction, cardiac failure), possible malignancies as cases of transformation to acute leukaemia or 
myelodysplasia (independently of spontaneous transformation due to the disease), rare cases of 
pancreatitis, gastro-intestinal haemorrhage, lung infiltration, myalgia/rhabdomyolysis, cutaneous 
reactions such as bullous reaction, and finally few cases of pulmonary hypertension. These issues and 
in particular mortality, cardiovascular events (including possible cardiomyopathy), acute leukaemia 
and follow-up of pregnancies occurring while the patient is being treated with anagrelide, will also be 
further addressed in a Post Authorisation Safety Study (PASS) in the EU. After 5 years of follow-up 
the study may be continued for an additional 5 years to obtain specific information on pregnancy 
outcomes and follow-up in women of childbearing potential, as well as haematological 
transformations. This study will compare long-term safety data of a cohort of Essential 
Thrombocytopenia patients, on Xagrid and on other treatment strategies. Secondary objectives are 
efficacy and utilisation analysis. 
34/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No comparative trial was performed with Xagrid and this omission could be considered as adequately 
justified by the applicant, mainly due to ethical reasons and accumulated experience. However, in 
order to provide further complementary data on long-term safety and efficacy, in particular to 
elucidate the potential cardiovascular risk associated with anagrelide, the applicant will conduct a 
randomised clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of anagrelide and hydroxyurea as a post-
marketing commitment.  
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of the product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. There are 
no unresolved quality issues, which have a negative impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Anagrelide has been demonstrated to be a platelet-lowering agent showing selectivity for 
megakaryocytes. Its mechanism of action appears to be through primary inhibition of TPO/c-mpl 
receptor-mediated events in megakaryocytes leading to reduced maturation of the megakaryocytes and 
ultimately redcuced platelet numbers.   
The most important adverse effects identified in the pre-clinical safety evaluation programme consist 
of effects on the cardiovascular and the reproductive systems. Anagrelide has been shown to have 
positive inotropic and chronotropic activity, and to act as a peripheral vasodilator.  These actions are 
very probably due to inhibition of CAMP phophodiesterase in cardiac and vascular muscle.  There is 
no evidence of prolongation of QT interval by anagrelided itself, and because of lack of in vivo effects, 
the slow onset inhibition of HERG current at high in vitro concentrations of the main metabolite are 
not considered as clinically relevant.   
The significant potentiation by anagrelide of the anti-coagulating effect of heparin in the rat and of 
cardiovascular responses to a calcium channel blocker in vitro suggests a potential for drug 
interactions with these agents, but such interactions have not been highlighted in patients who received 
these drugs concomitantly. 
Because of the potential harm to the foetus, anagrelide should be used in pregnancy only when the 
benefit to the mother justifies the potential risk to the foetus.  It is not known if anagrelide is excreted 
in milk, but because of the potential adverse effects to nursing infants it is recommended that either 
breast-feeding is discontinued or drug treatment is stopped. This is sufficiently discussed in the SPC. 
Anagrelide is not genotoxic and after careful review of the available evidence deemed to have a low 
carcinogenic potential.  However, in order to substantiate the absence of leukaemogenic potential of 
anagrelide as compared to the conventional therapy (hydroxyurea), the applicant should have provided 
more data on the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon. The applicant has committed to 
undertake a 2-year rat carcinogenicity study with anagrelide post-marketing in order to further 
elucidate any potential leukaemogenicity of the product. 
Efficacy 
The goal of treatment in patients with ET is to reduce the platelet count and subsequently to prevent 
and reduce the incidence of thrombo-haemorrhagic complications. Although no comparative trial was 
performed (this omission could be considered as adequately justified mainly due to ethical reasons and 
accumulated experience), activity of anagrelide has been demonstrated in decreasing platelet count in 
ET patients. In patients with essential thrombocythaemia complete response was defined as a decrease 
in platelet count to ≤600 x109/l or a ≥50% reduction from baseline and maintenance of the reduction 
for at least 4 weeks. In studies 700-012, 700-014, 700-999 and study 13970-301 the time to complete 
response ranged from 4 to 12 weeks. The duration of the studies provided was up to 5 years and there 
is  extensive  clinical  experience  since  anagrelide  has  been  marketed  in  USA  since  1997,  and  wass 
35/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
available  in  the  EU  for  compassionate  use.  Anagrelide  is  considered  by  experts  within  the  field  of 
haematology  to  compare  favourably  to  other  available  cytoreductive  agents,  which  are  not  platelet-
selective agents, which are not always well tolerated, and can induce treatment failures. 
The  number  of  reports  of  ET  symptoms  related  to  thrombocythaemia  (thrombotic,  haemorrhagic  or 
vasomotor  symptoms)  decreased  during  treatment  with  anagrelide,  corresponding  to  the  decrease  in 
mean platelet count over time on treatment, particularly after the first month of treatment. However, 
clinical benefit in terms of thrombohaemorrhagic events has not yet been convincingly demonstrated.  
Xagrid is indicated for the reduction of elevated platelet counts in at risk essential thrombocythaemia 
patients who are intolerant to their current therapy or whose elevated platelet counts are not reduced to 
an acceptable level by their current therapy. An at risk essential thrombocythaemia patient is defined 
by one or more of the following features: >60 years of age; or platelet count >1000 x 109/l; or a history 
of  thrombo-haemorrhagic  events.  Treatment  with  Xagrid  capsules  should  be  initiated  by  a  clinician 
with experience in the management of ET.  
In  order  to  provide  further  complementary  data  on  long-term  safety  and  efficacy  the  applicant  will 
conduct a randomised clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of anagrelide and hydroxyurea 
as a post-marketing commitment. 
Safety 
The  most  commonly  reported  drug  related  adverse  reactions  were  headache  occurring  at 
approximately  14%,  palpitations  occurring  at  approximately  9%,  fluid  retention  and  nausea  both 
occurring  at  approximately  6%,  and  diarrhoea  occurring  at  5%.    These  adverse  drug  reactions  are 
expected based on the pharmacology of anagrelide (inhibition of phosphodiesterase III). Gradual dose 
titration may help diminish these effects. 
In study 13970-301 a total of 25 treatment-related deaths occurred out of a total population of 2654, 
yielding  an  incidence  of  0.9%.  In  18  out  of  the  25  cases  the  cause  of  death  was  identified.  The 
majority of deaths were due to cardiovascular disease (8/18) with the remainder dying from a variety 
of causes including pulmonary disease, CVA, lymphoma and multi-organ failure. Anagrelide should 
be  used  with  caution  in  patients  of  any  age  with  known  or  suspected  heart  disease,  and  only  if  the 
potential  benefits  of  therapy  outweigh  the  potential  risks.  Anagrelide  is  an  inhibitor  of  CAMP 
phosphodiesterase  III  and  because  of  its  positive  inotropic  effects,  a  pre-treatment  cardiovascular 
examination  (including  further  investigation  such  as  echocardiography,  electrocardiogram)  is 
recommended.  Patients  should  be  monitored  during  treatment  for  evidence  of  cardiovascular  effects 
that may require further cardiovascular examination and investigation. 
Although a review of the clinical safety database has shown no increased risk of transformation to 
acute leukaemia or myelodysplastic syndrome in patients who have received anagrelide for up to 7 
years, the potential occurrence of leukaemic transformations should be carefully monitored post-
marketing. 
The  use  of  Xagrid  during  pregnancy  is  not  recommended  and  mothers  should  discontinue  breast-
feeding when taking Xagrid. Further, the potential risk and benefits of anagrelide therapy in patients 
with  impaired  renal  and/or  hepatic  function  should  be  assessed  before  treatment  is  commenced  and 
doses are to be titrated on an individual patient basis.  
The safety issues identified during clinical trials and post-marketing experience have been 
appropriately addressed in the SPC and Package Leaflet. Furthermore, the applicant will closely 
monitor the safety points identified in future PSURs and in a Post Authorisation Safety Study (PASS) 
in the EU which will focus especially on cardiovascular events, acute leukaemia and follow-up of 
pregnancies. This study will compare long-term safety data of a cohort of Essential Thrombocytopenia 
patients, on Xagrid and on other treatment strategies. Secondary objectives are efficacy and utilisation 
analyses.  
In order to provide further complementary data on long-term safety and efficacy, in particular to 
elucidate the potential cardiovascular risk associated with anagrelide, the applicant will conduct a 
randomised clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of anagrelide and hydroxyurea as a post-
marketing commitment. 
36/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Following the assessment of the supplementary documentation provided by the applicant, a number of 
key issues regarding clinical aspects of Xagrid treatment were identified that needed to be further 
addressed. The applicant was asked to provide an overall benefit/risk assessment for the use of Xagrid 
in the indication which is the scope of this MAA, to provide a detailed protocol for the proposed Post 
Approval Safety Study (PASS), to give a detailed outline of the strategy and tools chosen to address 
the potential cardiovascular risk and to appropriately define the “at risk” patients referred to in the 
SPC. Following the review of the responses provided by the applicant, the CPMP concluded that 
satisfactory responses had been provided to the majority of these issues. However, a few remaining 
outstanding issues were identified to be addressed by the applicant at an Oral Explanation before the 
CPMP: 
- 
- 
The overall benefit/risk assessment; 
The potential cardiovascular toxicity. 
An Oral Explanation took place on 24 July 2003 and focused on the benefit/risk assessment of Xagrid.  
The applicant concluded that the benefit/risk assessment conclusion was favourable for the use of 
Xagrid in “at risk” ET patients.  Further, the applicant stated that the potential cardiovascular toxicity 
of the drug was mostly mild and reversible and will be closely monitored as part of the Risk 
Management Programme/ PASS programme.  
The CPMP considered that there was an unmet medical need for Xagrid and that the product could be 
a useful alternative to current platelet lowering therapy. Anagrelide is the first platelet-selective agent 
for use in the treatment of ET and it is non-cytotoxic and non-genotoxic. It has an inhibitory effect on 
the megakaryocyte maturation without affecting other cell lines in the bone marrow.  
It was noted that the documentation was weak (as revealed in the GCP inspection of study 700-014). 
However, taking into account the nature of the pharmacological activity the Committee considered 
that the product had been shown to be efficacious in lowering platelet count. There was a lack of 
information regarding thrombo-haemorrhagic events as a hard outcome, but further data could be 
provided as part of the post-authorisation commitments.  
Although specific safety concerns had been identified during the evaluation, they were considered 
sufficiently addressed in the SPC and PL and would be closely monitored in the planned PASS 
programme, which is included as a specific obligation.  
A CPMP Opinion was adopted on 24 July 2003 recommending the granting of a Marketing 
Authorisation for the Xagrid under exceptional circumstances.  
The post-marketing commitments agreed as part of the CPMP Opinion on 24 July 2003 had included a 
specific obligation to provide efficacy and safety data from the ongoing MRC PT1 trial.  However, in 
September 2003, information was received that the anagralide arm of the MRC PT1 trial had been 
discontinued, following findings of progressive myelofibrosis and thrombohaemorrhagic events.  The 
issue was brought to the attention of the CPMP during its meeting on 23-25 September 2003. The 
European Commission, at the request of the EMEA, put the Standing Committee phase on hold 
pending the outcome of the CPMP discussion regarding the new safety information.  
The applicant provided oral clarifications with reference to the MRC PT1 trial on 23 September 2003. 
Supplementary information in writing was provided by the applicant on 5 December 2003, 12 March 
2004 and 12 May 2004. 
Following the review of the clinical study information, the Committee agreed that, as the commitment 
undertaken by the applicant at the time of the CPMP opinion – to provide additional efficacy and 
safety results - would not be fulfilled, the applicant should be asked to provide further efficacy and 
safety data as a post-marketing commitment.  An ad hoc expert group was convened to discuss the 
design of the additional study required.  
37/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcome of CHMP ad hoc expert meeting: 
The experts considered that the efficacy and safety profile of anagrelide is acceptable in a second-line 
indication as recommended by the proposed Xagrid (anagrelide) SPC, in the light of the fact that ET is 
an orphan condition for which there is an unmet medical need within the EU. The granting of a 
Marketing Authorisation for anagrelide in second-line was therefore considered acceptable provided 
that a final protocol for an additional clinical study was agreed with the CHMP. The experts confirmed 
that the study should be a first-line randomised controlled (vs hydroxyurea) clinical trial in treatment 
naïve patients with primary focus on safety. Although it was considered that an improved PASS 
registry might generate answers to some of the concerns raised with reference to long-term safety 
(thromboembolic events, bleeding and leukaemogenicity), it was considered that potential 
consequences of the positive inotropic effects of anagrelide could be picked up by a well-designed 
randomised clinical trial within a reasonable time frame.  
In the light of the outcome of the ad hoc expert meeting, the CHMP considered that there was no 
further need for the applicant to address outstanding issues during an oral explanation before the 
CPMP. Following the discussion within the Committee, the original assessment report, the product 
information and the post-marketing commitments have been revised. In order to provide further 
complementary data on long-term safety and efficacy, in particular to elucidate the potential 
cardiovascular risk associated with anagrelide, the applicant will conduct a randomised clinical trial 
comparing the efficacy and safety of anagrelide and hydroxyurea as a post-marketing commitment. 
Following the review of the submitted documentation, the responses provided at the oral hearings, the 
final SPC and letter of undertaking, and taking into account the outcome of the ad hoc expert meeting, 
the CHMP agreed that Xagrid has shown efficacy in at risk essential thrombocythaemia patients who 
are intolerant to their current therapy or whose elevated platelet counts are not reduced to an 
acceptable level by their current therapy, that is encouraging and may be clinically relevant and that 
allows a conclusion on an acceptable benefit/risk despite the limited efficacy and safety data available. 
The CHMP concluded that a marketing authorisation for Xagrid would be granted under exceptional 
circumstances, subject to fulfilling the non-clinical and quality follow-up measures and clinical 
specific obligations undertaken by the applicant. The indication for which the medicinal product in 
question is intended is encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to 
provide comprehensive data on the safety and efficacy of the medicinal product. In order to collect 
additional data, the applicant has committed to complete a number of clinical studies post-
authorisation within pre-specified time frames, the results of which shall form the basis of an annual 
re-assessment of the benefit/risk profile. 
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Xagrid for “the reduction of elevated platelet counts in at risk 
essential  thrombocythaemia  patients  who  are  intolerant  to  their  current  therapy  or  whose  elevated 
platelet  counts  are  not  reduced  to  an  acceptable  level  by  their  current  therapy”,  was  favourable  and 
therefore recommended the granting of a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances.” 
38/38 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
