ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg of crizotinib.
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
Each hard capsule contains 250 mg of crizotinib.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Hard capsule.
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
White opaque and pink opaque hard capsule, with “Pfizer” imprinted on the cap and “CRZ 200” on the 
body.
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
Pink opaque hard capsule, with “Pfizer” imprinted on the cap and “CRZ 250” on the body.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
XALKORI as monotherapy is indicated for:
 The first-line treatment of adults with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive advanced 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
 The treatment of adults with previously treated anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
 The treatment of adults with ROS1-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
 The treatment of paediatric patients (age ≥6 to <18 years) with relapsed or refractory systemic 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL)
 The treatment of paediatric patients (age ≥6 to <18 years) with recurrent or refractory 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive unresectable inflammatory myofibroblastic 
tumour (IMT)
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment with XALKORI should be initiated and supervised by a physician experienced in the use of
anticancer medicinal products.
2
ALK and ROS1 testing
An accurate and validated assay for either ALK or ROS1 is necessary for the selection of patients for 
treatment with XALKORI (see section 5.1 for information on assays used in the clinical studies).
ALK-positive NSCLC, ROS1-positive NSCLC, ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT status 
should be established prior to initiation of crizotinib therapy. Assessment should be performed by 
laboratories with demonstrated proficiency in the specific technology being utilised (see section 4.4).
Posology
Adult patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC 
The recommended dose schedule of crizotinib is 250 mg twice daily (500 mg daily) taken 
continuously.
Paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT 
The recommended dosage of crizotinib for paediatric patients with ALCL or IMT is 280 mg/m2 orally 
twice daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The recommended starting dose 
schedule of crizotinib in paediatric patients based on body surface area (BSA) is provided in Table 1. 
If needed, attain the desired dose by combining different strengths of crizotinib capsules. Paediatric 
patients should be assessed for their ability to swallow intact capsules before prescribing crizotinib. 
Administer crizotinib to paediatric patients under adult supervision. 
Table 1 provides paediatric dosing of crizotinib for patients who are able to swallow intact capsules.
Table 1.
Paediatric patients: Crizotinib starting dosage
Body Surface Area (BSA)*
0.60 – 0.80 m2
0.81 – 1.16 m2
1.17 – 1.51 m2
1.52 – 1.69 m2
≥1.70 m2
Dose (Twice Daily)
200 mg 
(1×200 mg capsule)
250 mg 
(1×250 mg capsule)
400 mg 
(2×200 mg capsule)
450 mg 
(1×200 mg capsule + 1×250 mg capsule)
500 mg
(2×250 mg capsule)
Total Daily Dose
400 mg
500 mg
800 mg
900 mg
1000 mg
* The recommended dosage for patients with a BSA less than 0.60 m2 has not been established.
Dose adjustments
Dosing interruption and/or dose reduction may be required based on individual safety and tolerability. 
Adult patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC
In 1722 adult patients treated with crizotinib with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC 
across clinical studies, the most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 3%) associated with dosing interruptions 
were neutropenia, elevated transaminases, vomiting, and nausea. The most frequent adverse reactions 
(≥ 3%) associated with dose reductions were elevated transaminases and neutropenia. If dose reduction 
is necessary for patients treated with crizotinib 250 mg orally twice daily, then the dose of crizotinib
should be reduced as below. 



First dose reduction: XALKORI 200 mg taken orally twice daily
Second dose reduction: XALKORI 250 mg taken orally once daily
Permanently discontinue if unable to tolerate XALKORI 250 mg taken orally once daily
Dose reduction guidelines for haematological and non-haematological toxicities are provided in 
Tables 2 and 3. For patients treated with a lower dose of crizotinib than 250 mg twice daily, then 
follow the dose reduction guidelines provided in Tables 2 and 3 accordingly.
3
Table 2.
CTCAEc Grade
Grade 3
Adult patients: XALKORI dose modification – haematological toxicitiesa,b
XALKORI treatment
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤ 2, then resume at the 
same dose schedule
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤ 2, then resume at the 
next lower dosed,e
Grade 4
a. Except lymphopenia (unless associated with clinical events, e.g., opportunistic infections).
b. For patients who develop neutropenia and leukopenia, see also sections 4.4 and 4.8.
c. National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
d. In case of recurrence, dosing should be withheld until recovery to Grade ≤ 2, then dosing should be resumed at 
250 mg once daily. XALKORI must be permanently discontinued in case of further Grade 4 recurrence.
e. For patients treated with 250 mg once daily or whose dose was reduced to 250 mg once daily, discontinue 
during evaluation.
Table 3.
Adult patients: XALKORI dose modification – non-haematological toxicities
CTCAEa Grade
Grade 3 or 4 Alanine
aminotransferase (ALT) or 
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 
elevation with Grade ≤ 1 total 
bilirubin
Grade 2, 3 or 4 ALT or AST 
elevation with concurrent Grade 2, 
3 or 4 total bilirubin elevation (in 
the absence of cholestasis or 
haemolysis)
Any Grade Interstitial lung disease 
(ILD)/pneumonitis
Grade 3 QTc prolongation
Grade 4 QTc prolongation
Grade 2, 3 Bradycardiad,e
Symptomatic, may be severe and 
medically significant, medical 
intervention indicated
Grade 4 Bradycardiad,e,f
Life-threatening consequences, 
urgent intervention indicated
Grade 4 Ocular disorder (Visual
loss)
XALKORI treatment
Withhold until recovery to Grade  1 or baseline, then 
resume at 250 mg once daily and escalate to 200 mg twice 
daily if clinically toleratedb,c
Permanently discontinue
Withhold if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected, and permanently 
discontinue if treatment-related ILD/pneumonitis is 
diagnosedd
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤ 1, check and if necessary 
correct electrolytes, then resume at the next lower doseb,c
Permanently discontinue
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤ 1 or to heart rate 60 or 
above
Evaluate concomitant medicinal products known to cause 
bradycardia, as well as anti-hypertensive medicinal products
If contributing concomitant medicinal product is identified 
and discontinued, or its dose is adjusted, resume at previous 
dose upon recovery to Grade ≤ 1 or to heart rate 60 or above
If no contributing concomitant medicinal product is 
identified, or if contributing concomitant medicinal products 
are not discontinued or dose modified, resume at reduced 
dosec upon recovery to Grade ≤ 1 or to heart rate 60 or above
Permanently discontinue if no contributing concomitant 
medicinal product is identified
If contributing concomitant medicinal product is identified 
and discontinued, or its dose is adjusted, resume at 250 mg 
once dailyc upon recovery to Grade ≤ 1 or to heart rate 60 or 
above, with frequent monitoring
Discontinue during evaluation of severe vision loss
a. National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events
4
b. XALKORI must be permanently discontinued in case of further Grade ≥ 3 recurrence. See sections 4.4 
and 4.8.
c. For patients treated with 250 mg once daily or whose dose was reduced to 250 mg once daily, discontinue 
during evaluation.
d. See sections 4.4 and 4.8.
e. Heart rate less than 60 beats per minute (bpm).
f. Permanently discontinue for recurrence.
Paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT
If a dose reduction is necessary for patients treated at the recommended starting dose, then the dose of 
XALKORI should be reduced as shown in Table 4.
Table 4.
Paediatric patients: Recommended XALKORI dose reductions
Body Surface Area (BSA)
First Dose Reduction
Second Dose Reduction
0.60 – 0.80 m2
0.81 – 1.16 m2
1.17 – 1.51 m2
≥1.52 m2
Dose
250 mg
Once daily
200 mg
Twice daily
250 mg
Twice daily
400 mg
Twice daily
Total Daily 
Dose
250 mg
400 mg
500 mg
800 mg
Dose
Total Daily Dose
Permanently discontinue
250 mg
Once daily*
200 mg
Twice daily*
250 mg
Twice daily*
250 mg
400 mg
500 mg
* Permanently discontinue in patients who are unable to tolerate crizotinib after 2 dose reductions.
Recommended dosage modifications for haematologic and non-haematologic adverse reactions for 
paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT are provided in Tables 5 and 6, 
respectively.
5
Table 5.
reactions
Paediatric patients: XALKORI dosage modification for haematologic adverse 
CTCAEa Grade
Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC)
Grade 4 Neutrophil count 
decreased
XALKORI Dosing
First occurrence: Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤2, then 
resume at the next lower dosage.
Second occurrence: 
Permanently discontinue for recurrence complicated by febrile 
neutropenia or infection. 
For uncomplicated Grade 4 neutropenia, either permanently 
discontinue, or withhold until recovery to Grade ≤2, then resume 
at the next lower dosage.b
Platelet Count 
Grade 3 platelet count decreased 
(with concurrent bleeding)
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤2, then resume at the same 
dosage. 
Grade 4 platelet count decreased Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤2, then resume at the next 
lower dosage. Permanently discontinue for recurrence.
Anaemia 
Grade 3
Grade 4
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤2, then resume at the same 
dosage. 
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤2, then resume at the next 
lower dosage. Permanently discontinue for recurrence.
a. Grade based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
(CTCAE), version 4.0.
b. Permanently discontinue in patients who are unable to tolerate XALKORI after 2 dose reductions, unless 
otherwise indicated in Table 4.
It is recommended to monitor complete blood counts, including differential counts, weekly for the first 
month of therapy and then at least monthly, with more frequent monitoring if Grade 3 or 4 
abnormalities, fever, or infection occur.
Paediatric patients: XALKORI dosage modification for non-haematologic adverse 
Table 6.
reactions
CTCAEa Grade
Grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevation with 
Grade ≤1 total bilirubin 
Grade 2, 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevation with 
concurrent Grade 2, 3 or 4 total bilirubin 
elevation (in the absence of cholestasis or 
haemolysis)
Any Grade drug-related Interstitial lung 
disease/pneumonitis
Grade 3 QTc prolongation
Grade 4 QTc prolongation
Grade 2, 3 Bradycardiab
Symptomatic, may be severe and medically 
significant, medical intervention indicated
XALKORI Dosing
Withhold until recovery to Grade ≤1, then resume at 
next lower dose.
Permanently discontinue.
Permanently discontinue.
Withhold until recovery to baseline or to a QTc less 
than 481 ms, then resume at next lower dosage.
Permanently discontinue.
Withhold until recovery to a resting heart rate 
according to the patient’s age (based on the 
2.5th percentile per age-specific norms) as follows:
1 to <2 years: 91 bpm or above 
2 to 3 years: 82 bpm or above
4 to 5 years: 72 bpm or above 
6 to 8 years: 64 bpm or above
>8 years: 60 bpm or above
6
CTCAEa Grade
Grade 4 Bradycardiab,c 
Life-threatening consequences, urgent 
intervention indicated
Grade 3 Nausea
Inadequate oral intake for more than 3 days, 
medical intervention required
Grade 3, 4 Vomiting 
More than 6 episodes in 24 hours for more 
than 3 days, medical intervention required, 
i.e., tube feeding or hospitalisation; 
life-threatening consequences, urgent 
intervention indicated
Grade 3, 4 Diarrhoea 
Increase of 7 or more stools per day over 
baseline, incontinence, hospitalisation 
indicated; life-threatening consequences, 
urgent intervention indicated
Grade 1 (mild symptoms), 2 (moderate 
symptoms affecting ability to perform 
age-appropriate activities of daily living) 
Ocular disorder 
Grade 3, 4 Ocular disorder (visual loss, 
marked decrease in vision)
XALKORI Dosing
Permanently discontinue if no contributing 
concomitant medication is identified.
If contributing concomitant medication is identified 
and discontinued, or its dose is adjusted, resume at 
the second dose reduction level in Table 4c upon 
recovery to Grade ≤1 or to the heart rate criteria 
listed for management of symptomatic or severe, 
medically significant bradycardia, with frequent 
monitoring.
Grade 3 (despite maximum medical therapy): 
Withhold until resolved, and then resume at the next 
lower dose level.d
Grade 3 or 4 (despite maximum medical therapy): 
Withhold until resolved, and then resume at the next 
lower dose level.d
Grade 3 or 4 (despite maximum medical therapy): 
Withhold until resolved, and then resume at the next 
lower dose level.d
Grade 1 or 2: Monitor symptoms and report any 
symptoms to an eye specialist. Consider dose 
reduction for Grade 2 visual disorders.
Grade 3 or 4: Withhold pending evaluation of 
severe visual loss. Permanently discontinue, if no 
other cause found on evaluation. 
a. Grade based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
(CTCAE), version 4.0.
b. Resting heart rate less than the 2.5th percentile per age-specific norms.
c. Permanently discontinue for recurrence.
d. Permanently discontinue in patients who are unable to tolerate crizotinib after 2 dose reductions, unless 
otherwise indicated in Table 4.
Hepatic impairment
Crizotinib is extensively metabolised in the liver. Treatment with crizotinib should be used with 
caution in patients with hepatic impairment (see Tables 3 and 6, and sections 4.4, 4.8 and 5.2).
Adjustments for adult patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC
Based on the National Cancer Institute (NCI) classification, no starting dose adjustment of crizotinib is 
recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment (either AST > Upper Limit of Normal (ULN) 
and total bilirubin ≤ ULN or any AST and total bilirubin > ULN but ≤ 1.5 × ULN). The starting 
crizotinib dose for patients with moderate hepatic impairment (any AST and total 
bilirubin > 1.5 × ULN and ≤ 3 × ULN) is recommended to be 200 mg twice daily. The starting 
crizotinib dose for patients with severe hepatic impairment (any AST and total bilirubin > 3 × ULN) is 
recommended to be 250 mg once daily (see section 5.2). Crizotinib dose adjustment according to 
Child-Pugh classification has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment.
Adjustments for paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT
Adjustments for paediatric patients are based on the clinical study conducted in adult patients (see 
section 5.2). No starting dose adjustment of crizotinib is recommended for patients with mild hepatic 
impairment (either AST >ULN and total bilirubin ≤ULN or any AST and total bilirubin >ULN but 
7
1.5 × ULN). The recommended starting dose of crizotinib in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (any AST and total bilirubin >1.5 × ULN and ≤3 × ULN) is the first dose reduction based 
on BSA as shown in Table 4. The recommended starting dose of crizotinib in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (any AST and total bilirubin >3 × ULN) is the second dose reduction based on 
BSA as shown in Table 4.
Renal impairment
Adjustments for adult patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC 
No starting dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild 
(60 ≤ creatinine clearance [CLcr] < 90 mL/min) or moderate (30 ≤ CLcr < 60 mL/min) renal 
impairment, since the population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated no clinically meaningful changes 
in steady-state crizotinib exposure in these patients. Crizotinib plasma concentrations may be 
increased in patients with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min). The crizotinib starting dose 
should be adjusted to 250 mg taken orally once daily in patients with severe renal impairment not 
requiring peritoneal dialysis or haemodialysis. The dose may be increased to 200 mg twice daily based 
on individual safety and tolerability after at least 4 weeks of treatment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2).
Adjustments for paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT
Adjustments for paediatric patients are based on information in adult patients (see section 5.2). No 
starting dose adjustment is needed for patients with mild 
(60 ≤ creatinine clearance [CLcr] <90 mL/min) or moderate (30 ≤CLcr <60 mL/min) renal impairment 
calculated using the Schwartz equation. The recommended starting dose of crizotinib in patients with 
severe renal impairment (CLcr <30 mL/min) not requiring dialysis is the second dose reduction based 
on BSA as shown in Table 4. The dose may be increased to the first dose reduction based on BSA as 
shown in Table 4 and on individual safety and tolerability after at least 4 weeks of treatment.
Elderly
No starting dose adjustment is required (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of crizotinib in paediatric patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive 
NSCLC have not been established. No data are available.
The safety and efficacy of crizotinib have been established in paediatric patients with relapsed or 
refractory systemic ALK-positive ALCL from 3 to <18 years of age or with unresectable, recurrent, or 
refractory ALK-positive IMT from 2 to <18 years of age. No safety or efficacy data are available for 
crizotinib treatment in ALK-positive ALCL paediatric patients below 3 years of age or ALK-positive 
IMT paediatric patients below 2 years of age. Paediatric patients should be assessed for their ability to 
swallow intact capsules before prescribing crizotinib. Paediatric patients (age ≥6 to <18 years) who are 
able to swallow intact crizotinib capsules can be treated with crizotinib.
Method of administration
The capsules should be swallowed whole preferably with water, and should not be crushed, dissolved, 
or opened. They may be taken with or without food. Grapefruit or grapefruit juice should be avoided 
since it may increase crizotinib plasma concentration; St. John’s wort should be avoided since it may 
decrease crizotinib plasma concentration (see section 4.5).
If a dose is missed, then it should be taken as soon as the patient or caregiver remembers unless it is 
less than 6 hours until the next dose, in which case the patient should not take the missed dose. 
Patients should not take 2 doses at the same time to make up for a missed dose.
Paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT
The use of antiemetics prior to and during treatment with crizotinib is recommended to prevent nausea 
and vomiting for paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT. Standard 
antiemetic and antidiarrhoeal agents are recommended to manage gastrointestinal toxicities. 
8
Supportive care such as intravenous or oral hydration, electrolyte supplementation and nutritional 
support are recommended as clinically indicated (see section 4.4).
4.3
Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to crizotinib or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Assessment of ALK and ROS1 status
When assessing either ALK or ROS1 status of a patient, it is important that a well-validated and robust 
methodology is chosen to avoid false negative or false positive determinations.
Hepatotoxicity
Drug-induced hepatotoxicity (including cases with fatal outcome in adult patients) has been reported in 
patients treated with crizotinib across clinical studies (see section 4.8). Liver function tests including 
ALT, AST, and total bilirubin should be monitored once a week during the first 2 months of treatment, 
then once a month and as clinically indicated, with more frequent repeat testing for Grades 2, 3 or 4 
elevations. For patients who develop transaminase elevations, see section 4.2.
Interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis
Severe, life-threatening, or fatal interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis can occur in patients 
treated with crizotinib. Patients with pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis should be 
monitored. Crizotinib treatment should be withheld if ILD/pneumonitis is suspected. Drug-induced 
ILD/pneumonitis should be considered in the differential diagnosis of patients with ILD-like 
conditions such as: pneumonitis, radiation pneumonitis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, interstitial 
pneumonitis, pulmonary fibrosis, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), alveolitis, lung 
infiltration, pneumonia, pulmonary oedema, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pleural effusion, 
aspiration pneumonia, bronchitis, obliterative bronchiolitis, and bronchiectasis. Other potential causes 
of ILD/pneumonitis should be excluded, and crizotinib should be permanently discontinued in patients 
diagnosed with treatment-related ILD/pneumonitis (see sections 4.2 and 4.8).
QT interval prolongation
QTc prolongation has been observed in clinical studies in patients treated with crizotinib (see 
sections 4.8 and 5.2) which may lead to an increased risk for ventricular tachyarrhythmias 
(e.g., Torsade de Pointes) or sudden death. The benefits and potential risks of crizotinib should be 
considered before beginning therapy in patients with pre-existing bradycardia, who have a history of 
or predisposition for QTc prolongation, who are taking antiarrhythmics or other medicinal products 
that are known to prolong QT interval and in patients with relevant pre-existing cardiac disease and/or 
electrolyte disturbances. Crizotinib should be administered with caution in these patients and periodic 
monitoring of electrocardiograms (ECG), electrolytes and renal function is required. When using 
crizotinib, ECG and electrolytes (e.g., calcium, magnesium, potassium) should be obtained as close as 
possible prior to the first dose and periodic monitoring with ECGs and electrolytes is recommended, 
especially at the beginning of treatment in case of vomiting, diarrhoea, dehydration or impaired renal 
function. Correct electrolytes as necessary. If QTc increases by greater than or equal to 60 msec from 
baseline but QTc is < 500 msec, crizotinib should be withheld and cardiologist advice should be 
sought. If QTc increases to greater than or equal to 500 msec, cardiologist advice must be immediately 
sought. For patients who develop QTc prolongation, see sections 4.2, 4.8 and 5.2.
Bradycardia
All-causality bradycardia was reported in clinical studies in 13% of adult patients with ALK-positive 
or ROS1-positive NSCLC and in 17% of paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or 
9
ALK-positive IMT treated with crizotinib. Symptomatic bradycardia (e.g., syncope, dizziness, 
hypotension) can occur in patients receiving crizotinib. The full effect of crizotinib on reduction of 
heart rate may not develop until several weeks after start of treatment. Avoid using crizotinib in 
combination with other bradycardic agents (e.g., beta-blockers, non-dihydropyridine calcium channel 
blockers such as verapamil and diltiazem, clonidine, digoxin) to the extent possible, due to the 
increased risk of symptomatic bradycardia. Monitor heart rate and blood pressure regularly. Dose 
modification is not required in cases of asymptomatic bradycardia. For management of patients who 
develop symptomatic bradycardia, see Dose Modification and Undesirable Effects sections (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.8).
Cardiac failure
In clinical studies with crizotinib and during post-marketing surveillance in adult patients, severe, life-
threatening, or fatal adverse reactions of cardiac failure were reported (see section 4.8).
Patients with or without pre-existing cardiac disorders, receiving crizotinib, should be monitored for 
signs and symptoms of heart failure (dyspnoea, oedema, rapid weight gain from fluid retention). 
Dosing interruption, dose reduction, or discontinuation should be considered as appropriate if such 
symptoms are observed.
Neutropenia and leukopenia
In clinical studies with crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC, 
Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia has been very commonly reported (12%). In clinical studies with crizotinib 
in paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT, Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia has 
been very commonly reported (68%). Grade 3 or 4 leukopenia has been commonly reported (3%) in 
patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC and very commonly (24%) in paediatric patients 
ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT (see section 4.8). Less than 0.5% of adult patients with 
either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC experienced febrile neutropenia in clinical studies with 
crizotinib. In paediatric patients with either ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT, febrile 
neutropenia was commonly reported in one patient (2.4%). Complete blood counts including 
differential white blood cell counts should be monitored as clinically indicated, with more frequent 
repeat testing if Grade 3 or 4 abnormalities are observed, or if fever or infection occurs (see 
section 4.2).
Gastrointestinal perforation
In clinical studies with crizotinib, events of gastrointestinal perforations were reported. There were 
reports of fatal cases of gastrointestinal perforation during post-marketing use of crizotinib 
(see section 4.8).
Crizotinib should be used with caution in patients at risk for gastrointestinal perforation (e.g., history 
of diverticulitis, metastases to the gastrointestinal tract, concomitant use of medicinal products with a 
recognised risk of gastrointestinal perforation).
Crizotinib should be discontinued in patients who develop gastrointestinal perforation. Patients should 
be informed of the first signs of gastrointestinal perforations and be advised to consult rapidly in case 
of occurrence.
Renal effects
Blood creatinine increase and creatinine clearance decreased were observed in patients in clinical 
studies with crizotinib. Renal failure and acute renal failure were reported in patients treated with 
crizotinib in clinical studies and during post-marketing. Cases with fatal outcome, cases requiring 
haemodialysis and cases of Grade 4 hyperkalaemia were also observed in adult patients. Monitoring of 
patients for renal function at baseline and during therapy with crizotinib is recommended, with 
10
particular attention to those who have risk factors or previous history of renal impairment (see 
section 4.8).
Renal impairment
If patients have severe renal impairment not requiring peritoneal dialysis or haemodialysis, the dose of 
crizotinib should be adjusted (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Visual effects
In clinical studies with crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC 
(N=1722), Grade 4 visual field defect with visual loss has been reported in 4 (0.2%) patients. Optic 
atrophy and optic nerve disorder have been reported as potential causes of visual loss.
In clinical studies with crizotinib in paediatric patients with either in ALK-positive ALCL or 
ALK-positive IMT, visual disorders occurred in 25 of 41 (61%) paediatric patients (see section 4.8). 
For paediatric patients with ALCL or IMT, baseline ophthalmologic examination should be obtained 
prior to starting crizotinib. Follow-up ophthalmologic examination including retinal examination is 
recommended within 1 month of starting crizotinib, every 3 months thereafter, and upon any new 
visual symptoms. Healthcare professionals should inform patients and caregivers of the symptoms of
ocular toxicity and potential risk of visual loss. For Grade 2 vision disorders, symptoms should be 
monitored and reported to an eye specialist with consideration of a dose reduction. Crizotinib should 
be withheld pending evaluation for any Grade 3 or 4 ocular disorder, and crizotinib should be 
permanently discontinued for Grade 3 or 4 severe visual loss unless another cause is identified (see 
section 4.2 Table 6).
In any patient with new onset of severe visual loss (best corrected visual acuity less than 6/60 in one or 
both eyes), crizotinib treatment should be discontinued (see section 4.2). Ophthalmological evaluation 
consisting of best corrected visual acuity, retinal photographs, visual fields, optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) and other evaluations as appropriate for new onset of visual loss and for other 
visual symptoms as clinically warranted, should be performed (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). There is 
insufficient information to characterise the risks of resumption of crizotinib in patients who develop 
visual symptoms or visual loss. A decision to resume crizotinib should consider the potential benefit
versus risks to the patient.
Ophthalmological evaluation is recommended if vision disorder persists or worsens in severity 
(see section 4.8).
Photosensitivity
Photosensitivity has been reported in patients treated with Xalkori (see section 4.8). Patients should be 
advised to avoid prolonged sun exposure while taking Xalkori and, when outdoors, to take protective 
measures (e.g., use of protective clothing and/or sunscreen).
Drug-drug interactions
The concomitant use of crizotinib with strong CYP3A4 inhibitors or with strong and moderate 
CYP3A4 inducers should be avoided (see section 4.5).
The concomitant use of crizotinib with CYP3A4 substrates with narrow therapeutic indices should be 
avoided (see section 4.5). Avoid using crizotinib in combination with other bradycardic agents, 
medicinal products that are known to prolong QT interval and/or antiarrhythmics (see section 4.4
QT interval prolongation, Bradycardia, and section 4.5).
11
Drug-food interaction
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice should be avoided during treatment with crizotinib (see sections 4.2
and 4.5).
Non-adenocarcinoma histology
Limited information is available in patients with ALK-positive and ROS1-positive NSCLC with 
non-adenocarcinoma histology, including squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) (see section 5.1).
Dietary sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 200 mg or 250 mg capsule, that 
is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’.
Paediatric population
Gastrointestinal toxicity
Crizotinib can cause severe gastrointestinal toxicities in paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL 
or ALK-positive IMT. In paediatric patients with either ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT, 
vomiting and diarrhoea occurred in 95% and 85%, respectively. 
The use of antiemetics prior to and during treatment with crizotinib is recommended to prevent nausea 
and vomiting. Standard antiemetic and antidiarrhoeal agents are recommended to manage 
gastrointestinal toxicities. If paediatric patients develop Grade 3 nausea lasting 3 days or 
Grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea or vomiting despite maximum medical therapy, it is recommended to withhold 
crizotinib until resolved, and then resuming crizotinib at the next lower dose level. Supportive care 
such as hydration, electrolyte supplementation and nutritional support are recommended as clinically 
indicated (see section 4.2).
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Pharmacokinetic interactions
Agents that may increase crizotinib plasma concentrations
Coadministration of crizotinib with strong CYP3A inhibitors is expected to increase crizotinib plasma 
concentrations. Coadministration of a single 150 mg oral dose of crizotinib in the presence of 
ketoconazole (200 mg twice daily), a strong CYP3A inhibitor, resulted in increases in crizotinib 
systemic exposure, with crizotinib area-under-the-plasma-concentration versus time curve from time 
zero to infinity (AUCinf) and maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) values that were 
approximately 3.2-fold and 1.4-fold, respectively, those seen when crizotinib was administered alone.
Coadministration of repeated doses of crizotinib (250 mg once daily) with repeated doses of 
itraconazole (200 mg once daily), a strong CYP3A inhibitor, resulted in increases in crizotinib 
steady-state AUCtau and Cmax, that were approximately 1.6-fold and 1.3-fold, respectively, those seen 
when crizotinib was administered alone.
Therefore, the concomitant use of strong CYP3A inhibitors (including but not limited to atazanavir, 
ritonavir, cobicistat, itraconazole, ketoconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, clarithromycin, 
telithromycin, and erythromycin) should be avoided. Unless the potential benefit to the patient 
outweighs the risk, in which case patients should be closely monitored for crizotinib adverse events 
(see section 4.4).
Physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) simulations predicted a 17% increase in crizotinib 
steady-state AUC after treatment with the moderate CYP3A inhibitors, diltiazem or verapamil. 
12
Caution is therefore recommended in case of coadministration of crizotinib with moderate 
CYP3A inhibitors.
Grapefruit or grapefruit juice may also increase plasma concentrations of crizotinib and should be 
avoided (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Agents that may decrease crizotinib plasma concentrations
Coadministration of repeated doses of crizotinib (250 mg twice daily) with repeated doses of 
rifampicin (600 mg once daily), a strong CYP3A4 inducer, resulted in 84% and 79% decreases in 
crizotinib steady-state AUCtau and Cmax, respectively, compared to when crizotinib was given alone. 
The concurrent use of strong CYP3A inducers, including but not limited to carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, phenytoin, rifampicin, and St. John’s wort, should be avoided (see section 4.4).
The effect of a moderate inducer including but not limited to efavirenz or rifabutin is not clearly 
established; therefore, their combination with crizotinib should be also avoided (see section 4.4).
Coadministration with medicinal products that increase gastric pH
The aqueous solubility of crizotinib is pH dependent, with low (acidic) pH resulting in higher 
solubility. Administration of a single 250 mg crizotinib dose following treatment with esomeprazole 
40 mg once daily for 5 days resulted in an approximately 10% decrease in crizotinib total exposure 
(AUCinf) and no change in peak exposure (Cmax); the extent of the change in total exposure was not 
clinically meaningful. Therefore, starting dose adjustment is not required when crizotinib is 
coadministered with agents that increase gastric pH (such as proton-pump inhibitors, H2 blockers, or 
antacids).
Agents whose plasma concentrations may be altered by crizotinib
Following 28 days of crizotinib dosing at 250 mg taken twice daily in cancer patients, the oral 
midazolam AUCinf was 3.7-fold of those seen when midazolam was administered alone, suggesting 
that crizotinib is a moderate inhibitor of CYP3A. Therefore, coadministration of crizotinib with 
CYP3A substrates with narrow therapeutic indices, including but not limited to alfentanil, cisapride, 
cyclosporine, ergot derivatives, fentanyl, pimozide, quinidine, sirolimus, and tacrolimus should be 
avoided (see section 4.4). If the combination is needed, then close clinical monitoring should be 
exercised.
In vitro studies indicated that crizotinib is an inhibitor of CYP2B6. Therefore, crizotinib may have 
the potential to increase plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are 
metabolised by CYP2B6 (e.g., bupropion, efavirenz).
In vitro studies in human hepatocytes indicated that crizotinib may induce pregnane X receptor 
(PXR)- and constitutive androstane receptor (CAR)-regulated enzymes (e.g., CYP3A4, CYP2B6, 
CYP2C8, CYP2C9, UGT1A1). However, there was no observed induction in vivo when crizotinib was 
coadministered with the CYP3A probe substrate midazolam. Caution should be exercised in 
administering crizotinib in combination with medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised 
by these enzymes. Of note, the effectiveness of concomitant administration of oral contraceptives may 
be reduced.
In vitro studies indicated that crizotinib is a weak inhibitor of uridine diphosphate 
glucuronosyltransferase (UGT)1A1 and UGT2B7. Therefore, crizotinib may have the potential to 
increase plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are metabolised
predominantly by UGT1A1 (e.g., raltegravir, irinotecan) or UGT2B7 (e.g., morphine, naloxone).
Based on an in vitro study, crizotinib is predicted to inhibit intestinal P-gp. Therefore, administration 
of crizotinib with medicinal products that are substrates of P-gp (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran, colchicine, 
pravastatin) may increase their therapeutic effect and adverse reactions. Close clinical surveillance is 
recommended when crizotinib is administered with these medicinal products.
13
Crizotinib is an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2 in vitro. Therefore, crizotinib may have the potential to 
increase plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are substrates of OCT1 or 
OCT2 (e.g., metformin, procainamide).
Pharmacodynamic interactions
In clinical studies, prolonged QT interval was observed with crizotinib. Therefore, the concomitant use 
of crizotinib with medicinal products known to prolong QT interval or medicinal products able to 
induce Torsades de pointes (e.g., class IA [quinidine, disopyramide] or class III [e.g., amiodarone, 
sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide], methadone, cisapride, moxifloxacine, antipsychotics, etc.) should be 
carefully considered. A monitoring of the QT interval should be made in case of combinations of such 
medicinal products (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Bradycardia has been reported during clinical studies; therefore, use crizotinib with caution due to the 
risk of excessive bradycardia when used in combination with other bradycardic agents 
(e.g., non-dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers such as verapamil and diltiazem, beta-blockers, 
clonidine, guanfacine, digoxin, mefloquine, anticholinesterases, pilocarpine) (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Women of childbearing potential
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant while receiving 
XALKORI.
Contraception in males and females
Adequate contraceptive methods should be used during therapy, and for at least 90 days after 
completing therapy (see section 4.5).
Pregnancy
XALKORI may cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3).
There are no data in pregnant women using crizotinib. This medicinal product should not be used 
during pregnancy unless the clinical condition of the mother requires treatment. Pregnant women, or 
patients becoming pregnant while receiving crizotinib, or treated male patients as partners of pregnant 
women, should be apprised of the potential hazard to the foetus.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether crizotinib and its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Because of the 
potential harm to the infant, mothers should be advised to avoid breast-feeding while receiving 
XALKORI (see section 5.3).
Fertility
Based on non-clinical safety findings, male and female fertility may be compromised by treatment 
with XALKORI (see section 5.3). Both men and women should seek advice on fertility preservation 
before treatment.
4.7
Effects on ability to drive and use machines
XALKORI has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Caution should be exercised 
when driving or operating machines as patients may experience symptomatic bradycardia (e.g., 
14
syncope, dizziness, hypotension), vision disorder, or fatigue while taking XALKORI (see sections 4.2, 
4.4 and 4.8).
4.8
Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile in adult patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC
The data described below reflect exposure to XALKORI in 1669 patients with ALK-positive advanced 
NSCLC who participated in 2 randomised Phase 3 studies (Studies 1007 and 1014) and in 2 single-arm
studies (Studies 1001 and 1005), and in 53 patients with ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC who 
participated in single-arm Study 1001, for a total of 1722 patients (see section 5.1). These patients 
received a starting oral dose of 250 mg taken twice daily continuously. In Study 1014, the median 
duration of study treatment was 47 weeks for patients in the crizotinib arm (N=171); the median 
duration of treatment was 23 weeks for patients who crossed over from the chemotherapy arm to 
receive crizotinib treatment (N=109). In Study 1007, the median duration of study treatment was 
48 weeks for patients in the crizotinib arm (N=172). For ALK-positive NSCLC patients in 
Studies 1001 (N=154) and 1005 (N=1063), the median duration of treatment was 57 and 45 weeks, 
respectively. For ROS1-positive NSCLC patients in Study 1001 (N=53), the median duration of 
treatment was 101 weeks.
The most serious adverse reactions in 1722 patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive 
advanced NSCLC were hepatotoxicity, ILD/pneumonitis, neutropenia, and QT interval prolongation 
(see section 4.4). The most common adverse reactions (≥ 25%) in patients with either ALK-positive or 
ROS1-positive NSCLC were vision disorder, nausea, diarrhoea, vomiting, oedema, constipation, 
elevated transaminases, fatigue, decreased appetite, dizziness, and neuropathy.
The most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 3%, all-causality frequency) associated with dosing 
interruptions were neutropaenia (11%), elevated transaminases (7%), vomiting (5%), and nausea (4%). 
The most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 3%, all-causality frequency) associated with dose reductions 
were elevated transaminases (4%) and neutropaenia (3%). All-causality adverse events associated with 
permanent treatment discontinuation occurred in 302 (18%) patients of which the most frequent 
(≥ 1%) were ILD (1%) and elevated transaminases (1%).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
Table 7 presents adverse reactions reported in 1722 patients with either ALK-positive or 
ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC who received crizotinib across 2 randomised Phase 3 studies 
(1007 and 1014) and 2 single-arm clinical studies (1001 and 1005) (see section 5.1).
The adverse reactions listed in Table 7 are presented by system organ class and frequency categories, 
defined using the following convention: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are 
presented in order of decreasing seriousness.
15
Table 7.
Adverse reactions reported in crizotinib clinical studies (N=1722)
System organ class
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Eye disorders
Cardiac disorders
Very common
Neutropaeniaa (22%)
Anaemiab (15%)
Leukopeniac (15%)
Decreased appetite 
(30%)
Neuropathyd (25%)
Dysgeusia (21%)
Vision disordere (63%)
Dizzinessf (26%)
Bradycardiag (13%)
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders
Renal and urinary 
disorders
General disorders 
and administration 
site conditions
Investigations
Vomiting (51%)
Diarrhoea (54%)
Nausea (57%)
Constipation (43%)
Abdominal painj
(21%)
Elevated 
transaminasesm (32%)
Rash (13%)
Oedemap (47%)
Fatigue (30%)
Common
Uncommon
Hypophosphataemia (6%)
Cardiac failureh (1%)
Electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged (4%)
Syncope (3%)
Interstitial lung diseasei
(3%)
Oesophagitisk (2%)
Dyspepsia (8%)
Blood alkaline 
phosphatase increased 
(7%)
Renal cystn (3%)
Blood creatinine 
increasedo (8%)
Blood testosterone 
decreasedq (2%)
Gastrointestinal 
perforationl
(< 1%)
Hepatic failure 
(< 1%)
Photosensitivity
(< 1%)
Acute renal 
failure (< 1%)
Renal failure 
(< 1%)
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased
(< 1%)*
Event terms that represent the same medical concept or condition were grouped together and reported as a single 
adverse drug reaction in Table 7. Terms actually reported in the study up to the data cutoff date and contributing 
to the relevant adverse drug reaction are indicated in parentheses, as listed below.
* Creatine phosphokinase was not a standard laboratory test in the crizotinib clinical trials.
a. Neutropaenia (Febrile neutropaenia, Neutropaenia, Neutrophil count decreased).
b. Anaemia (Anaemia, Haemoglobin decreased, Hypochromic anaemia).
c. Leukopenia (Leukopenia, White blood cell count decreased).
d. Neuropathy (Burning sensation, Dysaesthesia, Formication, Gait disturbance, Hyperaesthesia, Hypoaesthesia, 
Hypotonia, Motor dysfunction, Muscle atrophy, Muscular weakness, Neuralgia, Neuritis, Neuropathy 
peripheral, Neurotoxicity, Paraesthesia, Peripheral motor neuropathy, Peripheral sensorimotor neuropathy, 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy, Peroneal nerve palsy, Polyneuropathy, Sensory disturbance, Skin burning 
sensation).
e. Vision disorder (Diplopia, Halo vision, Photophobia, Photopsia, Vision blurred, Visual acuity reduced, Visual 
brightness, Visual impairment, Visual perseveration, Vitreous floaters).
f. Dizziness (Balance disorder, Dizziness, Dizziness postural, Presyncope).
g. Bradycardia (Bradycardia, Heart rate decreased, Sinus bradycardia).
16
h. Cardiac failure (Cardiac failure, Cardiac failure congestive, Ejection fraction decreased, Left ventricular 
failure, Pulmonary oedema). Across clinical studies (n=1722), 19 (1.1%) patients treated with crizotinib had 
any grade cardiac failure, 8 (0.5%) patients had Grade 3 or 4, and 3 (0.2%) patients had fatal outcome.
i. Interstitial lung disease (Acute respiratory distress syndrome, Alveolitis, Interstitial lung disease, Pneumonitis).
j. Abdominal pain (Abdominal discomfort, Abdominal pain, Abdominal pain lower, Abdominal pain upper, 
Abdominal tenderness).
k. Oesophagitis (Oesophagitis, Oesophageal ulcer).
l. Gastrointestinal perforation (Gastrointestinal perforation, Intestinal perforation, Large intestine perforation).
m. Elevated transaminases (Alanine aminotransferase increased, Aspartate aminotransferase increased, 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased, Hepatic enzyme increased, Hepatic function abnormal, Liver function 
test abnormal, Transaminases increased).
n. Renal cyst (Renal abscess, Renal cyst, Renal cyst haemorrhage, Renal cyst infection).
o. Blood creatinine increased (blood creatinine increased, creatinine renal clearance decreased).
p. Oedema (Face oedema, Generalised oedema, Local swelling, Localised oedema, Oedema, Oedema peripheral, 
Periorbital oedema).
q. Blood testosterone decreased (Blood testosterone decreased, Hypogonadism, Secondary hypogonadism).
Summary of the safety profile in paediatric patients 
The safety analysis population for 110 paediatric patients with all tumour types (ages 1 to <18 years), 
which included 41 patients with relapsed or refractory systemic ALK-positive ALCL or with 
unresectable, recurrent, or refractory ALK-positive IMT is based on patients who received crizotinib 
from 2 single-arm studies, Study 0912 (n=36) and Study 1013 (n=5). In Study 0912, patients received 
crizotinib at a starting dose of 100 mg/m2, 130 mg/m2, 165 mg/m2, 215 mg/m2, 280 mg/m2, or 
365 mg/m2 twice daily. In Study 1013, crizotinib was administered at a starting dose of 250 mg twice
daily. There was a total population of 25 paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL from 3 to 
<18 years of age and 16 paediatric patients with ALK-positive IMT from 2 to <18 years of age. 
Experience on the use of crizotinib in paediatric patients in the different subgroups (age, gender and 
race) is limited and does not allow for definitive conclusions to be made. The safety profiles were 
consistent across the subgroups of age, gender, and race, although there were slight differences in 
adverse reactions frequencies within each subgroup. The most frequent adverse reactions (≥80%) 
reported in all subgroups (age, gender, and race) were elevated transaminases, vomiting, neutropenia, 
nausea, diarrhoea and leukopenia. The most frequent serious adverse reaction (90%) was neutropenia. 
The median duration of treatment for paediatric patients with all tumour types was 2.8 months. 
Permanent discontinuation from treatment due to an adverse event occurred in 11 (10%) patients. 
Dosing interruptions and dose reductions occurred in 47 (43%) and 15 (14%), respectively. The most 
frequent adverse reactions (>60%) were elevated transaminases, vomiting, neutropenia, nausea, 
diarrhoea and leukopenia. The most frequent Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions (≥40%) was neutropenia.
The median duration of treatment for paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL was 5.1 months. 
Permanent discontinuation from treatment due to an adverse event occurred in 1 patient (4%). Eleven 
of 25 (44%) patients with ALK-positive ALCL permanently discontinued crizotinib treatment due to 
subsequently having a haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Dosing interruptions and dose 
reductions occurred in 17 (68%) and 4 (16%) patients, respectively. The most frequent adverse 
reactions (≥80%) were diarrhoea, vomiting, elevated transaminases, neutropenia, leukopenia and 
nausea. The most frequent Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions (≥40%) were neutropenia, leukopenia and 
lymphopenia.
The median duration of treatment for paediatric patients with ALK-positive IMT was 21.8 months. 
Permanent discontinuation from treatment due to an adverse event occurred in 4 (25%) patients. 
Dosing interruptions and dose reductions occurred in 12 (75%) and 4 (25%) patients, respectively. The 
most frequent adverse reactions (≥80%) were neutropenia, nausea and vomiting. The most frequent 
Grade 3 or 4 adverse reaction (≥40%) was neutropenia.
The safety profile of crizotinib in paediatric patients with ALK-positive ALCL or with ALK-positive 
IMT was generally consistent with that previously established in adults with ALK-positive or 
ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC, with some variations in frequencies. Grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions
of neutropenia, leukopenia, and diarrhoea were reported with higher frequency (difference of ≥10%) in 
17
paediatric patients with either ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT than in adult patients with 
ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC. The age, comorbidities, and underlying conditions are 
different in these 2 populations, which could explain the differences in the frequencies.
The adverse reactions for paediatric patients of all tumour types listed in Table 8 are presented by 
system organ class and frequency categories, defined using the following convention: very 
common (1/10); common (1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (1/1,000 to <1/100), 
rare (1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness.
Table 8.
Adverse reactions reported in paediatric patients (N=110)
System organ class
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders
Nervous system disorders
Eye disorders
Cardiac disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Hepatobiliary disorders
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Renal and urinary 
disorders
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions
All Tumour Types
(N=110)
Very common
Common
Neutropeniaa (71%)
Leukopeniab (63%)
Anaemiac (52%)
Thrombocytopeniad (21%)
Hypophosphataemia (30%) 
Decreased appetite (39%)
Neuropathye (26%)
Dysgeusia (10%)
Vision disorderf (44%)
Bradycardiag (14%) 
Dizziness (16%)
Vomiting (77%)
Diarrhoea (69%)
Nausea (71%)
Constipation (31%)
Dyspepsia (10%)
Abdominal painh (43%)
Elevated transaminasesi (87%)
Blood alkaline phosphatase increased 
(19%)
Blood creatinine increased (45%)
Oedemaj (20%)
Fatigue (46%)
Electrocardiogram QT prolonged 
(4%)
Oesophagitis (4%)
Rash (3%)
18
All Tumour Types
(N=110)
Very common
System organ class
Date of Data Cutoff: 03 Sep 2019.
Event terms that represent the same medical concept or condition were grouped together and reported as a 
single adverse drug reaction in Table 8. Terms actually reported in the study up to the data cutoff date and 
contributing to the relevant adverse drug reaction are indicated in parentheses, as listed below.
a. Neutropenia (Febrile neutropenia, Neutropenia, Neutrophil count decreased)
b. Leukopenia (Leukopenia, White blood cell count decreased)
c. Anaemia (Anaemia, Anaemia macrocytic, Anaemia megaloblastic, Haemoglobin, Haemoglobin decreased, 
Hyperchromic anaemia, Hypochromic anaemia, Hypoplastic anaemia, Microcytic anaemia, Normochromic 
normocytic anaemia)
Common
d. Thrombocytopenia (Platelet count decreased, Thrombocytopenia)
e. Neuropathy (Burning sensation, Gait disturbance, Muscular weakness, Paraesthesia, Peripheral motor 
neuropathy, Peripheral sensory neuropathy)
f. Vision disorder (Photophobia, Photopsia, Vision blurred, Visual acuity reduced, Visual impairment, 
Vitreous floaters)
g. Bradycardia (Bradycardia, Sinus bradycardia)
h. Abdominal pain (Abdominal discomfort, Abdominal pain, Abdominal pain lower, Abdominal pain upper, 
Abdominal tenderness)
i. Elevated transaminases (Alanine aminotransferase increased, Aspartate aminotransferase increased, 
Gamma-glutamyltransferase increased)
j. Oedema (Face oedema, Localised oedema, Oedema peripheral, Periorbital oedema)
Although not all adverse reactions identified in the adult population have been observed in clinical 
trials of paediatric patients, the same adverse reactions for adult patients should be considered for 
paediatric patients. The same warnings and precautions for adult patients should also be considered for 
paediatric patients.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Hepatotoxicity
Patients should be monitored for hepatotoxicity and managed as recommended in sections 4.2 and 4.4.
Adult patients with NSCLC
Drug-induced hepatotoxicity with fatal outcome occurred in 0.1% of 1722 adult patients with NSCLC 
treated with crizotinib across clinical studies. Concurrent elevations in ALT and/or AST ≥ 3 × ULN 
and total bilirubin ≥ 2 × ULN without significant elevations of alkaline phosphatase (≤ 2 × ULN) have 
been observed in less than 1% patients treated with crizotinib.
Increases to Grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevations were observed in 187 (11%) and 95 (6%) of adult 
patients, respectively. Seventeen (1%) patients required permanent discontinuation from treatment 
associated with elevated transaminases, suggesting that these events were generally manageable by 
dosing modifications as defined in Table 3 (see section 4.2). In randomised Phase 3 Study 1014, 
increases to Grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevations were observed in 15% and 8% of patients receiving 
crizotinib versus 2% and 1% of patients receiving chemotherapy. In randomised Phase 3 Study 1007, 
increases to Grade 3 or 4 ALT or AST elevations were observed in 18% and 9% of patients receiving 
crizotinib and 5% and < 1% of patients receiving chemotherapy.
Transaminase elevations generally occurred within the first 2 months of treatment. Across studies with 
crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC, median time to onset 
of increased Grade 1 or 2 transaminases was 23 days. Median time to onset of increased Grade 3 or 4 
transaminases was 43 days.
Grade 3 and 4 transaminase elevations were generally reversible upon dosing interruption. Across 
studies with crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC (N=1722), 
dose reductions associated with transaminase elevations occurred in 76 (4%) patients. 
Seventeen (1%) patients required permanent discontinuation from treatment.
19
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies of 110 paediatric patients with various tumour types treated with crizotinib, 70% and 
75% of patients had increases of AST and ALT, respectively, with Grade 3 and 4 increases in 7% and 
6% of patients, respectively. 
Gastrointestinal effects
Supportive care should include the use of antiemetic medicinal products. For additional supportive 
care for paediatric patients, see section 4.4.
Adult patients with NSCLC
Nausea (57%), diarrhoea (54%), vomiting (51%), and constipation (43%) were the most commonly 
reported all-causality gastrointestinal events in adult patients with either ALK-positive or 
ROS1-positive NSCLC. Most events were mild to moderate in severity. Median times to onset for 
nausea and vomiting were 3 days, and these events declined in frequency after 3 weeks of treatment.
Median times to onset for diarrhoea and constipation were 13 and 17 days, respectively. Supportive
care for diarrhoea and constipation should include the use of standard antidiarrhoeal and laxative 
medicinal products, respectively.
In clinical studies of adult patients with NSCLC treated with crizotinib, events of gastrointestinal 
perforations were reported. There were reports of fatal cases of gastrointestinal perforation during 
post-marketing use of crizotinib (see section 4.4).
Paediatric patients
In clinical trials, vomiting (77%), diarrhoea (69%), nausea (71%), abdominal pain (43%), and 
constipation (31%) were the most frequently reported all-causality gastrointestinal events in 
110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types treated with crizotinib. For those patients with
either ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT treated with crizotinib, vomiting (95%), diarrhoea 
(85%), nausea (83%), abdominal pain (54%), and constipation (34%) were the most frequently 
reported all-causality gastrointestinal events (see section 4.4). Crizotinib can cause severe 
gastrointestinal toxicities in paediatric patients with ALCL or IMT (see section 4.4).
QT interval prolongation
QT prolongation can result in arrhythmias and is a risk factor for sudden death. QT prolongation may 
clinically manifest as bradycardia, dizziness, and syncope. Electrolyte disturbances, dehydration and 
bradycardia may further increase the risk of QTc prolongation and thus, periodic monitoring of ECG 
and electrolyte levels is recommended in patients with GI toxicity (see section 4.4).
Adult patients with NSCLC
Across studies in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC, QTcF 
(corrected QT by the Fridericia method) ≥ 500 msec was recorded in 34 (2.1%) of 1619 patients with 
at least 1 postbaseline ECG assessment and a maximum increase from baseline in QTcF ≥ 60 msec 
was observed in 79 (5.0%) of 1585 patients with a baseline and at least 1 postbaseline ECG 
assessment. All-causality Grade 3 or 4 Electrocardiogram QT prolonged was reported in 27 (1.6%) out 
of 1722 patients (see sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.5 and 5.2).
20
In a single-arm ECG substudy in adult patients (see section 5.2) using blinded manual 
ECG measurements 11 (21%) patients had an increase from Baseline in QTcF value ≥ 30 to < 60 msec 
and 1 (2%) patient had an increase from Baseline in QTcF value of ≥ 60 msec. No patients had a 
maximum QTcF ≥ 480 msec. The central tendency analysis indicated that the largest mean change 
from baseline in QTcF was 12.3 msec (95% CI 5.1-19.5 msec, least squares mean [LS] from Analysis 
of Variance [ANOVA]) and occurred at 6 hours post-dose on Cycle 2 Day 1. All upper limits of the 
90% CI for the LS mean change from Baseline in QTcF at all Cycle 2 Day 1 time points were 
< 20 msec.
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies with crizotinib in 110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types, 
electrocardiogram QT prolonged was reported in 4% of patients.
Bradycardia
The use of concomitant medicinal products associated with bradycardia should be carefully evaluated. 
Patients who develop symptomatic bradycardia should be managed as recommended in the Dose 
Modification and Warnings and Precautions sections (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5).
Adult patients with NSCLC
In studies with crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced 
NSCLC, all causality bradycardia was experienced by 219 (13%) of 1722 patients treated with 
crizotinib. Most events were mild in severity. A total of 259 (16%) of 1666 patients with at least 
1 postbaseline vital sign assessment had a pulse rate <50 bpm.
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies with crizotinib in 110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types, all-causality 
bradycardia was reported in 14% of patients, including Grade 3 bradycardia in 1% of patients.
Interstitial lung disease/pneumonitis
Patients with pulmonary symptoms indicative of ILD/pneumonitis should be monitored. Other 
potential causes of ILD/pneumonitis should be excluded (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Adult patients with NSCLC
Severe, life-threatening, or fatal ILD/pneumonitis can occur in patients treated with crizotinib. Across 
studies in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC (N=1722), 
50 (3%) patients treated with crizotinib had any grade all-causality ILD, including 18 (1%) patients 
with Grade 3 or 4, and 8 (< 1%) patients with fatal cases. According to an independent review 
committee (IRC) assessment of patients with ALK-positive NSCLC (N=1669), 20 (1.2%) patients had 
ILD/pneumonitis, including 10 (< 1%) patients with fatal cases. These cases generally occurred within 
3 months after the initiation of treatment.
Paediatric patients
ILD/pneumonitis was reported in clinical studies with crizotinib in paediatric patients with a variety of 
tumour types in 1 patient (1%), which was Grade 1 pneumonitis.
Visual effects
Ophthalmological evaluation is recommended if vision disorder persists or worsens in severity. 
Baseline and follow-up ophthalmologic examinations should be obtained for paediatric patients (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Adult patients with NSCLC 
In clinical studies with crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive 
advanced NSCLC (N=1722), Grade 4 visual field defect with vision loss has been reported in 
4 (0.2%) patients. Optic atrophy and optic nerve disorder have been reported as potential causes of 
vision loss (see section 4.4).
21
All-causality, all grade, vision disorder, most commonly visual impairment, photopsia, vision blurred, 
and vitreous floaters, was experienced by 1084 (63%) of 1722 adult patients treated with crizotinib. Of 
the 1084 patients who experienced vision disorder, 95% had events that were mild in severity. Seven
(0.4%) patients had temporary treatment discontinuation and 2 (0.1%) patients had a dose reduction 
associated with vision disorder. There were no permanent discontinuations associated with vision 
disorder for any of the 1722 patients treated with crizotinib.
Based on the Visual Symptom Assessment Questionnaire (VSAQ-ALK), adult patients treated with 
crizotinib in Study 1007 and Study 1014 reported a higher incidence of visual disturbances compared 
to patients treated with chemotherapy. The onset of vision disorders generally started within the 
first week of medicinal product administration. The majority of patients on the crizotinib arm in 
randomised Phase 3 Studies 1007 and 1014 (> 50%) reported visual disturbances; which occurred at a 
frequency of 4 to 7 days each week, lasted up to 1 minute, and had mild or no impact (scores 0 to 3 out 
of a maximum score of 10) on daily activities as captured by the VSAQ-ALK questionnaire.
An ophthalmology substudy using specific ophthalmic assessments at specified time points was 
conducted in 54 adult patients with NSCLC who received crizotinib 250 mg twice daily. 
Thirty-eight (70.4%) of the 54 patients experienced an Eye Disorders System Organ Class 
treatment-emergent all-causality adverse event of which 30 patients had ophthalmic examinations. Of 
the 30 patients, an ophthalmic abnormality of any type was reported in 14 (36.8%) patients and no 
ophthalmic finding was seen in 16 (42.1%) patients. The most common findings concerned slit lamp 
biomicroscopy (21.1%), fundoscopy (15.8%) and visual acuity (13.2%). Pre-existing ophthalmic 
abnormalities and concomitant medical conditions which could be contributory to ocular findings were 
noted in many patients, and no conclusive causal relationship to crizotinib could be determined. There 
were no findings related to aqueous cell count and anterior chamber aqueous flare assessment. No 
visual disturbances associated with crizotinib appeared to be related to changes in best corrected visual 
acuity, the vitreous, the retina, or the optic nerve.
In adult patients with new onset of Grade 4 visual loss, crizotinib treatment should be discontinued and 
ophthalmological evaluation should be performed. 
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies with crizotinib in 110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types, vision 
disorder has been reported in 48 (44%) patients. The most common visual symptoms were blurred 
vision (20%) and visual impairment (11%). 
In clinical studies with crizotinib, 41 patients with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT, vision 
disorder has been reported in 25 (61%) patients. Of these paediatric patients who experienced visual 
disorders, one patient with IMT experienced Grade 3 myopic optic nerve disorder, which was present 
as Grade 1 at baseline. The most common visual symptoms were blurred vision (24%), visual 
impairment (20%), photopsia (17%) and vitreous floaters (15%). All were Grade 1 or 2.
Nervous system effects
Adult patients with NSCLC 
All-causality neuropathy, as defined in Table 7, was experienced by 435 (25%) out of 1722 adult 
patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC treated with crizotinib. 
Dysgeusia was also very commonly reported in these studies and was primarily Grade 1 in severity.
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies with crizotinib in 110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types, neuropathy 
and dysgeusia were reported in 26% and 9% of patients, respectively.
Renal cyst
Periodic monitoring with imaging and urinalysis should be considered in patients who develop renal 
cysts.
22
Adult patients with NSCLC 
All-causality complex renal cysts were experienced by 52 (3%) of 1722 adult patients with either 
ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC treated with crizotinib. Local cystic invasion 
beyond the kidney was observed in some patients. 
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies with crizotinib in 110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types, renal cyst 
was not reported.
Neutropenia and leukopenia
Complete blood counts including differential white blood cell counts should be monitored as clinically 
indicated, with more frequent repeat testing if Grade 3 or 4 abnormalities are observed, or if fever or 
infection occurs. For patients who develop haematologic laboratory abnormalities, see section 4.2.
Adult patients with NSCLC 
Across studies in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC 
(N=1722), Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia was observed in 212 (12%) patients treated with crizotinib. 
Median time to onset of any grade neutropenia was 89 days. Neutropenia was associated with dose 
reduction or permanent treatment discontinuation for 3% and < 1% of patients, respectively. Less than 
0.5% of patients experienced febrile neutropenia in clinical studies with crizotinib.
Across studies in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC 
(N=1722), Grade 3 or 4 leukopenia was observed in 48 (3%) patients treated with crizotinib. Median 
time to onset of any grade leukopenia was 85 days. Leukopenia was associated with a dose reduction 
for <0.5% of patients, and no patients permanently discontinued crizotinib treatment associated with 
leukopenia.
In clinical studies of crizotinib in adult patients with either ALK-positive or ROS1-positive advanced 
NSCLC, shifts to Grade 3 or 4 decreases in leukocytes and neutrophils were observed at frequencies of 
4% and 13%, respectively.
Paediatric patients
In clinical studies with crizotinib in 110 paediatric patients with a variety of tumour types, neutropenia 
was reported in 71% of patients, including Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia observed in 58 patients (53%). 
Febrile neutropenia was experienced by 4 patients (3.6%). Leukopenia was reported in 63% of 
patients, including Grade 3 or 4 leukopenia observed in 18 patients (16%).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9
Overdose
Treatment of overdose with the medicinal product consists of general supportive measures. There is no 
antidote for XALKORI.
5. PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Anti-neoplastic agents, protein kinase inhibitors; ATC code: L01ED01.
23
Mechanism of action
Crizotinib is a selective small-molecule inhibitor of the ALK receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) and its 
oncogenic variants (i.e. ALK fusion events and selected ALK mutations). Crizotinib is also an 
inhibitor of the Hepatocyte Growth Factor Receptor (HGFR, c-Met) RTK, ROS1 (c-ros) and 
Recepteur d’Origine Nantais (RON) RTK. Crizotinib demonstrated concentration-dependent inhibition 
of the kinase activity of ALK, ROS1, and c-Met in biochemical assays and inhibited phosphorylation 
and modulated kinase-dependent phenotypes in cell-based assays. Crizotinib demonstrated potent and 
selective growth inhibitory activity and induced apoptosis in tumour cell lines exhibiting ALK fusion 
events (including echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 [EML4]-ALK and nucleophosmin 
[NPM]-ALK), ROS1 fusion events, or exhibiting amplification of the ALK or MET gene locus. 
Crizotinib demonstrated antitumour efficacy, including marked cytoreductive antitumour activity, in 
mice bearing tumour xenografts that expressed ALK fusion proteins. The antitumour efficacy of 
crizotinib was dose-dependent and correlated to pharmacodynamic inhibition of phosphorylation of 
ALK fusion proteins (including EML4-ALK and NPM-ALK) in tumours in vivo. Crizotinib also 
demonstrated marked antitumour activity in mouse xenograft studies, where tumours were generated 
using a panel of NIH-3T3 cell lines engineered to express key ROS1 fusions identified in human 
tumours. The antitumour efficacy of crizotinib was dose-dependent and demonstrated a correlation 
with inhibition of ROS1 phosphorylation in vivo. In vitro studies in 2 ALCL-derived cell lines 
(SU-DHL-1 and Karpas-299, both containing NPM-ALK) showed that crizotinib was able to induce 
apoptosis, and in Karpas-299 cells, crizotinib inhibited proliferation and ALK-mediated signaling at 
clinically achievable doses. In vivo data obtained in a Karpas-299 model showed complete regression 
of the tumour at a dose of 100 mg/kg once daily.
Clinical studies
Previously untreated ALK-positive advanced NSCLC – randomised Phase 3 Study 1014
The efficacy and safety of crizotinib for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic 
NSCLC, who had not received previous systemic treatment for advanced disease, were demonstrated 
in a global, randomised, open-label Study 1014.
The full analysis population included 343 patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC as identified 
by Fluorescence In Situ Hybridisation (FISH) prior to randomisation: 172 patients were randomised to 
crizotinib and 171 patients were randomised to chemotherapy (pemetrexed + carboplatin or cisplatin; 
up to 6 cycles of treatment). The demographic and disease characteristics of the overall study 
population were 62% female, median age of 53 years, baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group
(ECOG) performance status 0 or 1 (95%), 51% White and 46% Asian, 4% current smokers, 32% past 
smokers and 64% never smokers. The disease characteristics of the overall study population were 
metastatic disease in 98% of patients, 92% of patients’ tumours were classified as adenocarcinoma 
histology, and 27% of patients had brain metastases.
Patients could continue crizotinib treatment beyond the time of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid 
Tumours (RECIST)-defined disease progression at the discretion of the investigator if the patient was 
still experiencing clinical benefit. Sixty-five of 89 (73%) patients treated with crizotinib and 11 of 
132 (8.3%) patients treated with chemotherapy continued treatment for at least 3 weeks after objective 
disease progression. Patients randomised to chemotherapy could cross over to receive crizotinib upon 
RECIST-defined disease progression confirmed by independent radiology review (IRR). 
One hundred forty-four (84%) patients in the chemotherapy arm received subsequent crizotinib 
treatment.
Crizotinib significantly prolonged progression-free survival (PFS), the primary objective of the study, 
compared to chemotherapy as assessed by IRR. The PFS benefit of crizotinib was consistent across 
subgroups of baseline patient characteristics such as age, gender, race, smoking class, time since 
diagnosis, ECOG performance status, and presence of brain metastases. There was a numerical 
improvement in overall survival (OS) in the patients treated with crizotinib, although this improvement 
was not statistically significant. Efficacy data from randomised Phase 3 Study 1014 are summarised in 
Table 9, and the Kaplan-Meier curves for PFS and OS are shown in Figure 1 and 2, respectively. 
24
Table 9.
Efficacy results from randomised Phase 3 Study 1014 (full analysis population) in 
patients with previously untreated ALK-positive advanced NSCLC*
Response parameter
Progression-free survival (based on IRR)
Number with event, n (%)
Median PFS in months (95% CI)
HR (95% CI)b
p-valuec
Overall survivald
Crizotinib
N=172
Chemotherapy
N=171
100 (58%)
10.9 (8.3, 13.9)
137 (80%)
7.0a (6.8, 8.2)
0.45 (0.35, 0.60)
< 0.0001
Number of deaths, n (%)
Median OS in months (95% CI)
71 (41%)
NR (45.8, NR)
81 (47%)
47.5 (32.2, NR)
HR (95% CI)b
p-valuec
0.76 (0.55, 1.05)
0.0489
12-Month survival probability,d % (95% CI)
18-Month survival probability,d % (95% CI)
48-Month survival probability,d % (95% CI)
83.5 (77.0, 88.3)
71.5 (64.0, 77.7)
56.6 (48.3, 64.1)
78.4 (71.3, 83.9)
66.6 (58.8, 73.2)
49.1 (40.5, 57.1)
Objective response rate (based on IRR)
Objective response rate % (95% CI)
p-valuef
Duration of response
Monthsg (95% CI)
74% (67, 81)
45%e (37, 53)
< 0.0001
11.3 (8.1, 13.8)
5.3 (4.1, 5.8)
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; HR=hazard ratio; IRR=independent radiology review; N/n=number 
of patients; NR=not reached; PFS=progression-free survival; ORR=objective response rate; OS=overall 
survival.
*
PFS, Objective Response Rate and Duration of Response are based on the data cutoff date of 
30 November 2013; OS is based on the last patient last visit date of 30 November 2016, and is based on 
a median follow up of approximately 46 months.
a. Median PFS times were 6.9 months (95% CI: 6.6, 8.3) for pemetrexed/cisplatin (HR=0.49; p-value 
<0.0001 for crizotinib compared with pemetrexed/cisplatin) and 7.0 months (95% CI: 5.9, 8.3) for 
pemetrexed/carboplatin (HR=0.45; p-value <0.0001 for crizotinib compared with 
pemetrexed/carboplatin).
b.  Based on the Cox proportional hazards stratified analysis.
c.  Based on the stratified log-rank test (1-sided).
d.  Updated based on final OS analysis. OS analysis was not adjusted for the potentially confounding effects 
of cross over (144 [84%] patients in the chemotherapy arm received subsequent crizotinib treatment).
e. ORRs were 47% (95% CI: 37, 58) for pemetrexed/cisplatin (p-value <0.0001 compared with crizotinib) 
and 44% (95% CI: 32, 55) for pemetrexed/carboplatin (p-value <0.0001 compared with crizotinib).
f.  Based on the stratified Cochran-Mantel--Haenszel test (2-sided).
g. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
25
Figure 1. Kaplan-Meier curves for progression-free survival (based on IRR) by treatment 
arm in randomised Phase 3 Study 1014 (full analysis population) in patients with 
previously untreated ALK-positive advanced NSCLC
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; p=p-value.
Figure 2.  Kaplan-Meier curves for overall survival by treatment arm in randomised Phase 3 
Study 1014 (full analysis population) in patients with previously untreated 
ALK-positive advanced NSCLC
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; p=p-value.
For patients with previously treated baseline brain metastases, the median intracranial time to 
progression (IC-TTP) was 15.7 months in the crizotinib arm (N=39) and 12.5 months in the 
chemotherapy arm (N=40) (HR=0.45 [95% CI: 0.19, 1.07]; 1-sided p-value=0.0315). For patients 
without baseline brain metastases, the median IC-TTP was not reached in either the crizotinib (N=132) 
or the chemotherapy arms (N=131) (HR=0.69 [95% CI: 0.33, 1.45]; 1-sided p-value=0.1617).
26
Patient-reported symptoms and global QOL were collected using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and its lung 
cancer module (EORTC QLQ-LC13). A total of 166 patients in the crizotinib arm and 163 patients in 
the chemotherapy arm had completed the EORTC QLQ-C30 and LC13 questionnaires at baseline and 
at least 1 postbaseline visit. Significantly greater improvement in global QOL was observed in the 
crizotinib arm compared to the chemotherapy arm (overall difference in change from baseline 
scores 13.8; p-value < 0.0001).
Time to Deterioration (TTD) was prespecified as the first occurrence of a ≥ 10-point increase in scores 
from baseline in symptoms of pain in chest, cough, or dyspnoea as assessed by EORTC QLQ-LC13.
Crizotinib resulted in symptom benefits by significantly prolonging TTD compared to chemotherapy 
(median 2.1 months versus 0.5 months; HR=0.59; 95% CI: 0.45, 0.77; Hochberg-adjusted log-rank 
2-sided p-value =0.0005).
Previously treated ALK-positive advanced NSCLC – randomised Phase 3 Study 1007
The efficacy and safety of crizotinib for the treatment of patients with ALK-positive metastatic 
NSCLC, who had received previous systemic treatment for advanced disease, were demonstrated in a 
global, randomised, open-label Study 1007.
The full analysis population included 347 patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC as identified 
by FISH prior to randomisation. One hundred seventy-three (173) patients were randomised to 
crizotinib and 174 patients were randomised to chemotherapy (either pemetrexed or docetaxel). The 
demographic and disease characteristics of the overall study population were 56% female, median age 
of 50 years, baseline ECOG performance status 0 (39%) or 1 (52%), 52% White and 45% Asian, 
4% current smokers, 33% past smokers, and 63% never smokers, 93% metastatic, and 93% of patients' 
tumours were classified as adenocarcinoma histology.
Patients could continue treatment as assigned beyond the time of RECIST-defined disease progression 
at the discretion of the investigator if the patient was perceived to be experiencing clinical benefit. 
Fifty-eight of 84 (69%) patients treated with crizotinib and 17 of 119 (14%) patients treated with 
chemotherapy continued treatment for at least 3 weeks after objective disease progression. Patients 
randomised to chemotherapy could crossover to receive crizotinib upon RECIST-defined disease 
progression confirmed by IRR.
Crizotinib significantly prolonged PFS, the primary objective of the study, compared to chemotherapy 
as assessed by IRR. The PFS benefit of crizotinib was consistent across subgroups of baseline patient 
characteristics such as age, gender, race, smoking class, time since diagnosis, ECOG performance 
status, presence of brain metastases and prior EGFR TKI therapy.
Efficacy data from Study 1007 are summarised in Table 10, and the Kaplan-Meier curves for PFS and 
OS are shown in Figures 3 and 4, respectively.
Table 10.
Efficacy results from randomised Phase 3 Study 1007 (full analysis population) in 
patients with previously treated ALK-positive advanced NSCLC*
Response Parameter
Progression-free survival (based on IRR)
Number with event, n (%)
Type of event, n (%)
Progressive disease
Crizotinib
N=173
Chemotherapy
N=174
100 (58%)
127 (73%)
84 (49%)
119 (68%)
27
Response Parameter
Death without objective progression
Median PFS in months (95% CI)
HR (95% CI)b
p-valuec
Overall survivald
Crizotinib
N=173
16 (9%)
7.7 (6.0, 8.8)
Chemotherapy
N=174
8 (5%)
3.0a (2.6, 4.3)
0.49 (0.37, 0.64)
< 0.0001
Number of deaths, n (%)
Median OS in months (95% CI)
116 (67%)
21.7 (18.9, 30.5)
126 (72%)
21.9 (16.8, 26.0)
HR (95% CI)b
p-valuec
0.85 (0.66, 1.10)
0.1145
6-Month survival probability,e % (95% CI)
1-Year survival probability,e % (95% CI)
86.6 (80.5, 90.9)
70.4 (62.9, 76.7)
83.8 (77.4, 88.5)
66.7 (59.1, 73.2)
Objective response rate (based on IRR)
Objective response rate % (95% CI)
p-valueg
Duration of response
Mediane, months (95% CI)
65% (58, 72)
20%f (14, 26)
< 0.0001
7.4 (6.1, 9.7)
5.6 (3.4, 8.3)
Abbreviations:  CI=confidence  interval;  HR=hazard  ratio;  IRR=independent  radiology  review;  N/n=number  of 
patients; PFS=progression-free survival; ORR=objective response rate; OS=overall survival.
* PFS, objective response rate and duration of response are based on the data cutoff date of 30 March 2012; OS 
is based on the data cutoff date of 31 August 2015. 
a. The median PFS times were 4.2 months (95% CI: 2.8, 5.7) for pemetrexed (HR=0.59; p-value=0.0004 for 
crizotinib compared with pemetrexed) and 2.6 months (95% CI: 1.6, 4.0) for docetaxel 
(HR=0.30; p-value < 0.0001 for crizotinib compared with docetaxel).
b. Based on the Cox proportional hazards stratified analysis.
c.  Based on the stratified log-rank test (1-sided).
d.  Updated based on final OS analysis. Final OS analysis was not adjusted for the potentially confounding effects 
of crossover (154 [89%] patients received subsequent crizotinib treatment).
e.  Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
f. ORRs were 29% (95% CI: 21, 39) for pemetrexed (p-value < 0.0001 compared with crizotinib) and 7% (95% CI: 
2, 16) for docetaxel (p-value < 0.0001 compared with crizotinib).
g. Based on the stratified Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test (2-sided).
Figure 3.
Kaplan-Meier curves for progression-free survival (based on IRR) by treatment arm in 
randomised Phase 3 Study 1007 (full analysis population) in patients with previously treated 
ALK-positive advanced NSCLC
28
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; p=p-value.
Figure 4.
Kaplan-Meier curves for overall survival by treatment arm in randomised 
Phase 3 Study 1007 (full analysis population) in patients with previously treated 
ALK-positive advanced NSCLC
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; p=p-value.
Fifty-two (52) patients treated with crizotinib and 57 chemotherapy-treated patients with previously 
treated or untreated asymptomatic brain metastases were enrolled in randomised Phase 3 Study 1007. 
Intracranial Disease Control Rate (IC-DCR) at 12 weeks was 65% and 46% for crizotinib and 
chemotherapy-treated patients, respectively.
Patient-reported symptoms and global QOL were collected using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and its lung 
cancer module (EORTC QLQ-LC13) at baseline (Day 1 Cycle 1) and Day 1 of each subsequent 
treatment cycle. A total of 162 patients in the crizotinib arm and 151 patients in the chemotherapy arm 
had completed the EORTC QLQ-C30 and LC13 questionnaires at baseline and at least 1 postbaseline 
visit.
Crizotinib resulted in symptoms benefit by significantly prolonging time to deterioration (median 
4.5 months versus 1.4 months) in patients who reported symptoms of pain in chest, dyspnoea, or 
cough, compared to chemotherapy (HR 0.50; 95% CI: 0.37, 0.66; Hochberg-adjusted log-rank 
p < 0.0001).
Crizotinib showed a significantly greater improvement from baseline compared to chemotherapy in 
alopecia (Cycles 2 to 15; p-value < 0.05), cough (Cycles 2 to 20; p-value < 0.0001), dyspnoea 
(Cycles 2 to 20; p-value < 0.0001), haemoptysis (Cycles 2 to 20; p-value < 0.05), pain in arm or 
shoulder (Cycles 2 to 20; p-value < 0.0001), pain in chest (Cycles 2 to 20; p-value < 0.0001), and pain 
in other parts (Cycles 2 to 20; p-value < 0.05). Crizotinib resulted in a significantly lower deterioration 
from baseline in peripheral neuropathy (Cycles 6 to 20; p-value < 0.05), dysphagia (Cycles 5 to 11; 
p-value < 0.05) and sore mouth (Cycle 2 to 20; p-value < 0.05) compared to chemotherapy.
Crizotinib resulted in overall global quality of life benefits with a significantly greater improvement 
from baseline observed in the crizotinib arm compared to the chemotherapy arm (Cycles 2 to 20; 
p-value < 0.05).
Single-arm studies in ALK-positive advanced NSCLC
The use of single-agent crizotinib in the treatment of ALK-positive advanced NSCLC was investigated 
in 2 multinational, single-arm studies (Studies 1001 and 1005). Of the patients enrolled in these 
29
studies, the patients described below had received prior systemic therapy for locally advanced or 
metastatic disease. The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was objective response rate (ORR) 
according to RECIST.
A total of 149 ALK-positive advanced NSCLC patients, including 125 patients with previously treated 
ALK-positive advanced NSCLC, were enrolled into Study 1001 at the time of data cutoff for PFS and 
ORR analysis. The demographic and disease characteristics were 50% female, median age of 51 years, 
baseline ECOG performance status of 0 (32%) or 1 (55%), 61% White and 30% Asian, less than 1% 
were current smokers, 27% former smokers, 72% never smokers, 94% metastatic, and 98% of the 
cancers were classified as adenocarcinoma histology. The median duration of treatment was 42 weeks.
A total of 934 patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC were treated with crizotinib in 
Study 1005 at the time of data cutoff for PFS and ORR analysis. The demographic and disease 
characteristics were 57% female, median age of 53 years, baseline ECOG performance status of 
0/1 (82%) or 2/3 (18%), 52% White and 44% Asian, 4% current smokers, 30% former smokers, 
66% never smokers, 92% metastatic, and 94% of the cancers were classified as adenocarcinoma 
histology. The median duration of treatment for these patients was 23 weeks. Patients could continue 
treatment beyond the time of RECIST-defined disease progression at the discretion of the investigator. 
Seventy-seven of 106 patients (73%) continued crizotinib treatment for at least 3 weeks after objective 
disease progression.
Efficacy data from Studies 1001 and 1005 are provided in Table 11.
Table 11. ALK-positive advanced NSCLC efficacy results from Studies 1001 and 1005
Efficacy parameter
Objective response rateb [% (95% CI)]
Time to tumour response [median (range)] weeks
Duration of responsec [median (95% CI)] weeks
Progression-free survivalc [median (95% CI)] months
Number of deaths, n (%)
Overall survivalc [median (95% CI)] months
Study 1001
N=125a
60 (51, 69)
7.9 (2.1, 39.6)
48.1 (35.7, 64.1)
9.2 (7.3, 12.7)
N=154e
83 (54%)
28.9 (21.1, 40.1)
Study 1005
N=765a
48 (44, 51)
6.1 (3, 49)
47.3 (36, 54)
7.8 (6.9, 9.5)d
N=905e
504 (56%)
21.5 (19.3, 23.6)
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N/n=number of patients; PFS=progression-free survival.
a. Per data cutoff dates 01 June 2011 (Study 1001) and 15 February 2012 (Study 1005).
b. Three patients were not evaluable for response in Study 1001, and 42 patients were not evaluable for response 
in Study 1005.
c. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
d. PFS data from Study 1005 included 807 patients in the safety analysis population who were identified by the 
FISH assay (data cutoff date 15 February 2012).
e. Per data cutoff date 30 November 2013.
ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC
The use of single-agent crizotinib in the treatment of ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC was 
investigated in multicenter, multinational, single-arm Study 1001. A total of 53 ROS1-positive 
advanced NSCLC patients were enrolled in the study at the time of data cutoff, including 46 patients 
with previously treated ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC and a limited number of patients (N=7) who 
had no prior systemic treatment. The primary efficacy endpoint was ORR according to RECIST. 
Secondary endpoints included time to tumour response (TTR), duration of response (DoR), PFS, and 
OS. Patients received crizotinib 250 mg orally twice daily.
The demographic characteristics were 57% female; median age 55 years; baseline ECOG performance 
status of 0 or 1 (98%) or 2 (2%), 57% White and 40% Asian; 25% former smokers, and 75% never 
smokers. The disease characteristics were 94% metastatic, 96% adenocarcinoma histology, and 13% 
with no prior systemic therapy for metastatic disease.
In Study 1001, patients were required to have advanced ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC prior to 
30
entering the clinical study. For most patients, ROS1-positive NSCLC was identified by FISH. The 
median duration of treatment was 22.4 months (95% CI: 15.0, 35.9). There were 6 complete responses 
and 32 partial responses for an ORR of 72% (95% CI: 58%, 83%). The median DoR was 24.7 months 
(95% CI: 15.2, 45.3). Fifty percent of objective tumour responses were achieved during the first 
8 weeks of treatment. The median PFS at the time of data cutoff was 19.3 months (95% CI: 15.2, 
39.1). The median OS at the time of data cutoff was 51.4 months (95% CI: 29.3, NR).
Efficacy data from ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC patients from Study 1001 are provided in 
Table 12.
Table 12. ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC efficacy results from Study 1001
Efficacy parameter
Objective response rate [% (95% CI)]
Time to tumour response [median (range)] weeks
Duration of responseb [median (95% CI)] months
Progression-free survivalb [median (95% CI)] months
OSb [median (95% CI)] months
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; N=number of patients; NR=not reached; OS=overall survival.
OS is based on a median follow up of approximately 63 months.
a. Per data cutoff date30 June 2018.
b. Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
Study 1001
N=53a
72 (58, 83)
8 (4, 104)
24.7 (15.2, 45.3)
19.3 (15.2, 39.1)
51.4 (29.3, NR)
Non-adenocarcinoma histology
Twenty-one patients with previously untreated and 12 patients with previously treated advanced 
ALK-positive non-adenocarcinoma histology NSCLC were enrolled in randomised 
Phase 3 Studies 1014 and 1007, respectively. The subgroups in these studies were too small to draw 
reliable conclusions. Of note, no patients with SCC histology were randomised in the crizotinib arm in 
Study 1007 and no patients with SCC were enrolled in Study 1014 due to pemetrexed-based regimen 
being used as a comparator.
Information is available from 45 response-evaluable patients with previously treated 
non-adenocarcinoma NSCLC (including 22 patients with SCC) in Study 1005. Partial responses were 
observed in 20 of 45 patients with non-adenocarcinoma NSCLC for an ORR of 44%, and 
9 of 22 patients with SCC NSCLC for an ORR of 41%, both of which were less than the ORR reported 
in Study 1005 (54%) for all patients.
Re-treatment with crizotinib
No safety and efficacy data are available on re-treatment with crizotinib of patients who received 
crizotinib in previous lines of therapy.
Elderly
Of 171 ALK-positive NSCLC patients treated with crizotinib in randomised Phase 3 Study 1014, 
22 (13%) were 65 years or older, and of 109 ALK-positive patients treated with crizotinib who crossed 
over from chemotherapy arm, 26 (24%) were 65 years or older. Of 172 ALK-positive patients treated 
with crizotinib in randomised Phase 3 Study 1007, 27 (16%) were 65 years or older. Of 154 and 
1063 ALK-positive NSCLC patients in single arm Studies 1001 and 1005, 22 (14%) and 173 (16%) 
were 65 years or older, respectively. In ALK-positive NSCLC patients, the frequency of adverse 
reactions was generally similar for patients < 65 years of age and patients ≥ 65 years of age with the 
exception of oedema and constipation, which were reported with greater frequency (≥ 15% difference) 
in Study 1014 among patients treated with crizotinib ≥ 65 years of age. No patients in the crizotinib 
arm of randomised Phase 3 Studies 1007 and 1014, and single-arm Study 1005 were > 85 years. There 
was one ALK-positive patient > 85 years old out of 154 patients in single-arm Study 1001 (see also 
31
sections 4.2 and 5.2). Of the 53 ROS1-positive NSCLC patients in single-arm Study 1001, 15 (28%) 
were 65 years or older. There were no ROS1-positive patients > 85 years old in Study 1001.
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of crizotinib have been established in paediatric patients with relapsed or 
refractory systemic ALK-positive ALCL from 3 to <18 years of age or with unresectable, recurrent, or 
refractory ALK-positive IMT from 2 to <18 years of age (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). There are no safety 
or efficacy data of crizotinib treatment in ALK-positive ALCL paediatric patients below 3 years of age 
or ALK-positive IMT paediatric patients below 2 years of age. Paediatric patients should be assessed 
for their ability to swallow intact capsules before prescribing crizotinib. Paediatric patients 
(age ≥6 to <18 years) who are able to swallow intact crizotinib capsules can be treated with crizotinib.
Paediatric patients with ALK-Positive ALCL (see sections 4.2 and 5.2)
The use of single-agent crizotinib in the treatment of paediatric patients with relapsed or refractory 
systemic ALK-positive ALCL was investigated in Study 0912 (n=22). All patients enrolled had 
received prior systemic treatment for their disease: 14 had 1 prior line of systemic treatment, 6 had 
2 prior lines of systemic treatment, and 2 had more than 2 prior lines of systemic treatment. Of the 
22 patients enrolled in Study 0912, 2 had received a prior bone marrow transplant. No clinical data are 
currently available on paediatric patients who undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) 
following treatment with crizotinib. Patients with primary or metastatic central nervous system (CNS) 
tumours were excluded from the study. The 22 patients enrolled in Study 0912 received a starting dose 
of crizotinib at 280 mg/m2 (16 patients) or 165 mg/m2 (6 patients) twice daily. Efficacy endpoints from 
Study 0912 included ORR, TTR and DoR per independent review. The median follow-up time was 
5.5 months. 
The demographic characteristics were 23% female; median age 11 years; 50% White and 9% Asian. 
Baseline performance status as measured by Lansky Play Score (patients ≤16 years) or Karnofsky 
Performance Score (patients >16 years) was 100 (50% of patients) or 90 (27% of patients). Patient 
enrollment by age was 4 patients from 3 to <6 years, 11 patients from 6 to <12 years and 7 patients 
from 12 to <18 years. No patients below 3 years of age were enrolled in the study.
Efficacy data as assessed by independent review are provided in Table 13.
Table 13.  Systemic ALK-positive ALCL efficacy results from Study 0912
Efficacy Parametera
ORR, [% (95% CI)]c
Complete response, n (%)
Partial response, n (%)
TTRd
Median (range) months
DoRd,e
Median (range) months 
N=22b
86 (67, 95)
17 (77)
2 (9)
0.9 (0.8, 2.1)
3.6 (0.0, 15.0)
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; DoR=duration of response; N/n=number of patients; 
ORR=objective response rate; TTR=time to tumour response.
a. As assessed by Independent Review Committee using Lugano Classification response criteria.
b. Per data cutoff date 19 Jan 2018.
c. 95% CI based on Wilson score method.
d. Estimated using descriptive statistics.
e. Ten of the 19 (53%) patients proceeded to hematopoietic stem cell transplant after occurrence of 
an objective response. DoR for patients who underwent transplant was censored at the time of
their last tumour assessment prior to transplant.
Paediatric patients with ALK-Positive IMT (see sections 4.2 and 5.2)
The use of single-agent crizotinib in the treatment of paediatric patients with unresectable, recurrent, 
or refractory ALK-positive IMT was investigated in Study 0912 (n=14). Most patients (12 out of 14) 
32
enrolled had received surgery (8 patients) or prior systemic treatment (7 patients: 5 had 1 prior line of 
systemic treatment, 1 had 2 prior lines of systemic treatment, and 1 had more than 2 prior lines of 
systemic treatment) for their disease. Patients with primary or metastatic CNS tumours were excluded 
from the study. The 14 patients enrolled in Study 0912 received a starting dose of crizotinib at 
280 mg/m2 (12 patients), 165 mg/m2 (1 patient) or 100 mg/m2 (1 patient) twice daily. Efficacy 
endpoints for Study 0912 included ORR, TTR and DoR per independent review. The median 
follow-up time was 17.6 months. 
The demographic characteristics were 64% female; median age 6.5 years; 71% White. Baseline 
performance status as measured by Lansky Play Score (patients ≤16 years) or Karnofsky Performance 
Score (patients >16 years) was 100 (71% of patients) or 90 (14% of patients) or 80 (14% of patients). 
Patient enrollment by age was 4 patients from 2 to <6 years, 8 patients from 6 to <12 years and 
2 patients from 12 to <18 years. No patients below 2 years of age were enrolled in the study.
Efficacy data as assessed by independent review are provided in Table 14.
Table 14. ALK-positive IMT efficacy results from Study 0912
Efficacy Parametera
ORR, [% (95% CI)]c
Complete response, n (%)
Partial response, n (%)
TTRd
Median (range) months
DoRd,e
Median (range) months
N=14b
86 (60, 96)
5 (36)
7 (50)
1.0 (0.8, 4.6)
14.8 (2.8, 48.9)
Abbreviations: CI=confidence interval; DoR=duration of response; N/n=number of patients; 
ORR=objective response rate; TTR=time to tumour response.
a. As assessed by Independent Review Committee.
b. Per data cutoff date 19 Jan 2018.
c. 95% CI based on Wilson score method.
d. Estimated using descriptive statistics.
e. None of the 12 patients with objective tumour response had follow-up disease progression, and 
their DoR was censored at the time of the last tumour assessment.
Paediatric patients with ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
XALKORI in all subsets of the paediatric population in NSCLC (see section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption
Following oral single dose administration in the fasted state, crizotinib is absorbed with median time to 
achieve peak concentrations of 4 to 6 hours. With twice daily dosing, steady-state was achieved within 
15 days. The absolute bioavailability of crizotinib was determined to be 43% following the 
administration of a single 250 mg oral dose.
A high-fat meal reduced crizotinib AUCinf and Cmax by approximately 14% when a 250 mg single dose 
was given to healthy volunteers. Crizotinib can be administered with or without food (see section 4.2).
Distribution
The geometric mean volume of distribution (Vss) of crizotinib was 1772 L following intravenous 
administration of a 50 mg dose, indicating extensive distribution into tissues from the plasma.
33
Binding of crizotinib to human plasma proteins in vitro is 91% and is independent of medicinal 
product concentration. In vitro studies suggest that crizotinib is a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp).
Biotransformation
In vitro studies demonstrated that CYP3A4/5 were the major enzymes involved in the metabolic 
clearance of crizotinib. The primary metabolic pathways in humans were oxidation of the piperidine 
ring to crizotinib lactam and O-dealkylation, with subsequent Phase 2 conjugation of O-dealkylated 
metabolites.
In vitro studies in human liver microsomes demonstrated that crizotinib is a time-dependent inhibitor 
of CYP2B6 and CYP3A (see section 4.5). In vitro studies indicated that clinical drug-drug
interactions are unlikely to occur as a result of crizotinib-mediated inhibition of the metabolism of 
medicinal products that are substrates for CYP1A2, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19 or CYP2D6.
In vitro studies showed that crizotinib is a weak inhibitor of UGT1A1 and UGT2B7 (see section 4.5). 
However, in vitro studies indicated that clinical drug-drug interactions are unlikely to occur as a result 
of crizotinib-mediated inhibition of the metabolism of medicinal products that are substrates for 
UGT1A4, UGT1A6, or UGT1A9.
In vitro studies in human hepatocytes indicated that clinical drug-drug interactions are unlikely to 
occur as a result of crizotinib-mediated induction of the metabolism of medicinal products that are
substrates for CYP1A2.
Elimination
Following single doses of crizotinib, the apparent plasma terminal half-life of crizotinib was 42 hours 
in patients.
Following the administration of a single 250 mg radiolabelled crizotinib dose to healthy subjects, 63% 
and 22% of the administered dose was recovered in faeces and urine, respectively. Unchanged 
crizotinib represented approximately 53% and 2.3% of the administered dose in faeces and urine, 
respectively.
Coadministration with medicinal products that are substrates of transporters
Crizotinib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in vitro. Therefore, crizotinib may have the potential 
to increase plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are substrates of P-gp 
(see section 4.5).
Crizotinib is an inhibitor of OCT1 and OCT2 in vitro. Therefore, crizotinib may have the potential to 
increase plasma concentrations of coadministered medicinal products that are substrates of OCT1 or 
OCT2 (see section 4.5).
In vitro, crizotinib did not inhibit the human hepatic uptake transport proteins organic anion 
transporting polypeptide (OATP)1B1 or OATP1B3 or the renal uptake transport proteins organic 
anion transporter (OAT)1 or OAT3 at clinically relevant concentrations. Therefore, clinical drug-drug 
interactions are unlikely to occur as a result of crizotinib-mediated inhibition of the hepatic or renal 
uptake of medicinal products that are substrates for these transporters.
Effect on other transport proteins
In vitro, crizotinib is not an inhibitor of BSEP at clinically relevant concentrations.
Pharmacokinetics in special patient groups
Hepatic impairment
34
Crizotinib is extensively metabolised in the liver. Patients with mild (either AST > ULN and total 
bilirubin ≤ ULN or any AST and total bilirubin > ULN but 1.5 × ULN), moderate (any AST and total 
bilirubin > 1.5 × ULN and ≤ 3 × ULN), or severe (any AST and total bilirubin > 3 × ULN) hepatic 
impairment or normal (AST and total bilirubin ≤ ULN) hepatic function, who were matched controls 
for mild or moderate hepatic impairment, were enrolled in an open-label, non-randomised clinical 
study (Study 1012), based on NCI classification.
Following crizotinib 250 mg twice daily dosing, patients with mild hepatic impairment (N=10) showed 
similar systemic crizotinib exposure at steady state compared to patients with normal hepatic function 
(N=8), with geometric mean ratios for area under the plasma concentration-time curve as daily 
exposure at steady state (AUCdaily) and Cmax of 91.1% and 91.2%, respectively. No starting dose 
adjustment is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment.
Following crizotinib 200 mg twice daily dosing, patients with moderate hepatic impairment (N=8) 
showed higher systemic crizotinib exposure compared to patients with normal hepatic function (N=9) 
at the same dose level, with geometric mean ratios for AUCdaily and Cmax of 150% and 144%, 
respectively. However, the systemic crizotinib exposure in patients with moderate hepatic impairment 
at the dose of 200 mg twice daily was comparable to that observed from patients with normal hepatic 
function at a dose of 250 mg twice daily, with geometric mean ratios for AUCdaily and Cmax of 114% 
and 109%, respectively.
The systemic crizotinib exposure parameters AUCdaily and Cmax in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment (N=6) receiving a crizotinib dose of 250 mg once daily were approximately 64.7% and 
72.6%, respectively, of those from patients with normal hepatic function receiving a dose of 250 mg 
twice daily.
An adjustment of the dose of crizotinib is recommended when administering crizotinib to patients with 
moderate or severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Renal impairment
Patients with mild (60 ≤ CLcr < 90 mL/min) and moderate (30 ≤ CLcr < 60 mL/min) renal impairment 
were enrolled in single-arm Studies 1001 and 1005. The effect of renal function as measured by 
baseline CLcr on observed crizotinib steady-state trough concentrations (Ctrough, ss) was evaluated. In 
Study 1001, the adjusted geometric mean of plasma Ctrough, ss in mild (N=35) and moderate (N=8) renal 
impairment patients were 5.1% and 11% higher, respectively, than those in patients with normal renal 
function. In Study 1005, the adjusted geometric mean Ctrough, ss of crizotinib in mild (N=191) and 
moderate (N=65) renal impairment groups were 9.1% and 15% higher, respectively, than those in 
patients with normal renal function. In addition, the population pharmacokinetic analysis using data 
from Studies 1001, 1005 and 1007 indicated CLcr did not have a clinically meaningful effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of crizotinib. Due to the small size of the increases in crizotinib exposure (5%-15%), 
no starting dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild or moderate renal impairment.
After a single 250 mg dose in subjects with severe renal impairment (CLcr < 30 mL/min) not requiring 
peritoneal dialysis or haemodialysis, crizotinib AUCinf and Cmax increased by 79% and 34%, 
respectively, compared to those with normal renal function. An adjustment of the dose of crizotinib is 
recommended when administering crizotinib to patients with severe renal impairment not requiring 
peritoneal dialysis or haemodialysis (see sections 4.2 and 4.4).
Paediatric population for cancer patients
At a dosing regimen of 280 mg/m2 twice daily (approximately 2 times the recommended adult dose), 
observed crizotinib predose concentration (Ctrough) at steady state is similar regardless of body weight 
quartiles. The observed mean Ctrough at steady state in paediatric patients at 280 mg/m2 twice daily is 
35
482 ng/mL, while observed mean Ctrough at steady state in adult cancer patients at 250 mg twice daily 
across different clinical studies ranged from 263 to 316 ng/mL.
Age
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from Studies 1001, 1005, and 1007, age has 
no effect on crizotinib pharmacokinetics (see sections 4.2 and 5.1).
Body weight and gender
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from Studies 1001, 1005 and 1007, there 
was no clinically meaningful effect of body weight or gender on crizotinib pharmacokinetics.
Ethnicity
Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from Studies 1001, 1005 and 1007, the 
predicted area under the plasma concentration-time curve at steady-state (AUCss) (95% CI) was 
23%-37% higher in Asian patients (N=523) than in non-Asian patients (N=691).
In studies in patients with ALK-positive advanced NSCLC (N=1669), the following adverse reactions 
were reported with an absolute difference of ≥ 10% in Asian patients (N=753) than in non-Asian 
patients (N=916): elevated transaminases, decreased appetite, neutropenia, and leukopenia. No adverse 
drug reactions were reported with an absolute difference of ≥ 15%.
Geriatric
Limited data are available in this subgroup of patients (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). Based on the 
population pharmacokinetic analysis of data in Studies 1001, 1005 and 1007, age has no effect on 
crizotinib pharmacokinetics.
Cardiac electrophysiology
The QT interval prolongation potential of crizotinib was assessed in patients with either ALK-positive 
or ROS1-positive NSCLC who received crizotinib 250 mg twice daily. Serial ECGs in triplicate were 
collected following a single dose and at steady state to evaluate the effect of crizotinib on QT intervals. 
Thirty-four of 1619 patients (2.1%) with at least 1 postbaseline ECG assessment were found to have 
QTcF ≥ 500 msec, and 79 of 1585 patients (5.0%) with a baseline and at least 1 postbaseline ECG 
assessment had an increase from baseline QTcF ≥ 60 msec by automated machine-read evaluation of 
ECG (see section 4.4).
An ECG substudy using blinded manual ECG measurements was conducted in 52 ALK-positive 
NSCLC patients who received crizotinib 250 mg twice daily. Eleven (21%) patients had an increase 
from Baseline in QTcF value ≥ 30 to < 60 msec and 1 (2%) patient had an increase from Baseline in 
QTcF value of ≥ 60 msec. No patients had a maximum QTcF ≥ 480 msec. The central tendency 
analysis indicated that all upper limits of the 90% CI for the LS mean change from Baseline in QTcF 
at all Cycle 2 Day 1 time points were < 20 msec. A pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic analysis 
suggested a relationship between crizotinib plasma concentration and QTc. In addition, a decrease in 
heart rate was found to be associated with increasing crizotinib plasma concentration (see section 4.4), 
with a maximum mean reduction of 17.8 beats per minute (bpm) after 8 hours on Cycle 2 Day 1.
36
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In rat and dog repeat-dose toxicity studies up to 3-month duration, the primary target organ effects 
were related to the gastrointestinal (emesis, faecal changes, congestion), haematopoietic (bone marrow 
hypocellularity), cardiovascular (mixed ion channel blocker, decreased heart rate and blood pressure, 
increased LVEDP, QRS and PR intervals, and decreased myocardial contractility), or reproductive 
(testicular pachytene spermatocyte degeneration, single-cell necrosis of ovarian follicles) systems. The 
No Observed Adverse Effect Levels (NOAEL) for these findings were either subtherapeutic or up to 
2.6-fold human clinical exposure based on AUC. Other findings included an effect on the liver 
(elevation of liver transaminases) and retinal function, and potential for phospholipidosis in multiple 
organs without correlative toxicities.
Crizotinib was not mutagenic in vitro in the bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay. Crizotinib was 
aneugenic in an in vitro micronucleus assay in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells and in an in vitro human 
lymphocyte chromosome aberration assay. Small increases of structural chromosomal aberrations at 
cytotoxic concentrations were seen in human lymphocytes. The NOAEL for aneugenicity was 
approximately 1.8-fold human clinical exposure based on AUC.
Carcinogenicity studies with crizotinib have not been performed.
No specific studies with crizotinib have been conducted in animals to evaluate the effect on fertility; 
however, crizotinib is considered to have the potential to impair reproductive function and fertility in 
humans based on findings in repeat-dose toxicity studies in the rat. Findings observed in the male 
reproductive tract included testicular pachytene spermatocyte degeneration in rats given 
≥ 50 mg/kg/day for 28 days (approximately 1.1-fold human clinical exposure based on AUC). 
Findings observed in the female reproductive tract included single-cell necrosis of ovarian follicles of 
a rat given 500 mg/kg/day for 3 days.
Crizotinib was not shown to be teratogenic in pregnant rats or rabbits. Post-implantation loss was 
increased at doses ≥ 50 mg/kg/day (approximately 0.4 times the AUC at the recommended human 
dose) in rats, and reduced foetal body weights were considered adverse effects in the rat and rabbit at 
200 and 60 mg/kg/day, respectively (approximately 1.2-fold human clinical exposure based on AUC).
Decreased bone formation in growing long bones was observed in immature rats at 150 mg/kg/day 
following once daily dosing for 28 days (approximately 3.3 times human clinical exposure based on 
AUC). Other toxicities of potential concern to paediatric patients have not been evaluated in juvenile 
animals.
The results of an in vitro phototoxicity study demonstrated that crizotinib may have phototoxic 
potential.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Capsule content
Colloidal anhydrous silica
Microcrystalline cellulose
Anhydrous calcium hydrogen phosphate
Sodium starch glycolate (Type A)
Magnesium stearate
37
Capsule shell
Gelatin
Titanium dioxide (E171)
Red iron oxide (E172)
Printing ink
Shellac
Propylene glycol
Potassium hydroxide
Black iron oxide (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
4 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
HDPE bottles with a polypropylene closure containing 60 hard capsules.
PVC-foil blisters containing 10 hard capsules.
Each carton contains 60 hard capsules.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
7.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
EU/1/12/793/001
EU/1/12/793/002
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
EU/1/12/793/003
EU/1/12/793/004
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
38
Date of first authorisation: 23 October 2012
Date of latest renewal: 16 July 2021
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
39
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
40
A.
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstӓtte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION
-
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
-
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicine Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
-
Additional risk minimisation measures
The MAH shall agree the content and format of the educational material with the National Competent 
Authority. The final wording used on the educational material should be in line with the approved 
product information.
The MAH should ensure that, at launch and thereafter, all Healthcare Professionals who are expected 
to use and/or prescribe XALKORI are provided with an educational pack.
The educational pack should contain the following:
1. Summary of Product Characteristics and Package Leaflet.
2. Patient brochure (text as agreed by the CHMP).
3. Patient Card (text as agreed by the CHMP).
41
The Patient Information brochure should contain the following key elements:
- Brief introduction to crizotinib and the purpose of the risk minimisation tools.
-
Information on how to take crizotinib, including what to do if a dose is missed
- Description of serious side effects associated with crizotinib, including how to manage these 
and to notify the doctor immediately if the patient develops:
o Breathing problems associated with pneumonitis/ILD
o Light-headedness, fainting, chest discomfort or irregular heartbeat associated with 
bradycardia, QT prolongation and cardiac failure
o Abnormalities in liver blood tests associated with hepatotoxicity
o Visual changes, including guidance to assess visual symptoms in the paediatric 
population
o Stomach disorders associated with gastrointestinal perforation
-
-
The importance to notify the doctor, nurse or pharmacist if the patient uses any other 
medications
Information that crizotinib should not be used during pregnancy and the need to use secure 
contraception (beyond oral contraceptives) during treatment.
The Patient Card should contain the key elements discussed in the Patient Information Brochure. The 
role/use of the detachable patient card is to show to healthcare professionals outside of the patient’s 
healthcare team.
42
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
43
A. LABELLING
44
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg crizotinib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
45
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/12/793/002
13.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XALKORI 200 mg
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
46
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 200 mg crizotinib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
47
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/12/793/001
13.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XALKORI 200 mg
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
48
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MAH logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
49
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 250 mg crizotinib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
50
11.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/12/793/004
13.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XALKORI 250 mg
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
51
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each hard capsule contains 250 mg crizotinib.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 hard capsules
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
52
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11.
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12.
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/12/793/003
13.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XALKORI 250 mg
17.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
53
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS
BLISTER
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MAH logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
54
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
55
Package leaflet: Information for the user
XALKORI 200 mg hard capsules
XALKORI 250 mg hard capsules
crizotinib
The words “you” and “your” are used to refer to both the adult patient and to the caregiver of 
the paediatric patient. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
What is in this leaflet
1. What XALKORI is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take XALKORI
3. How to take XALKORI
4. Possible side effects
5. How to store XALKORI
6. Contents of the pack and other information
1. What XALKORI is and what it is used for
XALKORI is an anticancer medicine containing the active substance crizotinib used to treat adults 
with a type of lung cancer called non-small cell lung cancer, that presents with a specific 
rearrangement or defect in either a gene called anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) or a gene called 
ROS1.
XALKORI can be prescribed to you for the initial treatment if your disease is at an advanced stage of 
lung cancer.
XALKORI can be prescribed to you if your disease is at an advanced stage and previous treatment has 
not helped to stop your disease.
XALKORI may slow or stop the growth of lung cancer. It may help shrink tumours.
XALKORI is used to treat children and adolescents (age ≥6 to <18 years) with a type of tumour called 
anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) or a type of tumour called inflammatory myofibroblastic 
tumour (IMT) that present with a specific rearrangement or defect in a gene called anaplastic 
lymphoma kinase (ALK).
XALKORI can be prescribed to children and adolescents to treat ALCL if previous treatment has not 
helped to stop the disease.
XALKORI can be prescribed to children and adolescents to treat IMT if surgery has not helped to stop 
the disease.
You should only be given this medicine and supervised by a doctor who has experience with cancer 
treatment. If you have any questions about how XALKORI works or why this medicine has been 
prescribed for you, ask your doctor.
56
2.
What you need to know before you take XALKORI
Do not take XALKORI

If you are allergic to crizotinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
Section 6, “What XALKORI contains”).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor before taking XALKORI:








If you have moderate or severe liver disease.
If you have ever had any other lung problems. Some lung problems may get worse during 
treatment with XALKORI, as XALKORI may cause inflammation of the lungs during 
treatment. Symptoms may be similar to those from lung cancer. Tell your doctor right away if 
you have any new or worsening symptoms including difficulty in breathing, shortness of 
breath, or cough with or without mucous, or fever.
If you have been told that you have an abnormality of your heart tracing after an 
electrocardiogram (ECG) known as prolonged QT interval.
If you have reduced heart rate.
If you have ever had stomach or intestine problems such as holes (perforation), or if you have 
conditions causing inflammation inside the abdomen (diverticulitis), or if you have spread of 
cancer inside the abdomen (metastasis).
If you have vision disorders (seeing flashes of light, blurred vision, and double vision).
If you have severe kidney disease.
If you are currently treated with any of the medicines listed in section “Other medicines and 
XALKORI”.
If any of the above conditions apply to you, tell your doctor.
Talk to your doctor right away after having taken XALKORI:

If you are experiencing severe stomach or abdominal pain, fever, chills, shortness of breath, 
fast heartbeat, partial or complete loss of vision (in one or both eyes) or changes in bowel 
habits.
Most of the available information is available in adult patients with some specific histology type of 
ALK-positive or ROS1-positive NSCLC (adenocarcinoma). Limited information is available in the 
other histologies.
Children and adolescents
The indication for non-small cell lung cancer does not cover children and adolescents. Do not give this 
medicine to children younger than 6 years of age with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT.
Children and adolescents should be assessed for their ability to swallow intact capsules before 
prescribing XALKORI. XALKORI should be given to children and adolescents under adult 
supervision.
Other medicines and XALKORI
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including herbal medicines and medicine obtained over the counter.
In particular, the following medicines may increase the risk of side effects with XALKORI:
 Clarithromycin, telithromycin, erythromycin, antibiotics used to treat bacterial infections.
 Ketoconazole, itraconazole, posaconazole, voriconazole, used to treat fungal infections.
 Atazanavir, ritonavir, cobicistat, used to treat HIV infections/AIDS.
The following medicines may reduce the effectiveness of XALKORI:
57
Phenytoin, carbamazepine or phenobarbital, anti-epileptics used to treat seizures or fits.

 Rifabutin, rifampicin, used to treat tuberculosis.

St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used to treat depression.
XALKORI may increase side effects associated with the following medicines:
 Alfentanil and other short acting opiates such as fentanyl (painkillers used for surgical 
procedures).
 Quinidine, digoxin, disopyramide, amiodarone, sotalol, dofetilide, ibutilide, verapamil, 
diltiazem used to treat heart problems.
Pimozide, used to treat mental illness.
Procainamide, used to treat cardiac arrhythmia.
 Medicines for high blood pressure called beta-blockers such as atenolol, propranolol, labetolol.

 Metformin, used to treat diabetes.

 Cisapride, used to treat stomach problems.
 Ciclosporin, sirolimus and tacrolimus used in transplant patients.
 Ergot alkaloids (e.g., ergotamine, dihydroergotamine), used to treat migraine.
 Dabigatran, anticoagulant used to slow down clotting of the blood.
 Colchicine, used to treat gout.
Pravastatin, used to reduce cholesterol levels.

 Clonidine, guanfacine, used to treat hypertension.
 Mefloquine, used for the prevention of malaria.

 Anticholinesterases, used to restore muscle function.
 Antipsychotics, used to treat mental illness.
 Moxifloxacine, used to treat bacterial infections.
 Methadone, used to treat pain and for the treatment of opioid dependence.
 Bupropion, used to treat depression and smoking cessation.
 Efavirenz, raltegravir, used to treat HIV infection.

 Morphine, used to treat acute and cancer pain.
 Naloxone, used to treat opiate medicine addiction and withdrawal.
Irinotecan, a chemotherapy medicine used to treat cancer of the colon and rectum.
Pilocarpine, used to treat glaucoma (a severe eye disease).
These medicines should be avoided during your treatment with XALKORI.
Oral contraceptives
If you take XALKORI whilst using oral contraceptives, the oral contraceptives may be ineffective.
XALKORI with food and drink
You can take XALKORI with or without food; however, you should avoid drinking grapefruit juice or 
eating grapefruit while on treatment with XALKORI as they may change the amount of XALKORI in 
your body.
Sun protection
Avoid spending prolonged time in sunlight. XALKORI can make your skin sensitive to the sun 
(photosensitivity), and you may burn more easily. You should wear protective clothing and/or use 
sunscreen that covers your skin to help protect against sunburn if you have to be in the sunlight during 
treatment with XALKORI.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking this medicine if you are pregnant, may become 
pregnant or are breast-feeding.
It is recommended that women avoid becoming pregnant and that men do not father children during 
treatment with XALKORI because this medicine could harm the baby. If there is any possibility that 
the person taking this medicine may become pregnant or father a child, they must use adequate 
58
contraception during treatment, and for at least 90 days after completing therapy as oral contraceptives 
may be ineffective while taking XALKORI.
Do not breast-feed during treatment with XALKORI. XALKORI could harm a breast-fed baby.
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine.
Driving and using machines
You should take special care when driving and using machines as patients taking XALKORI may 
experience visual disturbances, dizziness, and tiredness.
XALKORI contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per 200 mg or 250 mg capsule, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take XALKORI
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.
 The recommended dose for adults with NSCLC is one capsule of 250 mg taken orally twice 
daily (total amount 500 mg).
 The recommended dose for children and adolescents with ALK-positive ALCL or
ALK-positive IMT is 280 mg/m2 orally twice daily. The recommended dose will be calculated 
by the child’s doctor and depends on the child’s body surface area (BSA). The maximum daily 
dosage in children and adolescents should not exceed 1000 mg. XALKORI should be given 
under adult supervision.
 Take the recommended dose once in the morning and once in the evening.
 Take the capsules at about the same time each day.
 You can take the capsules with or without food always avoiding grapefruit.
Swallow the capsules whole and do not crush, dissolve or open the capsules.

If necessary, your doctor may decide to reduce the dose to be taken orally. Your doctor may decide to 
permanently discontinue XALKORI treatment if you are unable to tolerate XALKORI.
If you take more XALKORI than you should
If you accidentally take too many capsules, tell your doctor or pharmacist right away. You may require 
medical attention.
If you forget to take XALKORI
What to do if you forget to take a capsule depends on how long it is until your next dose.


If your next dose is in 6 hours or more, take the missed capsule as soon as you remember. 
Then take the next capsule at the usual time.
If your next dose is in less than 6 hours, skip the missed capsule. Then take the next capsule 
at the usual time.
Tell your doctor about the missed dose at your next visit.
Do not take a double dose (two capsules at the same time) to make up for a forgotten capsule.
If you vomit after taking a dose of XALKORI, do not take an extra dose; just take your next dose at 
your regular time.
59
If you stop taking XALKORI
It is important to take XALKORI every day, as long as your doctor prescribes it to you. If you are not 
able to take the medicine as your doctor prescribed, or you feel you do not need it anymore, contact 
your doctor right away.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
If you experience any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet.
Although not all adverse reactions identified in the adults with NSCLC have been observed in children 
and adolescents with ALCL or IMT, the same side effects for adult patients with lung cancer should be 
considered for children and adolescents with ALCL or IMT.
Some side effects could be serious. You should immediately contact your doctor if you experience any 
of the following serious side effects (see also section 2 “What you need to know before you take 
XALKORI ”):
 Liver failure
Tell your doctor right away if you feel more tired than usual, your skin and whites of your 
eyes turn yellow, your urine turns dark or brown (tea colour), you have nausea, vomiting, or 
decreased appetite, you have pain on the right side of your stomach, you have itching, or if 
you bruise more easily than usual. Your doctor may do blood tests to check your liver 
function, and if the results are abnormal, your doctor may decide to reduce the dose of 
XALKORI or stop your treatment.
 Lung inflammation
Tell your doctor right away if you experience difficulty in breathing, especially if associated 
with cough or fever.
 Reduction in the number of white blood cells (including neutrophils)
Tell your doctor right away if you experience fever or infection. Your doctor may do blood 
tests and if the results are abnormal, your doctor may decide to reduce the dose of XALKORI.
 Light-headedness, fainting, or chest discomfort
Tell your doctor right away if you experience these symptoms which could be signs of 
changes in the electrical activity (seen on electrocardiogram) or abnormal rhythm of the heart. 
Your doctor may perform electrocardiograms to check there are no problems with your heart 
during treatment with XALKORI.
 Partial or complete loss of vision in one or both eyes
Tell your doctor right away if you experience any new vision problems, loss of vision or any 
change in vision such as difficulty seeing out of one or both eyes. Your doctor may hold or 
permanently stop XALKORI treatment and refer you to an ophthalmologist.
For children and adolescents taking XALKORI to treat ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive 
IMT: Your doctor should refer you to an ophthalmologist before starting XALKORI, and 
within 1 month of starting XALKORI to check for vision problems. You should have an eye 
examination every 3 months during treatment with XALKORI and more often if there are any 
new vision problems.
60

Severe stomach and intestine (gastrointestinal) problems in children and adolescents 
with ALK-positive ALCL or ALK-positive IMT
XALKORI may cause severe diarrhoea, nausea or vomiting. Tell your doctor right away if 
problems with swallowing, vomiting, or diarrhoea develop during treatment with XALKORI. 
Your doctor may give medicines as needed to prevent or treat diarrhoea, nausea, and 
vomiting. Your doctor may recommend drinking more fluids or may prescribe electrolyte 
supplements or other kinds of nutritional support if severe symptoms develop.
Other side effects of XALKORI in adults with NSCLC may include:
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
 Visual effects (seeing flashes of light, blurred vision, light sensitivity, floaters or double 
vision, often beginning soon after starting treatment with XALKORI).
Stomach upset, including vomiting, diarrhoea, nausea.

 Oedema (excess fluid in body tissue, causing swelling of the hands and feet).
 Constipation.
 Abnormalities in liver blood tests.
 Decreased appetite.
 Tiredness.
 Dizziness.
 Neuropathy (feeling of numbness or pins and needles in the joints or extremities).
 Alteration in sense of taste.
Pain in the abdomen.

 Reduction in the number of red blood cells (anaemia).

 Reduced heart rate.
Skin rash.
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)



Indigestion.
Increased blood levels of creatinine (may indicate that kidneys are not functioning properly).
Increased levels of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase in the blood (an indicator of organ 
malfunction or injury, particularly liver, pancreas, bone, thyroid gland, or gall bladder).
 Hypophosphataemia (low blood phosphate levels that can cause confusion or muscle 
weakness).
 Closed pouches of fluid within the kidneys (kidney cysts).
Fainting.

Inflammation of the oesophagus (swallowing tube).

 Decreased levels of testosterone, a male sex hormone.
 Heart failure.
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people)
 Hole (perforation) in stomach or intestine.


Sensitivity to sunlight (photosensitivity).
Increased blood levels of tests that check for muscle damage (high creatine phosphokinase 
levels).
Other side effects of XALKORI in children and adolescents with ALK-positive ALCL or 
ALK-positive IMT may include:
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people)
 Abnormalities in liver blood tests.
 Visual effects (seeing flashes of light, blurred vision, light sensitivity, floaters or double 
vision, often beginning soon after starting treatment with XALKORI).
Pain in the abdomen.
Increased blood levels of creatinine (may indicate that kidneys are not functioning properly).


61
 Anaemia (reduction in the number of red blood cells).
 Low platelet counts in blood tests (may increase the risk of bleeding and bruising).
 Tiredness.
 Decreased appetite.
 Constipation.
 Oedema (excess fluid in body tissue, causing swelling of the hands and feet).

Increased levels of the enzyme alkaline phosphatase in the blood (an indicator of organ 
malfunction or injury, particularly liver, pancreas, bone, thyroid gland, or gall bladder).
 Neuropathy (feeling of numbness or pins and needles in the joints or extremities).
 Dizziness.

 Alteration in sense of taste.
 Hypophosphataemia (low blood levels of phosphate that can cause confusion or muscle 
Indigestion.
weakness).
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)


Skin rash.
Inflammation of the oesophagus (swallowing tube).
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store XALKORI
 Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
 Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the bottle or blister foil and 
carton after “EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
 This medicine does not require any special storage conditions.
 Do not use any pack that is damaged or shows signs of tampering.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What XALKORI contains

The active substance in XALKORI is crizotinib. 
XALKORI 200 mg: each capsule contains 200 mg crizotinib
XALKORI 250 mg: each capsule contains 250 mg crizotinib

The other ingredients are (see also section 2 “XALKORI contains sodium”):
Capsule content: colloidal anhydrous silica, microcrystalline cellulose, anhydrous calcium 
hydrogen phosphate, sodium starch glycolate (Type A), magnesium stearate.
Capsule shell: gelatin, titanium dioxide (E171), and red iron oxide (E172).
Printing ink: shellac, propylene glycol, potassium hydroxide, and black iron oxide (E172).
What XALKORI looks like and contents of the pack
XALKORI 200 mg is supplied as hard gelatin capsules with pink cap and white body, printed with 
black ink “Pfizer” on the cap, “CRZ 200” on the body.
62
XALKORI 250 mg is supplied as hard gelatin capsules with pink cap and body, printed with black ink 
“Pfizer” on the cap, “CRZ 250” on the body.
It is available in blister packs of 60 hard capsules and in plastic bottles of 60 hard capsules.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstӓtte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer NV/SA
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje
Tel: +370 5 251 4000
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel.: +36 1488 37 00
Česká republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420 283 004 111
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Deutschland
PFIZER PHARMA GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
Malta
Vivian Corporation Ltd.
Tel: +356 21344610
Nederland
Pfizer bv
Tel: +31 (0)800 63 34 636
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
Pfizer Ελλάς A.E.
Τηλ: +30 210 6785800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 423 5500
63
France
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: +1800 633 363 (toll free)
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l.
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
Kύπρος
Pfizer Ελλάς Α.Ε. (Cyprus Branch) 
Τηλ: +357 22817690
Latvija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 670 35 775
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}.
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 (0) 21 207 28 00
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja 
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel: +386 (0)1 52 11 400
Slovenská republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka
Tel: +421 2 3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige 
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/.
64
