22 April 2022 
EMA/246133/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): crizotinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010042/202108 
Period covered by the PSUR: 26 August 2019 to 25 August 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for crizotinib, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on photosensitivity from an in vitro phototoxicity study (which demonstrated 
that crizotinib may have phototoxic potential), clinical trials, literature, spontaneous reports, including 
three cases with a close temporal relationship, positive dechallenge and rechallenge, two cases with 
positive dechallenge either at full dose or reduced dose and two cases highlighting that with 
appropriate prophylactic sun protective measures, crizotinib may be continued without dose 
modification in some patients , the PRAC considers a causal relationship between crizotinib and 
photosensitivity is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of 
products containing crizotinib should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on blood creatine phosphokinase increased from spontaneous reports 
including five cases with a close temporal relationship and a positive rechallenge, and in view of a 
possible class effect, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between crizotinib and blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased is at least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product 
information of products containing crizotinib should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for crizotinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing crizotinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/246133/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
