20 March 2014 
EMA/342496/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
XALKORI 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: crizotinib 
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/002489/PSUV/0012 
Period covered by the PSUR:  26/02/2013 - 25/08/2013
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Xalkori, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows: 
In view of available data regarding gastrointestinal perforations, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information were warranted. A total of ten cases were identified in the MAH pharmacovigilance 
database: Gastrointestinal perforation (1), Intestinal perforation (6), Large intestine perforation (2) and 
Diverticular perforation (1). Six of these ten patients may have alternative aetiologies for the 
gastrointestinal perforation including metastatic disease to the intestinal wall, pre-existing diverticulitis, 
prior abdominal surgical procedure with drainage tubes in place, radiation treatment and concomitant use 
of dexamethasone which is known to be associated with gastrointestinal perforation. For the remaining 
four patients, there was limited information or no specific aetiology was determined. 
Based on the current data from crizotinb clinical studies (including compassionate use), the estimated 
incidence of gastrointestinal perforation among NSCLC patients receiving crizotinib treatment is 
approximately 0.20% (7/3,571). Three cases are not included in this calculation because they are from 
spontaneous report. Therefore the PRAC recommends the inclusion of gastrointestinal perforation as a 
warning and into the list of adverse drug reactions in the Xalkori Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SmPC) and in the package leaflet accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Xalkori, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance crizotinib is favourable subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
