1 April 2016 
EMA/375653/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation 
Active substance: crizotinib 
Procedure no.: EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010042/201508 
Period covered by the PSUR:  26 February 2015 - 25 August 2015 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for crizotinib, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
Following  cumulative  reviews  of  a  number  of  adverse  events,  three  adverse  events  were  identified 
where a causal relationship with crizotinib was supported. 
In  the  review  of  “Blood  testosterone  decreased”,  the  preclinical  and  clinical  data  supported  a  causal 
relation  between  crizotinib  and  blood  testosterone  decreased.  Although  the  large  majority  of  the 
adverse  events  of  “Blood  testosterone  decreased”  as  well  as  the  related  symptoms  reported  with 
crizotinib were non-serious, cases reporting improvement of symptoms with testosterone replacement 
have been identified and support a causal relationship with crizotinib. Section 4.8 of the SmPC should 
be revised to add the AR “Blood testosterone decreased”. 
In the review of gastrointestinal disorders, 62 cases reporting “Oesophagitis” have been identified. All 
ARs reported from clinical trial sources and the majority (51.8%) from post-marketing were serious. In 
addition, 29 cases of “Oesophageal ulcers and perforation”, all serious, were also identified. The level 
of  evidence  is  considered  sufficient  to  support  a  causal  relationship  between  crizotinib  and 
“Oesophagitis”  and  “Oesophageal  ulcer”.  Section  4.8  of  the  SmPC  should  be  revised  to  add  the  AR 
“Oesophagitis”. 
In the review of Visual effects, 65 cases reporting 77 relevant grade 3/4 and/or serious ARs under the 
SOC “Eye disorders” were identified. Cases reporting positive dechallenge have been identified as well 
as cases reporting rapidly worsening visual AE while on crizotinib, leading to vision loss, supporting a 
causal relationship with crizotinib. Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC should be revised to reinforce 
the  existing  warning  and  to  inform  that  adverse  reactions  which  may  result  in  vision  loss  have  been 
reported with crizotinib. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing crizotinib were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for crizotinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing crizotinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation  
EMA/375653/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
