EMA/648641/2011  
EMEA/H/C/002022 
EPAR summary for the public 
Xaluprine 
mercaptopurine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Xaluprine. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Xaluprine. 
What is Xaluprine? 
Xaluprine is a medicine that contains the active substance mercaptopurine. It is available as an oral 
suspension. 
What is Xaluprine used for? 
Xaluprine is used to treat children, adolescents and adults who have acute lymphoblastic leukaemia 
(ALL), a cancer of the lymphocytes (a type of white blood cell).  
Because the number of patients with ALL is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and Xaluprine was 
designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 30 April 2009. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Xaluprine used? 
Treatment with this medicine should be supervised by a healthcare professional experienced in treating 
patients with ALL. 
The medicine is taken by mouth, using the syringe provided in the pack, once per day in the evening. 
The dose is determined for each patient mainly by body surface area and may be adjusted according to 
its effects in the blood. It can be taken with food (except dairy products) or on an empty stomach but 
this should be consistent from day to day. For more information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Xaluprine work? 
The active substance in this medicine, mercaptopurine has a similar chemical structure to purine, 
which is one of the fundamental chemicals that make up DNA. In the body, 6–mercaptopurine is 
converted within cells into a substance that interferes with the production of new DNA. This prevents 
the cells from dividing. In ALL the lymphocytes multiply too quickly and live for too long. 6–
mercaptopurine prevents them from dividing and they eventually die, thereby slowing down the 
progression of the leukaemia. Medicines containing mercaptopurine in tablet form have been already 
used in the EU for many years to treat patients with ALL. 
How has Xaluprine been studied? 
Because 6-mercaptopurine has been used for the treatment of ALL in the European Union for a number 
of years in the tablet form, the company presented results from the scientific literature of studies 
previously carried out with mercaptopurine tablets. 
A study was also carried out to compare the bioavailability of Xaluprine, which is an oral suspension, 
with that of the tablet. The bioavailability study compared the way the two different forms of the same 
medicine are absorbed in the human body and the levels of the active substance they produce. 
What benefit has Xaluprine shown during the studies? 
The effectiveness of 6–mercaptopurine in slowing down the progression of ALL is already well known 
since it has been used for many years. The added benefit of Xaluprine is that, as an oral suspension, it 
will provide more accuracy in dosing and it is easier to be taken by children. The bioavailability study 
showed that Xaluprine is comparable to the tablets, but it works in a more predictable way and has a 
higher rate of absorption, for which reason the dose will need to be adjusted when a patient switches 
from one formulation to the other. 
What is the risk associated with Xaluprine? 
The most common side effects with mercaptopurine (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are leucopenia 
(low white blood cell counts) and thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts). For the full list of all 
side effects, see the package leaflet. 
Xaluprine must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to mercaptopurine or any of the 
other ingredients. It must also not be used at the same time as patients are having a yellow fever 
vaccination. 
Why has Xaluprine been approved? 
The CHMP noted that mercaptopurine is established as an important treatment for ALL and that the 
only authorised form in the EU is a 50 mg tablet, making it difficult to adjust the dose for smaller 
children. The Committee considered that an oral suspension allows more accurate dosing and is more 
convenient for children unable to swallow tablets. The CHMP also noted that the risks of using the 
medicine are well known.  
The Committee concluded that the benefits of Xaluprine are greater than its risks and recommended 
that it be granted marketing authorisation. 
Xaluprine  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Xaluprine 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Xaluprine on 9 March 2012. 
The full EPAR for Xaluprine can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about 
treatment with Xaluprine, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Xaluprine can be 
found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease 
designations. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2012. 
Xaluprine  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
