5 February 2016 
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 Corr.1 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Xarelto  
International non-proprietary name: rivaroxaban 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000944/LEG-037 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
1 10 February 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
                                                
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 3 
1.1. Steps taken for the assessment of data ................................................................... 4 
1.2. Background information ........................................................................................ 4 
2. Scientific assessment of the information provided by the MAH ............... 5 
2.1. Delay in informing the EU regulatory Authorities ...................................................... 5 
2.2. Assessment on the scientific data requested by CHMP ............................................... 8 
2.3. MAH conclusions on the scientific analyses provided ............................................... 36 
2.4. Other questions raised by the CHMP ..................................................................... 37 
2.4.1. Request 3: Clarification whether the recalled device was used in other trials performed 
with Xarelto or any other development programmes, and submitted or intended for 
submission. .............................................................................................................. 37 
2.4.2. Request 4: Information whether other Regulatory authorities have been informed and 
subsequent actions were taken in any territory. ............................................................ 38 
3. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance ................... 38 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 2/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
This report covers a recently recognized post-authorisation signal regarding the device used for INR 
testing in the Rocket AF and J Rocket studies. The Rocket AF study was the pivotal phase III study 
supporting the indication for thromboembolic prophylaxis in atrial fibrillation.  
On Sept 23, 2015 the EMA received a letter from the MAH in relation to issues with the INR testing 
methodology applied in these two trials.  
The manufacturer of the point of care INR device (Alere Inc.TM) had identified that the device in certain 
clinical conditions gave inappropriately low INR values. The differences were in some instances reported 
to be clinically relevant leading to increases of anti-vitamin K agents with resulting increased bleeding 
tendency. In principle, depending of the size of the problem, this could lead to an increased bleeding rate 
in the control arm of the trials which would potentially hamper the interpretations of the differences 
between treatment arms. 
Upon receipt of the information a specific regulatory procedure (LEG) was initiated dedicated to the device 
in question had been used in the above mentioned trials. The strategy to analyse the data from the Rocket 
AF trial where discussed and questions raised to the MAH in October as preliminary clarification of the 
issue. (see below).  
Request 1:  
Clarification on the reasons for the delay in informing the EMA, considering that more than 9 months 
elapsed since the US alert and recall. Clarification on whether alerts or recall have taken place any other 
countries, including EU. In addition, exact details of the grounds and extent of the medical device alert 
and recalls should be provided.  
Request 2:  
The MAH's view on the impact on the results reported in the ROCKET trials. The Company proposals for 
sensitivity analyses to be submitted by 15 October 2015 are supported. Further analyses might be 
requested upon assessment of the data.  
Request 3:  
Clarification whether the recalled device was used in other trials performed with Xarelto or any other 
development programmes, and submitted or intended for submission.  
Request 4:  
Information whether other Regulatory authorities have been informed and subsequent actions were 
taken in any territory.  
During the review the MAH was asked by CHMP to provide additional sensitivity analyses which are further 
discussed in the scientific part of this report.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 3/41 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1.  Steps taken for the assessment of data  
Timetable 
Start of procedure: 
Submission of the responses by MAH 
CXMP Rapporteur Assessment Report 
CHMP discussion  
CHMP discussion 
Submission of answers by MAH 
Planned dates 
15 Oct 2015 
15 Oct 2015 
29 Oct 2015 
November 2015 
December 2015 
7, 18,  22  
December 2015 
18 January 2016 
8 , 19 and 22 January  
Rapporteur Revised Assessment Report 
2016 
CHMP discussion  
January 2016 
1.2.  Background information  
On Dec 10, 2014 Alere Inc initiated a voluntary correction to inform users of the device that the system 
may provide INR results that are clinically significantly lower than results obtained using a reference INR 
system (laboratory method). A field safety notice was distributed to the National Competent Authorities 
in the affected European countries. 
The message stated that the issue can arise if the patient has certain clinical conditions or if the 
instructions in the labelling for performing the test are not followed.  
It was recommended by the manufacturer that the system should not be used in patients with any of the 
following conditions: 
•  Anaemia of any type with haematocrit less than 30% 
•  Any conditions associated with fibrinogen levels including: 
− 
− 
− 
− 
− 
Acute inflammatory conditions (examples may include acute viral or bacterial 
infections such as pneumonia or influenza) 
Chronic inflammatory conditions (examples may include rheumatoid arthritis, Crohns 
disease, ulcerative colitis, infectious liver disease such as hepatitis, or inflammatory 
kidney disease such as diabetic nephropathy and glomerulonephritis) 
Severe infection (e.g.sepsis) 
Chronically elevated fibrinogen levels for any reasons 
Hospitalized or advanced stage cancer or end stage renal disease patients requiring 
haemodialysis 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 4/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Any bleeding or unusual bruising, clinically observed or reported by the patient 
Patients with any of the conditions listed above were recommended to immediately be transitioned to a 
laboratory INR method for monitoring of their warfarin therapy. 
2.  Scientific assessment of the information provided by the 
MAH  
2.1.  Delay in informing the EU regulatory Authorities 
Clarification on the reasons for the delay in informing the EMA, considering that more than 9 months 
elapsed since the US alert and recall. 
Summary of MAH response 
The ROCKET AF trial 
In order to maintain the blinding of investigators to the study medication in the Rocket AF trial the 
necessary INR control for warfarin was performed with an INR point of care device, which was provided to 
the sites by Janssen Research & Development LLC (JRD), Bayer’s co-development partner for 
rivaroxaban. For this purpose, JRD purchased over 3,000 INRatio devices from HemoSense, Inc., (San 
Jose, CA) and Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. (Waltham, MA) between 2006 and 2009. The devices 
were specifically dedicated for the use in the ROCKET AF trial (for details please refer to Response to 
Request 2). 
The Alere INR ratio device recall 
In August 2007, HemosSense, the original provider of the device used in the ROCKET AF trial, was 
purchased by Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc., an US- based (Waltham, MA) biotechnology company. 
The company changed its name to Alere in the year 2010 and continued to market the INRatio devices 
under the name Alere INRatio and INRatio2 PT/INR Monitor System.  
On December 5, 2014 a class 1 recall was issued by FDA for the Alere INRatio and INRatio 2 PT/INR 
monitor systems and test strips, mandating an urgent medical device correction letter (no withdrawal of 
devices from the market). According to information from Alere to Bayer and JRD a field safety action 
notice was filed to countries outside the US.  
The urgent medical device correction letter was sent by Alere Inc. to users of its INRratio and INR Ratio 
2 PT/INR monitor systems and test strips that were manufactured between April 2008 and December 
2014, relating to all lots of part numbers: 0100071 and 0100139.  
The part numbers of the devices purchased from HemoSense Inc. for use in the ROCKET AF trial (part 
200361) are different than those listed in the recall. Bayer’s development partner JRD was not directly 
informed by the successor company Alere Inc. at any time in the context of the recall. Alere only reached 
out to clients that purchased the devices after 2009. 
On September 9, 2015, JRD became aware through a 3rd party that the recall notice of the Alere INRatio 
device might be applicable to the HemoSense INRatio devices used in the ROCKET AF trial program as 
well. Only through an immediate active request to Alere by JRD and a subsequent research by Alere in 
their legacy files, a connection between the lots cited in the official public recall notice and the unique 
identifier used on the ROCKET AF trial program devices was revealed. Subsequently Alere confirmed in a 
letter dated September 24, 2015 that the Urgent Medical Device Correction notification for the Alere TM 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 5/41 
 
 
 
 
 
INRatio®PT/INR Monitor System did contain information which is applicable to the PT/INR Monitor 
System PN 200361 used in the studies conducted by JRD. They further clarified why the devices used in 
the ROCKET AF trial were not listed in their original notification: "Alere generated the affected parts list 
attached to the notification and the customer consignee list based on a distribution database which 
contained distribution data back to 2009. The 200361 part began distribution in 2006 and was not 
included in this distribution database. Given the INRatio Test Strip dating is 15 months, this timeframe 
ensured all current customers were notified."  
Bayer and JRD informed the respective Health Authorities per local regulations and practices in their 
respective territories (JRD for USA, Bayer outside USA) in parallel, as soon as the applicability of the 
device recall was confirmed by Alere. 
In summary, the sequence of events as described above including the corresponding background 
documents shows that neither Bayer nor its co-development partner JRD had become aware of the 
potential applicability of the correction/recall (recall) to the Hemonsense Devices used in ROCKET AF 
before Sep 9, 2015. A connection between the recall and the devices purchased for the Rocket AF trial 
could not be made by Bayer or JRD based on publicly available information. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The devices had been purchased from the acquired company HemoSense and the names in the 
recall notice did not match with the name of the devices used in the Rocket AF trial. 
The timeframe given in the recall notice of December 2014 began after the main purchase order 
for the trial.  
The lot/part numbers listed in the recall did not match with the identifiers of the devices used in 
the ROCKET AF trial. 
JRD was not directly informed by Alere at any time in the context of the recall. Alere only reached 
out to those clients that purchased the devices after 2009. 
•  After becoming aware of the potential applicability of the recall to the ROCKET AF study through 
a third party on 9 September 2015, JRD actively engaged Alere so that a search in Alere’s legacy 
files was conducted. 
•  Alere informed JRD that the Urgent Medical Device Correction notification did contain information 
which was applicable to the PT/INR Monitor system PN 200361 in a formal letter on 24 September 
2015.  
Clarification on whether alerts or recall have taken place any other countries, including EU 
As noted on the FDA website the devices were being recalled in patients with certain conditions as they 
“may provide an INR result that is lower than expected result obtained using a laboratory INR method”. 
The same advice was provided by other European Agencies.  
Bayer is neither a manufacturer nor a distributor of the INRatio and INRatio 2 PT/INR Monitor System and 
the device was not chosen to monitor INR using in any other development program other than the 
ROCKET AF trial program. The EMA request for more information on the device has been forwarded to 
Alere.  
On October 08, 2015 Alere sent an email to JRD explaining that “the INRatio Monitor product notice was 
also distributed in the European countries which received the product. The recall notice is in the form of 
a Field Safety Notice (FSN).” Furthermore Alere provided the Field Safety Notice (FSN) as well as a list of 
European countries the field notice was distributed to, as listed below:  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 6/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Iceland, 
Ireland, Italy, Lithuania, Malta, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Switzerland, 
Turkey, United Kingdom.  
In addition, exact details of the grounds and extent of the medical device alert and recalls 
should be provided.  
According to the voluntary urgent correction notice issued by Alere the device should not be used on 
patients with certain medical conditions (see above). 
As further explained in the response to request 2, this correction notice was used by Bayer and JRD as the 
basis to propose and define the sensitivity analyses performed. In the response to request 2, Bayer 
addresses the question on how the device was used in the ROCKET AF study and assesses the potential 
implications of the device use on the reliability of the clinical data supporting the demonstration of the 
positive risk-benefit profile for Xarelto in the AF indication.  
Upon confirmation by Alere on September 24, 2015 on the applicability of the device recall to the ROCKET 
AF study, JRD followed up with Alere in verbal and written communication in order to obtain more 
information on the grounds and extent of the recall. The request of EMA on ‘the exact details of the 
grounds and extent of the medical device alert and recalls’ was forwarded to Alere on October 5th, 2015. 
On October 8th, 2015, Alere provided the INRatio Monitor product notice that was distributed in the 
European countries where the product is marketed. The recall notice is in the form of a Field Safety Notice 
(FSN). The technical information in the FSN is the same as in the US notice to FDA. This FSN was reported 
to the European Competent Authorities under FSCA 2014/012/015/081/005. In the same e-mail Alere 
informed JRD of the following:  
“A Health Hazard Assessment was conducted which concluded that the occurrence rate of a discrepant 
low result was occasional and the probability of injury as a result of the discrepancy is unlikely but 
possible. With INR testing, there is the possibility of a severe or life-threatening injury but the overall risk 
was determined to be Moderate. Alere has communicated to customers that more than 99% of all patient 
INR results are not expected to be affected by this specific issue.  
We have communicated more detailed information directly to FDA and EU Competent Authorities. 
Because of the proprietary nature of this information, we would directly provide this information to EMA.” 
After receipt of the information from Alere, Bayer immediately informed EMA and also provided respective 
contact details to Alere in order to ensure process support for submissions of confidential information 
from Alere directly to EMA.  
Bayer informed EMA on October 09, 2015 about Alere´s support in this matter and asked for clarification 
on the procedural aspect of this submission by Alere. These were clarified by EMA on October 12, 2015 
with the specific request to inform Alere on the possibility that the assessment report prepared by EMA 
may contain elements of the information provided by Alere to EMA, before Alere provides information to 
the EMA. This information was shared with Alere on October 12, 2015 per email and Alere reiterated their 
support on October 12, 2015. 
Further relevant information on the grounds and extent of the medical device alert and recalls will be 
provided directly from Alere to EMA.  
In conclusion, the MAH has clarified the sequence of actions taken by the different actors. Based on the 
response it can be concluded that the MAHs was not aware of any potential impact of the identified 
deficiencies of INR device system on the Rocket studies until Sept 9, 2015. The clarifications are accepted 
by CHMP.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 7/41 
 
 
 
 
 
However, it should be emphasized that it is the responsibility of Bayer, as MAH, to ensure that it maintains 
oversight of the safety profile and is kept informed of major issues, including the use of devices used 
during trials. In addition, appropriate traceability of data generated by devices used during a study should 
be ensured by the sponsor and retained even after the study has been finalised.   
2.2.  Assessment on the scientific data requested by CHMP 
Request 2: The MAH's view on the impact on the results reported in the ROCKET trials is 
requested and the Company proposals for sensitivity analyses submitted by 15 October 2015 
are supported. However, further analyses might be requested upon assessment of the data.  
Summary of the MAH response: 
Background information on ROCKET AF 
ROCKET AF was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, double-dummy, event-driven trial that was 
conducted at 1178 participating sites in 45 countries. The study was financially supported by Johnson & 
Johnson R&D (now Janssen R&D), and Bayer. The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate that 
the efficacy of rivaroxaban is non-inferior to that of dose adjusted warfarin for the prevention of 
thromboembolic events in subjects with non-valvular atrial fibrillation as measured by the composite of 
stroke (including primary ischemic, primary haemorrhagic, and unknown type unless otherwise stated) 
and non-central nervous system (CNS) systemic embolism. The principal safety objective of the study 
was to demonstrate that rivaroxaban is superior to dose-adjusted warfarin as assessed by the composite 
of major and non-major clinically relevant bleeding events. 
Patients were randomly assigned to receive fixed-dose rivaroxaban (20 mg daily or 15 mg daily in 
patients with a creatinine clearance of 30 to 49 ml per minute) or adjusted-dose warfarin (target 
international normalized ratio [INR], 2.0 to 3.0). Patients in each group also received a placebo tablet in 
order to maintain blinding. Randomization was performed with the use of a central 24-hour, 
computerized, automated voice-response system. To maintain the blind in this double-blind, double 
dummy study, warfarin and its matching placebo were dose-adjusted based on either real or sham INR 
results, respectively. Study sites were provided with 2 each of the point-of-care INR devices (INRatio) 
that performed the prothrombin time and INR based on the subject’s whole blood sample. The aim of 
using these point-of-care devices for INR measurement in this double-blind double dummy study was 2- 
fold: 1) to capitalize on their capability to provide encryption of each INR value obtained and thereby 
improve the shamming and blinding capability for the trial, and 2) to facilitate more rapid and real time 
turnaround of INR values (as opposed to sending a lab specimen away to a laboratory) and the 
performance of dose adjustment of warfarin, if needed, as soon as possible.  
Summarizing the efficacy results, in the primary analysis (per protocol/on-treatment), the primary end 
point occurred in 188 patients in the rivaroxaban group (1.7% per year) and in 241 in the warfarin group 
(2.2% per year) (hazard ratio in the rivaroxaban group, 0.79; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.66 to 0.96; 
P<0.001 for non inferiority). In the intention-to-treat analysis (Table 1), the primary end point occurred 
in 269 patients in the rivaroxaban group (2.1% per year) and in 306 patients in the warfarin group (2.4% 
per year) (hazard ratio, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.74 to 1.03; P<0.001 for non-inferiority; P = 0.12 for 
superiority). Other secondary efficacy analyses demonstrated there were consistently fewer events, 
strokes, non-CNS systemic embolisms, vascular deaths, and MIs observed for the rivaroxaban group 
compared with warfarin group. Additionally, the treatment effects were consistent across populations and 
subgroups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 8/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the safety population (Table 2), the incidence of CEC-adjudicated bleeding events was comparable for 
the principal safety endpoint of major and non major clinically relevant bleeding (20.74% for rivaroxaban 
and 20.34% for warfarin) and there was no statistically significant difference between the treatment 
groups with a hazard ratio of 1.03 (95% CI 0.96 to 1.11, p = 0.442). The bleeding event rates for the 
principal safety endpoint were comparable between treatment groups (14.91/100 patient-years 
rivaroxaban, 14.52/100 patient-years warfarin) as were those for the major (3.60/100 patient-years 
rivaroxaban, 3.45/100 patient-years warfarin) and non-major clinically relevant (11.80/100 
patient-years rivaroxaban, 11.37/100 patient-years warfarin) bleeding events separately. Significant 
reductions in intracranial haemorrhage (0.5% vs. 0.7%, P = 0.02) and fatal bleeding (0.2% vs. 0.5%, P 
= 0.003) in the rivaroxaban group were observed.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 9/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential pertinence of Alere Correction/Recall to the ROCKET AF trial 
The INRatio device was modified by the manufacturer (HemoSense) with a software program to encrypt 
the INR reading and maintain blinding. The read-out on the screen was a 7-digit code that corresponded 
to the actual or shammed INR value (there were multiple 7-digit codes assigned to each INR value to 
prevent inadvertent unblinding by the investigative site). To obtain an INR value for that individual test, 
once the investigative site performed the INR on a patient they called the IVRS or accessed the IWRS and 
entered the subject’s sudy identification number. After entering the identifying information as well as the 
last three doses of warfarin or warfarin placebo, the investigator entered the 7-digit code obtained from 
the INRatio device. If the subject was randomized to warfarin, the INR value reported by the IVRS/IWRS 
was the actual value. If the subject was randomized to rivaroxaban (with warfarin placebo) the INR value 
given by the IVRS/IWRS was a sham value that mimicked values obtained as if the subject were taking 
warfarin.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 10/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The INR provided by the IVRS was to be used by the investigator to adjust the warfarin/warfarin placebo 
dose in all subjects from the time of randomization until transition from study drug to an open-label VKA 
or other appropriate therapy. INR monitoring (using the point-of-care devices provided) was to occur as 
clinically indicated but at least every 4 weeks. Unblinded INR measurements were not to be performed 
while on study drug, except in case of a medical emergency. Sites were instructed to measure the INR 
using only the point-of-care devices provided to ensure consistency of warfarin dosing and to preserve 
the integrity of the study blind. 
The INR shamming program developed for the IVRS was derived from a proprietary algorithm developed 
from literature review and actual patient data from anticoagulation clinics in Sweden which included 
patients with AF receiving anticoagulation. Thus, investigators in ROCKET AF adjusted study medication 
(whether active warfarin or placebo warfarin) accordingly to maintain an INR target of 2.5 (range 2.0 to 
3.0, inclusive). During investigator meetings, INR monitoring was reviewed and treating physicians were 
encouraged to achieve and maintain an INR target of 2.5 (range 2.0 to 3.0) for all subjects. In addition, 
letters and related site communications were sent periodically to all investigators reminding them of the 
need to maintain INRs within the target range. However, specific warfarin dosing instructions were not 
provided to the enrolling sites.  
A monitor unblinded to study data was employed to review INR data and ascertain if subjects were 
frequently out of range. This monitor could consult with a physician unblinded to study data at DCRI to 
discuss specific cases, if needed. Occasionally and as a result of these surveillance efforts, specific 
investigators whose patients were found to be persistently below or above the target range received 
correspondence reminding them of the importance of achieving the INR target. The monitor unblinded to 
study data was also available to answer questions about individual INR results, in a blinded fashion, from 
investigators, through local medical monitors. At no time did the monitor unblinded to study data 
evaluate aggregate INR time in therapeutic range. The IDMC also reviewed the INR data on a regular 
basis. At no time did the IDMC interact with the sites or the INR monitors unblinded to study data.  
The use of the INRatio device in the ROCKET AF trial is outlined in Figure 1. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 11/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of the Sensitivity Analyses 
In the communication with EMA and Co-Rapporteurs on 29 September 2015, Bayer proposed to conduct 
sensitivity analyses to better understand the potential effect of the recall on the results of the ROCKET AF 
study. It was proposed that a subset of patients with conditions listed in the medical device 
recall/correction notice of the Alere INRatio® Monitor System would be identified. The impact on the 
primary efficacy and principal safety endpoints would be evaluated in the population excluding the subset 
with these conditions.”  
Medical Conditions 
The Urgent Medical Device Correction/Dear Healthcare Professional letter dated December 5, 2014 issued 
by Alere, Inc. listed a broad range of conditions in which the INRatio® PT/INR Monitor system should no 
longer be used (detailed in the background section above). 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 12/41 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Definitions 
Relevant medical condition – For the purposes of the sensitivity analyses, this term denotes diagnoses 
listed above. The conditions were subclassified as follows: 
•  Chronic – relevant medical conditions that are continuous or constant in nature 
•  Acute – relevant medical conditions that are time-limited 
Recall-related time of observation – this is a censoring method used to precisely define the interval during 
which the Alere device performance issue may have exerted an effect on the INR values on a given patient 
in the ROCKET AF trial. The term “recall-related time of observation” considers not only the presence of 
relevant medical conditions and adverse event (AE)/serious adverse event (SAE) start and stop dates, 
but also the timing of INRs performed with the device in association with these intervals. In brief, the 
mere presence of a relevant medical condition is not sufficient to warrant exclusion from observation 
since it is the performance of an INR in association with this condition that is of probative value. For 
example, if a patient develops a relevant medical condition but an INR is not performed during that 
interval, the device recall would not be relevant. Conversely, INRs performed during a relevant medical 
condition may exert an effect even after the AE/SAE stop date, until a subsequent (i.e., unaffected) INR 
is performed.  
Categorization of ROCKET AF subjects for the Sensitivity Analyses 
It was noted that the conditions above listed  could be found in four locations:  
1)  other relevant medical history, 
2)  adverse events, 
3)  serious adverse events, and 
4) 
laboratory database. 
Next, line listings of all coded (i.e., dictionary-derived) terms by body system or organ class were run for 
these 3 sets of conditions. These listings represented all possible conditions as reported by the 
investigators in these 3 eCRF locations.  
Two physicians blinded to treatment assignments independently reviewed the 3 sets of outputs, 
identifying any conditions that matched those listed in the Alere letter. The two reviews were then 
compared and any discrepancies discussed and resolved. When agreement was reached and each 
physician was satisfied that all relevant conditions were identified, the terms in each list were divided into 
“acute” or “chronic”. 
For the terms found in “other relevant medical history” on the eCRF, all chronic conditions were used for 
censoring. For the categories of adverse event and serious adverse event, a different technique was 
employed. That is, for all terms deemed “acute”, the investigator-reported start and stop date of the 
event would be used for censoring. For all terms deemed “chronic”, the start date would indicate when 
censoring would begin but censoring would not end until the last observation.  
Analysis Descriptions 
The categorization described above applied to the population for efficacy and safety analyses regardless 
of whether patients received rivaroxaban or warfarin. For all of the analyses, the comparison is between 
rivaroxaban and warfarin, based on the ROCKET AF study. Descriptions of the 3 sensitivity analyses follow 
(see also Tables 3 & 4, below).  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 13/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensitivity Analysis #1 – Efficacy 
For this analysis, the outcome is the Primary Efficacy Endpoint (composite of all stroke and non-CNS 
systemic embolism). The trial population used is the intent-to-treat* (ITT) population (please refer to the 
foot note in Table 3) and the data scope is from randomization to the time of site notification (i.e., end of 
the trial). Patients who had a relevant chronic medical condition reported at baseline (i.e., in Relevant 
Medical History on the eCRF at the screening visit) are censored after the performance of their first INR 
of the study. For the remaining patients, the analysis also excludes specific time intervals if they had a 
relevant medical condition, with censoring as defined in “Recall-related time of observation” above.  
Sensitivity Analysis #1 – Safety 
For this analysis, the outcome is the Principal Safety Endpoint (composite of major and nonmajor 
clinically relevant bleeding). The trial population used is the Safety population and the data scope is 
on-treatment. Patients who had a relevant chronic medical condition reported at baseline (i.e., in 
Relevant Medical History on the eCRF at the screening visit) are censored after the performance of their 
first INR of the study. For the remaining patients, the analysis also excludes specific time intervals if they 
had a relevant medical condition, with censoring as defined in “Recall-related time of observation” above.  
Sensitivity Analysis #2 – Efficacy 
For this analysis, the outcome is the Primary Efficacy Endpoint. The trial population used is the ITT*  
population (refer to the foot note in table 3) and the data scope is from randomization to the time of site 
notification. This analysis completely excludes patients who had recall-related time of observation before 
the endpoint event or censoring. In other words, the only patients included in this analysis are those who 
did not have any recall-related time of observation before the endpoint event or censoring. 
Sensitivity Analysis #2 – Safety 
For this analysis, the outcome is the Principal Safety Endpoint. The trial population used is the Safety 
population, and the data scope is on-treatment. This analysis completely excludes patients who had 
recall-related time of observation before the endpoint event or censoring. In other words, the only 
patients included in this analysis are those who did not have any recall related time of observation before 
the endpoint event or censoring. 
Sensitivity Analysis #3 – Efficacy 
For this analysis, the outcome is the Primary Efficacy Endpoint. The trial population used is the ITT* 
population and the data scope is from randomization to the time of site notification. One can think of this 
analysis in terms of the occurrence of a primary efficacy event or a censoring event (i.e., reaching the end 
of the trial). For this analysis, if the primary efficacy event occurred or the end of the trial was reached 
outside of a recall-related time of observation, the patient is included. What occurred before the event is 
not considered, provided the event occurred outside of a period of recall-related time of observation. As 
such, this cohort of the ITT population is larger than that contemplated by Sensitivity Analysis #2 since it 
includes some patients who had recall-related time of observation. 
Sensitivity Analysis #3 – Safety 
For this analysis, the outcome is the Principal Safety Endpoint. The trial population used is the Safety 
population, and the data scope is on-treatment. As above, one can think of this analysis in terms of the 
occurrence of a principal safety endpoint or a censoring event (i.e., reaching the end of the treatment with 
study drug). For this analysis, if the principal safety endpoint occurred or the end of the treatment with 
study drug was reached outside of a recall related time of observation, the patient is included. What 
occurred before the event is not relevant, provided the event occurred outside of a period of recall-related 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 14/41 
 
 
 
 
 
time of observation. As above, this cohort of the selected population is larger than that contemplated by 
Sensitivity Analysis #2 since it includes some patients who had recall-related time of observation. 
In summary, 3 sensitivity analyses were designed to obtain a more thorough understanding of the 
potential effect of the recall on the results of the ROCKET AF study, each having its own strengths and 
limitations (Tables 3 & 4). Although they are labelled as Sensitivity Analysis 1, 2 and 3, the MAH 
considered them as having equal importance and provide complementary perspectives. Sensitivity 
Analysis #1 includes all patients but excludes specific recall-related times of observation; its focus is on 
exposure periods. The other 2 analyses focus on patients included or excluded from the analyses. 
Sensitivity Analysis #2 is the most conservative as it includes only those patients without any 
recall-related time of observation ahead of any endpoint event or censoring. Sensitivity Analysis #3 is 
less restrictive: a patient is included if an event or censoring occurred outside of a recall-related time of 
observation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 15/41 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Results of Sensitivity Analyses 
Table 5 provides a summary of the subjects with recall-related time of observation while on Treatment. 
Approximately 1/3 in each treatment group had any recall-related time of observation. Total adverse 
events occurred in approximately ¼, with around 5% SAEs. Only 2.6-2.8% of subjects had a hematocrit 
measured to be <30% or >55%. Those with a chronic medical condition reported in the correction 
notice/recall made up just over 10%. 
Table 6 provides the output of the original ROCKET AF Efficacy analysis and the 3 sensitivity analyses 
performed. In the ITT population, rivaroxaban remained non-inferior to warfarin for the primary efficacy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 16/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
outcome of composite of stroke and non-CNS systemic embolism. In the 3 sensitivity analyses 
performed, no meaningful shifts in the respective hazard ratios for rivaroxaban versus warfarin are 
observed and the confidence intervals did not appreciably widen. The upper limit of the 2-sided 95% 
confidence interval for each of the 3 sensitivity analyses remains well below the non-inferiority margin 
pre-specified in the original trial analysis of 1.46 in terms of risk (hazard) ratio, so that non-inferiority of 
the study drug is still secured and declared. Of the 3 sensitivity analyses, the largest difference in both 
event rate and hazard ratio was observed in Sensitivity Analysis 2, which included only those patients 
without any recall-related time of observation ahead of any endpoint event or censoring. Here the event 
rates per 100 patient-years increased slightly in both treatments compared to the original analysis (2.29 
as opposed to 2.12/100 patient-years rivaroxaban, and 2.74 vs 2.42/100 patient-years warfarin), but the 
hazard ratio decreased modestly compared with the original hazard ratio, and the upper bound of the 
95% CI remains well below the non-inferiority margin.  
Table 7 provides the event rates and hazard ratios for the time to the first occurrence of bleeding events 
while on treatment in the Safety population for the original ROCKET AF Safety analysis, as well as for the 
3 sensitivity analyses performed. Evaluation in the Safety population of the event rates and hazard ratios 
for the 3 sensitivity analyses showed that the bleeding event rates with rivaroxaban and warfarin for the 
principal safety endpoint remained comparable and little changed from the original analysis. In Sensitivity 
Analysis 2, which included only those patients without any recall-related time of observation ahead of any 
endpoint event or censoring, event rates increased somewhat on both rivaroxaban and warfarin 
compared to the original analysis (16.55 as opposed to 14.91/100 patient-years rivaroxaban, 15.38 as 
opposed to 14.52/100 patient-years warfarin) but the hazard ratio was only slightly higher, and the lower 
bound of the 95% CI in this comparison did not reach or cross the line of unity.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 17/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion 
In summary, the MAH concluded that three sensitivity analyses support the original efficacy and safety 
analyses of the ROCKET AF trial and confirm the positive benefit/risk profile which rivaroxaban provides. 
The upper limit of the 2-sided 95% confidence interval for each of the three sensitivity analyses remains 
well below the non-inferiority margin pre-specified in the original trial analysis, allowing non-inferiority of 
the study drug to comparator to be still declared. In regard to the principal safety outcome of the 
composite of major and non-major clinically relevant bleeding, evaluation of the event rates and hazard 
ratios for the three sensitivity analyses, which in various ways took into consideration that the INRatio 
device was used to assess PT INR values in the trial, shows little change from the original analysis for 
rivaroxaban versus warfarin. The effect of potentially discrepant INR readings does not alter the 
conclusions of the ROCKET AF trial.  
 CHMP discussion on the MAH response 
The Applicant has focused on the Rocket AF trial which is acceptable from an overall benefit risk balance 
perspective as this study was the pivotal study supporting the AF indication. The Japanese Rocket study 
had minimal impact on the CHMP conclusions on the AF application. 
The CHMP considered that the identified deficiencies of the INR devices could potentially lead to 
inappropriate increases of the warfarin doses. However, this would probably have minor impact on the 
efficacy conclusions based on comparisons between the study arms as long as efficacy events during 
treatment are considered.  
From a safety perspective, the major concern would be a potential for higher bleeding rates in the 
warfarin arms than would be expected in well managed warfarin therapy. This would mean that the initial 
conclusions reached by the CHMP when approving the NVAF indication, based on comparisons between 
the treatment arms, would potentially underestimate the bleeding tendency induced by rivaroxaban as 
compared to warfarin. 
The Applicant has performed three sensitivity analyses based on the information provided by the INR 
device manufacturer (Alere) and taking both chronic and acute conditions into account. Patients who are 
judged to have had any recall related clinical condition or event are excluded in the second sensitivity 
analyses which resulted in an exclusion of approximately 31% of the patients. The first and third 
sensitivity analyses are focussing on the time periods when such events occurred and fewer patients are 
excluded in these analyses. In all three analyses only minor changes in the Hazard ratios between the 
rivaroxaban and warfarin study arms were observed as compared to the original analyses. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 18/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall, the Hazard Ratios of the efficacy results are unaffected by the sensitivity analyses.  
For the principal safety endpoint, the event rates were higher in both groups in the sensitivity data sets 
and the Hazard ratio numerically tended to favor warfarin. For the sensitivity Analysis 2 (the most 
conservative analysis), warfarin was almost nominally statistically significantly better than rivaroxaban (p 
= 0.092, HR: 1.08 (CI: 0.99, 1.17).  Among the analyses provided in this response this conservative 
analysis is considered by the CHMP to be the most relevant. 
The analysis of the subcomponents of the principal safety endpoint supports the view that inaccurate INR 
measurements are not relevant for the overall safety conclusions. As can be seen in Table 2, the pattern 
of bleeding components was different between rivaroxaban and warfarin with death due to bleeding, 
critical organ bleeding and intracranial haemorrhage being nominally in favor of rivaroxaban. This 
differential pattern remained unchanged in the sensitivity analyses. The safety analyses results of 
ROCKET AF for the sensitivity analysis 2 is summarized in table 8 below. The results were consistent for 
sensitivity analysis 1 and 3 and not mentioned in this report. 
Table 8: Safety analyses results of ROCKET AF for the sensitivity analysis 2 
Treatment dosage 
Xarelto 
20 mg once a day 
(15 mg once a day in 
patients with moderate 
renal impairment) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
1061/4926 
(16.55) 
266/4718  
(3.90) 
18/4667  
(0.26) 
62/4670  
(0.90) 
37/4667  
(0.54) 
203/4711  
(2.97) 
109/4694  
(1.59) 
Warfarin 
titrated to a target INR 
of 
2.5 (therapeutic range 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI) 
p-value 
2.0 to 3.0) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
998/4909 
(15.38)/ 
251/4702  
(3.60) 
43/4670  
(0.61) 
100/4677  
(1.43) 
65/4671  
(0.93) 
153/4695  
(2.19) 
87/4682  
(1.24) 
1.08 (0.99, 1.17) 
P=0.092/ 
1.08 (0.91, 1.28)  
p=0.382 
0.43 (0.25, 0.74) 
p=0.002 
0.63 (0.46, 0.87) 
p=0.005 
0.58 (0.39, 0.87) 
p=0.008 
1.35 (1.10, 1.67) 
p=0.005 
1.27 (0.96, 1.69) 
p=0.092 
/ 
/ 
/ 
375/4669  
(4.57) 
392/4667  
(4.81) 
0.95 (0.82, 1.09) 
p=0.447 
Major and non-major 
clinically relevant bleeding 
events 
Major bleeding events 
Death due to bleeding* 
Critical organ 
bleeding* 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage* 
Haemoglobin drop* 
Transfusion of 2 or more 
units of packed red 
blood cells or whole 
blood 
Non-major clinically 
relevant bleeding 
events** 
All cause mortality 
* Nominally Significant 
**Information on this parameter not available in Applicant’s responses 
There was no indication that the most serious bleeding events on warfarin were related to recall related 
clinical conditions or events.   
The CHMP considered that there are uncertainties related to these analyses, and it is assumed that the 
available information is probably somewhat limited e.g. fibrinogen levels have not been measured 
regularly and is rarely measured in clinical routine. The analyses were based on the assumption that INR 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 19/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
values are only affected in case of recall related conditions. This issue was further addressed during the 
procedure (see below). However, based on this assumption, the strategy chosen by the MAH is 
considered reasonable in order to identify patients that potentially had clinical conditions that would have 
affected the accuracy of the INR estimations according to the recall notice..   
According to the MAH, it has been concluded by the manufacturer of the INR device (Alere INc) that less 
than 1% of the INR analyses would be affected by the identified deficiencies and that they would provide 
lower INR estimates than a correctly estimated ratio. During the regular TCs held with the MAH during this 
assessment, it became clear that plasma samples from the warfarin treated patients in the Rocket AF trial 
were drawn at week 12 and 24 for central laboratory prothrombin time (PT) testing. The primary intention 
of these analyses was to evaluate the potential impact of rivaroxaban on prothrombin time. The CHMP 
considered necessary to receive the data at week 6 and 12 as it should be possible to convert the PT 
values to INR values knowing the ISI (International Sensitivity Index) value for the reagents used even 
if this has to be done retrospectively. Useful comparisons could be made between the INR device values 
and INR lab values .provided that INR values were estimated with the device simultaneously (e.g. at the 
same day) as the plasma samples were drawn. Looking at the totality of such data, general trends for 
potential differences between INR values estimated by the two different methods could be identified 
among the warfarin treated patients.  If such general trends exist, it could be further investigated if e.g. 
the sensitivity analyses 2 above were able to address differences that could be related to inadequate 
performance of the device.   
The quality of the warfarin treatment was rather extensively discussed during the assessment of the 
application for prevention in AF. During this review, the concern was primarily that the TTR (Time in 
therapeutic range) was comparatively low with a median TTR of 58%. The concern was primarily related 
to INR values below the target range. This could be expected to result in a potential for reduced bleeding 
tendency and a risk for loss of efficacy during warfarin therapy. Thus, this tendency would on group level 
rather counteract a generally increased bleeding risk in the warfarin arm induced by inappropriately high 
warfarin doses.  
The bleeding rates and the bleeding characteristics in the warfarin arm in the Rocket trial is considered to 
be within the expected range as described in published literature. The incidence of major and clinically 
relevant bleedings among the warfarin treated patients in the Rocket AF trial also compares well with the 
bleeding incidences observed in recently performed trials in AF populations with other oral anticoagulants 
(dabigatran, apixaban and edoxaban pivotal trials in atrial fibrillation). Thus, in summary, the available 
data do not indicate a generally higher bleeding rate in the warfarin arm of the Rocket AF trial than 
observed in similar recent trials or in the literature.  
It is also agreed with the MAH that the incidences and the characteristics of bleedings induced by 
rivaroxaban in comparison with warfarin were characterised in the large clinical trials in other populations 
for secondary prevention of DVT/PE. The characteristics of the study populations in these studies are 
however similar to the Rocket AF study population and regarded as supportive for safety considerations 
since the doses of rivaroxaban were similar to those given in the Rocket AF trial. It can also  be noted that 
in the pooled analyses of the DVT and PE studies, the major and clinically relevant bleedings were 
numerically fewer and major bleedings significantly fewer in the rivaroxaban arm (HR 0.93, 95% CI 
0.81;1.06 and HR 0.55, CI 0.34, 0,79, respectively). The bleeding characteristics were similar to those 
observed in the Rocket AF trial. Thus, the CHMP concluded that there is external support for the relevance 
of the data derived from the Rocket AF trial. 
In summary, the initial conclusions derived from the Rocket AF trial are supported by performed 
sensitivity analyses and by external evidence from large trials in other therapeutic areas comparing the 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 20/41 
 
 
 
 
 
efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban vs warfarin. However, it was considered necessary to request 
additional analyses of the INR values provided by the two methods as follows: 
1.  Are there general trends for differences between INR values estimated by the two different 
methods among the warfarin treated patients? Please provide Bland-Altman plots of differences 
vs. means of the two methods with lines for upper and lower 95% confidence interval limits and 
the mean for the differences at week 12 and week 24. 
2.  To address that differences could be related to inadequate performance of the device, further 
exploratory analyses should be performed, e.g. by comparing the INR values provided with the 
two methods among the patients selected and excluded in the sensitivity analysis number 2.  
3.  To provide Bland-Altman plots (as under 1.), for (a) patients with and without any Recall-related 
Time of Observation separately and for (b) patients with and without impact by Recall-related 
Time of Observation at the measurement time points separately. 
4.  The preliminary data provided on INR values estimated simultaneously on weeks 12 and 24 with 
the two methods (POC device vs. laboratory testing) indicate that discrepancies of potential 
clinical relevance were rather frequently observed (approximately in 35% of the estimations). 
The majority of these discrepancies were related to a lower device INR value compared with Lab 
INRs. Cross tabulations are requested for the number of test results with Lab INR vs. POC INR for 
the following four categories: INR<2, 2-3, >3-4 and > 4. 
5.  For those patients who had discrepancies that can be expected to affect decision making, i.e, 
where the device INR was lower than the lab INR by one category, outcome data in terms of 
primary efficacy outcome and bleedings are requested. Similar calculations are requested for 
outcome data for patients where the POC INR was lower than the lab INR by two categories. 
These outcome data should be compared to the outcome data in patients that had measurements 
that were in concordance (i.e. that were in the same INR categories of below, within, and above 
the therapeutic 2-3 range). 
6.  A discussion and any additional analyses of potential value are requested to provide reassurance 
that the results and conclusions from the Rocket AF trial are still valid. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 21/41 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH provided an integrated response to the above CHMP questions 1-3. 
Summary of the MAH response Questions 1-3 
Bland–Altman plots (Difference plots) 
The Bland-Altman plot (Bland & Altman, 1986 and 1999) is a graphical method of data plotting to 
compare two measurements techniques. In this graphical method, the differences (or alternatively the 
ratios) between the two techniques are plotted against the averages of the two techniques or one of the 
two techniques.  
The graph displays a scatter diagram of the differences (or ratios) plotted against the averages (or one) 
of the two measurements. Horizontal lines are drawn at the mean difference, and at the limits of 
agreement, which are defined as the mean difference plus and minus 1.96 times the standard deviation 
of the differences.  Because the differences (ratios) between the Device based INR and Lab based INR for 
the ROCKET study do not appear to be symmetric, the graph will additionally display the horizontal line for 
the median difference. 
The Bland-Altman plot method only defines the intervals of agreement, however it does not indicate 
whether those limits are acceptable or not.  The acceptable limits can be defined based on the biological 
goals and clinical setting. 
Orientation to the graphs 
For each graph the X and Y axes are labelled with what is plotted.  Each point on the plot represents a (x, 
y) calculated from a Warfarin subject’s matched pair of Device based and Lab based INRs.  The solid 
horizontal line represents the mean difference.  The dashed horizontal line is the median difference of all 
points.  The upper and lower dotted horizontal lines are mean difference + and -1.96 x Standard 
Deviation.  N is the number of matched samples plotted. The numerical values for the Median, and Mean 
+/- 1.96 x Standard Deviation, are noted in the left lower corner of each plot.  For the Device INR, any 
value that is at least 6.1 was reported as 6.1 in the database.  For these subjects, the difference between 
the Device based INR of 6.1 and the Lab based INR do not represent the actual difference, except for 
subjects whose device values were actually 6.1, as there is no means to separate out these subjects in the 
database.  Therefore, for all the plots, subjects with Device INR of 6.1 are excluded. With the X axis 
ranging from 0 to 14 and the Y axis ranging from -12.5 to 5 for absolute differences or -2.0 to 3.5 for the 
ratio of differences, isolated data points are not shown in the plots, but included in the calculations. 
Analysis Descriptions 
To address Request 1 and 2, the MAH   included 3 types of Bland-Altman plots, done separately for 
measurements at Week 12 and at Week 24. The 3 types of Bland-Altman plots are mentioned below and 
show: 
• 
• 
• 
the difference of the Device INR minus the Lab measured INR against the average of the Device 
INR and Lab INR (i.e.,[Device based INR + Lab based INR]/2), 
the difference (Device based INR - Lab based INR) vs the Lab based INR,  
the ratio of the difference over Lab based INR ([Device based INR - Lab based INR] / Lab based 
INR) vs the Lab based INR.  For example, an INR value of 2.0 for the device and 2.5 for the Lab 
is expressed as -0.20 (calculated as (2.0-2.5)/2.5)), corresponding to a 20% lower Device based 
INR value relative to the Lab based INR. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 22/41 
 
 
 
 
 
For each of these 3 types of Bland-Altman plots 10 different figures were generated corresponding to the 
Warfarin subjects to be assessed: 
To address Request 1, plots are shown for all Warfarin subjects in the Safety Analysis set with Device 
based INR and Lab based INR at Week 12 (n=5702 subjects) and at Week 24 (n=5437 subjects). 
Notes:  
Device based INR at least 6.1 is excluded. 
The solid horizontal line is mean difference. The dashed horizontal line is median difference. 
The upper and lower dotted horizontal lines are mean difference + and - 1.96 x Standard Deviation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 23/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To address Request 2a, plots are shown in Warfarin subjects in the Safety Analysis set with recall related 
time of observation at any time of the study (n=2074 at Week 12, n=1988 at Week 24) and without recall 
related time of observation at any time of the study (n=3628 at Week 12, n=3449 at Week 24).   
To address Request 2b, plots are shown in Warfarin subjects in the Safety Analysis set with recall related 
time of observation at the measurement time points (n=769 at Week 12, n=735 at Week 24) and without 
recall related time of observation at the measurement time points (n=4933 at Week 12, n=4702 at Week 
24). 
The Bland-Altman plots related to Requests 2a and 2b provide a picture which is very similar to the figures 
presented previously. 
From these plots the MAH concludes the following: 
• 
The pattern of absolute and relative differences between the Device based INR and Lab based INR 
looks similar for the population of subjects contributing measurements at Week 12 and the 
population of subjects contributing measurements at Week 24. 
•  On average the Device based INR measurements are lower than the Lab based INR values and 
the absolute differences tend to increase with increasing INR. 
• 
For the absolute difference (Device INR minus the Lab INR) in all Warfarin subjects the median 
difference (-0.32 at Week 12, -0.31 at Week 24) is smaller than the (arithmetic) mean difference 
(-0.505 at Week 12, -0.513 at Week 24). 
•  Similar conclusions are reached when plotting the Lab based INR on the X axis rather than the 
average of the Device and Lab based INR measurement. 
•  With respect to the ratio of the difference over the Lab based INR median and (arithmetic) mean 
are of similar magnitude. Both show that on average the Device INR is about 13% lower than the 
Lab based INR. Visual inspection of the plots seems to suggest that this relative difference may 
not be constant across the entire range of Lab based INR values, but that the average relative 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 24/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
difference is slightly lower with lower Lab based INR and slightly higher with higher Lab based INR 
than the 13% average.  
• 
The absolute and relative differences between Device and Lab based INR look largely similar for 
a) subjects with and without recall related time of observation at any time of the study and also 
b) for subjects with and without impact by recall-related time of observation at the INR 
measurement time point. 
The MAH believes that the Bland-Altman plot series that compares the ratio of Difference (Device – 
Lab)/Lab INR vs Lab based INR (set #3), as opposed to the Difference (Device – Lab) vs Lab INR (set #2) 
or Difference (Device – Lab) vs Average of Device INR and Lab INR (set #1), is a clearer representation 
of the data, as it provides a relative, rather than absolute, comparison to the central Lab assay.  Only 
small differences are seen in the mean or the median, both of which are similar in their values.   
A simple graphical presentation of the relationship between device based INR and Lab INR was requested 
by the Rapporteurs and such a scatter plot was provided by the MAH as an attachment to the responses 
to the CHMP. Furthermore the attachment provided a discussion of the discrepancies between the two 
methods where the definition for a discrepancy was adapted from the 2007 ISO 17593 guidance 
document. This information is summarised below.  
Lab Based INR vs Device Based INR at Week 12 for Subjects With or Without any Recall 
related Time of Observation; Safety Analysis Set 
(circles-not impacted patients, triangles –impacted patients) 
Device based INR  
Table TSIINR26ZX [see below] displays the number and percent of subjects with discrepancy between 
device and lab based INR values With or Without any Recall-related Time of Observation at Week 12 or 
Week 24. Discrepancy is defined as a device INR that is outside of the corresponding lab based INR +/- 
0.5 if the lab based INR < 2 OR a device based INR is outside of the corresponding lab based INR +/- 30% 
if lab based INR ≥ 2. These parameters were adapted from the 2007 ISO 17593 guidance document for 
INR interval 4.6 to 6.0. As no specific allowable difference is given by the 2007 ISO 17593 guidance 
document as this is seen as a supratherapeutic interval, the MAH expanded the +/- 30% rule for INR from 
2 to 4.5 to INR beyond 4.5. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 25/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In table TSIINR26ZX, subjects with an unascertainable difference are not included in the Yes or No 
category; hence, the addition of the percents for N and Y do not total 100%. However, those subjects are 
included in the population size as ‘n’ when percentages in the table are calculated. No discrepancy was 
observed in almost 90% of those warfarin treated subjects. Subjects whose Device based INRs > 6 are 
not included. 
In terms of differences for measurements With or Without recall related time, the data are consistent with 
previously provided information that nearly 90% of the Warfarin treated subjects in both groups had no 
discrepancy observed between the Lab based INR value and Device based INR value at Week 12 or at 
Week 24 (87% of INR fall in range). 
CHMP discussion on questions 1-3 
When analysing the MAH data, it appears that 64 INR values were excluded in these analyses as the 
device INR were ≥ 6.1. Taking the overall picture into account, it is probable that the majority of these 
values would also have had a high lab INR and they would thus have had less influence on the potentially 
clinically relevant differences leading to a decrease of potential clinical impact.  
It is noted that the week 24 scatter plots are very similar to the week 12 figure and they are not provided 
in this report.  
From a visual impression of the curves, it is agreed that the majority of the discrepancies were related to 
lower device based INRs as compared to lab INRs as further detailed below.  
However, it needs to be highlighted that the potential impact of the discrepancies on clinical decision 
making cannot be easily estimated based on the Bland-Altman plots.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 26/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A pronounced similarity is observed between patients that had a recall related time of observation and the 
complete data set, irrespectively if the patients had a recall related time at any time of the study or at the 
measurement time points.  
Therefore, this can question to some extent the relevance of the originally performed sensitivity analyses 
which were focussing on identification of patients that had a device recall time of observation (see above) 
The targeted therapeutic range is INR between 2 and 3. If the Lab based INRs are regarded as “true 
values” the upper left rectangle in the scatter plot above representing the relation between Lab INR and 
device INR would represent situations where a dose reduction from a safety perspective would potentially 
be worth considering.  Under such an assumption this signal was not caught by the device.  The plot 
provides an additional visual picture of the observation that most of the discrepancies reported were 
related to a lower device INR as compared to the lab INR.  Of note the 24 w scatter plot is similar to the 
12 w plot. It should be recognised that many of the discrepancies observed were small although above 
(lab) and below (device) INR 3, respectively. An adjustment of the long term warfarin dose due to a value 
outside the therapeutic range should normally not be based on a single value but rather on repeated close 
measurements possibly after a short term dose amendment. 
The statement that the ratio Difference (Device – Lab)/Lab INR vs Lab based INR (set #3) would be a 
clearer representation of the data, as opposed to set #1 and 2, appears questionable from a clinical 
relevance perspective. 
CHMP overall conclusions Q1-3 
In conclusion, the applicant has provided the requested data and an appropriate mathematical 
description of the concordance of the two INR estimation methods. Overall, the CHMP concluded that the 
majority of discrepancies observed with the INR device were related to a lower device INR value as 
compared to the lab INR value. It must however be emphasised that the provided INR laboratory data 
only reflects the INR results at two specific time points (week 12 and week 24) and that clinical decisions 
on dosing should not be based on single INR measurements.  
It is also concluded that the originally performed sensitivity analyses provided in October 2015 do not 
seem to have captured the discrepancies observed at week 12 and 24. These analyses were based on 
retrospective identification of patients with clinical or laboratory conditions where the device estimated 
INR would be unreliable according to the Alere recall notice information. 
With the criteria set up in the 2007 ISO 17593 standards, the majority of samples were found to be 
concordant. These criteria are however somewhat arbitrary and cannot easily be interpreted in terms of 
relevance for clinical decisions on dosing. Further analysis and assessment to elucidate the potential 
clinical relevance of these data are made in the following questions. 
Question 4 
The preliminary data provided on INR values estimated simultaneously on weeks 12 and 24 with the two 
methods (POC device vs. laboratory testing) indicate that discrepancies of potential clinical relevance 
were rather frequently observed (approximately in 35% of the estimations). The majority of these 
discrepancies were related to a lower device INR value compared with Lab INRs. Cross tabulations are 
requested for the number of test results with Lab INR vs. POC INR for the following four categories: 
INR<2, 2-3, >3-4 and > 4. 
Summary of the MAH response Q4 
Cross tabulations of Device based vs Lab based INR, defining the therapeutic range as INR values from 2 
to 3, are provided below using the INR categories <2, 2-3, >3-4 and >4 as cut offs. Device based INR 
measurements reported as 6.1 (any Device INR of at least 6.1 was reported as 6.1 in the database) are 
included in the table resulting in 5766 subjects With Device based INR and Lab based INR measurements 
at Week 12 and 5507 subjects at Week 24.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 27/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: TSIINR23ZYa: Cross Tabulation of Lab INR vs Device Based INR at Week 12 for Warfarin 
Subjects  
(Study 39039039AFL3001:   Safety Analysis Set)  
Visit Name: WEEK 12  
             --- Lab INR --- 
<2 
n (%) 
1356 (23.5) 
1239 (21.5) 
  96 ( 1.7) 
   8 ( 0.1) 
  13 ( 0.2) 
2 - 3 
n (%) 
2405 (41.7) 
 604 (10.5) 
1740 (30.2) 
  50 ( 0.9) 
  11 ( 0.2) 
Device INR 
 <2 
 2 – 3 
 >3 – 4 
 >4 
Note: Percentages calculated with the total number of subjects.  
>3 - 4 
n (%) 
1238 (21.5) 
  54 ( 0.9) 
 793 (13.8) 
 358 ( 6.2) 
  33 ( 0.6) 
>4 
n (%) 
 767 (13.3) 
  47 ( 0.8) 
 172 ( 3.0) 
 291 ( 5.0) 
 257 ( 4.5) 
Total 
n (%) 
5766 (100) 
1944 (33.7) 
2801 (48.6) 
 707 (12.3) 
 314 ( 5.4) 
The results of Table 1 TSIINR23ZYa are similar to those observed from the Bland-Altman plots, showing 
that the Device INR yields overall lower values than the Lab INR. 
62% (3594 out of 5766) of the measurements were in the same INR categories of below (<2), within 
(2-3), and above (>3 - 4 and >4) the therapeutic 2-3 range; Group 1;  
4% (211 out of 5766) of the measurements had higher Device INR values compared with Lab INRs 
(according to the INR categories); Group 2;  
34% (1961 out of 5766) of the measurements had lower Device INR values compared with Lab INRs. For 
at least some of the measurements where both the Device and the Lab INR are above the therapeutic 
range (e.g. Device INR is >3 – 4 and Lab INR is >4; 291 measurements) it is likely that the clinical action 
would be similar (according to the INR categories); Group 3.  
Only 5% (273 out of 5766) of the measurements for Device INR were lower by two categories compared 
to the Lab INRs, meaning the dose would have been increased or maintained when should have been 
decreased (according to the INR categories). 
The concordance (Group 1) / absence of concordance (Group 2 and 3) in Device vs Lab INR 
measurements was used to define patient subpopulations in whom efficacy and safety outcome data were 
explored, hypothesizing that a lack of concordance could have affected clinical decision making (for 
details please refer to request 5). 
Similar findings are present in at Week 24. It is of note that the subjects do not always stay in their 
category throughout the study as they were in Week 12 or Week 24. 
CHMP discussion on Question 4 
The requested data have been provided by the MAH and it is agreed that they are providing additional 
support to confirm the overall conclusions derived from the Bland-Altman plots. By excluding the 291 
measurements where Device INR is >3 – 4 and Lab INR is >4 , the proportion of measurements with a 
lower Device INR values compared with Lab INRs values are reduced from 34% to 29% according to the 
rapporteur’s calculation, a number which still could be of some concern in relation for the possibilities of 
inappropriate dosing. 
Questions 5 and 6 
For those patients who had discrepancies that can be expected to affect decision making, i.e, where the 
device INR was lower than the lab INR by one category, outcome data in terms of primary efficacy 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 28/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
outcome and bleedings are requested. Similar calculations are requested for outcome data for patients 
where the POC INR was lower than the lab INR by two categories. These outcome data should be 
compared to the outcome data in patients that had measurements that were in concordance (i.e. that 
were in the same INR categories of below, within, and above the therapeutic 2-3 range). 
Summary of the MAH responses Q 5 and 6. 
Therefore the following analyses were conducted and have been summarized below 
•  Analysis 1: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects in whom overall there was a discrepancy in 
the distribution of the Device based INR values in categories <2, 2-3, >3-4 and >4 relative to Lab 
based INR, compared with subjects Without a Discrepancy. (A Discrepancy is defined as Device 
based INR being outside of Lab based INR +/- 0.5 if Lab based INR < 2, and Device based INR is 
outside of Lab based INR +/- 30% if Lab based INR ≥ 2.) This analysis refer back to comparison 
of Device based INR to Lab based INR provided on Nov 13, 2015 (Analysis 2: Efficacy and safety 
of Warfarin subjects where the measurements were in Concordance (in the same INR categories 
of below (<2), within (2-3), and above (>3 - 4 and >4) the therapeutic 2-3 range).  
•  Analysis 3: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects where measurements had lower Device based 
INR values by (at least) one category compared with Lab INRs.. 
•  Analysis 4: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects where measurements for Device based INR 
were lower by 2 categories (>1 INR unit) from the Lab INRs.. 
•  Analysis 5: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects without Paired Device INR and Lab INR. Note: 
Analysis 5 was performed to put Analysis 1-4 into perspective as a significant number of subjects 
and events from the overall Warfarin group does not contribute to these Paired Device vs. Lab 
analysis sets. 
For example, a subject with Device INR of 2.9 and Lab INR of 3.2 would be considered as “Without 
Discrepancy” in Analysis 1, as “Without Concordance” in Analysis 2, as “With Lower Device INR by One 
Category” in Analysis 3, as “Without Lower Device INR by Two Categories” in Analysis 4 and not 
considered at all in Analysis 5. 
These analyses were done for affected subjects in Week 12 or Week 24 as well as for subjects affected in 
Week 12 and Week 24. 
Results of the Primary Efficacy and Principal Safety Event Rates of Warfarin Subjects 
Analysis 1: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects in whom overall there was a Discrepancy in the 
distribution of the Device based INR values relative to Lab based INR, compared with subjects Without a 
Discrepancy.  
• 
• 
The primary efficacy event rates were higher for subjects With Discrepancy compared with those 
Without Discrepancy at Week 12 (2.53/100 pt-yrs vs 1.96/100 pts-yrs), Week 24 (2.5/100 pt-yrs 
vs 1.56/100 pts-yrs), and at Both Week 12 & 24 (3.62/100 pt-yrs vs 1.57/100 pts-yrs).  As the 
device reportedly more commonly underreads the INR value, potentially leading to increases in 
warfarin dose, it is expected that the efficacy event rates would be lower in the With Discrepancy 
groups, but the opposite was observed.    
The principal safety endpoint event rates were higher for subjects With Discrepancy compared 
with those Without Discrepancy at Week 12 (15.11/100 pt-yrs vs 13.04/100 pts-yrs), Week 24 
(14.96/100 pt-yrs vs 12.71/100 pts-yrs), and at Both Week 12 & 24  (19.85/100 pt-yrs vs 
12.32/100 pts-yrs).  This could be expected if up-titration of warfarin dosing were performed to 
address Device INRs below the therapeutic range in subjects With Discrepancy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 29/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 2: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects where the measurements were in Concordance (in the 
same INR categories of below (<2), within (2-3), and above (>3 - 4 and >4) the therapeutic 2-3 range). 
•  While the primary efficacy event rates for subjects With and Without Concordance at Week 12 are 
almost identical (2.05/100 pt-yrs vs 2.00/100 pts-yrs), the efficacy event rates for subjects With 
and Without Concordance at Week 24 (1.59/100 pt-yrs vs 1.84/100 pts-yrs) increase and With 
and Without Concordance at Both Week 12 & 24 (1.73/100 pt-yrs vs 1.59/100 pts-yrs) decrease, 
meaning the trend is not similar. It might be expected that the primary efficacy event rates for 
subjects With Concordance at Week 12, Week 24, and Both Week 12 & 24 should be nearly 
identical, this was not observed, suggesting that the populations at the 2 time points are 
somewhat different, substantiating the limitation that these single time point measurements 
during a long term study cannot provide a full reflection of the duration of treatments of patients 
in the entire study. As the device reportedly more commonly underreads the INR value, 
potentially leading to a higher warfarin dose when not necessarily needed, it might be expected 
that the event rates would be lower in the Without Concordance groups, but this was only seen in 
the Both Week 12& 24 group. 
•  More of a disparity is also observed for the principal safety endpoint.  The principal safety 
endpoint event rates for subjects With and Without Concordance at Week 12 and at Week 24 are 
dissimilar (12.88/100 pt-yrs vs 14.01/100 pts-yrs, and 12.60/100 pt-yrs vs 13.63/100 pts-yrs, 
respectively), although closer With and Without Concordance at Both Week 12 & 24 (12.20/100 
pt-yrs vs 12.86/100 pts-yrs). Again, as the device reportedly more commonly underreads the 
INR value, potentially leading to higher warfarin dose when not necessarily needed, here this is in 
keeping with that postulate. 
Analysis 3: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects where measurements had lower Device based INR 
values by (at least) one category compared with Lab INRs. 
• 
Likewise to Analysis 2, the primary efficacy event rates in Analysis 3 for subjects With and 
Without Lower Device INR by One Category at Week 12 are almost identical (2.06/100 pt-yrs vs 
2.02/100 pts-yrs), but the event rates for subjects With and Without Lower Device INR by One 
Category at Week 24 (1.89/100 pt-yrs vs 1.57/100 pts-yrs) and With and Without Lower Device 
INR by One Category at Both Week 12 & Week 24 (1.97/100 pt-yrs vs 1.59/100 pts-yrs) 
decrease, meaning they are not similar.  It could be expected that the primary efficacy event 
rates for subjects Without Lower Device INR by One Category at Week 12, Week 24, and Both 
Week 12 & 24 should be nearly identical, this also was not observed, again suggesting that the 
populations at the 2 time points are somewhat different.  If an increase in warfarin doses was 
prescribed to those in the With Lower Device INR by One Category group, it would be expected to 
see lower efficacy rates, but this was not seen at either time point, or at Both Week 12 & 24.  
• 
In Analysis 3, the principal safety endpoint event rates are somewhat higher for subjects With as 
opposed to subjects Without Lower Device INR by One Category at Week 12 (14.48/100 pt-yrs vs 
12.70/100 pts-yrs, Week 24 (13.93/100 pt-yrs vs 12.50/100 pts-yrs), and Both Week 12 & 24 
(14.63/100 pt-yrs vs 12.21/100 pts-yrs). Again, this could be viewed as in keeping with the 
postulate that warfarin may have been dosed higher if the Device INR was lower than the Lab 
INR.  
Analysis 4: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects where measurements for Device based INR were 
lower by 2 categories (>1 INR unit) from the Lab INRs. 
• 
The differences in primary efficacy event rates are somewhat greater in Analysis 4 than in 
Analysis 3 for subjects With and Without Lower Device INR by Two Categories at Week 12 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 30/41 
 
 
 
 
 
(2.50/100 pt-yrs vs 2.01/100 pts-yrs),  With and Without Lower Device INR by Two Categories at 
Week 24 (2.05/100 pt-yrs vs 1.66/100 pts-yrs), and With and Without Lower Device INR by Two 
Categories at Both Week 12 and Week 24 (1.33/100 pt-yrs vs 1.65/100 pts-yrs), but only in this 
very last comparison does the difference reach >0.25/100 pt-yrs, triggered by only 1 event in the 
With Lower Device INR by Two Categories group. Again, it might be expected that the primary 
efficacy event rates for subjects Without Lower Device INR by Two Categories at Week 12, Week 
24, and Both Week 12 & 24 should be essentially the same, but this was only the case at Both 
Week 12 & 24. If an increase in warfarin doses was prescribed to those in the With Lower Device 
INR by Two Categories group, it might be expected to see lower efficacy rates, but actually higher 
primary efficacy event rates were seen at Week 12 or at Week 24. 
• 
The principal safety endpoint event rates in Analysis 4 are higher for subjects With as opposed to 
subjects Without Lower Device INR by Two Categories at Week 12 (16.59/100 pt-yrs vs 
13.15/100 pts-yrs, Week 24 (14.60/100 pt-yrs vs 12.91/100 pts-yrs), and Both Week 12 & 24 
(21.33/100 pt-yrs vs 12.52/100 pts-yrs). These observed event rates suggest warfarin may have 
been dosed higher in the subjects With Lower Device INR by Two Categories. 
Analysis 5: Efficacy and safety of Warfarin subjects Without Paired Device INR and Lab INR. 
•  Warfarin subjects Without Paired Device INR and Lab INR (1359 for Week 12, 1618 for Week 24 
and 2077 for Week 12&24) represent a large portion of the total Warfarin Cohort (7125 subjects). 
• 
• 
The primary efficacy endpoint event rates subjects on warfarin Without Paired Device INR and 
Lab INR at Week 12 (4.37/100 pt-yrs), Week 24 (5.56/100 pt-yrs), and at Both Week 12 and 
Week 24 (4.63/100 pt-yrs) are higher than observed for subjects on warfarin for the ROCKET AF 
trial overall (2.42/100 pt-yrs) and also higher in the subjects group considered as Without 
Concordance or With Discrepancy.    
The principal safety endpoint event rates for subjects on warfarin Without Paired Device INR and 
Lab INR at Week 12 (23.44/100 pt-yrs), Week 24 (24.98/100 pt-yrs), and at Both Week 12 and 
Week 24 (22.36/100 pt-yrs) are higher than for the overall trial for subjects on warfarin 
(14.52/100 pt-yr) and also higher in the subjects group considered as Without Concordance or 
With Discrepancy.   
•  Comparing these events rates with the events rates seen in Analysis 2 - 4 indicates again that the 
population With and Without Paired Device INR and Lab INR are clearly different. It can be 
concluded that the analysis of the subset of patients for which a paired analysis 1-4 has been 
performed is not representative for the overall results in the total Warfarin group. 
The Applicant has provided a number of points to Consider in Interpretation of the Analysis 1 – 5: 
There are several limitations in interpreting the event rates, including the following confounding factors, 
selection biases and unquantifiable relations: 
•  Subjects are grouped based only on the patterns of Device INR vs Lab INR at 1 or 2 time points 
(i.e., Week 12 and/or Week 24).  The subjects at Week 12 and/or Week 24 may not have the 
same type of Concordance patterns throughout the entire duration of the trial. 
o  There is no clearly quantifiable relationship between the patterns at Week 12 and/or 
Week 24 and the event rates throughout the trial. 
o  As a case in point, subjects do not have consistent patterns when comparing Week 12 and 
Week 24.  For example, the number of subjects having the same pattern for Both Week 
12 and Week 24 is substantially smaller than that for Week 12 alone and that for Week 24 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 31/41 
 
 
 
 
 
alone. For example: In the Safety Analysis Set among 273 subjects with Lower Device 
INR by two Categories at Week 12 (309 for Week 24) only 39 subjects are in that 
category at Week 12 and Week 24. 
• 
• 
The pattern of Device INR vs Lab INR themselves do not have clearly quantifiable implications on 
dose adjustments, not at Week 12 nor at Week 24.  The implication on dose adjustment 
throughout the study is elusive as well. 
The selection of subjects based on whether they have Paired Device and Lab INR at Week 12 
and/or Week 24 introduces subject selection biases. 
o  For example, subjects with primary efficacy endpoint events before Week 12 or Week 24 
discontinued the study drug early, and thus did not have Paired Device INR and Lab INR.  
These early events enriched the subgroup of subjects Without Paired Device INR and Lab 
INR, leading to their artificially enlarged event rates.  On the other hand, these early 
events reduced the numbers of events remaining for the subgroup of subjects With Paired 
Device INR and Lab INR, leading to their artificially reduced event rates. 
• 
There are possible differences in known and unknown baseline variables or post-baseline 
variables (e.g., distributions of Lab INR at Week 12 and/or 24) among the subgroups of subjects.  
The corresponding event rates for these subgroups may be confounded with the differences in 
these variables. 
• 
There can be severe multiplicity of spurious results. 
Additional exploratory analyses 
A number of additional exploratory analyses taking into consideration the cross tabulations proposed by 
CHMP were undertaken by the MAH.  The goal was to better understand the INR results obtained with the 
Alere INRatio device in the ROCKET AF trial, their correlation with the laboratory based INRs performed at 
weeks 12 and 24 as part of a pharmacodynamics study, and the impact of these correlations on the key 
efficacy and safety outcomes of the ROCKET AF trial.  These analyses were refined over time based on 
new information and insights as the analyses unfolded.  From the MAH perspective the latest analysis 
(Version IV) is the most informative but in the spirit of full transparency, all four versions of the analyses 
were submitted with appropriate explanation on how they evolved. 
In version IV  rivaroxaban and warfarin treated patients that had paired INR samples were included. The 
Consistency/Inconsistency/Discrepancy criteria were defined as in the previous analyses and they were 
applied to both treatment groups. Comparisons with patients without paired samples were also made. 
Review of the Version analysis set unexpectedly revealed that inconsistencies in INR measurements were 
associated with differences in rivaroxaban event rates as well as warfarin event rates, see figure below.  
Since the dose of rivaroxaban was not modified in the trial, the results could represent a chance finding, 
or alternatively, these data suggest that a discrepancy in INR measurements between lab and device is 
associated with differences in events rates in the subject population independent of dose modification.  
For the principal safety endpoint in particular, event rates in the Rivaroxaban group without 
discrepancy/with concordance tracked closely with event rates in Warfarin subjects without 
discrepancy/with concordance.  At the same time, event rates in the Rivaroxaban group with 
discrepancy/without concordance were higher than the without discrepancy subjects and tracked closely 
with event rates in Warfarin subjects with discrepancy/without concordance. 
Version IV suggests that observed differences in warfarin event rates cannot be attributed to the 
adjustments made in warfarin dose based on discrepancy-related device INRs. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 32/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Version IV analyses  
The following can be drawn from the Kaplan-Meier plots above. In the subpopulation without paired INR 
samples, the event rates are higher than in those with paired INR samples at Week 12 and/or Week 24, 
for both the Warfarin and Rivaroxaban subjects. 
The absence of concordance between Device and Lab INRs is also associated with higher event rates in 
warfarin and rivaroxaban subjects which suggest that observed differences in warfarin event rates cannot 
be attributed to the adjustments made in warfarin dose based on discrepancy-related device INRs. 
As discordant INR results appeared to be weakly associated with the main safety outcomes in the 
performed sensitivity analyses the following calculations were requested by the CHMP in order to further 
quantify the theoretical consequences of this level of increased risk: 
•  Calculate “population attributable risk” in the warfarin treatment arm of the study population 
based on 34% expected to have discordant INR results and the highest increased risk as 
estimated in “Analysis 3” of safety outcomes (Both week 12 & 24 increase from 12.21 to 14.63 / 
100 PY). 
•  Apply the result to explore to what extent the event rates for the warfarin group in the table for 
safety analyses results as summarized in the SmPC (Table 2) would be reduced 
•  Calculate corresponding risk ratios comparable to the available hazard ratios (HR). 
The requested analyses are summarised in the table 9 below where the two columns at right provide the 
modified RR and the corresponding Rate ratios. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 33/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
Study population 
Treatment dosage  
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
Original analyses 
Xarelto 
Event rate 
(100 pt-yr) 
Warfarin 
Event rate 
(100 pt-yr) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value  
Rate 
ratio 
Analyses based on modified 
event rate  
Warfarin 
modified 
event rate 
(100 pt-yr)* 
Rate Ratio 
Xarelto 
vs 
Modified event 
rate 
Major and non-major 
clinically relevant 
bleeding events 
1,475 
(14.91) 
1,449 
(14.52) 
    Major bleeding  
   events 
Death due to 
bleeding 
Critical organ 
  bleeding* 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage* 
Haemoglobin 
drop* 
Transfusion of 2 or 
more units of 
packed red blood 
cells or whole 
blood* 
395 
(3.60) 
27 
(0.24) 
91 
(0.82) 
55  
(0.49) 
305 
(2.77) 
183 
(1.65) 
386 
(3.45) 
55 
(0.48) 
133 
(1.18) 
84 
(0.74) 
254 
(2.26) 
149 
(1.32) 
  Non-major 
  clinically relevant 
  bleeding events 
1,185 
(11.80) 
1,151 
(11.37) 
1.03 
(0.96 - 1.11) 
0.442 
1.04 
(0.90 - 1.20) 
0.576 
0.50 
(0.31 - 0.79) 
0.003 
0.69 
(0.53 - 0.91) 
0.007 
0.67 
(0.47 - 0.93) 
0.019 
1.22 
(1.03 - 1.44) 
0.019 
1.25 
(1.01 - 1.55) 
0.044 
1.04 
(0.96 - 1.13) 
0.345 
1.03 
13.60 
1.10 
1.04 
3.33 
1.08 
0.50 
0.44 
0.55 
0.69 
1.16 
0.71 
0.66 
0.74 
0.66 
1.23 
2.16 
1.29 
1.25 
1.12 
1.48 
1.04 
10.53 
1.12 
*Modified Warfarin event rate based on “population attributable risk approach” assuming 34% subjects with discordant Device vs Lab 
based INR and relative bleeding risk increases derived for criterion of Device INR value lower than the Lab INR by at least one category 
(Analysis 3) in subjects with paired INR samples at both Week 12 and Week 24 
CHMP discussion on questions 5 and 6 
In this discussion part, each analysis is discussed individually prior to the overall CHMP conclusion.  
In analysis 1 the definition of discrepancy is based on the 2007 ISO 17593 guidance document. The 
efficacy event rates were actually higher in the discrepancy group, which could reflect that these 
non-randomised groups had different characteristics and were at different risks. Another contributing 
possibility could be that treatment management after bleeding would be difficult in this study population 
at high embolic risk. In analysis 2, the concordance/lack of concordance is based on the four INR groups 
as defined in question 5. This can be regarded as an important analysis from a clinical perspective since 
a lack of concordance according to these criteria would lead to different signals and subsequent decision 
for a need of dose adjustment.  
It is concluded that the differences between the concordant and non-concordant groups in outcome are 
rather small. This is considered reassuring in relation to potential clinical consequences of a INR device 
failure. The assumption that the patients in these different non-randomized groups have different 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 34/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
characteristics is further supported by these analyses, taking the overall picture with inclusion of efficacy 
data into account. 
The analyses 3 and 4 can partly be regarded as subgroups to the groups compared in analysis 2. Analysis 
4 reflects a more extreme situation with a pronounced lack of concordance and here the results can 
support an assumption that subjects with a lower device INR by two categories were given higher warfarin 
doses than needed. As discussed above the somewhat higher efficacy event rates among those with lower 
device INR may reflect that the populations are different but also that the handling of patients after a 
bleeding episode is difficult and may lead to efficacy failure in a high risk population. However, the groups 
are small in analysis 4 making any conclusions uncertain and the results in this subgroup appear to have 
affected the overall results to a limited extent as could be observed in analysis 2. 
The higher efficacy and safety event rates in patients without paired device INR measurements may 
reflect different characteristics and risk profiles of the patients selected for paired measurements from 
those that were not selected. That patients without paired measurements could have had an efficacy 
event before w 12 may also contribute to the differences observed. The points to Consider in 
Interpretation of the Analysis 1 – 5: and related uncertainties are agreed to. However, while keeping in 
mind the uncertainties, it is of utmost importance to assess and better understand the potential impact of 
inaccurate estimations of the INR values with regards to the efficacy and safety results in the control arm 
of the Rocket AF trial. 
The additional exploratory analyses requested by the CHMP included data from the rivaroxaban treated 
patients which was not the case in all the other previously discussed sensitivity analyses. Only version IV 
is discussed in this report as it is agreed that this version is the most relevant one. In conclusion, the 
additional exploratory analyses performed, including also the rivaroxaban patients, appears to support 
the conclusion that the population characteristics with and without concordance/discrepancy differ and 
that the differences observed are not only related to potentially inappropriate dosing of the warfarin 
patients but to other factors.  
The efficacy data in the version IV analyses  are not discussed by the MAH) but it can be noted from the 
data provided that the primary efficacy outcome was lower among the rivaroxaban treated patients with 
discrepancy at week 12 than in those without discrepancy (1.63 vs 2.53 per 100 pt-years, respectively). 
The same pattern is observed for those patients with and without discrepancies at week 24. This data 
could possibly reflect greater difficulties to adjust doses of warfarin than to adjust rivaroxaban doses after 
a bleeding episode. 
The pattern observed could support a conclusion that inaccurate device estimations can have led to a 
somewhat increased bleeding tendency among the warfarin treated patients, however it could also 
theorically suggest an advantage for treatment with rivaroxaban in such situations. 
The additional sensitivity analyses requested by the CHMP were intended to quantify the potential impact 
of discordant INR results. The review of these sensitivity analyses resulted in rather small differences in 
Hazard Ratios based on the modified event rates in the warfarin arm as displayed in Table 7 above.  
The limitations of these analyses are fully acknowledged however they are considered to provide further 
reassurance for the relevance of the originally provided data assessed during the initial review of the 
Rocket AF trial. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 35/41 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  MAH conclusions on the scientific analyses provided 
The MAH would like to highlight that the ROCKET AF trial was not designed to validate the performance of 
the POC device or to calibrate it against a Lab based INR. Rather, the goal was to provide a blinded 
uniform standard throughout the trial to guide the investigators. To maintain the blind a POC INR 
measuring device was utilized for two reasons: 1) to capitalize on their capability to provide encryption of 
each INR value obtained and thereby improve the shamming and blinding capability for the trial, and 2) 
to facilitate more rapid and real time turnaround of INR values. The device chosen was CE marked and 
had 510k approval. 
While the mean treatment duration of the ROCKET AF trial was 580 days in the Warfarin group with the 
majority of subjects receiving treatment for at least 18 months, only for 2 time points (Week 12 and Week 
24) were trial Lab based INR values with a corresponding Device based INR value available. A device 
performance analysis was performed in this subset of patients at Week 12 and Week 24. It was revealed 
that there was a linear correlation for the Lab based INR value to the Device based INR value at Week 12 
and 24 for the subjects With or Without any recall-related time of observation. Using discrepancy 
specifications adapted from those defined in 2007 ISO 17593, nearly 90% of the Warfarin treated 
subjects in the ROCKET AF trial showed no discrepancy between the Lab based INR value and Device 
based INR value at Week 12 or at Week 24. 
A number of additional exploratory analyses taking into consideration the cross tabulations proposed by 
EMA were undertaken.  The goal was to better understand the INR results obtained with the Alere INRatio 
device in the ROCKET AF trial, their correlation with the laboratory based INRs performed at weeks 12 and 
24 as part of a pharmacodynamics study, and the impact of these correlations on the key efficacy and 
safety outcomes of the ROCKET AF trial. These additional exploratory analyses suggest that observed 
differences in warfarin event rates cannot be attributed to the adjustments made in warfarin dose based 
on discrepancy-related device INRs. 
Sensitivity Analysis based on the FDA agreed Alere recall notice: 
• 
Three sensitivity analyses, which were conducted based on the overall ROCKET AF study data by 
excluding subsets of the study population listed in the FDA agreed Alere recall notice, support the 
original efficacy and safety analyses of the ROCKET AF trial and confirm the positive benefit/risk 
profile of rivaroxaban). The analyses provide the most appropriate assessment of the impact of 
the Alere recall on the results of the ROCKET AF trial. 
Device performance analysis in a subset of patients at Week 12 and Week 24: 
1.  In the ROCKET AF trial there were more than 160,000 INR-measurements (after Week 4) for 
subjects taking warfarin. The mean treatment duration was 580 days in the Warfarin group with 
the majority of subjects receiving treatment for at least 18 months. 
a) Only for 2 time points Lab based INR values are available with a corresponding Device based 
INR value (5766 values for Week 12 and 5507 for Week 24, Safety Analysis Set). 5048 patients 
had values obtained at both Week 12 and Week 24. 
2.  For this subset of data (i.e. Week 12 and Week 24 data) comparisons of the Lab based INR vs 
Device based INR were performed and it was revealed that there was a linear correlation for the 
Lab based INR value to the Device based INR value at Week 12 and 24 for the subjects With or 
Without any recall-related time of observation. Using discrepancy specifications adapted from 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 36/41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
those defined in 2007 ISO 17593, nearly 90% of the Warfarin treated subjects in the ROCKET AF 
trial showed no discrepancy between the Lab based INR value and Device based INR value at 
Week 12 or at Week 24. 
3.  Additionally for these two dedicated time points, Bland-Altman plots for absolute and relative 
differences between the Lab based INR and Device based INR were prepared.   With respect to the 
ratio of the difference over the Lab based INR median and (arithmetic) mean are of similar 
magnitude. Both show that on average the Device INR is about 13% lower than the Lab based 
INR. 
4.  In terms of differences for measurements With or Without recall related time, the data are 
consistent with previously provided information (please refer to attachment 1 for details) that 
nearly 90% of the Warfarin treated subjects in both groups had no discrepancy observed between 
the Lab based INR value and Device based INR value at Week 12 or at Week 24 (87% of INR fall 
in range). 
5.  Within the subgroups defined by the various Consistency definitions, the efficacy and safety event 
rates do not always reflect the expected effects on efficacy and safety outcome. Higher bleeding 
rates for Warfarin subgroups Without Consistency relative to the subgroup With Consistency are 
not matched by lower efficacy rates as one would hypothesize if INR would be driving the 
observed event rates. 
6.  With the additional exploratory analyses it was unexpectedly revealed that inconsistencies in INR 
measurements were associated with differences in rivaroxaban event rates as well as warfarin 
event rates, which also suggests that observed differences in warfarin event rates cannot be 
attributed to the adjustments made in warfarin dose based on discrepancy-related device INRs. 
7.  Further separation of this subset of data (Week 12 and Week 24) will not provide additional 
relevant information on the benefit/risk profile of rivaroxaban. 
The MAH would like to reiterate that the initial response dated 15 October 2015)with the three sensitivity 
analyses constitutes the most sound assessment of the effect of the Alere correction notice on the 
ROCKET AF trial and provides the evidence that the results and conclusions from the ROCKET AF trial 
remain valid.  The current further exploration (i.e. Bland-Altman plots, Cross Tabulation Lab INR vs 
Device based INR, and Concordance subgroup analyses based on Cross Tabulation), provided later in the 
procedure upon CHMP request, while related to the POC device, are not related to the Alere correction 
notice, have no clear relation to the overall ROCKET AF results, and have a number of limitations as 
outlined response to request 5. 
2.4.  Other questions raised by the CHMP  
2.4.1.  Request 3: Clarification whether the recalled device was used in other 
trials performed with Xarelto or any other development programmes, and 
submitted or intended for submission.  
Summary of the MAH response: 
Response 
The INRatio PT/INR Monitor System was chosen to monitor INR in the ROCKET AF trial program. This trial 
program was the pivotal study program provided to EMA within the indication seeking variation procedure 
for the stroke prevention in non-valvular atrial fibrillation patients. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 37/41 
 
 
 
 
 
Bayer confirms that the INRatio and INRatio 2 PT/INR Monitor System was not chosen to monitor INR in 
any other ongoing or completed Bayer- or JRD-sponsored interventional or non-interventional 
rivaroxaban studies. Bayer cannot exclude that the INRatio and INRatio 2 PT/INR Monitor System was 
used by individual patients or investigators to monitor INR in open label rivaroxaban studies like XALIA or 
EINSTEIN PE / DVT. 
Bayer further confirms that the INRatio and INRatio 2 PT/INR Monitor System was not chosen to monitor 
INR in any other development programmes submitted or intended for submission to regulatory agencies 
by Bayer. Bayer has not purchased the INRatio and INRatio 2 PT/INR Monitor System for any other clinical 
study.  
The CHMP considered that the requested confirmation has been provided and considered the issue closed.  
2.4.2.  Request 4: Information whether other Regulatory authorities have 
been informed and subsequent actions were taken in any territory. 
With a cut-off date of October 11, 2015, the following 26 countries / Health Authorities were informed on 
a global basis (Europe/EMA, Sweden (rapporteur), Germany (co-rapporteur), US/FDA, Switzerland, 
Canada, Australia, Japan, New Zealand, China, Israel, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, 
Singapore, Korea, Taiwan, Malaysia, France, UK, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, Ireland, Netherlands) per 
local regulations and practices.  
On October 01, 2015 Bayer received a written request by EMA in co-operation with the rapporteur and the 
co-rapporteurs to provide further information as outlined in this response document. On October 09, 
2015 a request letter for further information by the MHLW (Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare, 
Japan) was received as well. So far, no other subsequent actions have been taken in other jurisdictions 
(cut-off date: October 11, 2015).  
The CHMP noted the information that authorities in the concerned countries have recently been informed 
by the MAH on the issue. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The manufacturer of the point of care INR device (Alere Inc.TM) has identified that the device in certain 
clinical conditions gave inappropriately low INR values.  The device was used for titration of the warfarin 
doses in the rocket AF study. The MAH of Xarelto was requested to provide clarification and further 
information in order to assess the potential impact on the pivotal  Rocket AF study results supporting the 
the indication for rivaroxaban in the prevention of thromboembolism in non-valvular atrial fibrillation (The 
“Rocket AF” study). All requested analyses have been provided. 
The inappropriately low INR values observed with the device as indicated in the device correction notice 
of Alere were in some instances reported to be clinically relevant leading to increases of anti-vitamin K 
agents with resulting increased bleeding tendency.  Thus it was considered relevant to further investigate 
the impact of potentially inaccurate device INR estimations ,that could have had on the study results. A 
major concern would be that the described deficiencies could lead to an increased bleeding rate in the 
control arm of the trial (warfarin) which would potentially hamper the interpretations of the differences 
between treatment arms. The investigations performed and possible conclusions that can be made from 
them are summarised below  
Numerous extensive sensitivity analyses have been performed in order to estimate the potential impact 
on the study outcome.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 38/41 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH initially performed three sensitivity analyses were based on the information provided by the INR 
device manufacturer (Alere) and taking both chronic and acute clinical conditions into account. Patients 
who were judged to have had any recall related clinical condition ahead of any endpoint event are 
excluded in the second of these sensitivity analyses which resulted in an exclusion of approximately 31% 
of the patients. The first and third sensitivity analyses are focussing on the time periods when such events 
occurred and fewer patients are excluded in these analyses. In all three analyses minor changes in the 
hazard ratios between the rivaroxaban and warfarin study arms were observed as compared to the 
original analyses.  For the sensitivity Analysis 2 considered to be the most conservative analysis of the 
three analyses provided, warfarin was almost nominally statistically significantly better than rivaroxaban 
for the principal safety endpoint, major or clinically relevant bleedings (p = 0.092, HR: 1.08 (CI: 0.99, 
1.17)).  
As can be seen in Table 2, the pattern of bleeding components was different between rivaroxaban and 
warfarin with death due to bleeding, critical organ bleeding and intracranial haemorrhage being nominally 
in favor of rivaroxaban. This differential pattern remained unchanged in the sensitivity analyses cited 
above.  (table 8). There was no indication that the most serious bleeding events on warfarin were related 
to recall related clinical conditions or events. 
There are uncertainties related to the sensitivity analyses above discussed. In particular the available 
information is probably somewhat limited e.g. fibrinogen levels have not been measured regularly and is 
rarely measured in clinical routine. The analyses were based on the assumption that INR values are only 
affected in case of recall related conditions. This issue was addressed by additional analyses. 
In a second step, these additional sensitivity analyses were provided upon request from CHMP. These 
analyses were focussing on the paired samples that were taken simultaneously at weeks 12 and 24 of the 
trial. In addition to the Alere device estimated INR, a laboratory prothrombin time measurement was 
made. The primary intention of this exercise was to evaluate the potential impact of rivaroxaban on 
prothrombin time during the Rocket AF trial. In retrospect, however, in view of the INR device issue under 
discussion, an INR ratio could be calculated allowing comparisons of the INR values as estimated by the 
two methods. (INR device and INR laboratory values calculated from the two sampling time points at 
week 12 and week 24).  
The MAH has, as requested, provided Bland-Altman plots comparing the estimations made by the two 
methods (INR device and INR calculation based on the laboratory values). From visual impression of the 
Bland-Altman plots, it indicates that the majority of discrepancies were related to lower device based INR 
value as compared to the Lab INR value. This was also further elucidated when looking at the cross 
tabulations made based on clinically relevant INR categories which showed that 34% (1961 out of 5766) 
of the measurements has a lower device INR compared with lab INR (discordant values).The reverse, that 
the device INR was higher compared with the Lab INR, was observed in only 4% of the measurements 
(discordant values). However, consistency,( i.e. that the measurements fell in the same INR category), 
was observed in 62% of the instances ( concordance), The subjects with and without concordance 
whether further investigated  to explore the impact of the device values. The principal safety endpoint 
event rates for subjects with and without concordance at Week 12 and at Week 24 were dissimilar 
(12.9/100 pt-yrs vs 14.0/100 pts-yrs, and 12.6/100 pt-yrs vs 13.6/100 pts-yrs, respectively), although 
closer with and without concordance at both week 12 & 24 (12.2/100 pt-yrs vs 12.9/100 pts-yrs, 
respectively). Based on these analyses modified event rates in the warfarin arm were calculated and 
compared with the observed event rates in the rivaroxaban arm. The impact on the originally reported 
Hazard Rate Ratios was small as seen in table 8.  
Theoretically, the differences observed could, on group level, depend on higher warfarin doses than 
necessarily needed in patients with discrepancy.   However, the differences above discussed are rather 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 39/41 
 
 
 
 
 
small, and when taking also efficacy data in these analyses into account it appears reasonable to conclude 
that the characteristics and risks in these non-randomised groups differ from the overall study 
population. This is further supported by the additional analyses provided by the MAH where a very similar 
pattern for the safety end-points is observed in the rivaroxaban patients and where doses were not 
adjusted. Furthermore, when looking at the patients who have no paired samples it becomes even more 
apparent that the sensitivity analyses reflect subsets of patients that are not representative for the 
over-all study population. 
The CHMP acknowledges that there are also limitations related to the above analyses as they only 
represent two specific time points during treatment approximately 11.000 out of 160.000 INR 
measurements which were performed during the study. 
A single lab INR cannot be regarded as a true “golden standard”. However, there is since long an 
awareness of the important influence different thromboplastins with different sensitivity have on the size 
of the prothrombin time prolongation. The INR calculations compensate for these differences. Among the 
frequently used routine coagulation tests laboratory INR testing is probably one of the best standardised 
methodologies. Point of care devices for INR estimations are generally speaking probably somewhat less 
well standardized however, they have important feasibility advantages together with sufficient reliability 
which could justify  their use preferable in clinical studies or in clinical routine for individual patients. 
There is also available extensive external evidence, important to take into consideration when evaluating 
the bleeding events in the Rocket AF trials. The incidences and the characteristics of bleedings induced by 
rivaroxaban in comparison with warfarin were characterised in other large clinical trials supportive of the 
indication for secondary prevention of DVT/PE. The Alere INR device was not used in these studies. When 
looking at the characteristics of the study populations in the DVT/PE prevention studies and the doses of 
rivaroxaban used , they are rather similar to the Rocket AF trial. The targeted INR was also identical. 
Therefore, the DVT/PE prevention studies are considered relevant for external validation purposes. It can 
be noted that in the pooled analyses of the DVT and PE studies, the major and clinically relevant bleedings 
were numerically fewer and major bleedings significantly fewer in the rivaroxaban arm (HR 0.93, 95% CI 
0.81;1.06 and HR 0.55, CI 0.34, 0,79, respectively). The bleeding characteristics were similar to those 
observed in the Rocket AF trial. 
The bleeding rates and the bleeding characteristics in the warfarin arm in the Rocket trial is also within the 
expected range as the one described in the literature. Furthermore the analyses of the components of the 
primary safety endpoint, critical organ bleeding, fatal bleeding, ICH, clearly favoured the rivaroxaban 
group as did all-cause mortality. These differences remained largely unaffected in the sensitivity analyses 
performed and taking also the size of the differences into account they are considered to be robust. They 
are also consistent with the bleeding pattern seen for the other available oral Xa-inhibitors. 
The conclusions derived from the Rocket AF trial are supported by the performed sensitivity analyses and 
by external evidence from large trials in other therapeutic areas comparing the efficacy and safety of 
rivaroxaban vs warfarin. The incidence of major and clinically relevant bleedings among the warfarin 
treated patients in the Rocket AF trial compares also well with the bleeding incidences observed in 
recently performed trials in AF populations. Incidences of major bleedings in warfarin arms in the 
dabigatran, apixaban and edoxaban pivotal trials in atrial fibrillation were 3.6, 3.1 and 3.4%, 
respectively, as compared to 3.5% in the Rocket AF trial.  
It is agreed with the MAH that further analyses are not expected to provide additional information of 
substantial value.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 40/41 
 
 
 
 
 
In conclusion, the CHMP considered that there is sufficient evidence to conclude that the benefit/risk 
balance remains unchanged and favourable for treatment with rivaroxaban in the prevention of 
thromboembolism in non-valvular atrial fibrillation. 
The CHMP also considered that the information provided in the SmPC is currently appropriate and does 
not warrant any amendment. The modified calculated INR values discussed in this report should be 
viewed as informative for the assessment of the INR values provided by the faulty device. Taking into 
account the extent of the potential impact of the modified INR values and the limitations of the post hoc 
sensitivity analyses, it is considered that an update in the SmPC section 5.1 is not relevant and would 
provide more confusion to the prescriber.  
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/87883/2016 
Page 41/41 
 
 
 
 
 
