ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 2.5 mg rivaroxaban.  
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 33.92 mg lactose (as monohydrate), see section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet)  
Light yellow, round biconvex tablets (6 mm diameter, 9 mm radius of curvature) marked with the 
BAYER-cross on one side and "2.5" and a triangle on the other side.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Xarelto, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone or with ASA plus clopidogrel or 
ticlopidine, is indicated for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in adult patients after an acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS) with elevated cardiac biomarkers (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.1). 
Xarelto, co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is indicated for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) or symptomatic 
peripheral artery disease (PAD) at high risk of ischaemic events. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is 2.5 mg twice daily.  
ACS 
• 
Patients taking Xarelto 2.5 mg twice daily should also take a daily dose of 75 - 100 mg ASA or a daily 
dose of 75 - 100 mg ASA in addition to either a daily dose of 75 mg clopidogrel or a standard daily 
dose of ticlopidine. 
Treatment should be regularly evaluated in the individual patient weighing the risk for ischaemic 
events against the bleeding risks. Extension of treatment beyond 12 months should be done on an 
individual patient basis as experience up to 24 months is limited (see section 5.1). 
Treatment with Xarelto should be started as soon as possible after stabilisation of the ACS event 
(including revascularisation procedures); at the earliest 24 hours after admission to hospital and at the 
time when parenteral anticoagulation therapy would normally be discontinued. 
CAD/PAD 
• 
Patients taking Xarelto 2.5 mg twice daily should also take a daily dose of 75 - 100 mg ASA. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients after a successful revascularisation procedure of the lower limb (surgical or endovascular 
including hybrid procedures) due to symptomatic PAD, treatment should not be started until 
haemostasis is achieved (see section 5.1). 
Duration of treatment should be determined for each individual patient based on regular evaluations 
and should consider the risk for thrombotic events versus the bleeding risks. 
• 
ACS, CAD/PAD 
Co-administration with antiplatelet therapy 
In patients with an acute thrombotic event or vascular procedure and a need for dual antiplatelet 
therapy, the continuation of Xarelto 2.5 mg twice daily should be evaluated depending on the type of 
event or procedure and antiplatelet regimen. 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with dual antiplatelet therapy have 
been studied in patients 
• 
• 
with recent ACS in combination with ASA plus clopidogrel/ticlopidine (see section 4.1), and 
after recent revascularisation procedure of the lower limb due to symptomatic PAD in 
combination with ASA and, if applicable, short-term clopidogrel use (see sections 4.4 and 5.1) 
Missed dose 
If a dose is missed the patient should continue with the regular dose as recommended at the next 
scheduled time. The dose should not be doubled to make up for a missed dose. 
Converting from Vitamin K Antagonists (VKA) to Xarelto 
When converting patients from VKAs to Xarelto, International Normalised Ratio (INR) values could 
be falsely elevated after the intake of Xarelto. The INR is not valid to measure the anticoagulant 
activity of Xarelto, and therefore should not be used (see section 4.5). 
Converting from Xarelto to Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) 
There is a potential for inadequate anticoagulation during the transition from Xarelto to VKA. 
Continuous adequate anticoagulation should be ensured during any transition to an alternate 
anticoagulant. It should be noted that Xarelto can contribute to an elevated INR.  
In patients converting from Xarelto to VKA, VKA should be given concurrently until the INR is ≥ 2.0. 
For the first two days of the conversion period, standard initial dosing of VKA should be used 
followed by VKA dosing, as guided by INR testing. While patients are on both Xarelto and VKA the 
INR should not be tested earlier than 24 hours after the previous dose but prior to the next dose of 
Xarelto. Once Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably at least 24 hours after the last 
dose (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Converting from parenteral anticoagulants to Xarelto 
For patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, discontinue the parenteral anticoagulant 
and start Xarelto 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next scheduled administration of the parenteral 
medicinal product (e.g. low molecular weight heparins) would be due or at the time of discontinuation 
of a continuously administered parenteral medicinal product (e.g. intravenous unfractionated heparin). 
Converting from Xarelto to parenteral anticoagulants 
Give the first dose of parenteral anticoagulant at the time the next Xarelto dose would be taken.  
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Limited clinical data for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) 
indicate that rivaroxaban plasma concentrations are significantly increased. Therefore, Xarelto is to be 
used with caution in these patients. Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance 
< 15 ml/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 ml/min) or moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Xarelto is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically 
relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
Elderly population  
No dose adjustment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2) 
The risk of bleeding increases with increasing age (see section 4.4). 
Body weight 
No dose adjustment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2) 
Gender 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets in children aged 0 to 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. Therefore, Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets are not recommended for use in 
children below 18 years of age.  
Method of administration  
Xarelto is for oral use. 
The tablets can be taken with or without food (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto tablet may be crushed and mixed with 
water or apple puree immediately prior to use and administered orally.  
The crushed tablet may also be given through gastric tubes (see sections 5.2 and 6.6). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active clinically significant bleeding. 
Lesion or condition, if considered to be a significant risk for major bleeding. This may include current 
or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants, e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, apixaban, etc.) except under specific circumstances of 
switching anticoagulant therapy (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant treatment of ACS with antiplatelet therapy in patients with a prior stroke or a transient 
ischaemic attack (TIA) (see section 4.4).  
Concomitant treatment of CAD/PAD with ASA in patients with previous haemorrhagic or lacunar 
stroke, or any stroke within a month (see section 4.4). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In ACS patients, efficacy and safety of Xarelto 2.5 mg twice daily have been investigated in 
combination with the antiplatelet agents ASA alone or ASA plus clopidogrel/ticlopidine. 
In patients at high risk of ischaemic events with CAD/PAD, efficacy and safety of Xarelto 2.5 mg 
twice daily have been investigated in combination with ASA.  
In patients after recent revascularisation procedure of the lower limb due to symptomatic PAD, 
efficacy and safety of Xarelto 2.5 mg twice daily have been investigated in combination with the 
antiplatelet agent ASA alone or ASA plus short-term clopidogrel. If required, dual antiplatelet therapy 
with clopidogrel should be short-term; long-term dual antiplatelet therapy should be avoided (see 
section 5.1). 
Treatment in combination with other antiplatelet agents, e.g. prasugrel or ticagrelor, has not been 
studied and is not recommended. 
Clinical surveillance in line with anticoagulation practice is recommended throughout the treatment 
period. 
Haemorrhagic risk 
As with other anticoagulants, patients taking Xarelto are to be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. 
It is recommended to be used with caution in conditions with increased risk of haemorrhage. Xarelto 
administration should be discontinued if severe haemorrhage occurs (see section 4.9). 
In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito urinary 
including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more frequently 
during long term rivaroxaban treatment on top of single or dual anti-platelet therapy. Thus, in addition 
to adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. 
Several sub-groups of patients, as detailed below, are at increased risk of bleeding. Therefore, the use 
of Xarelto in combination with dual antiplatelet therapy in patients at known increased risk for 
bleeding should be balanced against the benefit in terms of prevention of atherothrombotic events. In 
addition these patients are to be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding complications 
and anaemia after initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).  
Any unexplained fall in haemoglobin or blood pressure should lead to a search for a bleeding site. 
Although treatment with rivaroxaban does not require routine monitoring of exposure, rivaroxaban 
levels measured with a calibrated quantitative anti-factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional 
situations where knowledge of rivaroxaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g. 
overdose and emergency surgery (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) rivaroxaban plasma levels 
may be significantly increased (1.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. 
Xarelto is to be used with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min. Use is not 
recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).  
In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) concomitantly 
receiving other medicinal products which increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations Xarelto is to be 
used with caution (see section 4.5). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction with other medicinal products 
The use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with 
azole-antimycotics (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) or HIV 
protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir). These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and 
P-gp and therefore may increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant degree 
(2.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk (see section 4.5). 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with medicinal products affecting haemostasis 
such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs), acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and 
platelet aggregation inhibitors or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). For patients at risk of ulcerative gastrointestinal disease 
an appropriate prophylactic treatment may be considered (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). 
Patients treated with Xarelto and antiplatelet agents should only receive concomitant treatment with 
NSAIDs if the benefit outweighs the bleeding risk. 
Other haemorrhagic risk factors 
As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding 
risk such as: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension 
other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding 
complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroesophageal 
reflux disease) 
vascular retinopathy 
bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding 
• 
• 
It should be used with caution in ACS and CAD/PAD patients: 
•  ≥ 75 years of age if co-administered with ASA alone or with ASA plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine. 
The benefit-risk of the treatment should be individually assessed on a regular basis. 
•  with lower body weight (< 60 kg) if co-administered with ASA alone or with ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine. 
•  CAD patients with severe symptomatic heart failure. Study data indicate that such patients may 
benefit less from treatment with rivaroxaban (see section 5.1). 
Patients with cancer 
Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The 
individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients 
with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of disease. Tumours 
located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of 
bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  
In patients with malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Patients with prosthetic valves 
Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been studied 
in patients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that Xarelto provides 
adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Xarelto is not recommended for 
these patients. 
Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome 
Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients 
with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for 
patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates 
of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with prior stroke and/or TIA 
Patients with ACS 
Xarelto 2.5 mg is contraindicated for the treatment of ACS in patients with a prior stroke or TIA (see 
section 4.3). Few ACS patients with a prior stroke or TIA have been studied but the limited efficacy 
data available indicate that these patients do not benefit from treatment. 
Patients with CAD/PAD 
CAD/PAD patients with previous haemorrhagic or lacunar stroke, or an ischaemic, non-lacunar stroke 
with in the previous month were not studied (see section 4.3).  
Patients after recent revascularisation procedures of the lower limb due to symptomatic PAD with a 
previous stroke or TIA were not studied. Treatment with Xarelto 2.5 mg should be avoided in these 
patients receiving dual antiplatelet therapy. 
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or puncture 
When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, 
patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk 
of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. 
The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or 
the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by 
traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and 
symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder 
dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior 
to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical 
experience with the use of Xarelto 2.5 mg and antiplatelet agents in these situations. Platelet 
aggregation inhibitors should be discontinued as suggested by the manufacturer’s prescribing 
information.  
To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and 
neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of 
rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when 
the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low (see section 5.2). However, the exact 
timing to reach a sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known.  
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto 2.5 mg should be stopped at least 
12 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician. If a 
patient is to undergo elective surgery and anti-platelet effect is not desired, platelet aggregation 
inhibitors should be discontinued as directed by the manufacturer’s prescribing information.  
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the 
urgency of the intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention 
provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by 
the treating physician (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see sections 5.1 and 5.2).  
Dermatological reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS 
syndrome, have been reported during post-marketing surveillance in association with the use of 
rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the 
course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of 
treatment. Rivaroxaban should be discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. 
spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal 
lesions. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information about excipients 
Xarelto contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a 
day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in 
mean rivaroxaban Cmax, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving 
concomitant systemic treatment with azole-antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).  
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either 
CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. 
Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in 
Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be 
potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax. The interaction with erythromycin is likely not 
clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500 mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see 
section 4.4). 
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mean Cmax. The interaction with 
fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-
risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Given the limited clinical data available with dronedarone, co-administration with rivaroxaban should 
be avoided. 
Anticoagulants 
After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10 mg single 
dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observed without any additional effects on 
clotting tests (PT, aPTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban. 
Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any 
other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors 
No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of 
rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more 
pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a 
pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P-selectin or 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels. 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) 
and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding 
risk (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs/SNRIs 
As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in 
case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When 
concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, numerically higher rates of major or non-
major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups. 
Warfarin 
Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or 
from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) 
more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on aPTT, 
inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti-
factor Xa activity, PiCT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the 
fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (including PT, aPTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity 
and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR 
measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of 
rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point. 
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban. 
CYP3A4 inducers  
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be 
avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms of thrombosis. 
Other concomitant therapies  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P-gp), 
atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban 
neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4. 
No clinically relevant interaction with food was observed (see section 4.2). 
Laboratory parameters 
Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, aPTT, HepTest) are affected as expected by the mode of action of 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential reproductive toxicity, the intrinsic 
risk of bleeding and the evidence that rivaroxaban passes the placenta, Xarelto is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Women of child-bearing potential should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with rivaroxaban. 
Breast-feeding 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in breast-feeding women. Data from animals 
indicate that rivaroxaban is secreted into milk. Therefore Xarelto is contraindicated during breast-
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
feeding (see section 4.3). A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from therapy.  
Fertility 
No specific studies with rivaroxaban in humans have been conducted to evaluate effects on fertility. In 
a study on male and female fertility in rats no effects were seen (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xarelto has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions like syncope 
(frequency: uncommon) and dizziness (frequency: common) have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Patients experiencing these adverse reactions should not drive or use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of rivaroxaban has been evaluated in thirteen pivotal phase III studies (see Table 1).  
Overall, 69,608 adult patients in nineteen phase III studies and 488 paediatric patients in two phase II 
and two phase III studies were exposed to rivaroxaban. 
Table 1: Number of patients studied, total daily dose and maximum treatment duration in adult 
and paediatric phase III studies 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
6,097 
10 mg 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of VTE in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) 
and prevention of recurrence 
3,997 
6,790 
Treatment of VTE and prevention 
of VTE recurrence in term neonates 
and children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
329 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients after an ACS 
7,750 
10,225 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients with CAD/PAD 
18,244 
3,256** 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
39 days 
39 days 
21 months 
12 months 
41 months 
31 months  
47 months 
42 months 
10 mg 
Day 1 - 21: 30 mg 
Day 22 and onwards: 
20 mg 
After at least 6 months: 
10 mg or 20 mg 
Body weight-adjusted 
dose to achieve a similar 
exposure as that observed 
in adults treated for DVT 
with 20 mg rivaroxaban 
once daily 
20 mg 
5 mg or 10 mg 
respectively, co-
administered with either 
ASA or ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA or 10 mg alone 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indication 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
* 
** 
Patients exposed to at least one dose of rivaroxaban 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving rivaroxaban were bleedings (see 
section 4.4. and ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below) (Table 2). The most commonly 
reported bleedings were epistaxis (4.5 %) and gastrointestinal tract haemorrhage (3.8 %). 
2.1% of patients 
12.6% of patients 
Any bleeding 
6.8% of patients 
Anaemia 
5.9% of patients 
Table 2: Bleeding* and anaemia events rates in patients exposed to rivaroxaban across the 
completed adult and paediatric phase III studies 
Indication  
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention 
of recurrence 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of 
VTE recurrence in term neonates and 
children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients after an ACS 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients with CAD/PAD 
2.5 per 100 patient 
years 
28 per 100 patient 
years 
39.5% of patients 
1.6% of patients 
4.6% of patients 
23% of patients 
22 per 100 patient 
years 
6.7 per 100 patient 
years 
8.38 per 100 patient 
years # 
1.4 per 100 patient 
years 
0.15 per 100 patient 
years**  
0.74 per 100 patient 
years*** # 
For all rivaroxaban studies all bleeding events are collected, reported and 
In the COMPASS study, there is a low anaemia incidence as a selective 
* 
adjudicated. 
**  
approach to adverse event collection was applied 
***  A selective approach to adverse event collection was applied 
# 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions reported with Xarelto in adult and paediatric patients are 
summarised in Table 3 below by system organ class (in MedDRA) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10)  
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)  
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
very rare (< 1/10,000)  
not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
11 
 
 
 
 
  
Uncommon 
Table 3: All adverse reactions reported in adult patients in phase III clinical studies or through 
post-marketing use* and in two phase II and two phase III studies in paediatric patients 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia (incl. 
respective 
laboratory 
parameters) 
Immune system disorders 
Thrombocytosis 
(incl. platelet count 
increased)A, 
thrombocytopenia 
Very rare 
Rare 
Allergic reaction, 
dermatitis allergic, 
angioedema and 
allergic oedema 
Anaphylactic 
reactions including 
anaphylactic shock  
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness, 
headache 
Cerebral and 
intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
syncope 
Eye disorders 
Eye haemorrhage 
(incl. conjunctival 
haemorrhage) 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia  
Dry mouth 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension, 
haematoma 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gingival bleeding, 
gastrointestinal 
tract haemorrhage 
(incl. rectal 
haemorrhage), 
gastrointestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
dyspepsia, nausea, 
constipationA, 
diarrhoea, 
vomitingA 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Increase in 
transaminases 
Hepatic 
impairment, 
increased bilirubin, 
increased blood 
alkaline 
phosphataseA, 
increased GGTA 
Jaundice, bilirubin 
conjugated 
increased (with or 
without 
concomitant 
increase of ALT), 
cholestasis, 
hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular 
injury) 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis, DRESS 
syndrome  
Compartment 
syndrome 
secondary to a 
bleeding 
Renal failure/acute 
renal failure 
secondary to a 
bleeding sufficient 
to cause 
hypoperfusion, 
Anticoagulant-
related nephropathy 
Rare 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus (incl. 
uncommon cases of 
generalised 
pruritus), rash, 
ecchymosis, 
cutaneous and 
subcutaneous 
haemorrhage 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Pain in extremityA  Haemarthrosis 
Muscle 
haemorrhage 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Urogenital tract 
haemorrhage (incl. 
haematuria and 
menorrhagiaB), 
renal impairment 
(incl. blood 
creatinine 
increased, blood 
urea increased) 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
FeverA, peripheral 
Feeling unwell 
(incl. malaise)  
oedema, decreased 
general strength 
and energy (incl. 
fatigue and 
asthenia) 
Investigations 
Localised oedemaA   
Increased LDHA, 
increased lipaseA, 
increased amylaseA 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Vascular 
Postprocedural 
pseudoaneurysmC 
haemorrhage (incl. 
postoperative 
anaemia, and 
wound 
haemorrhage), 
contusion, wound 
secretionA 
A:   observed in prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery 
B:   observed in treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence as very common in women 
< 55 years 
C:   observed as uncommon in prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients after an ACS 
(following percutaneous coronary intervention) 
*   A pre-specified selective approach to adverse event collection was applied in selected phase III 
studies. The incidence of adverse reactions did not increase and no new adverse drug reaction 
was identified after analysis of these studies. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Due to the pharmacological mode of action, the use of Xarelto may be associated with an increased 
risk of occult or overt bleeding from any tissue or organ which may result in post haemorrhagic 
anaemia. The signs, symptoms, and severity (including fatal outcome) will vary according to the 
location and degree or extent of the bleeding and/or anaemia (see section 4.9 “Management of 
bleeding”). In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito 
urinary including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more 
frequently during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to 
adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. The risk of bleedings may be increased in certain patient groups, e.g. those patients with 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or on concomitant treatment affecting haemostasis (see 
section 4.4 “Haemorrhagic risk”). Menstrual bleeding may be intensified and/or prolonged. 
Haemorrhagic complications may present as weakness, paleness, dizziness, headache or unexplained 
swelling, dyspnoea and unexplained shock. In some cases as a consequence of anaemia, symptoms of 
cardiac ischaemia like chest pain or angina pectoris have been observed.  
Known complications secondary to severe bleeding such as compartment syndrome and renal failure 
due to hypoperfusion, or anticoagulant-related nephropathy have been reported for Xarelto. Therefore, 
the possibility of haemorrhage is to be considered in evaluating the condition in any anticoagulated 
patient. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Rare cases of overdose up to 1,960 mg have been reported. In case of overdose, the patient should be 
observed carefully for bleeding complications or other adverse reactions (see section “Management of 
bleeding”). Due to limited absorption a ceiling effect with no further increase in average plasma 
exposure is expected at supratherapeutic doses of 50 mg rivaroxaban or above.  
A specific reversal agent (andexanet alfa) antagonising the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban is 
available (refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of andexanet alfa). 
The use of activated charcoal to reduce absorption in case of rivaroxaban overdose may be considered.  
Management of bleeding 
Should a bleeding complication arise in a patient receiving rivaroxaban, the next rivaroxaban 
administration should be delayed or treatment should be discontinued as appropriate. Rivaroxaban has 
a half-life of approximately 5 to 13 hours (see section 5.2). Management should be individualised 
according to the severity and location of the haemorrhage. Appropriate symptomatic treatment could 
be used as needed, such as mechanical compression (e.g. for severe epistaxis), surgical haemostasis 
with bleeding control procedures, fluid replacement and haemodynamic support, blood products 
(packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma, depending on associated anaemia or coagulopathy) or 
platelets. 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, either the administration of a specific 
factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent (andexanet alfa), which antagonises the pharmacodynamic effect of 
rivaroxaban, or a specific procoagulant agent, such as prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), 
activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (r-FVIIa), should be 
considered. However, there is currently very limited clinical experience with the use of these 
medicinal products in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. The recommendation is also based on limited 
non-clinical data. Re-dosing of recombinant factor VIIa shall be considered and titrated depending on 
improvement of bleeding. Depending on local availability, a consultation with a coagulation expert 
should be considered in case of major bleedings (see section 5.1). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
Protamine sulphate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. 
There is limited experience with tranexamic acid and no experience with aminocaproic acid and 
aprotinin in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. There is neither scientific rationale for benefit nor 
experience with the use of the systemic haemostatic desmopressin in individuals receiving 
rivaroxaban. Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF01  
Mechanism of action 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of 
factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting 
both thrombin formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin 
(activated factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Dose-dependent inhibition of factor Xa activity was observed in humans. Prothrombin time (PT) is 
influenced by rivaroxaban in a dose dependent way with a close correlation to plasma concentrations 
(r value equals 0.98) if Neoplastin is used for the assay. Other reagents would provide different results. 
The readout for PT is to be done in seconds, because the INR is only calibrated and validated for 
coumarins and cannot be used for any other anticoagulant.  
In a clinical pharmacology study on the reversal of rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics in healthy adult 
subjects (n=22), the effects of single doses (50 IU/kg) of two different types of PCCs, a 3-factor PCC 
(Factors II, IX and X) and a 4-factor PCC (Factors II, VII, IX and X) were assessed. The 3-factor PCC 
reduced mean Neoplastin PT values by approximately 1.0 second within 30 minutes, compared to 
reductions of approximately 3.5 seconds observed with the 4-factor PCC. In contrast, the 3-factor PCC 
had a greater and more rapid overall effect on reversing changes in endogenous thrombin generation 
than the 4-factor PCC (see section 4.9). 
The activated partial thomboplastin time (aPTT) and HepTest are also prolonged dose-dependently; 
however, they are not recommended to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban. There is no 
need for monitoring of coagulation parameters during treatment with rivaroxaban in clinical routine. 
However, if clinically indicated, rivaroxaban levels can be measured by calibrated quantitative anti-
factor-Xa tests (see section 5.2). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
ACS 
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban for the 
prevention of cardiovascular (CV) death, myocardial infarction (MI) or stroke in subjects with a 
recent ACS (ST-elevation myocardial infarction [STEMI], non- ST-elevation myocardial infarction 
[NSTEMI] or unstable angina [UA]). In the pivotal double-blind ATLAS ACS 2 TIMI 51 study, 
15,526 patients were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 fashion to one of three treatment groups: 
rivaroxaban 2.5 mg orally twice daily, 5 mg orally twice daily or to placebo twice daily co-
administered with ASA alone or with ASA plus a thienopyridine (clopidogrel or ticlopidine). Patients 
with an ACS under the age of 55 had to have either diabetes mellitus or a previous MI. The median 
time on treatment was 13 months and overall treatment duration was up to almost 3 years. 93.2% of 
patients received ASA concomitantly plus thienopyridine treatment and 6.8% ASA only. Among 
patients receiving dual anti-platelets therapy 98.8% received clopidogrel, 0.9% received ticlopidine 
and 0.3% received prasugrel. Patients received the first dose of rivaroxaban at a minimum of 24 hours 
and up to 7 days (mean 4.7 days) after admission to the hospital, but as soon as possible after 
stabilisation of the ACS event, including revascularisation procedures and when parenteral 
anticoagulation therapy would normally be discontinued. 
Both the 2.5 mg twice daily and the 5 mg twice daily regimens of rivaroxaban were effective in 
further reducing the incidence of CV events on a background of standard antiplatelet care. The 2.5 mg 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
twice daily regimen reduced mortality, and there is evidence that the lower dose had lower bleeding 
risks, therefore rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily co-administered with acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) alone 
or with ASA plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine is recommended for the prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in adult patients after an ACS with elevated cardiac biomarkers. 
Relative to placebo, rivaroxaban significantly reduced the primary composite endpoint of CV death, 
MI or stroke. The benefit was driven by a reduction in CV death and MI and appeared early with a 
constant treatment effect over the entire treatment period (see Table 4 and Figure 1). Also the first 
secondary endpoint (all-cause death, MI or stroke) was reduced significantly. An additional 
retrospective analysis showed a nominally significant reduction in the incidence rates of stent 
thrombosis compared with placebo (see Table 4). The incidence rates for the principal safety outcome 
(non-coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) TIMI major bleeding events) were higher in patients 
treated with rivaroxaban than in patients who received placebo (see Table 6). However the incidence 
rates were balanced between rivaroxaban and placebo for the components of fatal bleeding events, 
hypotension requiring treatment with intravenous inotropic agents and surgical intervention for 
ongoing bleeding.  
In Table 5 the efficacy results of patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) are 
presented. The safety results in this subgroup of patients undergoing PCI were comparable to the 
overall safety results.  
Patients with elevated biomarkers (troponin or CK-MB) and without a prior stroke/TIA constituted 
80% of the study population. The results of this patient population were also consistent with the 
overall efficacy and safety results.  
Table 4: Efficacy results from phase III ATLAS ACS 2 TIMI 51 
Study population 
Patients with a recent acute coronary syndrome a) 
Treatment dose 
Cardiovascular death, MI or stroke 
All-cause death, MI or stroke 
Cardiovascular death 
All-cause death 
MI 
Stroke 
Stent thrombosis 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg, twice daily, 
N=5,114 
n (%)  
Hazard Ratio (HR) (95% CI) p-
value b) 
313 (6.1%) 
0.84 (0.72, 0.97) p = 0.020* 
320 (6.3%) 
0.83 (0.72, 0.97) p = 0.016* 
94 (1.8%) 
0.66 (0.51, 0.86) p = 0.002** 
103 (2.0%) 
0.68 (0.53, 0.87) p = 0.002** 
205 (4.0%) 
0.90 (0.75, 1.09) p = 0.270 
46 (0.9%) 
1.13 (0.74, 1.73) p = 0.562 
61 (1.2%) 
0.70 (0.51, 0.97) p = 0.033** 
Placebo 
N=5,113  
n (%) 
376 (7.4%) 
386 (7.5%) 
143 (2.8%) 
153 (3.0%) 
229 (4.5%) 
41 (0.8%) 
87 (1.7%) 
a)  modified intent to treat analysis set (intent to treat total analysis set for stent thrombosis) 
b) 
* 
** 
vs placebo; Log-Rank p-value 
statistically superior  
nominally significant 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Efficacy results from phase III ATLAS ACS 2 TIMI 51 in patients undergoing PCI 
Study population 
Treatment dose 
Cardiovascular death, MI or stroke 
Cardiovascular death 
All-cause death 
MI 
Stroke 
Stent thrombosis 
165 (5.3%) 
Placebo 
N=3096  
n (%) 
Patients with recent acute coronary syndrome 
undergoing PCI a) 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg, twice daily, 
N=3114 
n (%)  
HR (95% CI) p-value b) 
153 (4.9%) 
0.94 (0.75, 1.17) p = 0.572 
24 (0.8%) 
0.54 (0.33, 0.89) p = 0.013** 
31 (1.0%) 
0.64 (0.41, 1.01) p = 0.053 
115 (3.7%) 
1.03 (0.79, 1.33) p = 0.829 
27 (0.9%) 
1.30 (0.74, 2.31) p = 0.360 
47 (1.5%) 
0.66 (0.46, 0.95) p = 0.026** 
21 (0.7%) 
71 (2.3%) 
45 (1.5%) 
49 (1.6%) 
113 (3.6%) 
a)  modified intent to treat analysis set (intent to treat total analysis set for stent thrombosis) 
b)  vs placebo; Log-Rank p-value 
**  nominally significant 
Table 6: Safety results from phase III ATLAS ACS 2 TIMI 51 
Study population 
Treatment dose 
Non-CABG TIMI major bleeding 
event 
Fatal bleeding event 
Symptomatic intracranial 
haemorrhage 
Hypotension requiring treatment 
with intravenous inotropic agents 
Surgical intervention for ongoing 
bleeding 
Transfusion of 4 or more units of 
blood over a 48 hour period 
a)  safety population, on treatment  
b)  vs placebo; Log-Rank p-value 
* 
statistically significant 
Placebo 
N=5,125 
n(%) 
Patients with recent acute coronary syndrome a) 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg, twice daily, 
N=5,115 
n (%) 
HR (95% CI) p-value b) 
65 (1.3%) 
3.46 (2.08, 5.77) p = < 0.001* 
6 (0.1%) 
0.67 (0.24, 1.89) p = 0.450   
14 (0.3%) 
2.83 (1.02, 7.86) p = 0.037   
3 (0.1%) 
19 (0.4%) 
3 (0.1%) 
5 (0.1%) 
9 (0.2%) 
7 (0.1%) 
19 (0.4%) 
9 (0.2%) 
6 (0.1%) 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Time to first occurrence of primary efficacy endpoint (CV death, MI or stroke)  
CAD/PAD 
The phase III COMPASS study (27,395 patients, 78.0% male, 22.0% female) demonstrated the 
efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban for the prevention of a composite of CV death, MI, stroke in 
patients with CAD or symptomatic PAD at high risk of ischaemic events. Patients were followed for a 
median of 23 months and maximum of 3.9 years.  
Subjects without a continuous need for treatment with a proton pump inhibitor were randomised to 
pantoprazole or placebo. All patients were then randomised 1:1:1 to rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice 
daily/ASA 100 mg once daily, to rivaroxaban 5 mg twice daily, or ASA 100 mg once daily alone, and 
their matching placebos.  
CAD patients had multivessel CAD and/or prior MI. For patients < 65 years of age atherosclerosis 
involving at least two vascular beds or at least two additional cardiovascular risk factors were 
required.  
PAD patients had previous interventions such as bypass surgery or percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty or limb or foot amputation for arterial vascular disease or intermittent claudication with 
ankle/arm blood pressure ratio < 0.90 and/ or significant peripheral artery stenosis or previous carotid 
revascularisation or asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis ≥ 50%.  
Exclusion criteria included the need for dual antiplatelet or other non-ASA antiplatelet or oral 
anticoagulant therapy and patients with high bleeding risk, or heart failure with ejection fraction 
< 30% or New York Heart Association class III or IV, or any ischaemic, non-lacunar stroke within 
1 month or any history of haemorrhagic or lacunar stroke.  
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with ASA 100 mg once daily was superior to ASA 
100 mg, in the reduction of the primary composite outcome of CV death, MI, stroke (see Table 7 and 
Figure 2).  
There was a significant increase of the primary safety outcome (modified ISTH major bleeding events) 
in patients treated with rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with ASA 100 mg once daily 
compared to patients who received ASA 100 mg (see Table 8).  
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the primary efficacy outcome, the observed benefit of rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily plus ASA 
100 mg once daily compared with ASA 100 mg once daily was HR=0.89 (95% CI 0.7-1.1) in patients 
≥75 years (incidence: 6.3% vs 7.0%) and HR=0.70 (95% CI 0.6-0.8) in patients < 75 years (3.6% vs 
5.0%). For modified ISTH major bleeding, the observed risk increase was HR=2.12 (95% CI 1.5-3.0) 
in patients ≥75 years (5.2% vs 2.5%) and HR=1.53 (95% CI 1.2-1.9) in patients < 75 years (2.6% vs 
1.7%).  
The use of pantoprazole 40 mg once daily in addition to antithrombotic study medication in patients 
with no clinical need for a proton pump inhibitor showed no benefit in the prevention of upper 
gastrointestinal events (i.e. composite of upper gastrointestinal bleeding, upper gastrointestinal 
ulceration, or upper gastrointestinal obstruction or perforation); the incidence rate of upper 
gastrointestinal events was 0.39/100 patient-years in the pantoprazole 40 mg once daily group and 
0.44/100 patient-years in the placebo once daily group. 
Table 7: Efficacy results from phase III COMPASS 
Study 
population 
Treatment dose  Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg bid 
Patients with CAD/PAD a) 
ASA 100 mg od 
in combination with 
ASA 100 mg od 
N=9152 
Patients with 
events 
KM % 
N=9126 
Patients 
with events 
Stroke, MI or 
CV death 
379 (4.1%) 
5.20% 
496 (5.4%) 
7.17% 
-  Stroke 
83 (0.9%) 
1.17% 
142 (1.6%) 
2.23% 
-  MI 
178 (1.9%) 
2.46% 
205 (2.2%) 
2.94% 
-  CV death 
160 (1.7%) 
2.19% 
203 (2.2%) 
2.88% 
KM %  HR  
p-value b) 
(95% CI) 
0.76  
(0.66;0.86) 
0.58  
(0.44;0.76) 
0.86  
(0.70;1.05) 
0.78  
(0.64;0.96) 
p = 0.00004* 
p = 0.00006 
p = 0.14458 
p = 0.02053 
4.50% 
22 (0.2%) 
313 (3.4%) 
378 (4.1%) 
All-cause 
mortality 
Acute limb 
ischaemia  
a) 
b) 
* 
bid: twice daily; CI: confidence interval; KM %: Kaplan-Meier estimates of cumulative incidence 
risk calculated at 900 days; CV: cardiovascular; MI: myocardial infarction; od: once daily 
intention to treat analysis set, primary analyses 
vs ASA 100 mg; Log-Rank p-value 
The reduction in the primary efficacy outcome was statistically superior. 
0.82  
(0.71;0.96) 
0.55 
(0.32;0.92) 
40 (0.4%) 
0.60% 
5.57% 
0.27% 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Safety results from phase III COMPASS 
Study population 
Treatment dose 
Modified ISTH major bleeding 
Patients with CAD/PAD a) 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg 
bid in combination 
with ASA 100 mg 
od, N=9152 
n (Cum. risk %) 
288 (3.9%)   
ASA 100 mg od 
N=9126 
n (Cum.risk %) 
170 (2.5%)  
-  Fatal bleeding event 
15 (0.2%)  
10 (0.2%)  
-  Symptomatic bleeding in 
critical organ (non-fatal) 
-  Bleeding into the surgical site 
requiring reoperation (non-
fatal, not in critical organ) 
-  Bleeding leading to 
hospitalisation (non-fatal, not 
in critical organ, not requiring 
reoperation) 
63 (0.9%)  
49 (0.7%)  
10 (0.1%) 
8 (0.1%)  
208 (2.9%)  
109 (1.6%)   
-  With overnight stay 
172 (2.3%) 
-  Without overnight stay 
36 (0.5%) 
90 (1.3%) 
21 (0.3%) 
Major gastrointestinal bleeding 
140 (2.0%) 
65 (1.1%)  
Major intracranial bleeding 
28 (0.4%)  
24 (0.3%) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95 % CI) 
p-value b) 
1.70 (1.40;2.05) 
p < 0.00001 
1.49 (0.67;3.33) 
p = 0.32164 
1.28 (0.88;1.86) 
p = 0.19679 
1.24 (0.49;3.14)
p = 0.65119 
1.91 (1.51;2.41) 
p < 0.00001 
1.91 (1.48;2.46) 
p < 0.00001 
1.70 (0.99;2.92) 
p = 0.04983 
2.15 (1.60;2.89) 
p < 0.00001 
1.16 (0.67;2.00) 
p = 0.59858 
intention-to-treat analysis set, primary analyses  
a) 
b)  vs ASA 100 mg; Log-Rank p-value 
bid: twice daily; CI: confidence interval; Cum. Risk: Cumulative incidence risk (Kaplan-Meier 
estimates) at 30 months; ISTH: International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis; od: 
once daily 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Time to first occurrence of primary efficacy outcome (stroke, myocardial infarction, 
cardiovascular death) in COMPASS 
Kaplan-Meier Estimates (%) at 30 months:  
Xarelto 2.5mg bid + ASA 100mg od: 5.2 (4.7 - 5.8)  
ASA 100mg od: 7.2 (6.5 - 7.9) 
bid: twice daily; od: once daily; CI: confidence interval 
Patients after recent revascularisation procedure of the lower limb due to symptomatic PAD  
In the pivotal phase III double-blind VOYAGER PAD trial, 6,564 patients after recent successful 
revascularisation procedure of the lower limb (surgical or endovascular including hybrid procedures) 
due to symptomatic PAD were randomly assigned to one of two antithrombotic treatment groups: 
rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with ASA 100 mg once daily, or to ASA 100 mg once 
daily, in a 1:1 fashion. Patients were allowed to additionally receive standard dose of clopidogrel once 
daily for up to 6 months. The objective of the study was to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of 
rivaroxaban plus ASA for the prevention of myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke, CV death, acute 
limb ischaemia, or major amputation of a vascular etiology in patients after recent successful lower 
limb revascularisation procedures due to symptomatic PAD. Patients aged ≥ 50 years with 
documented moderate to severe symptomatic lower extremity atherosclerotic PAD evidenced by all of 
the following: clinically (i.e. functional limitations), anatomically (i.e. imaging evidence of PAD distal 
to external iliac artery) and haemodynamically (ankle-brachial-index [ABI]  ≤ 0.80 or toe-brachial-
index [TBI]  ≤ 0.60 for patients without a prior history of limb revascularisation or ABI ≤ 0.85 or 
TBI ≤ 0.65 for patients with a prior history of limb revascularisation) were included. Patients in need 
of dual antiplatelet therapy for > 6 months, or any additional antiplatelet therapy other than ASA and 
clopidogrel, or oral anticoagulant therapy, as well as patients with a history of intracranial 
haemorrhage, stroke, or TIA, or patients with eGFR < 15 mL/min were excluded. 
The mean duration of follow-up was 24 months and the maximum follow-up was 4.1 years. The mean 
age of the enrolled patients was 67 years and 17% of the patient population were > 75 years. The 
median time from index revascularisation procedure to start of study treatment was 5 days in the 
overall population (6 days after surgical and 4 days after endovascular revascularisation including 
hybrid procedures). Overall, 53.0% of patients received short term background clopidogrel therapy 
with a median duration of 31 days. According to study protocol study treatment could be commenced 
as soon as possible but no later than 10 days after a successful qualifying revascularisation procedure 
and once hemostasis had been assured. 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily in combination with ASA 100 mg once daily was superior in the 
reduction of the primary composite outcome of myocardial infarction, ischaemic stroke, CV death, 
acute limb ischaemia and major amputation of vascular etiology compared to ASA alone (see 
21 
 
 
Table 9). The primary safety outcome of TIMI major bleeding events was increased in patients treated 
with rivaroxaban and ASA, with no increase in fatal or intracranial bleeding (see Table 10). 
The secondary efficacy outcomes were tested in a prespecified, hierarchical order (see Table 9).  
Table 9: Efficacy results from phase III VOYAGER PAD 
  Study Population 
Treatment Dosage 
Primary efficacy outcomeb) 
- MI 
- Ischaemic stroke 
- CV death 
- Acute limb ischaemia f) 
- Major amputation of 
vascular etiology 
Secondary efficacy 
outcome 
Unplanned index limb 
revascularisation for 
recurrent limb ischaemia 
Hospitalisation for a 
coronary or peripheral 
cause (either lower limb) 
of a thrombotic nature 
All-cause mortality 
VTE events 
Patients after recent revascularisation procedures of the lower 
limb due to symptomatic PAD a) 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg bid 
in combination with 
ASA 100 mg od  
N=3,286 
n (Cum. risk %)c) 
508 (15.5%) 
N=3,278 
n (Cum. risk %)c) 
584 (17.8%) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) d) 
ASA 100 mg od 
131 (4.0%) 
71 (2.2%) 
199 (6.1%) 
155 (4.7%) 
103 (3.1%) 
148 (4.5%) 
82 (2.5%) 
174 (5.3%) 
227 (6.9%) 
115 (3.5%) 
0.85 (0.76;0.96) 
p = 0.0043 e)* 
0.88 (0.70;1.12) 
0.87 (0.63;1.19) 
1.14 (0.93;1.40) 
0.67 (0.55;0.82) 
0.89 (0.68;1.16) 
584 (17.8%) 
655 (20.0%) 
262 (8.0%) 
356 (10.9%) 
0.88 (0.79;0.99) 
p = 0.0140 e)* 
0.72 (0.62;0.85) 
p < 0.0001 e)* 
321 (9.8%) 
25 (0.8%) 
297 (9.1%) 
41 (1.3%) 
1.08 (0.92;1.27) 
0.61 (0.37;1.00) 
a) intention to treat analysis set, primary analyses; ICAC adjudicated 
b) composite of MI, ischaemic stroke, CV death (CV death and unknown cause of death), ALI, and 
major amputation of vascular etiology 
c) only the first occurrence of the outcome event under analysis within the data scope from a subject is 
considered 
d) HR (95% CI) is based on the Cox proportional hazards model stratified by type of procedure and 
clopidogrel use with treatment as the only covariate. 
e) One sided p-value is based on the log-rank test stratified by type of procedure and clopidogrel use 
with treatment as factor. 
f) acute limb ischaemia is defined as sudden significant worsening of limb perfusion, either with new 
pulse deficit or requiring therapeutic intervention (i.e. thrombolysis or thrombectomy, or urgent 
revascularisation), and leading to hospitalisation 
* The reduction in the efficacy outcome was statistically superior. 
ALI: acute limb ischaemia; bid: twice daily; od: once daily; CI: confidence interval; MI: myocardial 
infarction; CV: cardiovascular; ICAC: Independent Clinical Adjudication Committee 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Safety results from phase III VOYAGER PAD 
Study Population 
Treatment Dosage 
TIMI major bleeding 
(CABG / non-CABG) 
- Fatal bleeding 
- Intracranial bleeding 
- Overt bleeding 
associated with drop Hb 
≥ 5g/dL / Hct ≥ 15% 
Patients after recent revascularisation procedures of the lower 
limb due to symptomatic PAD a) 
Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg bid 
in combination with 
ASA 100 mg od 
N=3,256 
n (Cum. risk %)b) 
62 (1.9%) 
N=3,248 
n (Cum. risk %)b) 
44 (1.4%) 
Hazard Ratio 
(95% CI) c) 
ASA 100 mg od 
6 (0.2%) 
13 (0.4%) 
46 (1.4%) 
6 (0.2%) 
17 (0.5%) 
24 (0.7%) 
p-value d) 
1.43 (0.97;2.10) 
p = 0.0695 
1.02 (0.33;3.15) 
0.78 (0.38;1.61) 
1.94 (1.18;3.17) 
ISTH major bleeding 
140 (4.3%) 
100 (3.1%) 
- Fatal bleeding 
- Non-fatal critical organ 
bleeding 
6 (0.2%) 
29 (0.9%) 
8 (0.2%) 
26 (0.8%) 
1.42 (1.10;1.84) 
p = 0.0068  
0.76 (0.26;2.19) 
1.14 (0.67;1.93) 
246 (7.6%) 
139 (4.3%) 
ISTH clinically relevant 
non-major bleeding 
a) Safety analysis set (all randomised subjects with at least one dose of study drug), ICAC: 
Independent Clinical Adjudication Committee 
b) n = number of subjects with events, N = number of subjects at risk, % = 100 * n/N, n/100p-yrs = 
ratio of number of subjects with incident events / cumulative at-risk time 
c) HR (95% CI) is based on the Cox proportional hazards model stratified by type of procedure and 
clopidogrel use with treatment as the only covariate 
d) Two sided p-value is based on the log rank-test stratified by type of procedure and clopidogrel use 
with treatment as a factor 
1.81 (1.47;2.23) 
CAD with heart failure  
The COMMANDER HF study included 5,022 patients with heart failure and significant coronary 
artery disease (CAD) following a hospitalisation of decompensated heart failure (HF) which were 
randomly assigned into one of the two treatment groups: rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily (N=2,507) or 
matching placebo (N=2,515), respectively. The overall median study treatment duration was 504 days.  
Patients must have had symptomatic HF for at least 3 months and left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF) of ≤40% within one year of enrollment. At baseline, the median ejection fraction was 34% 
(IQR: 28%-38%) and 53% of subjects were NYHA Class III or IV.  
The primary efficacy analysis (i.e. composite of all-cause mortality, MI, or stroke) showed no 
statistically significant difference between the rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily group and the placebo 
group with a HR=0.94 (95% CI 0.84 - 1.05), p=0.270. For all-cause mortality, there was no difference 
between rivaroxaban and placebo in the number of events (event rate per 100 patient-years; 11.41 vs 
11.63, HR: 0.98; 95% CI: 0.87 to 1.10; p=0.743). The event rates for MI per 100 patient-years 
(rivaroxaban vs placebo) were 2.08 vs 2.52 (HR 0.83; 95% CI: 0.63 to 1.08; p=0.165) and for stroke 
the event rates per 100 patient-years were 1.08 vs 1.62 (HR: 0.66; 95% CI: 0.47 to 0.95; p=0.023). The 
principal safety outcome (i.e. composite of fatal bleeding or bleeding into a critical space with a 
potential for permanent disability), occurred in 18 (0.7%) patients in the rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice 
daily treatment group and in 23 (0.9%) patients in the placebo group, respectively (HR=0.80; 95% CI 
0.43 - 1.49; p=0.484). There was a statistically significant increase in ISTH major bleeding in the 
rivaroxaban group compared with placebo (event rate per 100 patient-years: 2.04 vs 1.21, HR 1.68; 
95% CI: 1.18 to 2.39; p=0.003). 
In patients with mild and moderate heart failure the treatment effects for the COMPASS study 
subgroup were similar to those of the entire study population (see section CAD/PAD). 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with high risk triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome 
In an investigator sponsored, randomised open-label multicentre study with blinded endpoint 
adjudication, rivaroxaban was compared to warfarin in patients with a history of thrombosis, 
diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome and at high risk for thromboembolic events (positive for 
all 3 antiphospholipid tests: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies). The study was terminated prematurely after the enrolment of 
120 patients due to an excess of events among patients in the rivaroxaban arm. Mean follow-up was 
569 days. 59 patients were randomised to rivaroxaban 20 mg (15 mg for patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) < 50 mL/min) and 61 to warfarin (INR 2.0-3.0). Thromboembolic events occurred in 
12% of patients randomised to rivaroxaban (4 ischaemic strokes and 3 myocardial infarctions). No 
events were reported in patients randomised to warfarin. Major bleeding occurred in 4 patients (7%) 
of the rivaroxaban group and 2 patients (3%) of the warfarin group. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Xarelto in all subsets of the paediatric population in the prevention of thromboembolic events (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Rivaroxaban is rapidly absorbed with maximum concentrations (Cmax) appearing 2 - 4 hours after 
tablet intake.  
Oral absorption of rivaroxaban is almost complete and oral bioavailability is high (80 - 100%) for the 
2.5 mg and 10 mg tablet dose, irrespective of fasting/fed conditions. Intake with food does not affect 
rivaroxaban AUC or Cmax at the 2.5 mg and 10 mg dose. Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg and 10 mg tablets can be 
taken with or without food.  
Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg once daily. At higher doses 
rivaroxaban displays dissolution limited absorption with decreased bioavailability and decreased 
absorption rate with increased dose. This is more marked in fasting state than in fed state. Variability 
in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics is moderate with inter-individual variability (CV%) ranging from 
30% to 40%. 
Absorption of rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of its release in the gastrointestinal tract. A 29% 
and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax compared to tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is 
released in the proximal small intestine. Exposure is further reduced when rivaroxaban is released in 
the distal small intestine, or ascending colon. Therefore, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the 
stomach should be avoided since this can result in reduced absorption and related rivaroxaban 
exposure. 
Bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) was comparable for 20 mg rivaroxaban administered orally as a 
crushed tablet mixed in apple puree, or suspended in water and administered via a gastric tube 
followed by a liquid meal, compared to a whole tablet. Given the predictable, dose-proportional 
pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban, the bioavailability results from this study are likely applicable 
to lower rivaroxaban doses. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding in humans is high at approximately 92% to 95%, with serum albumin being 
the main binding component. The volume of distribution is moderate with Vss being approximately 
50 litres. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
Of the administered rivaroxaban dose, approximately 2/3 undergoes metabolic degradation, with half 
then being eliminated renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 of the 
administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the urine, mainly 
via active renal secretion. 
Rivaroxaban is metabolised via CYP3A4, CYP2J2 and CYP-independent mechanisms. Oxidative 
degradation of the morpholinone moiety and hydrolysis of the amide bonds are the major sites of 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
biotransformation. Based on in vitro investigations rivaroxaban is a substrate of the transporter 
proteins P-gp (P-glycoprotein) and Bcrp (breast cancer resistance protein). 
Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important compound in human plasma, with no major or active 
circulating metabolites being present. With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be 
classified as a low-clearance substance. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the 
elimination half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration the elimination becomes absorption 
rate limited. Elimination of rivaroxaban from plasma occurs with terminal half-lives of 5 to 9 hours in 
young individuals, and with terminal half-lives of 11 to 13 hours in the elderly. 
Special populations 
Gender 
There were no clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics between 
male and female patients. 
Elderly population 
Elderly patients exhibited higher plasma concentrations than younger patients, with mean AUC values 
being approximately 1.5 fold higher, mainly due to reduced (apparent) total and renal clearance. No 
dose adjustment is necessary. 
Different weight categories 
Extremes in body weight (< 50 kg or > 120 kg) had only a small influence on rivaroxaban plasma 
concentrations (less than 25%). No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Inter-ethnic differences 
No clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences among Caucasian, African-American, Hispanic, 
Japanese or Chinese patients were observed regarding rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics. 
Hepatic impairment 
Cirrhotic patients with mild hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh A) exhibited only minor 
changes in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), nearly 
comparable to their matched healthy control group. In cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (classified as Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban mean AUC was significantly increased by 
2.3 fold compared to healthy volunteers. Unbound AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also 
had reduced renal elimination of rivaroxaban, similar to patients with moderate renal impairment. 
There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
The inhibition of factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 2.6 in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment as compared to healthy volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor 
of 2.1. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment were more sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a 
steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Rivaroxaban is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and 
clinically relevant bleeding risk, including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see 
section 4.3). 
Renal impairment 
There was an increase in rivaroxaban exposure correlated to decrease in renal function, as assessed via 
creatinine clearance measurements. In individuals with mild (creatinine clearance 50 - 80 ml/min), 
moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) and severe (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) renal 
impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were increased 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 fold 
respectively. Corresponding increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more pronounced. In 
individuals with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of factor Xa 
activity was increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively as compared to healthy volunteers; 
prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. There are no 
data in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. Rivaroxaban is to be used 
with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min (see section 4.4). 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
In patients receiving rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in 
patients with ACS the geometric mean concentration (90% prediction interval) 2 - 4 h and about 12 h 
after dose (roughly representing maximum and minimum concentrations during the dose interval) was 
47 (13 - 123) and 9.2 (4.4 - 18) mcg/l, respectively. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship between rivaroxaban plasma 
concentration and several PD endpoints (factor-Xa inhibition, PT, aPTT, Heptest) has been evaluated 
after administration of a wide range of doses (5 - 30 mg twice a day). The relationship between 
rivaroxaban concentration and factor-Xa activity was best described by an Emax model. For PT, the 
linear intercept model generally described the data better. Depending on the different PT reagents 
used, the slope differed considerably. When Neoplastin PT was used, baseline PT was about 13 s and 
the slope was around 3 to 4 s/(100 mcg/l). The results of the PK/PD analyses in Phase II and III were 
consistent with the data established in healthy subjects.  
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in the indications ACS and CAD/PAD for children and 
adolescents up to 18 years.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, phototoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and juvenile 
toxicity. 
Effects observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies were mainly due to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
activity of rivaroxaban. In rats, increased IgG and IgA plasma levels were seen at clinically relevant 
exposure levels. 
In rats, no effects on male or female fertility were seen. Animal studies have shown reproductive 
toxicity related to the pharmacological mode of action of rivaroxaban (e.g. haemorrhagic 
complications). Embryo-foetal toxicity (post-implantation loss, retarded/progressed ossification, 
hepatic multiple light coloured spots) and an increased incidence of common malformations as well as 
placental changes were observed at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. In the pre- and post-
natal study in rats, reduced viability of the offspring was observed at doses that were toxic to the dams. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coat 
Macrogol (3350) 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
Iron oxide yellow (E 172) 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed rivaroxaban tablets are stable in water and in apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons containing 14, 20, 28, 30, 56, 60, 98, 168 or 196 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil blisters.  
Cartons containing 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose blisters.  
Multipacks containing 10 packs of 10 x 1 (100 film-coated tablets) in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose 
blisters.  
Cartons containing 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Alu foil blisters . 
HDPE bottles with a PP screw cap containing 100 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Crushing of tablets 
Rivaroxaban tablets may be crushed and suspended in 50 mL of water and administered via a 
nasogastric tube or gastric feeding tube after confirming gastric placement of the tube. Afterwards, the 
tube should be flushed with water. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on the site of active 
substance release, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the stomach should be avoided, as this can 
result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced active substance exposure. Enteral feeding is not 
required immediately after administration of the 2.5 mg tablets. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/025-035, EU/1/08/472/041, EU/1/08/472/046-047 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 September 2008  
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2018 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
28 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 10 mg rivaroxaban. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 26.51 mg lactose (as monohydrate), see section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet) 
Light red, round biconvex tablets (6 mm diameter, 9 mm radius of curvature) marked with the 
BAYER-cross on one side and "10" and a triangle on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee 
replacement surgery. 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients.) 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement surgery 
The recommended dose is 10 mg rivaroxaban taken orally once daily. The initial dose should be taken 
6 to 10 hours after surgery, provided that haemostasis has been established.  
The duration of treatment depends on the individual risk of the patient for venous thromboembolism 
which is determined by the type of orthopaedic surgery. 
• 
• 
For patients undergoing major hip surgery, a treatment duration of 5 weeks is recommended. 
For patients undergoing major knee surgery, a treatment duration of 2 weeks is recommended. 
If a dose is missed the patient should take Xarelto immediately and then continue the following day 
with once daily intake as before. 
Treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE  
The recommended dose for the initial treatment of acute DVT or PE is 15 mg twice daily for the first 
three weeks followed by 20 mg once daily for the continued treatment and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE.  
Short duration of therapy (at least 3 months) should be considered in patients with DVT or PE 
provoked by major transient risk factors (i.e. recent major surgery or trauma). Longer duration of 
therapy should be considered in patients with provoked DVT or PE not related to major transient risk 
factors, unprovoked DVT or PE, or a history of recurrent DVT or PE.   
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When extended prevention of recurrent DVT and PE is indicated (following completion of at least 
6 months therapy for DVT or PE), the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily. In patients in whom 
the risk of recurrent DVT or PE is considered high, such as those with complicated comorbidities, or 
who have developed recurrent DVT or PE on extended prevention with Xarelto 10 mg once daily, a 
dose of Xarelto 20 mg once daily should be considered.  
The duration of therapy and dose selection should be individualised after careful assessment of the 
treatment benefit against the risk for bleeding (see section 4.4).  
Treatment and 
prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE 
Prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE  
Time period 
Day 1-21 
Dosing schedule 
15 mg twice daily  
Total daily dose 
30 mg 
Day 22 onwards 
Following completion 
of at least 6 months 
therapy for DVT or PE 
20 mg once daily  
10 mg once daily or  
20 mg once daily  
20 mg 
10 mg  
or 20 mg 
To support the dose switch from 15 mg to 20 mg after Day 21 a first 4 weeks treatment initiation pack 
of Xarelto for treatment of DVT/PE is available. 
If a dose is missed during the 15 mg twice daily treatment phase (day 1 - 21), the patient should take 
Xarelto immediately to ensure intake of 30 mg Xarelto per day. In this case two 15 mg tablets may be 
taken at once. The patient should continue with the regular 15 mg twice daily intake as recommended 
on the following day.  
If a dose is missed during the once daily treatment phase, the patient should take Xarelto immediately, 
and continue on the following day with the once daily intake as recommended. The dose should not be 
doubled within the same day to make up for a missed dose. 
Converting from Vitamin K Antagonists (VKA) to Xarelto 
For patients treated for DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence, VKA treatment should be stopped and 
Xarelto therapy should be initiated once the INR is ≤ 2.5.  
When converting patients from VKAs to Xarelto, International Normalised Ratio (INR) values will be 
falsely elevated after the intake of Xarelto. The INR is not valid to measure the anticoagulant activity 
of Xarelto, and therefore should not be used (see section 4.5). 
Converting from Xarelto to Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) 
There is a potential for inadequate anticoagulation during the transition from Xarelto to VKA. 
Continuous adequate anticoagulation should be ensured during any transition to an alternate 
anticoagulant. It should be noted that Xarelto can contribute to an elevated INR. 
In patients converting from Xarelto to VKA, VKA should be given concurrently until the INR is ≥ 2.0. 
For the first two days of the conversion period, standard initial dosing of VKA should be used 
followed by VKA dosing, as guided by INR testing. While patients are on both Xarelto and VKA the 
INR should not be tested earlier than 24 hours after the previous dose but prior to the next dose of 
Xarelto. Once Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably at least 24 hours after the last 
dose (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Converting from parenteral anticoagulants to Xarelto 
For patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, discontinue the parenteral anticoagulant 
and start Xarelto 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next scheduled administration of the parenteral 
medicinal product (e.g. low molecular weight heparins) would be due or at the time of discontinuation 
of a continuously administered parenteral medicinal product (e.g. intravenous unfractionated heparin). 
Converting from Xarelto to parenteral anticoagulants 
Give the first dose of parenteral anticoagulant at the time the next Xarelto dose would be taken. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Limited clinical data for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) 
indicate that rivaroxaban plasma concentrations are significantly increased. Therefore, Xarelto is to be 
used with caution in these patients. Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance 
< 15 ml/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
- 
- 
For the prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery, no dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance 50 - 80 ml/min) or moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30- 49 ml/min) 
(see section 5.2). 
For the treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE, no dose 
adjustment from the recommended dose is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance 50 - 80 ml/min) (see section 5.2).  
In patients with moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) or severe (creatinine clearance 
15 - 29 ml/min) renal impairment: patients should be treated with 15 mg twice daily for the first 
3 weeks. Thereafter, when the recommended dose is 20 mg once daily, a reduction of the dose 
from 20 mg once daily to 15 mg once daily should be considered if the patient’s assessed risk 
for bleeding outweighs the risk for recurrent DVT and PE. The recommendation for the use of 
15 mg is based on PK modelling and has not been studied in this clinical setting (see 
sections 4.4, 5.1 and 5.2).  
When the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily, no dose adjustment from the recommended 
dose is necessary. 
Hepatic impairment 
Xarelto is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically 
relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
Elderly population 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Body weight 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Gender 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Xarelto 10 mg tablets in children aged 0 to 18 years have not been 
established. No data are available. Therefore, Xarelto 10 mg tablets are not recommended for use in 
children below 18 years of age. 
Method of administration 
Xarelto is for oral use.  
The tablets can be taken with or without food (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto tablet may be crushed and mixed with 
water or apple puree immediately prior to use and administered orally.  
The crushed tablet may also be given through gastric tubes (see sections 5.2 and 6.6). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active clinically significant bleeding. 
Lesion or condition, if considered to be a significant risk for major bleeding. This may include current 
or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants, e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, apixaban, etc.) except under specific circumstances of 
switching anticoagulant therapy (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Clinical surveillance in line with anticoagulation practice is recommended throughout the treatment 
period. 
Haemorrhagic risk 
As with other anticoagulants, patients taking Xarelto are to be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. 
It is recommended to be used with caution in conditions with increased risk of haemorrhage. Xarelto 
administration should be discontinued if severe haemorrhage occurs (see section 4.9). 
In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito urinary 
including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more frequently 
during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to adequate 
clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to detect occult 
bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be appropriate. 
Several sub-groups of patients, as detailed below, are at increased risk of bleeding. These patients are 
to be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding complications and anaemia after 
initiation of treatment (see section 4.8). In patients receiving Xarelto for VTE prevention following 
elective hip or knee replacement surgery, this may be done by regular physical examination of the 
patients, close observation of the surgical wound drainage and periodic measurements of haemoglobin. 
Any unexplained fall in haemoglobin or blood pressure should lead to a search for a bleeding site. 
Although treatment with rivaroxaban does not require routine monitoring of exposure, rivaroxaban 
levels measured with a calibrated quantitative anti-factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional 
situations where knowledge of rivaroxaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g. 
overdose and emergency surgery (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) rivaroxaban plasma levels 
may be significantly increased (1.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. 
Xarelto is to be used with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min. Use is not 
recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
In patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) concomitantly 
receiving other medicinal products which increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations Xarelto is to be 
used with caution (see section 4.5). 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interaction with other medicinal products 
The use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with 
azole-antimycotics (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) or HIV 
protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir). These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and 
P-gp and therefore may increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant degree 
(2.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk (see section 4.5). 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with medicinal products affecting haemostasis 
such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs), acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) and 
platelet aggregation inhibitors or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). For patients at risk of ulcerative gastrointestinal disease 
an appropriate prophylactic treatment may be considered (see section 4.5). 
Other haemorrhagic risk factors 
As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding 
risk such as: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension 
other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding 
complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroesophageal 
reflux disease) 
vascular retinopathy 
bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding 
• 
• 
Patients with cancer 
Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The 
individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients 
with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of disease. Tumours 
located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of 
bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  
In patients with malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Patients with prosthetic valves 
Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been studied 
in patients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that Xarelto provides 
adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Xarelto is not recommended for 
these patients. 
Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome 
Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients 
with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for 
patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates 
of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
Hip fracture surgery 
Rivaroxaban has not been studied in interventional clinical studies in patients undergoing hip fracture 
surgery to evaluate efficacy and safety. 
Haemodynamically unstable PE patients or patients who require thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy 
Xarelto is not recommended as an alternative to unfractionated heparin in patients with pulmonary 
embolism who are haemodynamically unstable or may receive thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy since the safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in these clinical 
situations.  
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or puncture 
When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, 
patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk 
of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. 
The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or 
the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by 
traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and 
symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder 
dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior 
to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. 
To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and 
neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of 
rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when 
the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low (see section 5.2). 
At least 18 hours should elapse after the last administration of rivaroxaban before removal of an 
epidural catheter. Following removal of the catheter, at least 6 hours should elapse before the next 
rivaroxaban dose is administered. 
If traumatic puncture occurs the administration of rivaroxaban is to be delayed for 24 hours. 
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention other than 
elective hip or knee replacement surgery 
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto 10 mg should be stopped at least 
24 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician.  
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the 
urgency of the intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention 
provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by 
the treating physician (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see section 5.2). 
Dermatological reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS 
syndrome, have been reported during post-marketing surveillance in association with the use of 
rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the 
course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of 
treatment. Rivaroxaban should be discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. 
spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal 
lesions. 
Information about excipients 
Xarelto contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a 
day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in 
mean rivaroxaban Cmax, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving 
concomitant systemic treatment with azole-antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).  
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either 
CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. 
Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in 
Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be 
potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax. The interaction with erythromycin is likely not 
clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500 mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see 
section 4.4). 
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mean Cmax. The interaction with 
fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-
risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Given the limited clinical data available with dronedarone, co-administration with rivaroxaban should 
be avoided. 
Anticoagulants 
After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10 mg single 
dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observed without any additional effects on 
clotting tests (PT, aPTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban. 
Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any 
other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors 
No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of 
rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more 
pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a 
pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 
observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P-selectin or 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels. 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) 
and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding 
risk (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs/SNRIs 
As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in 
case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When 
concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, numerically higher rates of major or non-
major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warfarin 
Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or 
from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) 
more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on aPTT, 
inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti-
factor Xa activity, PiCT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the 
fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (including PT, aPTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity 
and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR 
measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of 
rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point. 
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban. 
CYP3A4 inducers  
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be 
avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms of thrombosis. 
Other concomitant therapies  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P-gp), 
atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban 
neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4. 
No clinically relevant interaction with food was observed (see section 4.2). 
Laboratory parameters 
Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, aPTT, HepTest) are affected as expected by the mode of action of 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1).  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy  
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential reproductive toxicity, the intrinsic 
risk of bleeding and the evidence that rivaroxaban passes the placenta, Xarelto is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Women of child bearing potential should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with rivaroxaban. 
Breast-feeding 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in breast-feeding women. Data from animals 
indicate that rivaroxaban is secreted into milk. Therefore Xarelto is contraindicated during breast-
feeding (see section 4.3). A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from therapy. 
Fertility 
No specific studies with rivaroxaban in humans have been conducted to evaluate effects on fertility. In 
a study on male and female fertility in rats no effects were seen (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xarelto has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions like syncope 
(frequency: uncommon) and dizziness (frequency: common) have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Patients experiencing these adverse reactions should not drive or use machines. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of rivaroxaban has been evaluated in thirteen pivotal phase III studies (see Table 1).  
Overall, 69,608 adult patients in nineteen phase III studies and 488 paediatric patients in two phase II 
and two phase III studies were exposed to rivaroxaban. 
Table 1: Number of patients studied, total daily dose and maximum treatment duration in adult 
and paediatric phase III studies 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
6,097 
10 mg 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of VTE in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) 
and prevention of recurrence 
3,997 
6,790 
Treatment of VTE and prevention 
of VTE recurrence in term neonates 
and children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
329 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients after an ACS 
7,750 
10,225 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients with CAD/PAD 
18,244 
3,256** 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
39 days 
39 days 
21 months 
12 months 
41 months 
31 months  
47 months 
42 months 
10 mg 
Day 1 - 21: 30 mg 
Day 22 and onwards: 
20 mg 
After at least 6 months: 
10 mg or 20 mg 
Body weight-adjusted 
dose to achieve a similar 
exposure as that observed 
in adults treated for DVT 
with 20 mg rivaroxaban 
once daily 
20 mg 
5 mg or 10 mg 
respectively, co-
administered with either 
ASA or ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA or 10 mg alone 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA 
* 
** 
Patients exposed to at least one dose of rivaroxaban 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving rivaroxaban were bleedings (see 
section 4.4. and ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below) (Table 2). The most commonly 
reported bleedings were epistaxis (4.5 %) and gastrointestinal tract haemorrhage (3.8 %). 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1% of patients 
12.6% of patients 
Any bleeding 
6.8% of patients 
Anaemia 
5.9% of patients 
Table 2: Bleeding* and anaemia events rates in patients exposed to rivaroxaban across the 
completed adult and paediatric phase III studies 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention 
of recurrence 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of 
VTE recurrence in term neonates and 
children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients after an ACS 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients with CAD/PAD 
2.5 per 100 patient 
years 
28 per 100 patient 
years 
39.5% of patients 
4.6% of patients 
1.6% of patients 
23% of patients 
22 per 100 patient 
years 
6.7 per 100 patient 
years 
8.38 per 100 patient 
years # 
1.4 per 100 patient 
years 
0.15 per 100 patient 
years**  
0.74 per 100 patient 
years*** # 
For all rivaroxaban studies all bleeding events are collected, reported and 
In the COMPASS study, there is a low anaemia incidence as a selective 
* 
adjudicated. 
**  
approach to adverse event collection was applied 
***  A selective approach to adverse event collection was applied 
# 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions reported with Xarelto in adult and paediatric patients are 
summarised in Table 3 below by system organ class (in MedDRA) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10)  
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)  
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
very rare (< 1/10,000)  
not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
38 
 
 
  
Uncommon 
Table 3: All adverse reactions reported in adult patients in phase III clinical studies or through 
post-marketing use* and in two phase II and two phase III studies in paediatric patients 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia (incl. 
respective 
laboratory 
parameters) 
Immune system disorders 
Thrombocytosis 
(incl. platelet count 
increased)A, 
thrombocytopenia 
Very rare 
Rare 
Allergic reaction, 
dermatitis allergic, 
angioedema and 
allergic oedema 
Anaphylactic 
reactions including 
anaphylactic shock  
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness, 
headache 
Cerebral and 
intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
syncope 
Eye disorders 
Eye haemorrhage 
(incl. conjunctival 
haemorrhage) 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia  
Dry mouth 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension, 
haematoma 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gingival bleeding, 
gastrointestinal 
tract haemorrhage 
(incl. rectal 
haemorrhage), 
gastrointestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
dyspepsia, nausea, 
constipationA, 
diarrhoea, 
vomitingA 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Increase in 
transaminases 
Hepatic 
impairment, 
increased bilirubin, 
increased blood 
alkaline 
phosphataseA, 
increased GGTA 
Jaundice, bilirubin 
conjugated 
increased (with or 
without 
concomitant 
increase of ALT), 
cholestasis, 
hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular 
injury) 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis, DRESS 
syndrome  
Compartment 
syndrome 
secondary to a 
bleeding 
Renal failure/acute 
renal failure 
secondary to a 
bleeding sufficient 
to cause 
hypoperfusion, 
Anticoagulant-
related nephropathy 
Rare 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus (incl. 
uncommon cases of 
generalised 
pruritus), rash, 
ecchymosis, 
cutaneous and 
subcutaneous 
haemorrhage 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Pain in extremityA  Haemarthrosis 
Muscle 
haemorrhage 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Urogenital tract 
haemorrhage (incl. 
haematuria and 
menorrhagiaB), 
renal impairment 
(incl. blood 
creatinine 
increased, blood 
urea increased) 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
FeverA, peripheral 
Feeling unwell 
(incl. malaise)  
oedema, decreased 
general strength 
and energy (incl. 
fatigue and 
asthenia) 
Investigations 
Localised oedemaA   
Increased LDHA, 
increased lipaseA, 
increased amylaseA 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Vascular 
Postprocedural 
pseudoaneurysmC 
haemorrhage (incl. 
postoperative 
anaemia, and 
wound 
haemorrhage), 
contusion, wound 
secretionA 
A:   observed in prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery 
B:   observed in treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence as very common in women 
< 55 years 
C:   observed as uncommon in prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients after an ACS 
(following percutaneous coronary intervention) 
*   A pre-specified selective approach to adverse event collection was applied in selected phase III 
studies. The incidence of adverse reactions did not increase and no new adverse drug reaction 
was identified after analysis of these studies. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Due to the pharmacological mode of action, the use of Xarelto may be associated with an increased 
risk of occult or overt bleeding from any tissue or organ which may result in post haemorrhagic 
anaemia. The signs, symptoms, and severity (including fatal outcome) will vary according to the 
location and degree or extent of the bleeding and/or anaemia (see section 4.9 “Management of 
bleeding”). In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito 
urinary including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more 
frequently during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to 
adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. The risk of bleedings may be increased in certain patient groups, e.g. those patients with 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or on concomitant treatment affecting haemostasis (see 
section 4.4 “Haemorrhagic risk”). Menstrual bleeding may be intensified and/or prolonged. 
Haemorrhagic complications may present as weakness, paleness, dizziness, headache or unexplained 
swelling, dyspnoea and unexplained shock. In some cases as a consequence of anaemia, symptoms of 
cardiac ischaemia like chest pain or angina pectoris have been observed.  
Known complications secondary to severe bleeding such as compartment syndrome and renal failure 
due to hypoperfusion, or anticoagulant-related nephropathy have been reported for Xarelto. Therefore, 
the possibility of haemorrhage is to be considered in evaluating the condition in any anticoagulated 
patient. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Rare cases of overdose up to 1,960 mg have been reported. In case of overdose, the patient should be 
observed carefully for bleeding complications or other adverse reactions (see section “Management of 
bleeding”). Due to limited absorption a ceiling effect with no further increase in average plasma 
exposure is expected at supratherapeutic doses of 50 mg rivaroxaban or above.  
A specific reversal agent (andexanet alfa) antagonising the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban is 
available (refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of andexanet alfa). 
The use of activated charcoal to reduce absorption in case of rivaroxaban overdose may be considered.  
Management of bleeding 
Should a bleeding complication arise in a patient receiving rivaroxaban, the next rivaroxaban 
administration should be delayed or treatment should be discontinued as appropriate. Rivaroxaban has 
a half-life of approximately 5 to 13 hours (see section 5.2). Management should be individualised 
according to the severity and location of the haemorrhage. Appropriate symptomatic treatment could 
be used as needed, such as mechanical compression (e.g. for severe epistaxis), surgical haemostasis 
with bleeding control procedures, fluid replacement and haemodynamic support, blood products 
(packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma, depending on associated anaemia or coagulopathy) or 
platelets. 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, either the administration of a specific 
factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent (andexanet alfa), which antagonises the pharmacodynamic effect of 
rivaroxaban, or a specific procoagulant agent, such as prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), 
activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (r-FVIIa), should be 
considered. However, there is currently very limited clinical experience with the use of these 
medicinal products in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. The recommendation is also based on limited 
non-clinical data. Re-dosing of recombinant factor VIIa shall be considered and titrated depending on 
improvement of bleeding. Depending on local availability, a consultation with a coagulation expert 
should be considered in case of major bleedings (see section 5.1). 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
Protamine sulphate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. 
There is limited experience with tranexamic acid and no experience with aminocaproic acid and 
aprotinin in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. There is neither scientific rationale for benefit nor 
experience with the use of the systemic haemostatic desmopressin in individuals receiving 
rivaroxaban. Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF01  
Mechanism of action 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of 
factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting 
both thrombin formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin 
(activated factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Dose-dependent inhibition of factor Xa activity was observed in humans. Prothrombin time (PT) is 
influenced by rivaroxaban in a dose dependent way with a close correlation to plasma concentrations 
(r value equals 0.98) if Neoplastin is used for the assay. Other reagents would provide different results. 
The readout for PT is to be done in seconds, because the INR is only calibrated and validated for 
coumarins and cannot be used for any other anticoagulant. In patients undergoing major orthopaedic 
surgery, the 5/95 percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 2 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the time of 
maximum effect) ranged from 13 to 25 s (baseline values before surgery 12 to 15 s). 
In a clinical pharmacology study on the reversal of rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics in healthy adult 
subjects (n=22), the effects of single doses (50 IU/kg) of two different types of PCCs, a 3-factor PCC 
(Factors II, IX and X) and a 4-factor PCC (Factors II, VII, IX and X) were assessed. The 3-factor PCC 
reduced mean Neoplastin PT values by approximately 1.0 second within 30 minutes, compared to 
reductions of approximately 3.5 seconds observed with the 4-factor PCC. In contrast, the 3-factor PCC 
had a greater and more rapid overall effect on reversing changes in endogenous thrombin generation 
than the 4-factor PCC (see section 4.9). 
The activated partial thomboplastin time (aPTT) and HepTest are also prolonged dose-dependently; 
however, they are not recommended to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban. There is no 
need for monitoring of coagulation parameters during treatment with rivaroxaban in clinical routine. 
However, if clinically indicated rivaroxaban levels can be measured by calibrated quantitative anti-
factor Xa tests (see section 5.2). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement surgery  
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban for the 
prevention of VTE, i.e. proximal and distal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism 
(PE) in patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery of the lower limbs. Over 9,500 patients (7,050 
in total hip replacement surgery and 2,531 in total knee replacement surgery) were studied in 
controlled randomised double-blind phase III clinical studies, the RECORD-programme.  
Rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily (od) started no sooner than 6 hours post-operatively was compared 
with enoxaparin 40 mg once daily started 12 hours pre-operatively. 
In all three phase III studies (see table 4), rivaroxaban significantly reduced the rate of total VTE (any 
venographically detected or symptomatic DVT, non-fatal PE and death) and major VTE (proximal 
DVT, non-fatal PE and VTE-related death), the pre-specified primary and major secondary efficacy 
endpoints. Furthermore, in all three studies the rate of symptomatic VTE (symptomatic DVT, non-
fatal PE, VTE-related death) was lower in rivaroxaban treated patients compared to patients treated 
with enoxaparin. 
The main safety endpoint, major bleeding, showed comparable rates for patients treated with 
rivaroxaban 10 mg compared to enoxaparin 40 mg. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy and safety results from phase III clinical studies 
RECORD 1 
4,541 patients undergoing 
total hip replacement surgery 
RECORD 2 
2,509 patients undergoing total 
hip replacement surgery 
p 
Enoxaparin 
40 mg od 
12 ± 2 days 
p 
Rivaroxab
an 
10 mg od 
35 ± 4 da
ys 
< 0.001  17 
(2.0%)  
81 (9.3%) 
< 0.001  79 
(9.6%) 
< 0.001  6 (0.6%) 
49 (5.1%) 
< 0.001  9 (1.0%) 
RECORD 3 
2,531 patients undergoing 
total knee replacement 
surgery 
Rivaroxab
an 
10 mg od 
12 ± 2 day
s 
Enoxapari
n 
40 mg od 
12 ± 2 day
s 
166 
(18.9%) 
24 (2.6%)  0.01 
p 
< 0.001 
3 (0.4%) 
15 (1.7%) 
8 (1.0%) 
24 (2.7%) 
Study 
population 
Treatment 
dose and 
duration 
after 
surgery 
Total VTE 
Major 
VTE 
Symptomati
c VTE  
Major 
bleedings 
Rivaroxab
an 
10 mg od 
35 ± 4 da
ys 
18 
(1.1%) 
4 (0.2%) 
6 (0.4%) 
Enoxapari
n 
40 mg od 
35 ± 4 day
s 
58 
(3.7%) 
33 
(2.0%) 
11 
(0.7%) 
6 (0.3%) 
2 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.1%) 
7 (0.6%) 
6 (0.5%) 
The analysis of the pooled results of the phase III studies corroborated the data obtained in the 
individual studies regarding reduction of total VTE, major VTE and symptomatic VTE with 
rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily compared to enoxaparin 40 mg once daily. 
In addition to the phase III RECORD programme, a post-authorisation, non-interventional, open-label 
cohort study (XAMOS) has been conducted in 17,413 patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery 
of the hip or knee, to compare rivaroxaban with other pharmacological thromboprophylaxis (standard-
of-care) under real-life setting. Symptomatic VTE occurred in 57 (0.6%) patients in the rivaroxaban 
group (n=8,778) and 88 (1.0%) of patients in the standard-of-care group (n=8,635; HR 0.63; 95% CI 
0.43-0.91); safety population). Major bleeding occurred in 35 (0.4%) and 29 (0.3%) of patients in the 
rivaroxaban and standard-of-care groups (HR 1.10; 95% CI 0.67-1.80). Thus, the results were 
consistent with the results of the pivotal randomised studies. 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE 
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban in the 
initial and continued treatment of acute DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence. 
Over 12,800 patients were studied in four randomised controlled phase III clinical studies (Einstein 
DVT, Einstein PE, Einstein Extension and Einstein Choice). and additionally a predefined pooled 
analysis of the Einstein DVT and Einstein PE studies was conducted. The overall combined treatment 
duration in all studies was up to 21 months.  
In Einstein DVT 3,449 patients with acute DVT were studied for the treatment of DVT and the 
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE (patients who presented with symptomatic PE were excluded 
from this study). The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial 3 week treatment of acute DVT 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily. This 
was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
In Einstein PE, 4,832 patients with acute PE were studied for the treatment of PE and the prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial treatment of acute PE 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily for three weeks. 
This was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
In both the Einstein DVT and the Einstein PE study, the comparator treatment regimen consisted of 
enoxaparin administered for at least 5 days in combination with vitamin K antagonist treatment until 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the PT/INR was in therapeutic range ( 2.0). Treatment was continued with a vitamin K antagonist 
dose-adjusted to maintain the PT/INR values within the therapeutic range of 2.0 to 3.0. 
In Einstein Extension 1,197 patients with DVT or PE were studied for the prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for an additional 6 or 12 months in patients who had 
completed 6 to 12 months of treatment for venous thromboembolism depending on the clinical 
judgment of the investigator. Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily was compared with placebo.  
Einstein DVT, PE and Extension used the same pre-defined primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE. The secondary efficacy outcome was defined as the composite of 
recurrent DVT, non-fatal PE and all-cause mortality.  
In Einstein Choice, 3,396 patients with confirmed symptomatic DVT and/or PE who completed 6-12 
months of anticoagulant treatment were studied for the prevention of fatal PE or non-fatal 
symptomatic recurrent DVT or PE. Patients with an indication for continued therapeutic-dosed 
anticoagulation were excluded from the study. The treatment duration was up to 12 months depending 
on the individual randomisation date (median: 351 days). Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily and 
rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily were compared with 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid once daily. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE.  
In the Einstein DVT study (see Table 5) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p < 0.0001 (test for non-inferiority); Hazard Ratio 
(HR): 0.680 (0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 (test for superiority)). The prespecified net clinical benefit 
(primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding events) was reported with a HR of 0.67 
((95% CI: 0.47 - 0.95), nominal p value p=0.027) in favour of rivaroxaban. INR values were within 
the therapeutic range a mean of 60.3% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 189 days, and 
55.4%, 60.1%, and 62.8% of the time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration groups, 
respectively. In the enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of mean 
centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 – 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the incidence of 
the recurrent VTE (P=0.932 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to centre, the HR 
with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.35 - 1.35). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) as well as the secondary safety outcome (major bleeding events) were similar for both 
treatment groups. 
44 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein DVT 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent DVT 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE cannot 
be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,718 
51 
(3.0%) 
18 
(1.0%) 
28 
(1.6%) 
3,449 patients with symptomatic acute deep vein 
thrombosis 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,731 
36 
(2.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
1 
(0.1%) 
4 
(0.2%) 
139 
(8.1%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
6 
(0.3%) 
138 
(8.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
0 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 0.680 (0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 
(superiority) 
In the Einstein PE study (see Table 6) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p=0.0026 (test for non-inferiority); HR: 1.123 
(0.749 – 1.684)). The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding 
events) was reported with a HR of 0.849 ((95% CI: 0.633 - 1.139), nominal p value p= 0.275). INR 
values were within the therapeutic range a mean of 63% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 
215 days, and 57%, 62%, and 65% of the time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration 
groups, respectively. In the enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of 
mean centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 – 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the 
incidence of the recurrent VTE (p=0.082 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to 
centre, the HR with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.642 (95% CI: 0.277 - 1.484). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) were slightly lower in the rivaroxaban treatment group (10.3% (249/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA treatment group (11.4% (274/2405)). The incidence of the secondary safety outcome 
(major bleeding events) was lower in the rivaroxaban group (1.1% (26/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA group (2.2% (52/2405)) with a HR 0.493 (95% CI: 0.308 - 0.789). 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent DVT 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE cannot 
be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
4,832 patients with an acute symptomatic PE 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,413 
N=2,419 
44 
50 
(1.8%) 
(2.1%) 
20 
23 
(0.8%) 
(1.0%) 
17 
18 
(0.7%) 
(0.7%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
7 
(0.3%) 
274 
(11.4%) 
52 
(2.2%) 
11 
(0.5%) 
249 
(10.3%) 
26 
(1.1%) 
0 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0026 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 1.123 (0.749 –  1.684)  
A prespecified pooled analysis of the outcome of the Einstein DVT and PE studies was conducted (see 
Table 7). 
Table 7: Efficacy and safety results from pooled analysis of phase III Einstein DVT and Einstein 
PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent DVT 
8,281 patients with an acute symptomatic DVT or PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,150 
86 
(2.1%) 
43 
(1.0%) 
32 
(0.8%) 
1 
(<0.1%) 
15 
(0.4%) 
388 
(9.4%) 
40 
(1.0%) 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 1.75); HR: 0.886 (0.661 – 1.186) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,131 
95 
(2.3%) 
38 
(0.9%) 
45 
(1.1%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
13 
(0.3%) 
412 
(10.0%) 
72 
(1.7%) 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
a) 
b) 
* 
The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding events) of the 
pooled analysis was reported with a HR of 0.771 ((95% CI: 0.614 – 0.967), nominal p value 
p = 0.0244). 
In the Einstein Extension study (see Table 8) rivaroxaban was superior to placebo for the primary and 
secondary efficacy outcomes. For the primary safety outcome (major bleeding events) there was a 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
non-significant numerically higher incidence rate for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once 
daily compared to placebo. The secondary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding events) showed higher rates for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily compared 
to placebo.  
Table 8: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Extension 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE cannot 
be ruled out 
Major bleeding events 
Clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
1,197 patients continued treatment and prevention 
of recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban a)  
6 or 12 months 
N=602 
8 
(1.3%) 
2 
(0.3%) 
5 
(0.8%) 
1 
(0.2%) 
4 
(0.7%) 
32 
(5.4%) 
Placebo 
6 or 12 months 
N=594 
42 
(7.1%) 
13 
(2.2%) 
31 
(5.2%) 
1 
(0.2%) 
0 
(0.0%) 
7 
(1.2%) 
a) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily 
p < 0.0001 (superiority), HR: 0.185 (0.087 - 0.393) 
In the Einstein Choice study (Table 9) rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg were both superior to 100 mg 
acetylsalicylic acid for the primary efficacy outcome. The principal safety outcome (major bleeding 
events) was similar for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg once daily compared to 
100 mg acetylsalicylic acid.  
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Choice 
Study population 
Treatment dose  
Treatment duration median 
[interquartile range] 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE, 
MI, stroke, or non-CNS 
systemic embolism 
Major bleeding events 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
or major bleeding (net 
clinical benefit) 
* 
** 
+  
3,396 patients continued prevention of 
recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg 
10 mg once daily 
once daily 
N=1,127 
N=1,107 
ASA 100 mg once 
daily 
N=1,131 
349 [189-362] days 
353 [190-362] days 
350 [186-362] days 
17 
(1.5%)* 
6 
(0.5%) 
9 
(0.8%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
6 
(0.5%) 
30  
(2.7) 
23 
(2.1%)+ 
13 
(1.2%)** 
6 
(0.5%) 
8 
(0.7%) 
0 
18 
(1.6%) 
5 
(0.4%) 
22  
(2.0) 
17  
(1.5%)++ 
50 
(4.4%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
30 
(2.7%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
56 
(5.0%) 
3 
(0.3%) 
20 
(1.8) 
53  
(4.7%) 
  p<0.001(superiority) rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.34 (0.20–0.59) 
  p<0.001 (superiority) rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.26 (0.14–0.47) 
  Rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.44 (0.27–0.71), p=0.0009 (nominal)  
  Rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.32 (0.18–0.55), p<0.0001 (nominal) 
++  
In addition to the phase III EINSTEIN programme, a prospective, non-interventional, open-label 
cohort study (XALIA) with central outcome adjudication including recurrent VTE, major bleeding and 
death has been conducted. 5,142 patients with acute DVT were enrolled to investigate the long-term 
safety of rivaroxaban compared with standard-of-care anticoagulation therapy in clinical practice. 
Rates of major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality for rivaroxaban were 0.7%, 1.4% and 
0.5%, respectively. There were differences in patient baseline characteristics including age, cancer and 
renal impairment. A pre-specified propensity score stratified analysis was used to adjust for measured 
baseline differences but residual confounding may, in spite of this, influence the results. Adjusted HRs 
comparing rivaroxaban and standard-of-care for major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality 
were 0.77 (95% CI 0.40 - 1.50), 0.91 (95% CI 0.54 - 1.54) and 0.51 (95% CI 0.24 - 1.07), respectively.  
These results in clinical practice are consistent with the established safety profile in this indication. 
In a post-authorisation, non-interventional study, in more than 40,000 patients without a history of 
cancer from four countries, rivaroxaban was prescribed for the treatment or prevention of DVT and 
PE. The event rates per 100 patient-years for symptomatic/clinically apparent VTE/thromboembolic 
events leading to hospitalisation ranged from 0.64 (95% CI 0.40 - 0.97) in the UK to 2.30 (95% CI 
2.11 - 2.51) for Germany. Bleeding resulting in hospitalisation occurred at event rates per 100 patient-
years of 0.31 (95% CI 0.23 - 0.42) for intracranial bleeding, 0.89 (95% CI 0.67 - 1.17) for 
gastrointestinal bleeding, 0.44 (95% CI 0.26 - 0.74) for urogenital bleeding and 0.41 (95% CI 
0.31 - 0.54) for other bleeding. 
Patients with high risk triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome 
In an investigator sponsored, randomised open-label multicentre study with blinded endpoint 
adjudication, rivaroxaban was compared to warfarin in patients with a history of thrombosis, 
diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome and at high risk for thromboembolic events (positive for 
all 3 antiphospholipid tests: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
48 
 
 
 
 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies). The study was terminated prematurely after the enrolment of 
120 patients due to an excess of events among patients in the rivaroxaban arm. Mean follow-up was 
569 days. 59 patients were randomised to rivaroxaban 20 mg (15 mg for patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) < 50 mL/min) and 61 to warfarin (INR 2.0-3.0). Thromboembolic events occurred in 
12% of patients randomised to rivaroxaban (4 ischaemic strokes and 3 myocardial infarctions). No 
events were reported in patients randomised to warfarin. Major bleeding occurred in 4 patients (7%) 
of the rivaroxaban group and 2 patients (3%) of the warfarin group. 
Paediatric population 
 The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Xarelto in all subsets of the paediatric population in the prevention of thromboembolic events (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Rivaroxaban is rapidly absorbed with maximum concentrations (Cmax) appearing 2 - 4 hours after 
tablet intake. 
Oral absorption of rivaroxaban is almost complete and oral bioavailability is high (80 - 100%) for the 
2.5 mg and 10 mg tablet dose, irrespective of fasting/fed conditions. Intake with food does not affect 
rivaroxaban AUC or Cmax at the 2.5 mg and 10 mg dose. Rivaroxaban 2.5 mg and 10 mg tablets can be 
taken with or without food. Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg 
once daily. At higher doses rivaroxaban displays dissolution limited absorption with decreased 
bioavailability and decreased absorption rate with increased dose. This is more marked in fasting state 
than in fed state. Variability in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics is moderate with inter-individual 
variability (CV%) ranging from 30% to 40%, apart from on the day of surgery and the following day 
when variability in exposure is high (70%). 
Absorption of rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of its release in the gastrointestinal tract. A 29% 
and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax compared to tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is 
released in the proximal small intestine. Exposure is further reduced when rivaroxaban is released in 
the distal small intestine, or ascending colon. Therefore, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the 
stomach should be avoided since this can result in reduced absorption and related rivaroxaban 
exposure. 
Bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) was comparable for 20 mg rivaroxaban administered orally as a 
crushed tablet mixed in apple puree, or suspended in water and administered via a gastric tube 
followed by a liquid meal, compared to a whole tablet. Given the predictable, dose-proportional 
pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban, the bioavailability results from this study are likely applicable 
to lower rivaroxaban doses. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding in humans is high at approximately 92% to 95%, with serum albumin being 
the main binding component. The volume of distribution is moderate with Vss being approximately 
50 litres. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
Of the administered rivaroxaban dose, approximately 2/3 undergoes metabolic degradation, with half 
then being eliminated renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 of the 
administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the urine, mainly 
via active renal secretion. 
Rivaroxaban is metabolised via CYP3A4, CYP2J2 and CYP-independent mechanisms. Oxidative 
degradation of the morpholinone moiety and hydrolysis of the amide bonds are the major sites of 
biotransformation. Based on in vitro investigations rivaroxaban is a substrate of the transporter 
proteins P-gp (P-glycoprotein) and Bcrp (breast cancer resistance protein). 
Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important compound in human plasma, with no major or active 
circulating metabolites being present. With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be 
classified as a low-clearance substance. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the 
elimination half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration the elimination becomes absorption 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
rate limited. Elimination of rivaroxaban from plasma occurs with terminal half-lives of 5 to 9 hours in 
young individuals, and with terminal half-lives of 11 to 13 hours in the elderly. 
Special populations 
Gender 
There were no clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics between 
male and female patients. 
Elderly population  
Elderly patients exhibited higher plasma concentrations than younger patients, with mean AUC values 
being approximately 1.5 fold higher, mainly due to reduced (apparent) total and renal clearance. No 
dose adjustment is necessary. 
Different weight categories 
Extremes in body weight (< 50 kg or > 120 kg) had only a small influence on rivaroxaban plasma 
concentrations (less than 25%). No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Inter-ethnic differences 
No clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences among Caucasian, African-American, Hispanic, 
Japanese or Chinese patients were observed regarding rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics. 
Hepatic impairment 
Cirrhotic patients with mild hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh A) exhibited only minor 
changes in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), nearly 
comparable to their matched healthy control group. In cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (classified as Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban mean AUC was significantly increased by 
2.3 fold compared to healthy volunteers. Unbound AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also 
had reduced renal elimination of rivaroxaban, similar to patients with moderate renal impairment. 
There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
The inhibition of factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 2.6 in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment as compared to healthy volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor 
of 2.1. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment were more sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a 
steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Rivaroxaban is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and 
clinically relevant bleeding risk, including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see 
section 4.3). 
Renal impairment 
There was an increase in rivaroxaban exposure correlated to decrease in renal function, as assessed via 
creatinine clearance measurements. In individuals with mild (creatinine clearance 50 - 80 ml/min), 
moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) and severe (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) renal 
impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were increased 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 fold 
respectively. Corresponding increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more pronounced. In 
individuals with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of factor Xa 
activity was increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively as compared to healthy volunteers; 
prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. There are no 
data in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. Rivaroxaban is to be used 
with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min (see section 4.4). 
Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for prevention of VTE 10 mg once daily the geometric mean 
concentration (90% prediction interval) 2 - 4 h and about 24 h after dose (roughly representing 
maximum and minimum concentrations during the dose interval) was 101 (7 - 273) and 
14 (4 ‑ 51) mcg/l, respectively. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship between rivaroxaban plasma 
concentration and several PD endpoints (factor Xa inhibition, PT, aPTT, Heptest) has been evaluated 
after administration of a wide range of doses (5 - 30 mg twice a day). The relationship between 
rivaroxaban concentration and factor Xa activity was best described by an Emax model. For PT, the 
linear intercept model generally described the data better. Depending on the different PT reagents 
used, the slope differed considerably. When Neoplastin PT was used, baseline PT was about 13 s and 
the slope was around 3 to 4 s/(100 mcg/l). The results of the PK/PD analyses in Phase II and III were 
consistent with the data established in healthy subjects. In patients, baseline factor Xa and PT were 
influenced by the surgery resulting in a difference in the concentration-PT slope between the day post-
surgery and steady state.  
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in the indication primary prevention of VTE for children 
and adolescents up to 18 years.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, phototoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and juvenile 
toxicity. 
Effects observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies were mainly due to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
activity of rivaroxaban. In rats, increased IgG and IgA plasma levels were seen at clinically relevant 
exposure levels. 
In rats, no effects on male or female fertility were seen. Animal studies have shown reproductive 
toxicity related to the pharmacological mode of action of rivaroxaban (e.g. haemorrhagic 
complications). Embryo-foetal toxicity (post-implantation loss, retarded/progressed ossification, 
hepatic multiple light coloured spots) and an increased incidence of common malformations as well as 
placental changes were observed at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. In the pre- and post-
natal study in rats, reduced viability of the offspring was observed at doses that were toxic to the dams. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coat 
Macrogol (3350) 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
Iron oxide red (E 172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
Crushed tablets  
Crushed rivaroxaban tablets are stable in water and in apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons containing 5, 10, 14, 28, 30 or 98 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil blisters.  
Cartons containing 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose blisters.  
Multipacks containing 10 packs of 10 x 1 (100 film-coated tablets) in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose 
blisters.  
Cartons containing 5, 10 or 30 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Alu foil blisters . 
HDPE bottles with a PP screw cap containing 100 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Crushing of tablets 
Rivaroxaban tablets may be crushed and suspended in 50 mL of water and administered via a 
nasogastric tube or gastric feeding tube after confirming gastric placement of the tube. Afterwards, the 
tube should be flushed with water. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on the site of active 
substance release, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the stomach should be avoided, as this can 
result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced active substance exposure. Enteral feeding is not 
required immediately after administration of the 10 mg tablets. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/001-010, EU/1/08/472/022, EU/1/08/472/042-045. 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 September 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
53 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 15 mg rivaroxaban.  
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 24.13 mg lactose (as monohydrate), see section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet)  
Red, round biconvex tablets (6 mm diameter, 9 mm radius of curvature) marked with the BAYER-
cross on one side and “15” and a triangle on the other side.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients.) 
Paediatric population  
Treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and prevention of VTE recurrence in children and 
adolescents aged less than 18 years and weighing from 30 kg to 50 kg after at least 5 days of initial 
parenteral anticoagulation treatment. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adults 
The recommended dose is 20 mg once daily, which is also the recommended maximum dose.  
Therapy with Xarelto should be continued long term provided the benefit of prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism outweighs the risk of bleeding (see section 4.4).  
If a dose is missed the patient should take Xarelto immediately and continue on the following day with 
the once daily intake as recommended. The dose should not be doubled within the same day to make 
up for a missed dose.  
Treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE in adults 
The recommended dose for the initial treatment of acute DVT or PE is 15 mg twice daily for the first 
three weeks followed by 20 mg once daily for the continued treatment and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE.  
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short duration of therapy (at least 3 months) should be considered in patients with DVT or PE 
provoked by major transient risk factors (i.e. recent major surgery or trauma). Longer duration of 
therapy should be considered in patients with provoked DVT or PE not related to major transient risk 
factors, unprovoked DVT or PE, or a history of recurrent DVT or PE.   
When extended prevention of recurrent DVT and PE is indicated (following completion of at least 
6 months therapy for DVT or PE), the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily. In patients in whom 
the risk of recurrent DVT or PE is considered high, such as those with complicated comorbidities, or 
who have developed recurrent DVT or PE on extended prevention with Xarelto 10 mg once daily, a 
dose of Xarelto 20 mg once daily should be considered.  
The duration of therapy and dose selection should be individualised after careful assessment of the 
treatment benefit against the risk for bleeding (see section 4.4).  
Treatment and 
prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE 
Prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE  
Time period 
Day 1 - 21 
Dosing schedule 
15 mg twice daily  
Total daily dose 
30 mg 
Day 22 onwards 
20 mg once daily  
20 mg 
Following completion 
of at least 6 months 
therapy for DVT or PE  
10 mg once daily or  
20 mg once daily  
10 mg  
or 20 mg 
To support the dose switch from 15 mg to 20 mg after Day 21 a first 4 weeks treatment initiation pack 
of Xarelto for treatment of DVT/PE is available. 
If a dose is missed during the 15 mg twice daily treatment phase (day 1 - 21), the patient should take 
Xarelto immediately to ensure intake of 30 mg Xarelto per day. In this case two 15 mg tablets may be 
taken at once. The patient should continue with the regular 15 mg twice daily intake as recommended 
on the following day.  
If a dose is missed during the once daily treatment phase, the patient should take Xarelto immediately, 
and continue on the following day with the once daily intake as recommended. The dose should not be 
doubled within the same day to make up for a missed dose.  
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence in children and adolescents 
Xarelto treatment in children and adolescents aged less than 18 years should be initiated following at 
least 5 days of initial parenteral anticoagulation treatment (see section 5.1).  
The dose for children and adolescent is calculated based on body weight.  
- 
Body weight from 30 to 50 kg: 
a once daily dose of 15 mg rivaroxaban is recommended. This is the maximum daily dose.  
Body weight of 50 kg or more: 
a once daily dose of 20 mg rivaroxaban is recommended. This is the maximum daily dose.  
For patients with body weight less 30 kg refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of 
Xarelto granules for oral suspension.  
- 
- 
The weight of a child should be monitored and the dose reviewed regularly. This is to ensure a 
therapeutic dose is maintained. Dose adjustments should be made based on changes in body weight 
only. 
Treatment should be continued for at least 3 months in children and adolescents. Treatment can be 
extended up to 12 months when clinically necessary. There is no data available in children to support a 
dose reduction after 6 months treatment. The benefit-risk of continued therapy after 3 months should 
be assessed on an individual basis taking into account the risk for recurrent thrombosis versus the 
potential bleeding risk.  
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a dose is missed, the missed dose should be taken as soon as possible after it is noticed, but only on 
the same day. If this is not possible, the patient should skip the dose and continue with the next dose as 
prescribed. The patient should not take two doses to make up for a missed dose.  
Converting from Vitamin K Antagonists (VKA) to Xarelto 
- 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism:  
VKA treatment should be stopped and Xarelto therapy should be initiated when the 
International Normalised Ratio (INR) is ≤ 3.0.  
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence in adults and treatment of VTE and 
prevention of recurrence in paediatric patients:  
VKA treatment should be stopped and Xarelto therapy should be initiated once the INR is ≤ 2.5.  
- 
When converting patients from VKAs to Xarelto, INR values will be falsely elevated after the intake 
of Xarelto. The INR is not valid to measure the anticoagulant activity of Xarelto, and therefore should 
not be used (see section 4.5). 
Converting from Xarelto to Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) 
There is a potential for inadequate anticoagulation during the transition from Xarelto to VKA. 
Continuous adequate anticoagulation should be ensured during any transition to an alternate 
anticoagulant. It should be noted that Xarelto can contribute to an elevated INR.  
In patients converting from Xarelto to VKA, VKA should be given concurrently until the INR is ≥ 2.0. 
For the first two days of the conversion period, standard initial dosing of VKA should be used 
followed by VKA dosing, as guided by INR testing. While patients are on both Xarelto and VKA the 
INR should not be tested earlier than 24 hours after the previous dose but prior to the next dose of 
Xarelto. Once Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably at least 24 hours after the last 
dose (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Paediatric patients:  
Children who convert from Xarelto to VKA need to continue Xarelto for 48 hours after the first dose 
of VKA. After 2 days of co-administration an INR should be obtained prior to the next scheduled dose 
of Xarelto. Co-administration of Xarelto and VKA is advised to continue until the INR is ≥ 2.0. Once 
Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably 24 hours after the last dose (see above and 
section 4.5). 
Converting from parenteral anticoagulants to Xarelto 
For adult and paediatric patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, discontinue the 
parenteral anticoagulant and start Xarelto 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next scheduled 
administration of the parenteral medicinal product (e.g. low molecular weight heparins) would be due 
or at the time of discontinuation of a continuously administered parenteral medicinal product (e.g. 
intravenous unfractionated heparin). 
Converting from Xarelto to parenteral anticoagulants 
Discontinue Xarelto and give the first dose of parenteral anticoagulant at the time the next Xarelto 
dose would be taken.  
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Adults:  
Limited clinical data for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) 
indicate that rivaroxaban plasma concentrations are significantly increased. Therefore, Xarelto is to be 
used with caution in these patients. Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance 
< 15 ml/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
In patients with moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) or severe (creatinine clearance 15-
29 ml/min) renal impairment the following dose recommendations apply: 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
For the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation, the recommended dose is 15 mg once daily (see section 5.2). 
For the treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE: patients 
should be treated with 15 mg twice daily for the first 3 weeks. Thereafter, when the 
recommended dose is 20 mg once daily, a reduction of the dose from 20 mg once daily to 15 mg 
once daily should be considered if the patient’s assessed risk for bleeding outweighs the risk for 
recurrent DVT and PE. The recommendation for the use of 15 mg is based on PK modelling and 
has not been studied in this clinical setting (see sections 4.4, 5.1 and 5.2).  
When the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily, no dose adjustment from the recommended 
dose is necessary.  
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 ml/min) (see section 5.2).  
Paediatric population:  
- 
Children and adolescents with mild renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
50 - 80 mL/min/1.73 m2): no dose adjustment is required, based on data in adults and limited 
data in paediatric patients (see section 5.2). 
Children and adolescents with moderate or severe renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
< 50 mL/min/1.73 m2): Xarelto is not recommended as no clinical data is available (see 
section 4.4). 
- 
Hepatic impairment 
Xarelto is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically 
relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
No clinical data is available in children with hepatic impairment.  
Elderly population  
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Body weight 
No dose adjustment for adults (see section 5.2) 
For paediatric patients the dose is determined based on body weight.  
Gender 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Patients undergoing cardioversion 
Xarelto can be initiated or continued in patients who may require cardioversion.  
For transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) guided cardioversion in patients not previously treated 
with anticoagulants, Xarelto treatment should be started at least 4 hours before cardioversion to ensure 
adequate anticoagulation (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). For all patients, confirmation should be sought 
prior to cardioversion that the patient has taken Xarelto as prescribed. Decisions on initiation and 
duration of treatment should take established guideline recommendations for anticoagulant treatment 
in patients undergoing cardioversion into account. 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI (percutaneous coronary intervention) 
with stent placement 
There is limited experience of a reduced dose of 15 mg Xarelto once daily (or 10 mg Xarelto once 
daily for patients with moderate renal impairment [creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min]) in addition to 
a P2Y12 inhibitor for a maximum of 12 months in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who 
require oral anticoagulation and undergo PCI with stent placement (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Xarelto in children aged 0 to < 18 years have not been established in the 
indication prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data are available. Therefore, it is not recommended for use in children below 18 years of age in 
indications other than the treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence.  
Method of administration  
Adults 
Xarelto is for oral use.  
The tablets are to be taken with food (see section 5.2). 
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto tablet may be crushed and mixed with 
water or apple puree immediately prior to use and administered orally. After the administration of 
crushed Xarelto 15 mg or 20 mg film-coated tablets, the dose should be immediately followed by 
food. 
The crushed tablet may also be given through gastric tubes (see sections 5.2 and 6.6). 
Children and adolescents weighing 30 kg to 50 kg 
Xarelto is for oral use.  
The patient should be advised to swallow the tablet with liquid. It should also be taken with food (see 
section 5.2). The tablets should be taken approximately 24 hours apart. 
In case the patient immediately spits up the dose or vomits within 30 minutes after receiving the dose, 
a new dose should be given. However, if the patient vomits more than 30 minutes after the dose, the 
dose should not be re-administered and the next dose should be taken as scheduled. 
The tablet must not be split in an attempt to provide a fraction of a tablet dose.  
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto granules for oral suspension should be 
used.  
If the oral suspension is not immediately available, when doses of 15 mg or 20 mg rivaroxaban are 
prescribed, these could be provided by crushing the 15 mg or 20 mg tablet and mixing it with water or 
apple puree immediately prior to use and administering orally. 
The crushed tablet may be given through a nasogastric or gastric feeding tube (see sections 5.2 
and 6.6).  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active clinically significant bleeding. 
Lesion or condition, if considered to be a significant risk for major bleeding. This may include current 
or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants, e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, apixaban, etc.) except under specific circumstances of 
switching anticoagulant therapy (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Clinical surveillance in line with anticoagulation practice is recommended throughout the treatment 
period. 
Haemorrhagic risk 
As with other anticoagulants, patients taking Xarelto are to be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. 
It is recommended to be used with caution in conditions with increased risk of haemorrhage. Xarelto 
administration should be discontinued if severe haemorrhage occurs (see section 4.9). 
In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito urinary 
including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more frequently 
during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to adequate 
clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to detect occult 
bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be appropriate. 
Several sub-groups of patients, as detailed below, are at increased risk of bleeding. These patients are 
to be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding complications and anaemia after 
initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).  
Any unexplained fall in haemoglobin or blood pressure should lead to a search for a bleeding site. 
Although treatment with rivaroxaban does not require routine monitoring of exposure, rivaroxaban 
levels measured with a calibrated quantitative anti-factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional 
situations where knowledge of rivaroxaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g. 
overdose and emergency surgery (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
There is limited data in children with cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis who have a CNS infection 
(see section 5.1). The risk of bleeding should be carefully evaluated before and during therapy with 
rivaroxaban. 
Renal impairment 
In adult patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) rivaroxaban plasma 
levels may be significantly increased (1.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding 
risk. Xarelto is to be used with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min. Use is not 
recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Xarelto should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment concomitantly receiving other 
medicinal products which increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (see section 4.5). 
Xarelto is not recommended in children and adolescents with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2), as no clinical data is available.  
Interaction with other medicinal products 
The use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with 
azole-antimycotics (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) or HIV 
protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir). These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and 
P-gp and therefore may increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant degree 
(2.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. No clinical data is available in 
children receiving concomitant systemic treatment with strong inhibitors of both CYP 3A4 and P-gp 
(see section 4.5). 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with medicinal products affecting haemostasis 
such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs), acetylsalicylic acid and 
platelet aggregation inhibitors or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). For patients at risk of ulcerative gastrointestinal disease 
an appropriate prophylactic treatment may be considered (see section 4.5).  
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other haemorrhagic risk factors 
As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding 
risk such as: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension 
other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding 
complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroesophageal 
reflux disease) 
vascular retinopathy 
bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding 
• 
• 
Patients with cancer 
Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The 
individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients 
with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of disease. Tumours 
located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of 
bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  
In patients with malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Patients with prosthetic valves 
Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been studied 
in patients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that Xarelto provides 
adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Xarelto is not recommended for 
these patients. 
Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome 
Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients 
with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for 
patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates 
of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI with stent placement 
Clinical data are available from an interventional study with the primary objective to assess safety in 
patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI with stent placement. Data on efficacy 
in this population are limited (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). No data are available for such patients with a 
history of stroke/ transient ischaemic attack (TIA).  
Haemodynamically unstable PE patients or patients who require thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy 
Xarelto is not recommended as an alternative to unfractionated heparin in patients with pulmonary 
embolism who are haemodynamically unstable or may receive thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy since the safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in these clinical 
situations.  
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or puncture 
When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, 
patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk 
of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. 
The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or 
the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by 
traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and 
symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder 
dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior 
to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical 
experience with the use of 15 mg rivaroxaban in these situations. 
To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and 
neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of 
rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when 
the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low. However, the exact timing to reach a 
sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known and should be weighed against the 
urgency of a diagnostic procedure. 
For the removal of an epidural catheter and based on the general PK characteristics at least 2x half-
life, i.e. at least 18 hours in young adult patients and 26 hours in elderly patients should elapse after 
the last administration of rivaroxaban (see section 5.2). Following removal of the catheter, at least 
6 hours should elapse before the next rivaroxaban dose is administered. 
If traumatic puncture occurs the administration of rivaroxaban is to be delayed for 24 hours.  
No data is available on the timing of the placement or removal of neuraxial catheter in children while 
on Xarelto. In such cases, discontinue rivaroxaban and consider a short acting parenteral 
anticoagulant. 
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto 15 mg should be stopped at least 
24 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician.  
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the 
urgency of the intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention 
provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by 
the treating physician (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see section 5.2). 
Dermatological reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS 
syndrome, have been reported during post-marketing surveillance in association with the use of 
rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the 
course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of 
treatment. Rivaroxaban should be discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. 
spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal 
lesions. 
Information about excipients 
Xarelto contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The extent of interactions in the paediatric population is not known. The below mentioned interaction 
data was obtained in adults and the warnings in section 4.4 should be taken into account for the 
paediatric population. 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a 
day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in 
mean rivaroxaban Cmax, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving 
concomitant systemic treatment with azole-antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).  
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either 
CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. 
Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in 
Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be 
potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax. The interaction with erythromycin is likely not 
clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500 mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see 
section 4.4). 
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mean Cmax. The interaction with 
fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-
risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Given the limited clinical data available with dronedarone, co-administration with rivaroxaban should 
be avoided. 
Anticoagulants 
After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10 mg single 
dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observed without any additional effects on 
clotting tests (PT, aPTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban. 
Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any 
other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors 
No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of 
rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more 
pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a 
pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 
observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P-selectin or 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels. 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) 
and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding 
risk (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs/SNRIs 
As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in 
case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When 
concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, numerically higher rates of major or non-
major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warfarin 
Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or 
from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) 
more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on aPTT, 
inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti-
factor Xa activity, PiCT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the 
fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (including PT, aPTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity 
and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR 
measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of 
rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point. 
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban. 
CYP3A4 inducers  
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be 
avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms of thrombosis. 
Other concomitant therapies  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P-gp), 
atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban 
neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4. 
Laboratory parameters 
Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, aPTT, HepTest) are affected as expected by the mode of action of 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1).  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential reproductive toxicity, the intrinsic 
risk of bleeding and the evidence that rivaroxaban passes the placenta, Xarelto is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Women of child-bearing potential should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with rivaroxaban. 
Breast-feeding 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in breast-feeding women. Data from animals 
indicate that rivaroxaban is secreted into milk. Therefore Xarelto is contraindicated during breast-
feeding (see section 4.3). A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from therapy.  
Fertility 
No specific studies with rivaroxaban in humans have been conducted to evaluate effects on fertility. In 
a study on male and female fertility in rats no effects were seen (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xarelto has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions like syncope 
(frequency: uncommon) and dizziness (frequency: common) have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Patients experiencing these adverse reactions should not drive or use machines. 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of rivaroxaban has been evaluated in thirteen pivotal phase III studies (see Table 1).  
Overall, 69,608 adult patients in nineteen phase III studies and 488 paediatric patients in two phase II 
and two phase III studies were exposed to rivaroxaban. 
Table 1: Number of patients studied, total daily dose and maximum treatment duration in adult 
and paediatric phase III studies 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
6,097 
10 mg 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of VTE in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) 
and prevention of recurrence 
3,997 
6,790 
Treatment of VTE and prevention 
of VTE recurrence in term neonates 
and children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
329 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients after an ACS 
7,750 
10,225 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients with CAD/PAD 
18,244 
3,256** 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
39 days 
39 days 
21 months 
12 months 
41 months 
31 months  
47 months 
42 months 
10 mg 
Day 1 - 21: 30 mg 
Day 22 and onwards: 
20 mg 
After at least 6 months: 
10 mg or 20 mg 
Body weight-adjusted 
dose to achieve a similar 
exposure as that observed 
in adults treated for DVT 
with 20 mg rivaroxaban 
once daily 
20 mg 
5 mg or 10 mg 
respectively, co-
administered with either 
ASA or ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA or 10 mg alone 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA 
* 
** 
Patients exposed to at least one dose of rivaroxaban 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving rivaroxaban were bleedings (see 
section 4.4. and ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below) (Table 2). The most commonly 
reported bleedings were epistaxis (4.5 %) and gastrointestinal tract haemorrhage (3.8 %). 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1% of patients 
12.6% of patients 
Any bleeding 
6.8% of patients 
Anaemia 
5.9% of patients 
Table 2: Bleeding* and anaemia events rates in patients exposed to rivaroxaban across the 
completed adult and paediatric phase III studies 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention 
of recurrence 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of 
VTE recurrence in term neonates and 
children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients after an ACS 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients with CAD/PAD 
2.5 per 100 patient 
years 
28 per 100 patient 
years 
39.5% of patients 
4.6% of patients 
1.6% of patients 
23% of patients 
22 per 100 patient 
years 
6.7 per 100 patient 
years 
8.38 per 100 patient 
years # 
1.4 per 100 patient 
years 
0.15 per 100 patient 
years**  
0.74 per 100 patient 
years*** # 
For all rivaroxaban studies all bleeding events are collected, reported and 
In the COMPASS study, there is a low anaemia incidence as a selective 
* 
adjudicated. 
**  
approach to adverse event collection was applied 
***  A selective approach to adverse event collection was applied 
# 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions reported with Xarelto in adult and paediatric patients are 
summarised in Table 3 below by system organ class (in MedDRA) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10)  
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)  
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
very rare (< 1/10,000)  
not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
65 
 
 
  
Uncommon 
Table 3: All adverse reactions reported in adult patients in phase III clinical studies or through 
post-marketing use* and in two phase II and two phase III studies in paediatric patients 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia (incl. 
respective 
laboratory 
parameters) 
Immune system disorders 
Thrombocytosis 
(incl. platelet count 
increased)A, 
thrombocytopenia 
Very rare 
Rare 
Allergic reaction, 
dermatitis allergic, 
angioedema and 
allergic oedema 
Anaphylactic 
reactions including 
anaphylactic shock  
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness, 
headache 
Cerebral and 
intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
syncope 
Eye disorders 
Eye haemorrhage 
(incl. conjunctival 
haemorrhage) 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia  
Dry mouth 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension, 
haematoma 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gingival bleeding, 
gastrointestinal 
tract haemorrhage 
(incl. rectal 
haemorrhage), 
gastrointestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
dyspepsia, nausea, 
constipationA, 
diarrhoea, 
vomitingA 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Increase in 
transaminases 
Hepatic 
impairment, 
increased bilirubin, 
increased blood 
alkaline 
phosphataseA, 
increased GGTA 
Jaundice, bilirubin 
conjugated 
increased (with or 
without 
concomitant 
increase of ALT), 
cholestasis, 
hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular 
injury) 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis, DRESS 
syndrome  
Compartment 
syndrome 
secondary to a 
bleeding 
Renal failure/acute 
renal failure 
secondary to a 
bleeding sufficient 
to cause 
hypoperfusion, 
Anticoagulant-
related nephropathy 
Rare 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus (incl. 
uncommon cases of 
generalised 
pruritus), rash, 
ecchymosis, 
cutaneous and 
subcutaneous 
haemorrhage 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Pain in extremityA  Haemarthrosis 
Muscle 
haemorrhage 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Urogenital tract 
haemorrhage (incl. 
haematuria and 
menorrhagiaB), 
renal impairment 
(incl. blood 
creatinine 
increased, blood 
urea increased) 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
FeverA, peripheral 
Feeling unwell 
(incl. malaise)  
oedema, decreased 
general strength 
and energy (incl. 
fatigue and 
asthenia) 
Investigations 
Localised oedemaA   
Increased LDHA, 
increased lipaseA, 
increased amylaseA 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Vascular 
Postprocedural 
pseudoaneurysmC 
haemorrhage (incl. 
postoperative 
anaemia, and 
wound 
haemorrhage), 
contusion, wound 
secretionA 
A:   observed in prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery 
B:   observed in treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence as very common in women 
< 55 years 
C:   observed as uncommon in prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients after an ACS 
(following percutaneous coronary intervention) 
*   A pre-specified selective approach to adverse event collection was applied in selected phase III 
studies. The incidence of adverse reactions did not increase and no new adverse drug reaction 
was identified after analysis of these studies. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Due to the pharmacological mode of action, the use of Xarelto may be associated with an increased 
risk of occult or overt bleeding from any tissue or organ which may result in post haemorrhagic 
anaemia. The signs, symptoms, and severity (including fatal outcome) will vary according to the 
location and degree or extent of the bleeding and/or anaemia (see section 4.9 “Management of 
bleeding”). In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito 
urinary including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more 
frequently during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to 
adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. The risk of bleedings may be increased in certain patient groups, e.g. those patients with 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or on concomitant treatment affecting haemostasis (see 
section 4.4 “Haemorrhagic risk”). Menstrual bleeding may be intensified and/or prolonged. 
Haemorrhagic complications may present as weakness, paleness, dizziness, headache or unexplained 
swelling, dyspnoea and unexplained shock. In some cases as a consequence of anaemia, symptoms of 
cardiac ischaemia like chest pain or angina pectoris have been observed.  
Known complications secondary to severe bleeding such as compartment syndrome and renal failure 
due to hypoperfusion, or anticoagulant-related nephropathy have been reported for Xarelto. Therefore, 
the possibility of haemorrhage is to be considered in evaluating the condition in any anticoagulated 
patient. 
Paediatric population  
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence 
The safety assessment in children and adolescents is based on the safety data from two phase II and 
one phase III open-label active controlled studies in paediatric patients aged birth to less than 18 years. 
The safety findings were generally similar between rivaroxaban and comparator in the various 
paediatric age groups. Overall, the safety profile in the 412 children and adolescents treated with 
rivaroxaban was similar to that observed in the adult population and consistent across age subgroups, 
although assessment is limited by the small number of patients. 
In paediatric patients, headache (very common, 16.7%), fever (very common, 11.7%), epistaxis (very 
common, 11.2%), vomiting (very common, 10.7%), tachycardia (common, 1.5%), increase in bilirubin 
(common, 1.5%) and bilirubin conjugated increased (uncommon, 0.7%) were reported more 
frequently as compared to adults. Consistent with adult population, menorrhagia was observed in 6.6% 
(common) of female adolescents after menarche. Thrombocytopenia as observed in the post-marketing 
experience in adult population was common (4.6%) in paediatric clinical studies. The adverse drug 
reactions in paediatric patients were primarily mild to moderate in severity. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In adults, rare cases of overdose up to 1,960 mg have been reported. In case of overdose, the patient 
should be observed carefully for bleeding complications or other adverse reactions (see section 
“Management of bleeding”). There is limited data available in children. Due to limited absorption a 
ceiling effect with no further increase in average plasma exposure is expected at supratherapeutic 
doses of 50 mg rivaroxaban or above in adults, however, no data is available at supratherapeutic doses 
in children.  
A specific reversal agent (andexanet alfa) antagonising the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban is 
available for adults, but not established in children (refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of 
andexanet alfa). 
The use of activated charcoal to reduce absorption in case of rivaroxaban overdose may be considered.  
68 
 
 
 
 
 
Management of bleeding 
Should a bleeding complication arise in a patient receiving rivaroxaban, the next rivaroxaban 
administration should be delayed or treatment should be discontinued as appropriate. Rivaroxaban has 
a half-life of approximately 5 to 13 hours in adults. The half life in children estimated using population 
pharmacokinetic (popPK) modelling approaches is shorter (see section 5.2). Management should be 
individualised according to the severity and location of the haemorrhage. Appropriate symptomatic 
treatment could be used as needed, such as mechanical compression (e.g. for severe epistaxis), surgical 
haemostasis with bleeding control procedures, fluid replacement and haemodynamic support, blood 
products (packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma, depending on associated anaemia or coagulopathy) 
or platelets. 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, either the administration of a specific 
factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent (andexanet alfa), which antagonises the pharmacodynamic effect of 
rivaroxaban, or a specific procoagulant agent, such as prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), 
activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (r-FVIIa), should be 
considered. However, there is currently very limited clinical experience with the use of these 
medicinal products in adults and in children receiving rivaroxaban. The recommendation is also based 
on limited non-clinical data. Re-dosing of recombinant factor VIIa shall be considered and titrated 
depending on improvement of bleeding. Depending on local availability, a consultation with a 
coagulation expert should be considered in case of major bleedings (see section 5.1). 
Protamine sulphate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. 
There is limited experience with tranexamic acid and no experience with aminocaproic acid and 
aprotinin in adults receiving rivaroxaban. There is no experience on the use of these agents in children 
receiving rivaroxaban. There is neither scientific rationale for benefit nor experience with the use of 
the systemic haemostatic desmopressin in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. Due to the high plasma 
protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF01  
Mechanism of action 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of 
factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting 
both thrombin formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin 
(activated factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Dose-dependent inhibition of factor Xa activity was observed in humans. Prothrombin time (PT) is 
influenced by rivaroxaban in a dose dependent way with a close correlation to plasma concentrations 
(r value equals 0.98) if Neoplastin is used for the assay. Other reagents would provide different results. 
The readout for PT is to be done in seconds, because the INR is only calibrated and validated for 
coumarins and cannot be used for any other anticoagulant.  
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence, the 5/95 
percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 2 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the time of maximum effect) for 
15 mg rivaroxaban twice daily ranged from 17 to 32 s and for 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily from 15 
to 30 s. At trough (8 - 16 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles for 15 mg twice daily ranged from 
14 to 24 s and for 20 mg once daily (18 - 30 h after tablet intake) from 13 to 20 s. 
In patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation receiving rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism, the 5/95 percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 1 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the 
time of maximum effect) in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged from 14 to 40 s and in 
patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 10 to 50 s. At trough 
(16 - 36 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from 12 to 26 s and in patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 12 
to 26 s. 
In a clinical pharmacology study on the reversal of rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics in healthy adult 
subjects (n=22), the effects of single doses (50 IU/kg) of two different types of PCCs, a 3-factor PCC 
(Factors II, IX and X) and a 4-factor PCC (Factors II, VII, IX and X) were assessed. The 3-factor PCC 
reduced mean Neoplastin PT values by approximately 1.0 second within 30 minutes, compared to 
reductions of approximately 3.5 seconds observed with the 4-factor PCC. In contrast, the 3-factor PCC 
had a greater and more rapid overall effect on reversing changes in endogenous thrombin generation 
than the 4-factor PCC (see section 4.9). 
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and HepTest are also prolonged dose-dependently; 
however, they are not recommended to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban. There is no 
need for monitoring of coagulation parameters during treatment with rivaroxaban in clinical routine. 
However, if clinically indicated rivaroxaban levels can be measured by calibrated quantitative anti-
factor Xa tests (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
PT (neoplastin reagent), aPTT, and anti-Xa assay (with a calibrated quantitative test) display a close 
correlation to plasma concentrations in children. The correlation between anti-Xa to plasma 
concentrations is linear with a slope close to 1. Individual discrepancies with higher or lower anti-Xa 
values as compared to the corresponding plasma concentrations may occur. There is no need for 
routine monitoring of coagulation parameters during clinical treatment with rivaroxaban. However, if 
clinically indicated, rivaroxaban concentrations can be measured by calibrated quantitative anti-
Factor Xa tests in mcg/L (see table 13 in section 5.2 for ranges of observed rivaroxaban plasma 
concentrations in children). The lower limit of quantifications must be considered when the anti-Xa 
test is used to quantify plasma concentrations of rivaroxaban in children. No threshold for efficacy or 
safety events has been established. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban for the 
prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.  
In the pivotal double-blind ROCKET AF study, 14,264 patients were assigned either to rivaroxaban 
20 mg once daily (15 mg once daily in patients with creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) or to 
warfarin titrated to a target INR of 2.5 (therapeutic range 2.0 to 3.0). The median time on treatment 
was 19 months and overall treatment duration was up to 41 months.  
34.9% of patients were treated with acetylsalicylic acid and 11.4% were treated with class III 
antiarrhythmic including amiodarone.  
Rivaroxaban was non-inferior to warfarin for the primary composite endpoint of stroke and non-CNS 
systemic embolism. In the per-protocol population on treatment, stroke or systemic embolism occurred 
in 188 patients on rivaroxaban (1.71% per year) and 241 on warfarin (2.16% per year) (HR 0.79; 
95% CI, 0.66 - 0.96; P<0.001 for non-inferiority). Among all randomised patients analysed according 
to ITT, primary events occurred in 269 on rivaroxaban (2.12% per year) and 306 on warfarin (2.42% 
per year) (HR 0.88; 95% CI, 0.74 - 1.03; P<0.001 for non-inferiority; P=0.117 for superiority). Results 
for secondary endpoints as tested in hierarchical order in the ITT analysis are displayed in Table 4. 
Among patients in the warfarin group, INR values were within the therapeutic range (2.0 to 3.0) a 
mean of 55% of the time (median, 58%; interquartile range, 43 to 71). The effect of rivaroxaban did 
not differ across the level of centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized 
quartiles (P=0.74 for interaction). Within the highest quartile according to centre, the Hazard Ratio 
(HR) with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.74 (95% CI, 0.49 - 1.12). 
The incidence rates for the principal safety outcome (major and non-major clinically relevant bleeding 
events) were similar for both treatment groups (see Table 5). 
70 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy results from phase III ROCKET AF 
Study population 
Treatment dose 
ITT analyses of efficacy in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation 
Rivaroxaban 
20 mg once daily  
(15 mg once daily in 
patients with moderate 
renal impairment) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
Warfarin 
titrated to a target 
INR of 2.5 (therapeutic 
range 2.0 to 3.0) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value, test for 
superiority 
Stroke and non-CNS 
systemic embolism 
Stroke, non-CNS systemic 
embolism and vascular death 
Stroke, non-CNS systemic 
embolism, vascular death 
and myocardial infarction 
Stroke 
Non-CNS systemic 
embolism 
Myocardial infarction 
269 
(2.12) 
572 
(4.51) 
659 
(5.24) 
253  
(1.99) 
20  
(0.16) 
130 
(1.02) 
306 
(2.42) 
609 
(4.81) 
709 
(5.65) 
281 
(2.22) 
27 
(0.21) 
142 
(1.11) 
0.88 (0.74 - 1.03) 
0.117 
0.94 (0.84 - 1.05) 
0.265 
0.93 (0.83 - 1.03) 
0.158 
0.90 (0.76 - 1.07) 
0.221 
0.74 (0.42 - 1.32) 
0.308 
0.91 (0.72 - 1.16)  
0.464 
71 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Safety results from phase III ROCKET AF 
Study population 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillationa) 
Rivaroxaban 
20 mg once daily  
(15 mg once daily in 
patients with moderate 
renal impairment) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
Warfarin 
titrated to a target INR 
of 2.5 (therapeutic 
range 2.0 to 3.0) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
Treatment dose  
Major and non-major 
clinically relevant bleeding 
events 
1,475 
(14.91) 
395 
(3.60) 
27 
(0.24) 
91 
(0.82) 
55  
(0.49) 
305 
(2.77) 
183 
(1.65) 
Major bleeding events 
Death due to 
bleeding* 
Critical organ 
bleeding* 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage* 
Haemoglobin drop* 
Transfusion of 2 or 
more units of packed 
red blood cells or 
whole blood* 
Non-major clinically 
relevant bleeding events 
All-cause mortality 
1,185 
(11.80) 
208 
(1.87) 
Safety population, on treatment 
Nominally significant 
a) 
* 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value  
1.03 (0.96 - 1.11) 
0.442 
1.04 (0.90 - 1.20) 
0.576 
0.50 (0.31 - 0.79) 
0.003 
0.69 (0.53 - 0.91) 
0.007 
0.67 (0.47 - 0.93) 
0.019 
1.22 (1.03 - 1.44) 
0.019 
1.25 (1.01 - 1.55) 
0.044 
1.04 (0.96 - 1.13) 
0.345 
0.85 (0.70 - 1.02) 
0.073 
1,449 
(14.52) 
386 
(3.45) 
55 
(0.48) 
133 
(1.18) 
84 
(0.74) 
254 
(2.26) 
149 
(1.32) 
1,151 
(11.37) 
250 
(2.21) 
In addition to the phase III ROCKET AF study, a prospective, single-arm, post-authorisation, non-
interventional, open-label cohort study (XANTUS) with central outcome adjudication including 
thromboembolic events and major bleeding has been conducted. 6,704 patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation were enrolled for prevention of stroke and non-central nervous system (CNS) 
systemic embolism in clinical practice. The mean CHADS2 score was 1.9 and HAS-BLED score was 
2.0 in XANTUS, compared to a mean CHADS2 and HAS-BLED score of 3.5 and 2.8 in ROCKET AF, 
respectively. Major bleeding occurred in 2.1 per 100 patient years. Fatal haemorrhage was reported in 
0.2 per 100 patient years and intracranial haemorrhage in 0.4 per 100 patient years. Stroke or non-CNS 
systemic embolism was recorded in 0.8 per 100 patient years. 
These observations in clinical practice are consistent with the established safety profile in this 
indication. 
In a post-authorisation, non-interventional study, in more than 162,000 patients from four countries, 
rivaroxaban was prescribed for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation. The event rate for ischaemic stroke was 0.70 (95% CI 0.44 - 1.13) per 
100 patient-years. Bleeding resulting in hospitalisation occurred at event rates per 100 patient-years of 
0.43 (95% CI 0.31 - 0.59) for intracranial bleeding, 1.04 (95% CI 0.65 - 1.66) for gastrointestinal 
bleeding, 0.41 (95% CI 0.31 - 0.53) for urogenital bleeding and 0.40 (95% CI 0.25 - 0.65) for other 
bleeding. 
Patients undergoing cardioversion 
A prospective, randomised, open-label, multicentre, exploratory study with blinded endpoint 
evaluation (X-VERT) was conducted in 1504 patients (oral anticoagulant naive and pre-treated) with 
72 
 
 
 
 
non-valvular atrial fibrillation scheduled for cardioversion to compare rivaroxaban with dose-adjusted 
VKA (randomised 2:1), for the prevention of cardiovascular events. TEE- guided (1 - 5 days of pre-
treatment) or conventional cardioversion (at least three weeks of pre-treatment) strategies were 
employed. The primary efficacy outcome (all stroke, transient ischaemic attack, non-CNS systemic 
embolism, myocardial infarction (MI) and cardiovascular death) occurred in 5 (0.5%) patients in the 
rivaroxaban group (n = 978) and 5 (1.0%) patients in the VKA group (n = 492; RR 0.50; 95% CI 0.15-
1.73; modified ITT population). The principal safety outcome (major bleeding) occurred in 6 (0.6%) 
and 4 (0.8%) patients in the rivaroxaban (n = 988) and VKA (n = 499) groups, respectively (RR 0.76; 
95% CI 0.21-2.67; safety population). This exploratory study showed comparable efficacy and safety 
between rivaroxaban and VKA treatment groups in the setting of cardioversion. 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI with stent placement 
A randomised, open-label, multicentre study (PIONEER AF-PCI) was conducted in 2,124 patients 
with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who underwent PCI with stent placement for primary 
atherosclerotic disease to compare safety of two rivaroxaban regimens and one VKA regimen. Patients 
were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 fashion for an overall 12-month-therapy. Patients with a history of 
stroke or TIA were excluded.  
Group 1 received rivaroxaban 15 mg once daily (10 mg once daily in patients with creatinine 
clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) plus P2Y12 inhibitor. Group 2 received rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily plus 
DAPT (dual antiplatelet therapy i.e. clopidogrel 75 mg [or alternate P2Y12 inhibitor] plus low-dose 
acetylsalicylic acid [ASA]) for 1, 6 or 12 months followed by rivaroxaban 15 mg (or 10 mg for 
subjects with creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) once daily plus low-dose ASA. Group 3 received 
dose-adjusted VKA plus DAPT for 1, 6 or 12 months followed by dose-adjusted VKA plus low-dose 
ASA.  
The primary safety endpoint, clinically significant bleeding events, occurred in 109 (15.7%), 117 
(16.6%), and 167 (24.0%) subjects in group 1, group 2 and group 3, respectively (HR 0.59; 95% CI 
0.47-0.76; p<0.001, and HR 0.63; 95% CI 0.50-0.80; p<0.001, respectively). The secondary endpoint 
(composite of cardiovascular events CV death, MI, or stroke) occurred in 41 (5.9%), 36 (5.1%), and 
36 (5.2%) subjects in the group 1, group 2 and group 3, respectively. Each of the rivaroxaban 
regimens showed a significant reduction in clinically significant bleeding events compared to the 
VKA regimen in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who underwent a PCI with stent 
placement. 
The primary objective of PIONEER AF-PCI was to assess safety. Data on efficacy (including 
thromboembolic events) in this population are limited.  
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE  
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban in the 
initial and continued treatment of acute DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence. 
Over 12,800 patients were studied in four randomised controlled phase III clinical studies (Einstein 
DVT, Einstein PE, Einstein Extension and Einstein Choice) and additionally a predefined pooled 
analysis of the Einstein DVT and Einstein PE studies was conducted. The overall combined treatment 
duration in all studies was up to 21 months. 
In Einstein DVT 3,449 patients with acute DVT were studied for the treatment of DVT and the 
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE (patients who presented with symptomatic PE were excluded 
from this study). The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial 3 week treatment of acute DVT 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily. This 
was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
In Einstein PE, 4,832 patients with acute PE were studied for the treatment of PE and the prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial treatment of acute PE 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily for three weeks. 
This was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
73 
 
 
 
 
 
In both the Einstein DVT and the Einstein PE study, the comparator treatment regimen consisted of 
enoxaparin administered for at least 5 days in combination with vitamin K antagonist treatment until 
the PT/INR was in therapeutic range ( 2.0). Treatment was continued with a vitamin K antagonist 
dose-adjusted to maintain the PT/INR values within the therapeutic range of 2.0 to 3.0. 
In Einstein Extension 1,197 patients with DVT or PE were studied for the prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for an additional 6 or 12 months in patients who had 
completed 6 to 12 months of treatment for venous thromboembolism depending on the clinical 
judgment of the investigator. Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily was compared with placebo.  
Einstein DVT, PE and Extension used the same pre-defined primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE. The secondary efficacy outcome was defined as the composite of 
recurrent DVT, non-fatal PE and all-cause mortality.  
In Einstein Choice, 3,396 patients with confirmed symptomatic DVT and/or PE who completed 6-12 
months of anticoagulant treatment were studied for the prevention of fatal PE or non-fatal 
symptomatic recurrent DVT or PE. Patients with an indication for continued therapeutic-dosed 
anticoagulation were excluded from the study. The treatment duration was up to 12 months depending 
on the individual randomisation date (median: 351 days). Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily and 
rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily were compared with 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid once daily. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE.  
In the Einstein DVT study (see Table 6) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p < 0.0001 (test for non-inferiority); HR: 0.680 
(0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 (test for superiority)). The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy 
outcome plus major bleeding events) was reported with a HR of 0.67 ((95% CI: 0.47 - 0.95), nominal 
p value p=0.027) in favour of rivaroxaban. INR values were within the therapeutic range a mean of 
60.3% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 189 days, and 55.4%, 60.1%, and 62.8% of the 
time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration groups, respectively. In the 
enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of mean centre TTR (Time in 
Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the incidence of the recurrent VTE 
(P=0.932 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to centre, the HR with rivaroxaban 
versus warfarin was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.35 - 1.35). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) as well as the secondary safety outcome (major bleeding events) were similar for both 
treatment groups. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein DVT 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,718 
51 
(3.0%) 
18 
(1.0%) 
28 
(1.6%) 
3,449 patients with symptomatic acute deep vein 
thrombosis 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,731 
36 
(2.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
1 
(0.1%) 
4 
(0.2%) 
139 
(8.1%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
6 
(0.3%) 
138 
(8.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
0 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 0.680 (0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 
(superiority) 
In the Einstein PE study (see Table 7) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p=0.0026 (test for non-inferiority); HR: 1.123 
(0.749 - 1.684)). The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding 
events) was reported with a HR of 0.849 ((95% CI: 0.633 - 1.139), nominal p value p= 0.275). INR 
values were within the therapeutic range a mean of 63% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 
215 days, and 57%, 62%, and 65% of the time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration 
groups, respectively. In the enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of 
mean centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the 
incidence of the recurrent VTE (p=0.082 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to 
centre, the HR with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.642 (95% CI: 0.277 - 1.484). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) were slightly lower in the rivaroxaban treatment group (10.3% (249/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA treatment group (11.4% (274/2405)). The incidence of the secondary safety outcome 
(major bleeding events) was lower in the rivaroxaban group (1.1% (26/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA group (2.2% (52/2405)) with a HR 0.493 (95% CI: 0.308 - 0.789). 
75 
 
 
 
Table 7: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
4,832 patients with an acute symptomatic PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,419 
50 
(2.1%) 
23 
(1.0%) 
18 
(0.7%) 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
0 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
11 
(0.5%) 
249 
(10.3%) 
26 
(1.1%) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,413 
44 
(1.8%) 
20 
(0.8%) 
17 
(0.7%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
7 
(0.3%) 
274 
(11.4%) 
52 
(2.2%) 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0026 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 1.123 (0.749 - 1.684)  
A prespecified pooled analysis of the outcome of the Einstein DVT and PE studies was conducted (see 
Table 8). 
Table 8: Efficacy and safety results from pooled analysis of phase III Einstein DVT and Einstein 
PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
8,281 patients with an acute symptomatic DVT or PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,150 
86 
(2.1%) 
43 
(1.0%) 
32 
(0.8%) 
1 
(<0.1%) 
15 
(0.4%) 
388 
(9.4%) 
40 
(1.0%) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,131 
95 
(2.3%) 
38 
(0.9%) 
45 
(1.1%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
13 
(0.3%) 
412 
(10.0%) 
72 
(1.7%) 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 1.75); HR: 0.886 (0.661 - 1.186) 
The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding events) of the 
pooled analysis was reported with a HR of 0.771 ((95% CI: 0.614 - 0.967), nominal p value p= 
0.0244). 
76 
 
 
 
 
In the Einstein Extension study (see Table 9) rivaroxaban was superior to placebo for the primary and 
secondary efficacy outcomes. For the primary safety outcome (major bleeding events) there was a 
non-significant numerically higher incidence rate for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once 
daily compared to placebo. The secondary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding events) showed higher rates for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily compared 
to placebo.  
Table 9: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Extension 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major bleeding events 
1,197 patients continued treatment and prevention 
of recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban a)  
Placebo 
6 or 12 months 
6 or 12 months 
N=594 
N=602 
42 
8 
(7.1%) 
(1.3%) 
13 
2 
(2.2%) 
(0.3%) 
31 
5 
(5.2%) 
(0.8%) 
1 
1 
(0.2%) 
(0.2%) 
0 
4 
(0.0%) 
(0.7%) 
7 
32 
(1.2%) 
(5.4%) 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
a) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily 
p < 0.0001 (superiority), HR: 0.185 (0.087 - 0.393) 
In the Einstein Choice study (see Table 10) rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg were both superior to 100 
mg acetylsalicylic acid for the primary efficacy outcome. The principal safety outcome (major 
bleeding events) was similar for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg once daily 
compared to 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid.  
Table 10: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Choice 
Study population 
Treatment dose  
Treatment duration median 
[interquartile range] 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE, 
MI, stroke, or non-CNS 
systemic embolism 
Major bleeding events 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
3,396 patients continued prevention of 
recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg 
once daily 
N=1,107 
Rivaroxaban 10 
mg once daily 
N=1,127 
ASA 100 mg once 
daily 
N=1,131 
349 [189-362] days 
353 [190-362] days 
350 [186-362] days 
17 
(1.5%)* 
6 
(0.5%) 
9 
(0.8%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
6 
(0.5%) 
30  
(2.7) 
13 
(1.2%)** 
6 
(0.5%) 
8 
(0.7%) 
0 
(0.0%) 
18 
(1.6%) 
5 
(0.4%) 
22  
(2.0) 
77 
50 
(4.4%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
30 
(2.7%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
56 
(5.0%) 
3 
(0.3%) 
20  
(1.8) 
 
 
 
Study population 
Treatment dose  
3,396 patients continued prevention of 
recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg 
once daily 
N=1,107 
Rivaroxaban 10 
mg once daily 
N=1,127 
ASA 100 mg once 
daily 
N=1,131 
23 
(2.1%)+ 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
or major bleeding (net 
clinical benefit) 
*   p<0.001(superiority) rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.34 (0.20-0.59) 
**  p<0.001 (superiority) rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.26 (0.14-0.47)  
+   Rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.44 (0.27-0.71), p=0.0009 (nominal)  
++   Rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.32 (0.18-0.55), p<0.0001 (nominal) 
17  
(1.5%)++ 
53  
(4.7%) 
In addition to the phase III EINSTEIN programme, a prospective, non-interventional, open-label 
cohort study (XALIA) with central outcome adjudication including recurrent VTE, major bleeding and 
death has been conducted. 5,142 patients with acute DVT were enrolled to investigate the long-term 
safety of rivaroxaban compared with standard-of-care anticoagulation therapy in clinical practice. 
Rates of major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality for rivaroxaban were 0.7%, 1.4% and 
0.5%, respectively. There were differences in patient baseline characteristics including age, cancer and 
renal impairment. A pre-specified propensity score stratified analysis was used to adjust for measured 
baseline differences but residual confounding may, in spite of this, influence the results. Adjusted HRs 
comparing rivaroxaban and standard-of-care for major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality 
were 0.77 (95% CI 0.40 - 1.50), 0.91 (95% CI 0.54 - 1.54) and 0.51 (95% CI 0.24 - 1.07), respectively.  
These results in clinical practice are consistent with the established safety profile in this indication. 
In a post-authorisation, non-interventional study, in more than 40,000 patients without a history of 
cancer from four countries, rivaroxaban was prescribed for the treatment or prevention of DVT and 
PE. The event rates per 100 patient-years for symptomatic/clinically apparent VTE/thromboembolic 
events leading to hospitalisation ranged from 0.64 (95% CI 0.40 - 0.97) in the UK to 2.30 (95% CI 
2.11 - 2.51) for Germany. Bleeding resulting in hospitalisation occurred at event rates per 100 patient-
years of 0.31 (95% CI 0.23 - 0.42) for intracranial bleeding, 0.89 (95% CI 0.67 - 1.17) for 
gastrointestinal bleeding, 0.44 (95% CI 0.26 - 0.74) for urogenital bleeding and 0.41 (95% CI 
0.31 - 0.54) for other bleeding. 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence in paediatric patients  
A total of 727 children with confirmed acute VTE, of whom 528 received rivaroxaban, were studied in 
6 open-label, multicentre paediatric studies. Body weight-adjusted dosing in patients from birth to less 
than 18 years resulted in rivaroxaban exposure similar to that observed in adult DVT patients treated 
with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily as confirmed in the phase III study (see section 5.2).  
The EINSTEIN Junior phase III study was a randomised, active-controlled, open-label multicentre 
clinical study in 500 paediatric patients (aged from birth to < 18 years) with confirmed acute VTE. 
There were 276 children aged 12 to < 18 years, 101 children aged 6 to < 12 years, 69 children aged 
2 to < 6 years, and 54 children aged < 2 years.  
Index VTE was classified as either central venous catheter-related VTE (CVC-VTE; 90/335 patients 
in the rivaroxaban group, 37/165 patients in the comparator group), cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis 
(CVST; 74/335 patients in the rivaroxaban group, 43/165 patients in the comparator group), and all 
others including DVT and PE (non-CVC-VTE; 171/335 patients in the rivaroxaban group, 
85/165 patients in the comparator group). The most common presentation of index thrombosis in 
children aged 12 to < 18 years was non-CVC-VTE in 211 (76.4%); in children aged 6 to < 12 years 
and aged 2 to < 6 years was CVST in 48 (47.5%) and 35 (50.7%), respectively; and in children aged 
< 2 years was CVC-VTE in 37 (68.5%). There were no children < 6 months with CVST in the 
rivaroxaban group. 22 of the patients with CVST had a CNS infection (13 patients in the rivaroxaban 
group and 9 patients in comparator group). 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VTE was provoked by persistent, transient, or both persistent and transient risk factors in 438 (87.6%) 
children.  
Patients received initial treatment with therapeutic doses of UFH, LMWH, or fondaparinux for at least 
5 days, and were randomised 2:1 to receive either body weight-adjusted doses of rivaroxaban or 
comparator group (heparins, VKA) for a main study treatment period of 3 months (1 month for 
children < 2 years with CVC-VTE). At the end of the main study treatment period, the diagnostic 
imaging test, which was obtained at baseline, was repeated, if clinically feasible. The study treatment 
could be stopped at this point, or at the discretion of the Investigator continued for up to 12 months 
(for children < 2 years with CVC-VTE up to 3 months) in total. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE. The primary safety outcome was the 
composite of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding (CRNMB). All efficacy and 
safety outcomes were centrally adjudicated by an independent committee blinded for treatment 
allocation. The efficacy and safety results are shown in Tables 11 and 12 below. 
Recurrent VTEs occurred in the rivaroxaban group in 4 of 335 patients and in the comparator group in 
5 of 165 patients. The composite of major bleeding and CRNMB was reported in 10 of 329 patients 
(3%) treated with rivaroxaban and in 3 of 162 patients (1.9%) treated with comparator. Net clinical 
benefit (symptomatic recurrent VTE plus major bleeding events) was reported in the rivaroxaban 
group in 4 of 335 patients and in the comparator group in 7 of 165 patients. Normalisation of the 
thrombus burden on repeat imaging occurred in 128 of 335 patients with rivaroxaban treatment and in 
43 of 165 patients in the comparator group. These findings were generally similar among age groups. 
There were 119 (36.2%) children with any treatment-emergent bleeding in the rivaroxaban group and 
45 (27.8%) children in the comparator group. 
Table 11: Efficacy results at the end of the main treatment period  
Event 
Recurrent VTE (primary efficacy outcome) 
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + 
asymptomatic deterioration on repeat imaging 
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + 
asymptomatic deterioration + no change on repeat 
imaging 
Normalisation on repeat imaging  
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + major 
bleeding (net clinical benefit) 
Fatal or non-fatal pulmonary embolism 
Rivaroxaban  
N=335* 
4 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.4% – 3.0%) 
5 
(1.5%, 95% CI 
0.6% – 3.4%) 
21 
(6.3%, 95% CI 
4.0% – 9.2%) 
128 
(38.2%, 95% CI 
33.0% - 43.5%) 
4 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.4% - 3.0%) 
1 
(0.3%, 95% CI 
0.0% – 1.6%) 
Comparator 
N=165* 
5 
(3.0%, 95% CI 
1.2% - 6.6%) 
6 
(3.6%, 95% CI 
1.6% – 7.6%) 
19 
(11.5%, 95% CI 
7.3% – 17.4%) 
43 
(26.1%, 95% CI 
19.8% - 33.0%) 
7 
(4.2%, 95% CI 
2.0% - 8.4%) 
1 
(0.6%, 95% CI 
0.0% – 3.1%) 
*FAS= full analysis set, all children who were randomised 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: Safety results at the end of the main treatment period  
Composite: Major bleeding + CRNMB (primary safety 
outcome) 
Major bleeding 
Rivaroxaban  
N=329* 
10 
(3.0%, 95% CI 
1.6% - 5.5%) 
0 
(0.0%, 95% CI 
0.0% - 1.1%) 
119 (36.2%) 
Comparator 
N=162* 
3 
(1.9%, 95% CI 
0.5% - 5.3%) 
2 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.2% - 4.3%) 
45 (27.8%) 
Any treatment-emergent bleedings 
* 
SAF= safety analysis set, all children who were randomised and received at least 1 dose of study 
medicinal product.  
The efficacy and safety profile of rivaroxaban was largely similar between the paediatric VTE 
population and the DVT/PE adult population, however, the proportion of subjects with any bleeding 
was higher in the paediatric VTE population as compared to the DVT/PE adult population. 
Patients with high risk triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome 
In an investigator sponsored, randomised open-label multicentre study with blinded endpoint 
adjudication, rivaroxaban was compared to warfarin in patients with a history of thrombosis, 
diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome and at high risk for thromboembolic events (positive for 
all 3 antiphospholipid tests: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies). The study was terminated prematurely after the enrolment of 
120 patients due to an excess of events among patients in the rivaroxaban arm. Mean follow-up was 
569 days. 59 patients were randomised to rivaroxaban 20 mg (15 mg for patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) < 50 mL/min) and 61 to warfarin (INR 2.0-3.0). Thromboembolic events occurred in 
12% of patients randomised to rivaroxaban (4 ischaemic strokes and 3 myocardial infarctions). No 
events were reported in patients randomised to warfarin. Major bleeding occurred in 4 patients (7%) 
of the rivaroxaban group and 2 patients (3%) of the warfarin group. 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Xarelto in all subsets of the paediatric population in the prevention of thromboembolic events (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The following information is based on the data obtained in adults.  
Rivaroxaban is rapidly absorbed with maximum concentrations (Cmax) appearing 2 - 4 hours after 
tablet intake.  
Oral absorption of rivaroxaban is almost complete and oral bioavailability is high (80 - 100%) for the 
2.5 mg and 10 mg tablet dose, irrespective of fasting/fed conditions. Intake with food does not affect 
rivaroxaban AUC or Cmax at the 2.5 mg and 10 mg dose.  
Due to a reduced extent of absorption an oral bioavailability of 66% was determined for the 20 mg 
tablet under fasting conditions. When rivaroxaban 20 mg tablets are taken together with food increases 
in mean AUC by 39% were observed when compared to tablet intake under fasting conditions, 
indicating almost complete absorption and high oral bioavailability. Rivaroxaban 15 mg and 20 mg are 
to be taken with food (see section 4.2). 
Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg once daily in fasting state. 
Under fed conditions rivaroxaban 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg tablets demonstrated dose-proportionality. 
At higher doses rivaroxaban displays dissolution limited absorption with decreased bioavailability and 
decreased absorption rate with increased dose.  
Variability in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics is moderate with inter-individual variability (CV%) 
ranging from 30% to 40%. 
Absorption of rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of its release in the gastrointestinal tract. A 29% 
and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax compared to tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
released in the proximal small intestine. Exposure is further reduced when rivaroxaban is released in 
the distal small intestine, or ascending colon. Therefore, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the 
stomach should be avoided since this can result in reduced absorption and related rivaroxaban 
exposure. 
Bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) was comparable for 20 mg rivaroxaban administered orally as a 
crushed tablet mixed in apple puree, or suspended in water and administered via a gastric tube 
followed by a liquid meal, compared to a whole tablet. Given the predictable, dose-proportional 
pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban, the bioavailability results from this study are likely applicable 
to lower rivaroxaban doses. 
Paediatric population 
Children received rivaroxaban tablet or oral suspension during or closely after feeding or food intake 
and with a typical serving of liquid to ensure reliable dosing in children. As in adults, rivaroxaban is 
readily absorbed after oral administration as tablet or granules for oral suspension formulation in 
children. No difference in the absorption rate nor in the extent of absorption between the tablet and 
granules for oral suspension formulation was observed. No PK data following intravenous 
administration to children are available so that the absolute bioavailability of rivaroxaban in children is 
unknown. A decrease in the relative bioavailability for increasing doses (in mg/kg bodyweight) was 
found, suggesting absorption limitations for higher doses, even when taken together with food. 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg tablets should be taken with feeding or with food (see section 4.2).  
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding in adults is high at approximately 92% to 95%, with serum albumin being the 
main binding component. The volume of distribution is moderate with Vss being approximately 
50 litres. 
Paediatric population 
No data on rivaroxaban plasma protein binding specific to children is available. No PK data following 
intravenous administration of rivaroxaban to children is available. Vss estimated via population PK 
modelling in children (age range 0 to < 18 years) following oral administration of rivaroxaban is 
dependent on body weight and can be described with an allometric function, with an average of 113 L 
for a subject with a body weight of 82.8 kg. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
In adults, of the administered rivaroxaban dose, approximately 2/3 undergoes metabolic degradation, 
with half then being eliminated renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 
of the administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the urine, 
mainly via active renal secretion. 
Rivaroxaban is metabolised via CYP3A4, CYP2J2 and CYP-independent mechanisms. Oxidative 
degradation of the morpholinone moiety and hydrolysis of the amide bonds are the major sites of 
biotransformation. Based on in vitro investigations rivaroxaban is a substrate of the transporter 
proteins P-gp (P-glycoprotein) and Bcrp (breast cancer resistance protein). 
Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important compound in human plasma, with no major or active 
circulating metabolites being present. With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be 
classified as a low-clearance substance. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the 
elimination half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration the elimination becomes absorption 
rate limited. Elimination of rivaroxaban from plasma occurs with terminal half-lives of 5 to 9 hours in 
young individuals, and with terminal half-lives of 11 to 13 hours in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
No metabolism data specific to children is available. No PK data following intravenous administration 
of rivaroxaban to children is available. CL estimated via population PK modelling in children (age 
range 0 to < 18 years) following oral administration of rivaroxaban is dependent on body weight and 
can be described with an allometric function, with an average of 8 L/h for a subject with body weight 
of 82.8 kg. The geometric mean values for disposition half-lives (t1/2) estimated via population PK 
modelling decrease with decreasing age and ranged from 4.2 h in adolescents to approximately 3 h in 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
children aged 2-12 years down to 1.9 and 1.6 h in children aged 0.5-< 2 years and less than 0.5 years, 
respectively. 
Special populations 
Gender 
In adults, there were no clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
between male and female patients. An exploratory analysis did not reveal relevant differences in 
rivaroxaban exposure between male and female children. 
Elderly population 
Elderly patients exhibited higher plasma concentrations than younger patients, with mean AUC values 
being approximately 1.5 fold higher, mainly due to reduced (apparent) total and renal clearance. No 
dose adjustment is necessary. 
Different weight categories 
In adults, extremes in body weight (< 50 kg or > 120 kg) had only a small influence on rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations (less than 25%). No dose adjustment is necessary.  
In children, rivaroxaban is dosed based on body weight. An exploratory analysis did not reveal a 
relevant impact of underweight or obesity on rivaroxaban exposure in children. 
Inter-ethnic differences 
In adults, no clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences among Caucasian, African-American, 
Hispanic, Japanese or Chinese patients were observed regarding rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics.  
An exploratory analysis did not reveal relevant inter-ethnic differences in rivaroxaban exposure among 
Japanese, Chinese or Asian children outside Japan and China compared to the respective overall 
paediatric population. 
Hepatic impairment 
Cirrhotic adult patients with mild hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh A) exhibited only 
minor changes in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), 
nearly comparable to their matched healthy control group. In cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (classified as Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban mean AUC was significantly increased by 
2.3 fold compared to healthy volunteers. Unbound AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also 
had reduced renal elimination of rivaroxaban, similar to patients with moderate renal impairment. 
There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
The inhibition of factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 2.6 in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment as compared to healthy volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor 
of 2.1. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment were more sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a 
steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Rivaroxaban is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and 
clinically relevant bleeding risk, including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see 
section 4.3). 
No clinical data is available in children with hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
In adults, there was an increase in rivaroxaban exposure correlated to decrease in renal function, as 
assessed via creatinine clearance measurements. In individuals with mild (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 ml/min), moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) and severe (creatinine clearance 
15 - 29 ml/min) renal impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were increased 1.4, 1.5 
and 1.6 fold respectively. Corresponding increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more 
pronounced. In individuals with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of 
factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively as compared to healthy 
volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. 
There are no data in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. Rivaroxaban is to be used 
with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min (see section 4.4). 
No clinical data is available in children 1 year or older with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2). 
Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of acute DVT 20 mg once daily the geometric mean 
concentration (90% prediction interval) 2 - 4 h and about 24 h after dose (roughly representing 
maximum and minimum concentrations during the dose interval) was 215 (22 - 535) and 
32 (6 - 239) mcg/l, respectively. 
In paediatric patients with acute VTE receiving body weight-adjusted rivaroxaban leading to an 
exposure similar to that in adult DVT patients receiving a 20 mg once daily dose, the geometric mean 
concentrations (90% interval) at sampling time intervals roughly representing maximum and minimum 
concentrations during the dose interval are summarised in Table 13.  
Table 13: Summary statistics (geometric mean (90% interval)) of rivaroxaban steady state 
plasma concentrations (mcg/L) by dosing regimen and age 
Time 
intervals 
o.d. 
N 
12 -
< 18 years 
N 
6 -< 12 years 
2.5-4h post 
171  241.5  
(105-484) 
20-24h post 
151  20.6 
24 
24 
b.i.d. 
2.5-4h post 
N 
36 
10-16h post 
33 
t.i.d. 
0.5-3h post 
7-8h post 
N 
5 
5 
(5.69-66.5) 
6 -< 12 years  N 
38 
145.4  
(46.0-343) 
26.0  
(7.99-94.9) 
2 -< 6 years 
37 
N 
164.7  
(108-283) 
33.2  
(18.7-99.7) 
25 
23 
229.7  
(91.5-777) 
15.9  
(3.42-45.5)  
2 -< 6 years 
171.8  
(70.7-438) 
22.2  
(0.25-127) 
Birth -
< 2 years 
111.2  
(22.9-320) 
18.7  
(10.1-36.5) 
N   0.5 -< 2 years 
2 
n.c. 
3 
N 
10.7  
(n.c.-n.c.) 
0.5 -< 2 years  N  Birth -
< 0.5 years 
13  114.3  
12  108.0  
(22.9-346) 
(19.2-320) 
12  21.4  
11  16.1  
(10.5-65.6) 
(1.03-33.6) 
o.d. = once daily, b.i.d. = twice daily, t.i.d. three times daily, n.c. = not calculated 
Values below lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) were substituted by 1/2 LLOQ for the calculation of 
statistics (LLOQ = 0.5 mcg/L). 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship between rivaroxaban plasma 
concentration and several PD endpoints (factor Xa inhibition, PT, aPTT, Heptest) has been evaluated 
after administration of a wide range of doses (5 - 30 mg twice a day). The relationship between 
rivaroxaban concentration and factor Xa activity was best described by an Emax model. For PT, the 
linear intercept model generally described the data better. Depending on the different PT reagents 
used, the slope differed considerably. When Neoplastin PT was used, baseline PT was about 13 s and 
the slope was around 3 to 4 s/(100 mcg/l). The results of the PK/PD analyses in Phase II and III were 
consistent with the data established in healthy subjects.  
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in the indication prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation for children and adolescents up to 18 years.  
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, phototoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and juvenile 
toxicity. 
Effects observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies were mainly due to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
activity of rivaroxaban. In rats, increased IgG and IgA plasma levels were seen at clinically relevant 
exposure levels. 
In rats, no effects on male or female fertility were seen. Animal studies have shown reproductive 
toxicity related to the pharmacological mode of action of rivaroxaban (e.g. haemorrhagic 
complications). Embryo-foetal toxicity (post-implantation loss, retarded/progressed ossification, 
hepatic multiple light coloured spots) and an increased incidence of common malformations as well as 
placental changes were observed at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. In the pre- and post-
natal study in rats, reduced viability of the offspring was observed at doses that were toxic to the dams. 
Rivaroxaban was tested in juvenile rats up to 3-month treatment duration starting at postnatal day 4 
showing a non dose-related increase in periinsular haemorrhage. No evidence of target organ-specific 
toxicity was seen.  
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coat 
Macrogol (3350) 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
Iron oxide red (E 172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed rivaroxaban tablets are stable in water and in apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons containing 10, 14, 28, 42 or 98 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil blisters.  
Cartons containing 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose blisters.  
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Multipacks containing 10 packs of 10 x 1 (100 film-coated tablets) in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose 
blisters.  
Cartons containing 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Alu foil blisters . 
HDPE bottles with a PP screw cap containing 100 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Crushing of tablets 
Rivaroxaban tablets may be crushed and suspended in 50 mL of water and administered via a 
nasogastric tube or gastric feeding tube after confirming gastric placement of the tube. Afterwards, the 
tube should be flushed with water. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on the site of active 
substance release, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the stomach should be avoided, as this can 
result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced active substance exposure. After the administration 
of a crushed rivaroxaban 15 mg or 20 mg tablet, the dose should then be immediately followed by 
enteral feeding. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/011-016, EU/1/08/472/023, EU/1/08/472/036, EU/1/08/472/038, EU/1/08/472/048. 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 September 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg rivaroxaban.  
Excipient with known effect 
Each film-coated tablet contains 21.76 mg lactose (as monohydrate), see section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet)  
Brown-red, round biconvex tablets (6 mm diameter, 9 mm radius of curvature) marked with the 
BAYER-cross on one side and “20” and a triangle on the other side.  
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Adults 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one or more risk factors, such as congestive heart failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75 years, diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients.) 
Paediatric population  
Treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and prevention of VTE recurrence in children and 
adolescents aged less than 18 years and weighing more than 50 kg after at least 5 days of initial 
parenteral anticoagulation treatment. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adults 
The recommended dose is 20 mg once daily, which is also the recommended maximum dose.  
Therapy with Xarelto should be continued long term provided the benefit of prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism outweighs the risk of bleeding (see section 4.4).  
If a dose is missed the patient should take Xarelto immediately and continue on the following day with 
the once daily intake as recommended. The dose should not be doubled within the same day to make 
up for a missed dose.  
Treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE in adults 
The recommended dose for the initial treatment of acute DVT or PE is 15 mg twice daily for the first 
three weeks followed by 20 mg once daily for the continued treatment and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE.  
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short duration of therapy (at least 3 months) should be considered in patients with DVT or PE 
provoked by major transient risk factors (i.e. recent major surgery or trauma). Longer duration of 
therapy should be considered in patients with provoked DVT or PE not related to major transient risk 
factors, unprovoked DVT or PE, or a history of recurrent DVT or PE.   
When extended prevention of recurrent DVT and PE is indicated (following completion of at least 
6 months therapy for DVT or PE), the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily. In patients in whom 
the risk of recurrent DVT or PE is considered high, such as those with complicated comorbidities, or 
who have developed recurrent DVT or PE on extended prevention with Xarelto 10 mg once daily, a 
dose of Xarelto 20 mg once daily should be considered. 
The duration of therapy and dose selection should be individualised after careful assessment of the 
treatment benefit against the risk for bleeding (see section 4.4).  
Treatment and 
prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE 
Time period 
Day 1 - 21 
Dosing schedule 
15 mg twice daily  
Total daily dose 
30 mg 
Day 22 onwards 
20 mg once daily  
20 mg 
Prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE  
Following completion 
of at least 6 months 
therapy for DVT or PE 
10 mg once daily or  
20 mg once daily  
10 mg  
or 20 mg 
To support the dose switch from 15 mg to 20 mg after Day 21 a first 4 weeks treatment initiation pack 
of Xarelto for treatment of DVT/PE is available. 
If a dose is missed during the 15 mg twice daily treatment phase (day 1 - 21), the patient should take 
Xarelto immediately to ensure intake of 30 mg Xarelto per day. In this case two 15 mg tablets may be 
taken at once. The patient should continue with the regular 15 mg twice daily intake as recommended 
on the following day.  
If a dose is missed during the once daily treatment phase, the patient should take Xarelto immediately, 
and continue on the following day with the once daily intake as recommended. The dose should not be 
doubled within the same day to make up for a missed dose.  
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence in children and adolescents  
Xarelto treatment in children and adolescents aged less than 18 years should be initiated following at 
least 5 days of initial parenteral anticoagulation treatment (see section 5.1).  
The dose for children and adolescent is calculated based on body weight.  
- 
Body weight of 50 kg or more: 
a once daily dose of 20 mg rivaroxaban is recommended. This is the maximum daily dose.  
Body weight from 30 to 50 kg: 
a once daily dose of 15 mg rivaroxaban is recommended. This is the maximum daily dose.  
For patients with body weight less 30 kg refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of 
Xarelto granules for oral suspension.  
- 
- 
The weight of a child should be monitored and the dose reviewed regularly. This is to ensure a 
therapeutic dose is maintained. Dose adjustments should be made based on changes in body weight 
only. 
Treatment should be continued for at least 3 months in children and adolescents. Treatment can be 
extended up to 12 months when clinically necessary. There is no data available in children to support a 
dose reduction after 6 months treatment. The benefit-risk of continued therapy after 3 months should 
be assessed on an individual basis taking into account the risk for recurrent thrombosis versus the 
potential bleeding risk.  
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a dose is missed, the missed dose should be taken as soon as possible after it is noticed, but only on 
the same day. If this is not possible, the patient should skip the dose and continue with the next dose as 
prescribed. The patient should not take two doses to make up for a missed dose. 
Converting from Vitamin K Antagonists (VKA) to Xarelto 
- 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism:  
VKA treatment should be stopped and Xarelto therapy should be initiated when the 
International Normalised Ratio (INR) is ≤ 3.0.  
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence in adults and treatment of VTE and 
prevention of recurrence in paediatric patients:  
VKA treatment should be stopped and Xarelto therapy should be initiated once the INR is ≤ 2.5.  
- 
When converting patients from VKAs to Xarelto, INR values will be falsely elevated after the intake 
of Xarelto. The INR is not valid to measure the anticoagulant activity of Xarelto, and therefore should 
not be used (see section 4.5). 
Converting from Xarelto to Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) 
There is a potential for inadequate anticoagulation during the transition from Xarelto to VKA. 
Continuous adequate anticoagulation should be ensured during any transition to an alternate 
anticoagulant. It should be noted that Xarelto can contribute to an elevated INR.  
In patients converting from Xarelto to VKA, VKA should be given concurrently until the INR is ≥ 2.0. 
For the first two days of the conversion period, standard initial dosing of VKA should be used 
followed by VKA dosing, as guided by INR testing. While patients are on both Xarelto and VKA the 
INR should not be tested earlier than 24 hours after the previous dose but prior to the next dose of 
Xarelto. Once Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably at least 24 hours after the last 
dose (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Paediatric patients:  
Children who convert from Xarelto to VKA need to continue Xarelto for 48 hours after the first dose 
of VKA. After 2 days of co-administration an INR should be obtained prior to the next scheduled dose 
of Xarelto. Co-administration of Xarelto and VKA is advised to continue until the INR is ≥ 2.0. Once 
Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably 24 hours after the last dose (see above and 
section 4.5). 
Converting from parenteral anticoagulants to Xarelto 
For adult and paediatric patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, discontinue the 
parenteral anticoagulant and start Xarelto 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next scheduled 
administration of the parenteral medicinal product (e.g. low molecular weight heparins) would be due 
or at the time of discontinuation of a continuously administered parenteral medicinal product (e.g. 
intravenous unfractionated heparin). 
Converting from Xarelto to parenteral anticoagulants 
Discontinue Xarelto and give the first dose of parenteral anticoagulant at the time the next Xarelto 
dose would be taken.  
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Adults: 
Limited clinical data for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) 
indicate that rivaroxaban plasma concentrations are significantly increased. Therefore, Xarelto is to be 
used with caution in these patients. Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance 
< 15 ml/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
In patients with moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) or severe (creatinine clearance 
15 - 29 ml/min) renal impairment the following dose recommendations apply: 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
For the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation, the recommended dose is 15 mg once daily (see section 5.2). 
For the treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE: patients 
should be treated with 15 mg twice daily for the first 3 weeks. Thereafter, when the 
recommended dose is 20 mg once daily, a reduction of the dose from 20 mg once daily to 15 mg 
once daily should be considered if the patient’s assessed risk for bleeding outweighs the risk for 
recurrent DVT and PE. The recommendation for the use of 15 mg is based on PK modelling and 
has not been studied in this clinical setting (see sections 4.4, 5.1 and 5.2).  
When the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily, no dose adjustment from the recommended 
dose is necessary.  
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 ml/min) (see section 5.2).  
Paediatric population:  
- 
Children and adolescents with mild renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
50 - 80 mL/min/1.73 m2): no dose adjustment is required, based on data in adults and limited 
data in paediatric patients (see section 5.2). 
Children and adolescents with moderate or severe renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
< 50 mL/min/1.73 m2): Xarelto is not recommended as no clinical data is available (see 
section 4.4). 
- 
Hepatic impairment 
Xarelto is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically 
relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
No clinical data is available in children with hepatic impairment.  
Elderly population  
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Body weight 
No dose adjustment for adults (see section 5.2) 
For paediatric patients the dose is determined based on body weight.  
Gender 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Patients undergoing cardioversion 
Xarelto can be initiated or continued in patients who may require cardioversion.  
For transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) guided cardioversion in patients not previously treated 
with anticoagulants, Xarelto treatment should be started at least 4 hours before cardioversion to ensure 
adequate anticoagulation (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). For all patients, confirmation should be sought 
prior to cardioversion that the patient has taken Xarelto as prescribed. Decisions on initiation and 
duration of treatment should take established guideline recommendations for anticoagulant treatment 
in patients undergoing cardioversion into account. 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI (percutaneous coronary intervention) 
with stent placement 
There is limited experience of a reduced dose of 15 mg Xarelto once daily (or 10 mg Xarelto once 
daily for patients with moderate renal impairment [creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min]) in addition to 
a P2Y12 inhibitor for a maximum of 12 months in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who 
require oral anticoagulation and undergo PCI with stent placement (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Xarelto in children aged 0 to < 18 years have not been established in the 
indication prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No data are available. Therefore, it is not recommended for use in children below 18 years of age in 
indications other than the treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence.  
Method of administration  
Adults 
Xarelto is for oral use.  
The tablets are to be taken with food (see section 5.2). 
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto tablet may be crushed and mixed with 
water or apple puree immediately prior to use and administered orally. After the administration of 
crushed Xarelto 15 mg or 20 mg film-coated tablets, the dose should be immediately followed by 
food. 
The crushed tablet may also be given through gastric tubes (see sections 5.2 and 6.6). 
Children and adolescents weighing more than 50 kg 
Xarelto is for oral use.  
The patient should be advised to swallow the tablet with liquid. It should also be taken with food (see 
section 5.2). The tablets should be taken approximately 24 hours apart.  
In case the patient immediately spits up the dose or vomits within 30 minutes after receiving the dose, 
a new dose should be given. However, if the patient vomits more than 30 minutes after the dose, the 
dose should not be re-administered and the next dose should be taken as scheduled. 
The tablet must not be split in an attempt to provide a fraction of a tablet dose.  
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto granules for oral suspension should be 
used. If the oral suspension is not immediately available, when doses of 15 mg or 20 mg rivaroxaban 
are prescribed, these could be provided by crushing the 15 mg or 20 mg tablet and mixing it with 
water or apple puree immediately prior to use and administering orally.  
The crushed tablet may be given through a nasogastric or gastric feeding tube (see sections 5.2 
and 6.6).  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active clinically significant bleeding. 
Lesion or condition, if considered to be a significant risk for major bleeding. This may include current 
or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants, e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, apixaban, etc.) except under specific circumstances of 
switching anticoagulant therapy (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Clinical surveillance in line with anticoagulation practice is recommended throughout the treatment 
period. 
Haemorrhagic risk 
As with other anticoagulants, patients taking Xarelto are to be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. 
It is recommended to be used with caution in conditions with increased risk of haemorrhage. Xarelto 
administration should be discontinued if severe haemorrhage occurs (see section 4.9). 
In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito urinary 
including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more frequently 
during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to adequate 
clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to detect occult 
bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be appropriate. 
Several sub-groups of patients, as detailed below, are at increased risk of bleeding. These patients are 
to be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding complications and anaemia after 
initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).  
Any unexplained fall in haemoglobin or blood pressure should lead to a search for a bleeding site. 
Although treatment with rivaroxaban does not require routine monitoring of exposure, rivaroxaban 
levels measured with a calibrated quantitative anti-factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional 
situations where knowledge of rivaroxaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g. 
overdose and emergency surgery (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
There is limited data in children with cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis who have a CNS infection 
(see section 5.1). The risk of bleeding should be carefully evaluated before and during therapy with 
rivaroxaban. 
Renal impairment 
In adult patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) rivaroxaban plasma 
levels may be significantly increased (1.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding 
risk. Xarelto is to be used with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min. Use is not 
recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Xarelto should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment concomitantly receiving other 
medicinal products which increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (see section 4.5). 
Xarelto is not recommended in children and adolescents with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2), as no clinical data is available.  
Interaction with other medicinal products 
The use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with 
azole-antimycotics (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) or HIV 
protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir). These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and 
P-gp and therefore may increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant degree 
(2.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. No clinical data is available in 
children receiving concomitant systemic treatment with strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp 
(see section 4.5). 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with medicinal products affecting haemostasis 
such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs), acetylsalicylic acid and 
platelet aggregation inhibitors or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). For patients at risk of ulcerative gastrointestinal disease 
an appropriate prophylactic treatment may be considered (see section 4.5).  
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other haemorrhagic risk factors 
As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding 
risk such as: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension 
other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding 
complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroesophageal 
reflux disease) 
vascular retinopathy 
bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding 
• 
• 
Patients with cancer 
Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The 
individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients 
with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of disease. Tumours 
located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of 
bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  
In patients with malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Patients with prosthetic valves 
Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been studied 
in patients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that Xarelto provides 
adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Xarelto is not recommended for 
these patients. 
Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome 
Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients 
with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for 
patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates 
of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI with stent placement 
Clinical data are available from an interventional study with the primary objective to assess safety in 
patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI with stent placement. Data on efficacy 
in this population are limited (see sections 4.2 and 5.1). No data are available for such patients with a 
history of stroke/transient ischaemic attack (TIA). 
Haemodynamically unstable PE patients or patients who require thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy 
Xarelto is not recommended as an alternative to unfractionated heparin in patients with pulmonary 
embolism who are haemodynamically unstable or may receive thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy since the safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in these clinical 
situations.  
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or puncture 
When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, 
patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk 
of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. 
The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or 
the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by 
traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and 
symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder 
dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior 
to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical 
experience with the use of 20 mg rivaroxaban in these situations.  
To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and 
neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of 
rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when 
the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low. However, the exact timing to reach a 
sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known and should be weighed against the 
urgency of a diagnostic procedure. 
For the removal of an epidural catheter and based on the general PK characteristics at least 2x half-
life, i.e. at least 18 hours in young adult patients and 26 hours in elderly patients should elapse after 
the last administration of rivaroxaban (see section 5.2). Following removal of the catheter, at least 
6 hours should elapse before the next rivaroxaban dose is administered. 
If traumatic puncture occurs the administration of rivaroxaban is to be delayed for 24 hours. 
No data is available on the timing of the placement or removal of neuraxial catheter in children while 
on Xarelto. In such cases, discontinue rivaroxaban and consider a short acting parenteral 
anticoagulant. 
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto 20 mg should be stopped at least 
24 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician.  
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the 
urgency of the intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention 
provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by 
the treating physician (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see section 5.2). 
Dermatological reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS 
syndrome, have been reported during post-marketing surveillance in association with the use of 
rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the 
course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of 
treatment. Rivaroxaban should be discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. 
spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal 
lesions. 
Information about excipients 
Xarelto contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The extent of interactions in the paediatric population is not known. The below mentioned interaction 
data was obtained in adults and the warnings in section 4.4 should be taken into account for the 
paediatric population. 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a 
day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in 
mean rivaroxaban Cmax, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving 
concomitant systemic treatment with azole-antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).  
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either 
CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. 
Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in 
Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be 
potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax. The interaction with erythromycin is likely not 
clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500 mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see 
section 4.4). 
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mean Cmax. The interaction with 
fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-
risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Given the limited clinical data available with dronedarone, co-administration with rivaroxaban should 
be avoided. 
Anticoagulants 
After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10 mg single 
dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observed without any additional effects on 
clotting tests (PT, aPTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban. 
Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any 
other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors 
No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of 
rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more 
pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a 
pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 
observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P-selectin or 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels. 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) 
and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding 
risk (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs/SNRIs 
As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in 
case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When 
concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, numerically higher rates of major or non-
major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warfarin 
Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or 
from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) 
more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on aPTT, 
inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti-
factor Xa activity, PiCT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the 
fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (including PT, aPTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity 
and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR 
measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of 
rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point. 
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban. 
CYP3A4 inducers  
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be 
avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms of thrombosis. 
Other concomitant therapies  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P-gp), 
atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban 
neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4. 
Laboratory parameters 
Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, aPTT, HepTest) are affected as expected by the mode of action of 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1).  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential reproductive toxicity, the intrinsic 
risk of bleeding and the evidence that rivaroxaban passes the placenta, Xarelto is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Women of child-bearing potential should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with rivaroxaban. 
Breast-feeding 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in breast-feeding women. Data from animals 
indicate that rivaroxaban is secreted into milk. Therefore Xarelto is contraindicated during breast-
feeding (see section 4.3). A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from therapy.  
Fertility 
No specific studies with rivaroxaban in humans have been conducted to evaluate effects on fertility. In 
a study on male and female fertility in rats no effects were seen (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xarelto has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions like syncope 
(frequency: uncommon) and dizziness (frequency: common) have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Patients experiencing these adverse reactions should not drive or use machines. 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of rivaroxaban has been evaluated in thirteen pivotal phase III studies (see Table 1).  
Overall, 69,608 adult patients in nineteen phase III studies and 488 paediatric patients in two phase II 
and two phase III studies were exposed to rivaroxaban. 
Table 1: Number of patients studied, total daily dose and maximum treatment duration in adult 
and paediatric phase III studies 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
6,097 
10 mg 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of VTE in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) 
and prevention of recurrence 
3,997 
6,790 
Treatment of VTE and prevention 
of VTE recurrence in term neonates 
and children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
329 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients after an ACS 
7,750 
10,225 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients with CAD/PAD 
18,244 
3,256** 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
39 days 
39 days 
21 months 
12 months 
41 months 
31 months  
47 months 
42 months 
10 mg 
Day 1 - 21: 30 mg 
Day 22 and onwards: 
20 mg 
After at least 6 months: 
10 mg or 20 mg 
Body weight-adjusted 
dose to achieve a similar 
exposure as that observed 
in adults treated for DVT 
with 20 mg rivaroxaban 
once daily 
20 mg 
5 mg or 10 mg 
respectively, co-
administered with either 
ASA or ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA or 10 mg alone 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA 
* 
** 
Patients exposed to at least one dose of rivaroxaban 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving rivaroxaban were bleedings (see 
section 4.4. and ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below) (Table 2). The most commonly 
reported bleedings were epistaxis (4.5 %) and gastrointestinal tract haemorrhage (3.8 %). 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1% of patients 
12.6% of patients 
Any bleeding 
6.8% of patients 
Anaemia 
5.9% of patients 
Table 2: Bleeding* and anaemia events rates in patients exposed to rivaroxaban across the 
completed adult and paediatric phase III studies 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention 
of recurrence 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of 
VTE recurrence in term neonates and 
children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients after an ACS 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients with CAD/PAD 
2.5 per 100 patient 
years 
28 per 100 patient 
years 
39.5% of patients 
4.6% of patients 
1.6% of patients 
23% of patients 
22 per 100 patient 
years 
6.7 per 100 patient 
years 
8.38 per 100 patient 
years # 
1.4 per 100 patient 
years 
0.15 per 100 patient 
years**  
0.74 per 100 patient 
years*** # 
For all rivaroxaban studies all bleeding events are collected, reported and 
In the COMPASS study, there is a low anaemia incidence as a selective 
* 
adjudicated. 
**  
approach to adverse event collection was applied 
***  A selective approach to adverse event collection was applied 
# 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions reported with Xarelto in adult and paediatric patients are 
summarised in Table 3 below by system organ class (in MedDRA) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10)  
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)  
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
very rare (< 1/10,000)  
not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
97 
 
 
  
Uncommon 
Table 3: All adverse reactions reported in adult patients in phase III clinical studies or through 
post-marketing use* and in two phase II and two phase III studies in paediatric patients 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia (incl. 
respective 
laboratory 
parameters) 
Immune system disorders 
Thrombocytosis 
(incl. platelet count 
increased)A, 
thrombocytopenia 
Very rare 
Rare 
Allergic reaction, 
dermatitis allergic, 
angioedema and 
allergic oedema 
Anaphylactic 
reactions including 
anaphylactic shock  
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness, 
headache 
Cerebral and 
intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
syncope 
Eye disorders 
Eye haemorrhage 
(incl. conjunctival 
haemorrhage) 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia  
Dry mouth 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension, 
haematoma 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gingival bleeding, 
gastrointestinal 
tract haemorrhage 
(incl. rectal 
haemorrhage), 
gastrointestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
dyspepsia, nausea, 
constipationA, 
diarrhoea, 
vomitingA 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Increase in 
transaminases 
Hepatic 
impairment, 
increased bilirubin, 
increased blood 
alkaline 
phosphataseA, 
increased GGTA 
Jaundice, bilirubin 
conjugated 
increased (with or 
without 
concomitant 
increase of ALT), 
cholestasis, 
hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular 
injury) 
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis, DRESS 
syndrome  
Compartment 
syndrome 
secondary to a 
bleeding 
Renal failure/acute 
renal failure 
secondary to a 
bleeding sufficient 
to cause 
hypoperfusion, 
Anticoagulant-
related nephropathy 
Rare 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus (incl. 
uncommon cases of 
generalised 
pruritus), rash, 
ecchymosis, 
cutaneous and 
subcutaneous 
haemorrhage 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Pain in extremityA  Haemarthrosis 
Muscle 
haemorrhage 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Urogenital tract 
haemorrhage (incl. 
haematuria and 
menorrhagiaB), 
renal impairment 
(incl. blood 
creatinine 
increased, blood 
urea increased) 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
FeverA, peripheral 
Feeling unwell 
(incl. malaise)  
oedema, decreased 
general strength 
and energy (incl. 
fatigue and 
asthenia) 
Investigations 
Localised oedemaA   
Increased LDHA, 
increased lipaseA, 
increased amylaseA 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Vascular 
Postprocedural 
pseudoaneurysmC 
haemorrhage (incl. 
postoperative 
anaemia, and 
wound 
haemorrhage), 
contusion, wound 
secretionA 
A:   observed in prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery 
B:   observed in treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence as very common in women 
< 55 years 
C:   observed as uncommon in prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients after an ACS 
(following percutaneous coronary intervention) 
*   A pre-specified selective approach to adverse event collection was applied in selected phase III 
studies. The incidence of adverse reactions did not increase and no new adverse drug reaction 
was identified after analysis of these studies. 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Due to the pharmacological mode of action, the use of Xarelto may be associated with an increased 
risk of occult or overt bleeding from any tissue or organ which may result in post haemorrhagic 
anaemia. The signs, symptoms, and severity (including fatal outcome) will vary according to the 
location and degree or extent of the bleeding and/or anaemia (see section 4.9 “Management of 
bleeding”). In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito 
urinary including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more 
frequently during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to 
adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. The risk of bleedings may be increased in certain patient groups, e.g. those patients with 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or on concomitant treatment affecting haemostasis (see 
section 4.4 “Haemorrhagic risk”). Menstrual bleeding may be intensified and/or prolonged. 
Haemorrhagic complications may present as weakness, paleness, dizziness, headache or unexplained 
swelling, dyspnoea and unexplained shock. In some cases as a consequence of anaemia, symptoms of 
cardiac ischaemia like chest pain or angina pectoris have been observed.  
Known complications secondary to severe bleeding such as compartment syndrome and renal failure 
due to hypoperfusion, or anticoagulant-related nephropathy have been reported for Xarelto. Therefore, 
the possibility of haemorrhage is to be considered in evaluating the condition in any anticoagulated 
patient. 
Paediatric population  
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence 
The safety assessment in children and adolescents is based on the safety data from two phase II and 
one phase III open-label active controlled studies in paediatric patients aged birth to less than 18 years. 
The safety findings were generally similar between rivaroxaban and comparator in the various 
paediatric age groups. Overall, the safety profile in the 412 children and adolescents treated with 
rivaroxaban was similar to that observed in the adult population and consistent across age subgroups, 
although assessment is limited by the small number of patients.  
In paediatric patients, headache (very common, 16.7%), fever (very common, 11.7%), epistaxis (very 
common, 11.2%), vomiting (very common, 10.7%), tachycardia (common, 1.5%), increase in bilirubin 
(common, 1.5%) and bilirubin conjugated increased (uncommon, 0.7%) were reported more 
frequently as compared to adults. Consistent with adult population, menorrhagia was observed in 6.6% 
(common) of female adolescents after menarche. Thrombocytopenia as observed in the post-marketing 
experience in adult population was common (4.6%) in paediatric clinical studies. The adverse drug 
reactions in paediatric patients were primarily mild to moderate in severity. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
In adults, rare cases of overdose up to 1,960 mg have been reported. In case of overdose, the patient 
should be observed carefully for bleeding complications or other adverse reactions (see section 
“Management of bleeding”). There is limited data available in children. Due to limited absorption a 
ceiling effect with no further increase in average plasma exposure is expected at supratherapeutic 
doses of 50 mg rivaroxaban or above in adults, however, no data is available at supratherapeutic doses 
in children. 
A specific reversal agent (andexanet alfa) antagonising the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban is 
available for adults, but not established in children (refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of 
andexanet alfa). 
The use of activated charcoal to reduce absorption in case of rivaroxaban overdose may be considered.  
100 
 
 
 
 
 
Management of bleeding 
Should a bleeding complication arise in a patient receiving rivaroxaban, the next rivaroxaban 
administration should be delayed or treatment should be discontinued as appropriate. Rivaroxaban has 
a half-life of approximately 5 to 13 hours in adults. The half life in children estimated using population 
pharmacokinetic (popPK) modelling approaches is shorter (see section 5.2). Management should be 
individualised according to the severity and location of the haemorrhage. Appropriate symptomatic 
treatment could be used as needed, such as mechanical compression (e.g. for severe epistaxis), surgical 
haemostasis with bleeding control procedures, fluid replacement and haemodynamic support, blood 
products (packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma, depending on associated anaemia or coagulopathy) 
or platelets. 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, either the administration of a specific 
factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent (andexanet alfa), which antagonises the pharmacodynamic effect of 
rivaroxaban, or a specific procoagulant agent, such as prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), 
activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (r-FVIIa), should be 
considered. However, there is currently very limited clinical experience with the use of these 
medicinal products in adults and in children receiving rivaroxaban. The recommendation is also based 
on limited non-clinical data. Re-dosing of recombinant factor VIIa shall be considered and titrated 
depending on improvement of bleeding. Depending on local availability, a consultation with a 
coagulation expert should be considered in case of major bleedings (see section 5.1). 
Protamine sulphate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. 
There is limited experience with tranexamic acid and no experience with aminocaproic acid and 
aprotinin in adults receiving rivaroxaban. There is no experience on the use of these agents in children 
receiving rivaroxaban. There is neither scientific rationale for benefit nor experience with the use of 
the systemic haemostatic desmopressin in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. Due to the high plasma 
protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF01  
Mechanism of action 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of 
factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting 
both thrombin formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin 
(activated factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Dose-dependent inhibition of factor Xa activity was observed in humans. Prothrombin time (PT) is 
influenced by rivaroxaban in a dose dependent way with a close correlation to plasma concentrations 
(r value equals 0.98) if Neoplastin is used for the assay. Other reagents would provide different results. 
The readout for PT is to be done in seconds, because the INR is only calibrated and validated for 
coumarins and cannot be used for any other anticoagulant.  
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence, the 5/95 
percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 2 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the time of maximum effect) for 
15 mg rivaroxaban twice daily ranged from 17 to 32 s and for 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily from 15 
to 30 s. At trough (8 - 16 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles for 15 mg twice daily ranged from 
14 to 24 s and for 20 mg once daily (18 - 30 h after tablet intake) from 13 to 20 s. 
In patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation receiving rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism, the 5/95 percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 1 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the 
time of maximum effect) in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged from 14 to 40 s and in 
patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 10 to 50 s. At trough 
(16 - 36 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from 12 to 26 s and in patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 12 
to 26 s. 
In a clinical pharmacology study on the reversal of rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics in healthy adult 
subjects (n=22), the effects of single doses (50 IU/kg) of two different types of PCCs, a 3-factor PCC 
(Factors II, IX and X) and a 4-factor PCC (Factors II, VII, IX and X) were assessed. The 3-factor PCC 
reduced mean Neoplastin PT values by approximately 1.0 second within 30 minutes, compared to 
reductions of approximately 3.5 seconds observed with the 4-factor PCC. In contrast, the 3-factor PCC 
had a greater and more rapid overall effect on reversing changes in endogenous thrombin generation 
than the 4-factor PCC (see section 4.9). 
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and HepTest are also prolonged dose-dependently; 
however, they are not recommended to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban. There is no 
need for monitoring of coagulation parameters during treatment with rivaroxaban in clinical routine. 
However, if clinically indicated rivaroxaban levels can be measured by calibrated quantitative anti-
factor Xa tests (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
PT (neoplastin reagent), aPTT, and anti-Xa assay (with a calibrated quantitative test) display a close 
correlation to plasma concentrations in children. The correlation between anti-Xa to plasma 
concentrations is linear with a slope close to 1. Individual discrepancies with higher or lower anti-Xa 
values as compared to the corresponding plasma concentrations may occur. There is no need for 
routine monitoring of coagulation parameters during clinical treatment with rivaroxaban. However, if 
clinically indicated, rivaroxaban concentrations can be measured by calibrated quantitative 
anti-Factor Xa tests in mcg/L (see table 13 in section 5.2 for ranges of observed rivaroxaban plasma 
concentrations in children). The lower limit of quantifications must be considered when the anti-Xa 
test is used to quantify plasma concentrations of rivaroxaban in children. No threshold for efficacy or 
safety events has been established. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban for the 
prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation.  
In the pivotal double-blind ROCKET AF study, 14,264 patients were assigned either to rivaroxaban 
20 mg once daily (15 mg once daily in patients with creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) or to 
warfarin titrated to a target INR of 2.5 (therapeutic range 2.0 to 3.0). The median time on treatment 
was 19 months and overall treatment duration was up to 41 months.  
34.9% of patients were treated with acetylsalicylic acid and 11.4% were treated with class III 
antiarrhythmic including amiodarone.  
Rivaroxaban was non-inferior to warfarin for the primary composite endpoint of stroke and non-CNS 
systemic embolism. In the per-protocol population on treatment, stroke or systemic embolism occurred 
in 188 patients on rivaroxaban (1.71% per year) and 241 on warfarin (2.16% per year) (HR 0.79; 
95% CI, 0.66 - 0.96; P<0.001 for non-inferiority). Among all randomised patients analysed according 
to ITT, primary events occurred in 269 on rivaroxaban (2.12% per year) and 306 on warfarin (2.42% 
per year) (HR 0.88; 95% CI, 0.74 - 1.03; P<0.001 for non-inferiority; P=0.117 for superiority). Results 
for secondary endpoints as tested in hierarchical order in the ITT analysis are displayed in Table 4. 
Among patients in the warfarin group, INR values were within the therapeutic range (2.0 to 3.0) a 
mean of 55% of the time (median, 58%; interquartile range, 43 to 71). The effect of rivaroxaban did 
not differ across the level of centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized 
quartiles (P=0.74 for interaction). Within the highest quartile according to centre, the Hazard Ratio 
(HR) with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.74 (95% CI, 0.49 - 1.12). 
The incidence rates for the principal safety outcome (major and non-major clinically relevant bleeding 
events) were similar for both treatment groups (see Table 5). 
102 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy results from phase III ROCKET AF 
Study population 
Treatment dose 
Stroke and non-CNS 
systemic embolism 
Stroke, non-CNS systemic 
embolism and vascular 
death 
Stroke, non-CNS systemic 
embolism, vascular death 
and myocardial infarction 
Stroke 
Non-CNS systemic 
embolism 
Myocardial infarction 
Warfarin 
titrated to a target 
INR of 2.5 (therapeutic 
range 2.0 to 3.0) 
ITT analyses of efficacy in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation 
Rivaroxaban 
20 mg once daily  
(15 mg once daily in 
patients with moderate 
renal impairment) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
269 
(2.12) 
572 
(4.51) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
306 
(2.42) 
609 
(4.81) 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value, test for 
superiority 
0.88 (0.74 - 1.03) 
0.117 
0.94 (0.84 - 1.05) 
0.265 
659 
(5.24) 
253  
(1.99) 
20  
(0.16) 
130 
 (1.02) 
709 
(5.65) 
281 
(2.22) 
27 
(0.21) 
142 
(1.11) 
0.93 (0.83 - 1.03) 
0.158 
0.90 (0.76 - 1.07) 
0.221 
0.74 (0.42 - 1.32) 
0.308 
0.91 (0.72 - 1.16)  
0.464 
103 
 
 
Table 5: Safety results from phase III ROCKET AF 
Study population 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillationa) 
Rivaroxaban 
20 mg once daily  
(15 mg once daily in 
patients with moderate 
renal impairment) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
Warfarin 
titrated to a target INR 
of 2.5 (therapeutic 
range 2.0 to 3.0) 
Event rate (100 pt-yr) 
Treatment dose  
Major and non-major 
clinically relevant bleeding 
events 
1,475 
(14.91) 
395 
(3.60) 
27 
(0.24) 
91 
(0.82) 
55  
(0.49) 
305 
(2.77) 
183 
(1.65) 
Major bleeding events 
Death due to 
bleeding* 
Critical organ 
bleeding* 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage* 
Haemoglobin drop* 
Transfusion of 2 or 
more units of packed 
red blood cells or 
whole blood* 
Non-major clinically 
relevant bleeding events 
All-cause mortality 
1,185 
(11.80) 
208 
(1.87) 
Safety population, on treatment 
Nominally significant 
a) 
* 
HR (95% CI) 
p-value  
1.03 (0.96 - 1.11) 
0.442 
1.04 (0.90 - 1.20) 
0.576 
0.50 (0.31 - 0.79) 
0.003 
0.69 (0.53 - 0.91) 
0.007 
0.67 (0.47 - 0.93) 
0.019 
1.22 (1.03 - 1.44) 
0.019 
1.25 (1.01 - 1.55) 
0.044 
1.04 (0.96 - 1.13) 
0.345 
0.85 (0.70 - 1.02) 
0.073 
1,449 
(14.52) 
386 
(3.45) 
55 
(0.48) 
133 
(1.18) 
84 
(0.74) 
254 
(2.26) 
149 
(1.32) 
1,151 
(11.37) 
250 
(2.21) 
In addition to the phase III ROCKET AF study, a prospective, single-arm, post-authorisation, non-
interventional, open-label cohort study (XANTUS) with central outcome adjudication including 
thromboembolic events and major bleeding has been conducted. 6,704 patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation were enrolled for prevention of stroke and non-central nervous system (CNS) 
systemic embolism in clinical practice. The mean CHADS2 score was 1.9 and HAS-BLED score was 
2.0 in XANTUS, compared to a mean CHADS2 and HAS-BLED score of 3.5 and 2.8 in ROCKET AF, 
respectively. Major bleeding occurred in 2.1 per 100 patient years. Fatal haemorrhage was reported in 
0.2 per 100 patient years and intracranial haemorrhage in 0.4 per 100 patient years. Stroke or non-CNS 
systemic embolism was recorded in 0.8 per 100 patient years.  
These observations in clinical practice are consistent with the established safety profile in this 
indication. 
In a post-authorisation, non-interventional study, in more than 162,000 patients from four countries, 
rivaroxaban was prescribed for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation. The event rate for ischaemic stroke was 0.70 (95% CI 0.44 - 1.13) per 
100 patient-years. Bleeding resulting in hospitalisation occurred at event rates per 100 patient-years of 
0.43 (95% CI 0.31 - 0.59) for intracranial bleeding, 1.04 (95% CI 0.65 - 1.66) for gastrointestinal 
bleeding, 0.41 (95% CI 0.31 - 0.53) for urogenital bleeding and 0.40 (95% CI 0.25 - 0.65) for other 
bleeding. 
Patients undergoing cardioversion 
A prospective, randomised, open-label, multicentre, exploratory study with blinded endpoint 
evaluation (X-VERT) was conducted in 1504 patients (oral anticoagulant naive and pre-treated) with 
non-valvular atrial fibrillation scheduled for cardioversion to compare rivaroxaban with dose-adjusted 
104 
 
 
 
 
VKA (randomised 2:1), for the prevention of cardiovascular events. TEE- guided (1 - 5 days of pre-
treatment) or conventional cardioversion (at least three weeks of pre-treatment) strategies were 
employed. The primary efficacy outcome (all stroke, transient ischaemic attack, non-CNS systemic 
embolism, myocardial infarction (MI) and cardiovascular death) occurred in 5 (0.5%) patients in the 
rivaroxaban group (n = 978) and 5 (1.0%) patients in the VKA group (n = 492; RR 0.50; 95% CI 0.15-
1.73; modified ITT population). The principal safety outcome (major bleeding) occurred in 6 (0.6%) 
and 4 (0.8%) patients in the rivaroxaban (n = 988) and VKA (n = 499) groups, respectively (RR 0.76; 
95 % CI 0.21-2.67; safety population). This exploratory study showed comparable efficacy and safety 
between rivaroxaban and VKA treatment groups in the setting of cardioversion. 
Patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who undergo PCI with stent placement 
A randomised, open-label, multicentre study (PIONEER AF-PCI) was conducted in 2,124 patients 
with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who underwent PCI with stent placement for primary 
atherosclerotic disease to compare safety of two rivaroxaban regimens and one VKA regimen. Patients 
were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 fashion for an overall 12-month-therapy. Patients with a history of 
stroke or TIA were excluded.  
Group 1 received rivaroxaban 15 mg once daily (10 mg once daily in patients with creatinine 
clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) plus P2Y12 inhibitor. Group 2 received rivaroxaban 2.5 mg twice daily plus 
DAPT (dual antiplatelet therapy i.e. clopidogrel 75 mg [or alternate P2Y12 inhibitor] plus low-dose 
acetylsalicylic acid [ASA]) for 1, 6 or 12 months followed by rivaroxaban 15 mg (or 10 mg for 
subjects with creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) once daily plus low-dose ASA. Group 3 received 
dose-adjusted VKA plus DAPT for 1, 6 or 12 months followed by dose-adjusted VKA plus low-dose 
ASA.  
The primary safety endpoint, clinically significant bleeding events, occurred in 109 (15.7%), 117 
(16.6%), and 167 (24.0%) subjects in group 1, group 2 and group 3, respectively (HR 0.59; 95% CI 
0.47-0.76; p<0.001, and HR 0.63; 95% CI 0.50-0.80; p<0.001, respectively). The secondary endpoint 
(composite of cardiovascular events CV death, MI, or stroke) occurred in 41 (5.9%), 36 (5.1%), and 
36 (5.2%) subjects in the group 1, group 2 and group 3, respectively. Each of the rivaroxaban 
regimens showed a significant reduction in clinically significant bleeding events compared to the 
VKA regimen in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation who underwent a PCI with stent 
placement. 
The primary objective of PIONEER AF-PCI was to assess safety. Data on efficacy (including 
thromboembolic events) in this population are limited. 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE  
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban in the 
initial and continued treatment of acute DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence. 
Over 12,800 patients were studied in four randomised controlled phase III clinical studies (Einstein 
DVT, Einstein PE, Einstein Extension and Einstein Choice) and additionally a predefined pooled 
analysis of the Einstein DVT and Einstein PE studies was conducted. The overall combined treatment 
duration in all studies was up to 21 months. 
In Einstein DVT 3,449 patients with acute DVT were studied for the treatment of DVT and the 
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE (patients who presented with symptomatic PE were excluded 
from this study). The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial 3 week treatment of acute DVT 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily. This 
was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
In Einstein PE, 4,832 patients with acute PE were studied for the treatment of PE and the prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial treatment of acute PE 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily for three weeks. 
This was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily. 
In both the Einstein DVT and the Einstein PE study, the comparator treatment regimen consisted of 
enoxaparin administered for at least 5 days in combination with vitamin K antagonist treatment until 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
the PT/INR was in therapeutic range ( 2.0). Treatment was continued with a vitamin K antagonist 
dose-adjusted to maintain the PT/INR values within the therapeutic range of 2.0 to 3.0. 
In Einstein Extension 1,197 patients with DVT or PE were studied for the prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for an additional 6 or 12 months in patients who had 
completed 6 to 12 months of treatment for venous thromboembolism depending on the clinical 
judgment of the investigator. Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily was compared with placebo.  
Einstein DVT, PE and Extension used the same pre-defined primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE. The secondary efficacy outcome was defined as the composite of 
recurrent DVT, non-fatal PE and all-cause mortality.  
In Einstein Choice, 3,396 patients with confirmed symptomatic DVT and/or PE who completed 6-
12 months of anticoagulant treatment were studied for the prevention of fatal PE or non-fatal 
symptomatic recurrent DVT or PE. Patients with an indication for continued therapeutic-dosed 
anticoagulation were excluded from the study. The treatment duration was up to 12 months depending 
on the individual randomisation date (median: 351 days). Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily and 
Rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily were compared with 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid once daily.  
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE.  
In the Einstein DVT study (see Table 6) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p < 0.0001 (test for non-inferiority); HR: 0.680 
(0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 (test for superiority)). The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy 
outcome plus major bleeding events) was reported with a HR of 0.67 ((95% CI: 0.47 - 0.95), nominal 
p value p=0.027) in favour of rivaroxaban. INR values were within the therapeutic range a mean of 
60.3% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 189 days, and 55.4%, 60.1%, and 62.8% of the 
time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration groups, respectively. In the 
enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of mean centre TTR (Time in 
Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the incidence of the recurrent VTE 
(P=0.932 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to centre, the HR with rivaroxaban 
versus warfarin was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.35 - 1.35). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) as well as the secondary safety outcome (major bleeding events) were similar for both 
treatment groups. 
Table 6: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein DVT 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,718 
51 
(3.0%) 
18 
(1.0%) 
28 
(1.6%) 
3,449 patients with symptomatic acute deep vein 
thrombosis 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,731 
36 
(2.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
1 
(0.1%) 
4 
(0.2%) 
139 
(8.1%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
6 
(0.3%) 
138 
(8.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
0 
a) 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
106 
 
 
 
 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
3,449 patients with symptomatic acute deep vein 
thrombosis 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,731 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 0.680 (0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 
(superiority) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,718 
b) 
* 
In the Einstein PE study (see Table 7) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p=0.0026 (test for non-inferiority); HR: 1.123 
(0.749 - 1.684)). The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding 
events) was reported with a HR of 0.849 ((95% CI: 0.633 - 1.139), nominal p value p= 0.275). INR 
values were within the therapeutic range a mean of 63% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 
215 days, and 57%, 62%, and 65% of the time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration 
groups, respectively. In the enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of 
mean centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the 
incidence of the recurrent VTE (p=0.082 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to 
centre, the HR with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.642 (95% CI: 0.277 - 1.484). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) were slightly lower in the rivaroxaban treatment group (10.3% (249/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA treatment group (11.4% (274/2405)). The incidence of the secondary safety outcome 
(major bleeding events) was lower in the rivaroxaban group (1.1% (26/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA group (2.2% (52/2405)) with a HR 0.493 (95% CI: 0.308 - 0.789). 
Table 7: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
4,832 patients with an acute symptomatic PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,419 
50 
(2.1%) 
23 
(1.0%) 
18 
(0.7%) 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
0 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
11 
(0.5%) 
249 
(10.3%) 
26 
(1.1%) 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0026 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 1.123 (0.749 - 1.684)  
A prespecified pooled analysis of the outcome of the Einstein DVT and PE studies was conducted (see 
Table 8). 
107 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,413 
44 
(1.8%) 
20 
(0.8%) 
17 
(0.7%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
7 
(0.3%) 
274 
(11.4%) 
52 
(2.2%) 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Efficacy and safety results from pooled analysis of phase III Einstein DVT and Einstein 
PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
8,281 patients with an acute symptomatic DVT or PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,150 
86 
(2.1%) 
43 
(1.0%) 
32 
(0.8%) 
1 
(<0.1%) 
15 
(0.4%) 
388 
(9.4%) 
40 
(1.0%) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,131 
95 
(2.3%) 
38 
(0.9%) 
45 
(1.1%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
13 
(0.3%) 
412 
(10.0%) 
72 
(1.7%) 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 1.75); HR: 0.886 (0.661 - 1.186) 
The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding events) of the 
pooled analysis was reported with a HR of 0.771 ((95% CI: 0.614 - 0.967), nominal p value 
p = 0.0244). 
In the Einstein Extension study (see Table 9) rivaroxaban was superior to placebo for the primary and 
secondary efficacy outcomes. For the primary safety outcome (major bleeding events) there was a 
non-significant numerically higher incidence rate for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once 
daily compared to placebo. The secondary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding events) showed higher rates for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily compared 
to placebo.  
Table 9: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Extension 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major bleeding events 
1,197 patients continued treatment and prevention 
of recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban a)  
Placebo 
6 or 12 months 
6 or 12 months 
N=594 
N=602 
42 
8 
(7.1%) 
(1.3%) 
13 
2 
(2.2%) 
(0.3%) 
31 
5 
(5.2%) 
(0.8%) 
1 
1 
(0.2%) 
(0.2%) 
0 
4 
(0.0%) 
(0.7%) 
7 
32 
(1.2%) 
(5.4%) 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
a) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily 
p < 0.0001 (superiority), HR: 0.185 (0.087 - 0.393) 
108 
 
 
 
 
In the Einstein Choice study (see Table 10) rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg were both superior to 100 
mg acetylsalicylic acid for the primary efficacy outcome. The principal safety outcome (major 
bleeding events) was similar for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg once daily 
compared to 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid.  
Table 10: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Choice 
Study population 
Treatment dose  
Treatment duration median 
[interquartile range] 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE, 
MI, stroke, or non-CNS 
systemic embolism 
Major bleeding events 
3,396 patients continued prevention of 
recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg 
once daily 
N=1,107 
Rivaroxaban 10 
mg once daily 
N=1,127 
ASA 100 mg once 
daily 
N=1,131 
349 [189-362] days 
353 [190-362] days 
350 [186-362] days 
17 
(1.5%)* 
6 
(0.5%) 
9 
(0.8%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
13 
(1.2%)** 
6 
(0.5%) 
8 
(0.7%) 
0 
(0.0%) 
18 
(1.6%) 
50 
(4.4%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
30 
(2.7%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
56 
(5.0%) 
6 
(0.5%) 
30  
(2.7) 
5 
(0.4%) 
22  
(2.0) 
3 
(0.3%) 
20  
(1.8) 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
or major bleeding (net 
clinical benefit) 
*   p<0.001(superiority) rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.34 (0.20-0.59) 
**  p<0.001 (superiority) rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.26 (0.14-0.47) 
+   Rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.44 (0.27-0.71), p=0.0009 (nominal)  
++   Rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.32 (0.18-0.55), p<0.0001 (nominal) 
17  
(1.5%)++ 
23  
(2.1%)+ 
53  
(4.7%) 
In addition to the phase III EINSTEIN programme, a prospective, non-interventional, open-label 
cohort study (XALIA) with central outcome adjudication including recurrent VTE, major bleeding and 
death has been conducted. 5,142 patients with acute DVT were enrolled to investigate the long-term 
safety of rivaroxaban compared with standard-of-care anticoagulation therapy in clinical practice. 
Rates of major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality for rivaroxaban were 0.7%, 1.4% and 
0.5%, respectively. There were differences in patient baseline characteristics including age, cancer and 
renal impairment. A pre-specified propensity score stratified analysis was used to adjust for measured 
baseline differences but residual confounding may, in spite of this, influence the results. Adjusted HRs 
comparing rivaroxaban and standard-of-care for major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality 
were 0.77 (95% CI 0.40 - 1.50), 0.91 (95% CI 0.54 - 1.54) and 0.51 (95% CI 0.24 - 1.07), respectively.  
These results in clinical practice are consistent with the established safety profile in this indication. 
In a post-authorisation, non-interventional study, in more than 40,000 patients without a history of 
cancer from four countries, rivaroxaban was prescribed for the treatment or prevention of DVT and 
PE. The event rates per 100 patient-years for symptomatic/clinically apparent VTE/thromboembolic 
events leading to hospitalisation ranged from 0.64 (95% CI 0.40 - 0.97) in the UK to 2.30 (95% CI 
2.11 - 2.51) for Germany. Bleeding resulting in hospitalisation occurred at event rates per 100 patient-
years of 0.31 (95% CI 0.23 - 0.42) for intracranial bleeding, 0.89 (95% CI 0.67 - 1.17) for 
gastrointestinal bleeding, 0.44 (95% CI 0.26 - 0.74) for urogenital bleeding and 0.41 (95% CI 
0.31 - 0.54) for other bleeding. 
109 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence in paediatric patients  
A total of 727 children with confirmed acute VTE, of whom 528 received rivaroxaban, were studied in 
6 open-label, multicentre paediatric studies. Body weight-adjusted dosing in patients from birth to less 
than 18 years resulted in rivaroxaban exposure similar to that observed in adult DVT patients treated 
with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily as confirmed in the phase III study (see section 5.2).  
The EINSTEIN Junior phase III study was a randomised, active-controlled, open-label multicentre 
clinical study in 500 paediatric patients (aged from birth to < 18 years) with confirmed acute VTE. 
There were 276 children aged 12 to < 18 years, 101 children aged 6 to < 12 years, 69 children aged 2 
to < 6 years, and 54 children aged < 2 years.  
Index VTE was classified as either central venous catheter-related VTE (CVC-VTE; 90/335 patients 
in the rivaroxaban group, 37/165 patients in the comparator group), cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis 
(CVST; 74/335 patients in the rivaroxaban group, 43/165 patients in the comparator group), and all 
others including DVT and PE (non-CVC-VTE; 171/335 patients in the rivaroxaban group, 
85/165 patients in the comparator group). The most common presentation of index thrombosis in 
children aged 12 to < 18 years was non-CVC-VTE in 211 (76.4%); in children aged 6 to < 12 years 
and aged 2 to < 6 years was CVST in 48 (47.5%) and 35 (50.7%), respectively; and in children aged 
< 2 years was CVC-VTE in 37 (68.5%). There were no children < 6 months with CVST in the 
rivaroxaban group. 22 of the patients with CVST had a CNS infection (13 patients in the rivaroxaban 
group and 9 patients in comparator group). 
VTE was provoked by persistent, transient, or both persistent and transient risk factors in 438 (87.6%) 
children.  
Patients received initial treatment with therapeutic doses of UFH, LMWH, or fondaparinux for at least 
5 days, and were randomised 2:1 to receive either body weight-adjusted doses of rivaroxaban or 
comparator group (heparins, VKA) for a main study treatment period of 3 months (1 month for 
children < 2 years with CVC-VTE). At the end of the main study treatment period, the diagnostic 
imaging test, which was obtained at baseline, was repeated, if clinically feasible. The study treatment 
could be stopped at this point, or at the discretion of the Investigator continued for up to 12 months 
(for children <2 years with CVC-VTE up to 3 months) in total. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE. The primary safety outcome was the 
composite of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding (CRNMB). All efficacy and 
safety outcomes were centrally adjudicated by an independent committee blinded for treatment 
allocation. The efficacy and safety results are shown in Tables 11 and 12 below. 
Recurrent VTEs occurred in the rivaroxaban group in 4 of 335 patients and in the comparator group in 
5 of 165 patients. The composite of major bleeding and CRNMB was reported in 10 of 329 patients 
(3%) treated with rivaroxaban and in 3 of 162 patients (1.9%) treated with comparator. Net clinical 
benefit (symptomatic recurrent VTE plus major bleeding events) was reported in the rivaroxaban 
group in 4 of 335 patients and in the comparator group in 7 of 165 patients. Normalisation of the 
thrombus burden on repeat imaging occurred in 128 of 335 patients with rivaroxaban treatment and in 
43 of 165 patients in the comparator group. These findings were generally similar among age groups. 
There were 119 (36.2%) children with any treatment-emergent bleeding in the rivaroxaban group and 
45 (27.8%) children in the comparator group. 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 11: Efficacy results at the end of the main treatment period  
Event 
Recurrent VTE (primary efficacy outcome) 
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + 
asymptomatic deterioration on repeat imaging 
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + 
asymptomatic deterioration + no change on repeat 
imaging 
Normalisation on repeat imaging  
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + major 
bleeding (net clinical benefit) 
Fatal or non-fatal pulmonary embolism 
Rivaroxaban  
N=335* 
4 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.4% – 3.0%) 
5 
(1.5%, 95% CI 
0.6% – 3.4%) 
21 
(6.3%, 95% CI 
4.0% – 9.2%) 
128 
(38.2%, 95% CI 
33.0% - 43.5%) 
4 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.4% - 3.0%) 
1 
(0.3%, 95% CI 
0.0% – 1.6%) 
Comparator 
N=165* 
5 
(3.0%, 95% CI 
1.2% - 6.6%) 
6 
(3.6%, 95% CI 
1.6% – 7.6%) 
19 
(11.5%, 95% CI 
7.3% – 17.4%) 
43 
(26.1%, 95% CI 
19.8% - 33.0%) 
7 
(4.2%, 95% CI 
2.0% - 8.4%) 
1 
(0.6%, 95% CI 
0.0% – 3.1%) 
* 
FAS= full analysis set, all children who were randomised 
Table 12: Safety results at the end of the main treatment period  
Composite: Major bleeding + CRNMB (primary safety 
outcome) 
Major bleeding 
Rivaroxaban  
N=329* 
10 
(3.0%, 95% CI 
1.6% - 5.5%) 
0 
(0.0%, 95% CI 
0.0% - 1.1%) 
119 (36.2%) 
Comparator 
N=162* 
3 
(1.9%, 95% CI 
0.5% - 5.3%) 
2 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.2% - 4.3%) 
45 (27.8%) 
Any treatment-emergent bleedings 
* 
medicinal product 
SAF = safety analysis set, all children who were randomised and received at least 1 dose of study 
The efficacy and safety profile of rivaroxaban was largely similar between the paediatric VTE 
population and the DVT/PE adult population, however, the proportion of subjects with any bleeding 
was higher in the paediatric VTE population as compared to the DVT/PE adult population. 
Patients with high risk triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome 
In an investigator sponsored, randomised open-label multicentre study with blinded endpoint 
adjudication, rivaroxaban was compared to warfarin in patients with a history of thrombosis, 
diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome and at high risk for thromboembolic events (positive for 
all 3 antiphospholipid tests: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies). The study was terminated prematurely after the enrolment of 
120 patients due to an excess of events among patients in the rivaroxaban arm. Mean follow-up was 
569 days. 59 patients were randomised to rivaroxaban 20 mg (15 mg for patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) < 50 mL/min) and 61 to warfarin (INR 2.0-3.0). Thromboembolic events occurred in 
12% of patients randomised to rivaroxaban (4 ischaemic strokes and 3 myocardial infarctions). No 
events were reported in patients randomised to warfarin. Major bleeding occurred in 4 patients (7%) 
of the rivaroxaban group and 2 patients (3%) of the warfarin group. 
111 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Xarelto in all subsets of the paediatric population in the prevention of thromboembolic events (see 
section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The following information is based on the data obtained in adults.  
Rivaroxaban is rapidly absorbed with maximum concentrations (Cmax) appearing 2 - 4 hours after 
tablet intake.  
Oral absorption of rivaroxaban is almost complete and oral bioavailability is high (80 - 100%) for the 
2.5 mg and 10 mg tablet dose, irrespective of fasting/fed conditions. Intake with food does not affect 
rivaroxaban AUC or Cmax at the 2.5 mg and 10 mg dose.  
Due to a reduced extent of absorption an oral bioavailability of 66% was determined for the 20 mg 
tablet under fasting conditions. When rivaroxaban 20 mg tablets are taken together with food increases 
in mean AUC by 39% were observed when compared to tablet intake under fasting conditions, 
indicating almost complete absorption and high oral bioavailability. Rivaroxaban 15 mg and 20 mg are 
to be taken with food (see section 4.2). 
Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg once daily in fasting state. 
Under fed conditions rivaroxaban 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg tablets demonstrated dose-proportionality. 
At higher doses rivaroxaban displays dissolution limited absorption with decreased bioavailability and 
decreased absorption rate with increased dose.  
Variability in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics is moderate with inter-individual variability (CV%) 
ranging from 30% to 40%. 
Absorption of rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of its release in the gastrointestinal tract. A 29% 
and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax compared to tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is 
released in the proximal small intestine. Exposure is further reduced when rivaroxaban is released in 
the distal small intestine, or ascending colon. Therefore, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the 
stomach should be avoided since this can result in reduced absorption and related rivaroxaban 
exposure. 
Bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) was comparable for 20 mg rivaroxaban administered orally as a 
crushed tablet mixed in apple puree, or suspended in water and administered via a gastric tube 
followed by a liquid meal, compared to a whole tablet. Given the predictable, dose-proportional 
pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban, the bioavailability results from this study are likely applicable 
to lower rivaroxaban doses. 
Paediatric population 
Children received rivaroxaban tablet or oral suspension during or closely after feeding or food intake 
and with a typical serving of liquid to ensure reliable dosing in children. As in adults, rivaroxaban is 
readily absorbed after oral administration as tablet or granules for oral suspension formulation in 
children. No difference in the absorption rate nor in the extent of absorption between the tablet and 
granules for oral suspension formulation was observed. No PK data following intravenous 
administration to children are available so that the absolute bioavailability of rivaroxaban in children is 
unknown. A decrease in the relative bioavailability for increasing doses (in mg/kg bodyweight) was 
found, suggesting absorption limitations for higher doses, even when taken together with food. 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg tablets should be taken with feeding or with food (see section 4.2).  
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding in adults is high at approximately 92% to 95%, with serum albumin being the 
main binding component. The volume of distribution is moderate with Vss being approximately 
50 litres. 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
No data on rivaroxaban plasma protein binding specific to children is available. No PK data following 
intravenous administration of rivaroxaban to children is available. Vss estimated via population PK 
modelling in children (age range 0 to < 18 years) following oral administration of rivaroxaban is 
dependent on body weight and can be described with an allometric function, with an average of 113 L 
for a subject with a body weight of 82.8 kg. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
In adults, of the administered rivaroxaban dose, approximately 2/3 undergoes metabolic degradation, 
with half then being eliminated renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 
of the administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the urine, 
mainly via active renal secretion. 
Rivaroxaban is metabolised via CYP3A4, CYP2J2 and CYP-independent mechanisms. Oxidative 
degradation of the morpholinone moiety and hydrolysis of the amide bonds are the major sites of 
biotransformation. Based on in vitro investigations rivaroxaban is a substrate of the transporter 
proteins P-gp (P-glycoprotein) and Bcrp (breast cancer resistance protein). 
Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important compound in human plasma, with no major or active 
circulating metabolites being present. With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be 
classified as a low-clearance substance. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the 
elimination half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration the elimination becomes absorption 
rate limited. Elimination of rivaroxaban from plasma occurs with terminal half-lives of 5 to 9 hours in 
young individuals, and with terminal half-lives of 11 to 13 hours in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
No metabolism data specific to children is available. No PK data following intravenous administration 
of rivaroxaban to children is available. CL estimated via population PK modelling in children (age 
range 0 to < 18 years) following oral administration of rivaroxaban is dependent on body weight and 
can be described with an allometric function, with an average of 8 L/h for a subject with body weight 
of 82.8 kg. The geometric mean values for disposition half-lives (t1/2) estimated via population PK 
modelling decrease with decreasing age and ranged from 4.2 h in adolescents to approximately 3 h in 
children aged 2-12 years down to 1.9 and 1.6 h in children aged 0.5-< 2 years and less than 0.5 years, 
respectively. 
Special populations 
Gender 
In adults, there were no clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
between male and female patients. An exploratory analysis did not reveal relevant differences in 
rivaroxaban exposure between male and female children. 
Elderly population 
Elderly patients exhibited higher plasma concentrations than younger patients, with mean AUC values 
being approximately 1.5 fold higher, mainly due to reduced (apparent) total and renal clearance. No 
dose adjustment is necessary. 
Different weight categories 
In adults, extremes in body weight (< 50 kg or > 120 kg) had only a small influence on rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations (less than 25%). No dose adjustment is necessary.  
In children, rivaroxaban is dosed based on body weight. An exploratory analysis did not reveal a 
relevant impact of underweight or obesity on rivaroxaban exposure in children. 
Inter-ethnic differences 
In adults, no clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences among Caucasian, African-American, 
Hispanic, Japanese or Chinese patients were observed regarding rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics.  
An exploratory analysis did not reveal relevant inter-ethnic differences in rivaroxaban exposure among 
Japanese, Chinese or Asian children outside Japan and China compared to the respective overall 
paediatric population. 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Cirrhotic adult patients with mild hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh A) exhibited only 
minor changes in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), 
nearly comparable to their matched healthy control group. In cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (classified as Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban mean AUC was significantly increased by 
2.3 fold compared to healthy volunteers. Unbound AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also 
had reduced renal elimination of rivaroxaban, similar to patients with moderate renal impairment. 
There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
The inhibition of factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 2.6 in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment as compared to healthy volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor 
of 2.1. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment were more sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a 
steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Rivaroxaban is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and 
clinically relevant bleeding risk, including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see 
section 4.3). 
No clinical data is available in children with hepatic impairment. 
Renal impairment 
In adults, there was an increase in rivaroxaban exposure correlated to decrease in renal function, as 
assessed via creatinine clearance measurements. In individuals with mild (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 ml/min), moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) and severe (creatinine clearance 
15 - 29 ml/min) renal impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were increased 1.4, 1.5 
and 1.6 fold respectively. Corresponding increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more 
pronounced. In individuals with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of 
factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively as compared to healthy 
volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. 
There are no data in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. Rivaroxaban is to be used 
with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min (see section 4.4). 
No clinical data is available in children 1 year or older with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2). 
Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of acute DVT 20 mg once daily the geometric mean 
concentration (90% prediction interval) 2 - 4 h and about 24 h after dose (roughly representing 
maximum and minimum concentrations during the dose interval) was 215 (22 - 535) and 
32 (6 - 239) mcg/l, respectively. 
In paediatric patients with acute VTE receiving body weight-adjusted rivaroxaban leading to an 
exposure similar to that in adult DVT patients receiving a 20 mg once daily dose, the geometric mean 
concentrations (90% interval) at sampling time intervals roughly representing maximum and minimum 
concentrations during the dose interval are summarised in Table 13.  
114 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13: Summary statistics (geometric mean (90% interval)) of rivaroxaban steady state 
plasma concentrations (mcg/L) by dosing regimen and age 
Time 
intervals 
o.d. 
N 
12 -
< 18 years 
N 
6 -< 12 years 
2.5-4h post 
171  241.5  
(105-484) 
20-24h post 
151  20.6 
24 
24 
b.i.d. 
2.5-4h post 
N 
36 
10-16h post 
33 
t.i.d. 
0.5-3h post 
7-8h post 
N 
5 
5 
(5.69-66.5) 
6 -< 12 years  N 
38 
145.4  
(46.0-343) 
26.0  
(7.99-94.9) 
2 -< 6 years 
37 
N 
164.7  
(108-283) 
33.2  
(18.7-99.7) 
25 
23 
229.7  
(91.5-777) 
15.9  
(3.42-45.5)  
2 -< 6 years 
171.8  
(70.7-438) 
22.2  
(0.25-127) 
Birth -
< 2 years 
111.2  
(22.9-320) 
18.7  
(10.1-36.5) 
N   0.5 -< 2 years 
2 
n.c. 
3 
N 
10.7  
(n.c.-n.c.) 
0.5 -< 2 years  N  Birth -
< 0.5 years 
13  114.3  
12  108.0  
(22.9-346) 
(19.2-320) 
12  21.4  
11  16.1  
(10.5-65.6) 
(1.03-33.6) 
o.d. = once daily, b.i.d. = twice daily, t.i.d. three times daily, n.c. = not calculated 
Values below lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) were substituted by 1/2 LLOQ for the calculation of 
statistics (LLOQ = 0.5 mcg/L). 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship between rivaroxaban plasma 
concentration and several PD endpoints (factor Xa inhibition, PT, aPTT, Heptest) has been evaluated 
after administration of a wide range of doses (5 - 30 mg twice a day). The relationship between 
rivaroxaban concentration and factor Xa activity was best described by an Emax model. For PT, the 
linear intercept model generally described the data better. Depending on the different PT reagents 
used, the slope differed considerably. When Neoplastin PT was used, baseline PT was about 13 s and 
the slope was around 3 to 4 s/(100 mcg/l). The results of the PK/PD analyses in Phase II and III were 
consistent with the data established in healthy subjects.  
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in the indication prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation for children and adolescents up to 18 years.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, phototoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and juvenile 
toxicity. 
Effects observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies were mainly due to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
activity of rivaroxaban. In rats, increased IgG and IgA plasma levels were seen at clinically relevant 
exposure levels. 
In rats, no effects on male or female fertility were seen. Animal studies have shown reproductive 
toxicity related to the pharmacological mode of action of rivaroxaban (e.g. haemorrhagic 
complications). Embryo-foetal toxicity (post-implantation loss, retarded/progressed ossification, 
hepatic multiple light coloured spots) and an increased incidence of common malformations as well as 
placental changes were observed at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. In the pre- and post-
natal study in rats, reduced viability of the offspring was observed at doses that were toxic to the dams. 
Rivaroxaban was tested in juvenile rats up to 3-month treatment duration starting at postnatal day 4 
showing a non dose-related increase in periinsular haemorrhage. No evidence of target organ-specific 
toxicity was seen.  
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coat 
Macrogol (3350) 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
Iron oxide red (E 172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed rivaroxaban tablets are stable in water and in apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Cartons containing 10, 14, 28 or 98 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil blisters.  
Cartons containing 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 film-coated tablets in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose blisters.  
Multipacks containing 10 packs of 10 x 1 (100 film-coated tablets) in PP/Alu foil perforated unit dose 
blisters.  
Cartons containing 14 film-coated tablets in PVC/PVDC/Alu foil blisters . 
HDPE bottles with a PP screw cap containing 100 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Crushing of tablets 
Rivaroxaban tablets may be crushed and suspended in 50 mL of water and administered via a 
nasogastric tube or gastric feeding tube after confirming gastric placement of the tube. Afterwards, the 
tube should be flushed with water. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on the site of active 
substance release, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the stomach should be avoided, as this can 
result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced active substance exposure. After the administration 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of a crushed rivaroxaban 15 mg or 20 mg tablet, the dose should then be immediately followed by 
enteral feeding. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/017-021, EU/1/08/472/024, EU/1/08/472/037, EU/1/08/472/039, EU/1/08/472/049. 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 September 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment Initiation Pack 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each 15 mg film-coated tablet contains 15 mg rivaroxaban.  
Each 20 mg film-coated tablet contains 20 mg rivaroxaban.  
Excipient with known effect 
Each 15 mg film-coated tablet contains 24.13 mg lactose (as monohydrate), see section 4.4. 
Each 20 mg film-coated tablet contains 21.76 mg lactose (as monohydrate), see section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet)  
15 mg film-coated tablet: red, round biconvex tablets (6 mm diameter, 9 mm radius of curvature) 
marked with the BAYER-cross on one side and “15” and a triangle on the other side.  
20 mg film-coated tablet: brown-red, round biconvex tablets (6 mm diameter, 9 mm radius of 
curvature) marked with the BAYER-cross on one side and “20” and a triangle on the other side. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE in adults. (See section 4.4 for haemodynamically unstable PE patients.) 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
Treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE 
The recommended dose for the initial treatment of acute DVT or PE is 15 mg twice daily for the first 
three weeks followed by 20 mg once daily for the continued treatment and prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE.  
Short duration of therapy (at least 3 months) should be considered in patients with DVT or PE 
provoked by major transient risk factors (i.e. recent major surgery or trauma). Longer duration of 
therapy should be considered in patients with provoked DVT or PE not related to major transient risk 
factors, unprovoked DVT or PE, or a history of recurrent DVT or PE.   
When extended prevention of recurrent DVT and PE is indicated (following completion of at least 
6 months therapy for DVT or PE), the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily. In patients in whom 
the risk of recurrent DVT or PE is considered high, such as those with complicated comorbidities, or 
who have developed recurrent DVT or PE on extended prevention with Xarelto 10 mg once daily, a 
dose of Xarelto 20 mg once daily should be considered. 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The duration of therapy and dose selection should be individualised after careful assessment of the 
treatment benefit against the risk for bleeding (see section 4.4).  
Treatment and 
prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE 
Prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE  
Time period 
Day 1 - 21 
Dosing schedule 
15 mg twice daily  
Total daily dose 
30 mg 
Day 22 onwards 
20 mg once daily  
20 mg 
Following completion 
of at least 6 months 
therapy for DVT or PE 
10 mg once daily or  
20 mg once daily  
10 mg  
or 20 mg 
The 4-week treatment initiation pack of Xarelto is dedicated to patients who will transition from 
15 mg twice daily to 20 mg once daily from Day 22 onwards (see section 6.5). 
For patients with moderate or severe renal impairment where the decision has been taken for 15 mg 
once daily from Day 22 onwards, other pack sizes only containing 15 mg film-coated tablets are 
available (see dosing instructions in section “Special populations” below). 
If a dose is missed during the 15 mg twice daily treatment phase (day 1 - 21), the patient should take 
Xarelto immediately to ensure intake of 30 mg Xarelto per day. In this case two 15 mg tablets may be 
taken at once. The patient should continue with the regular 15 mg twice daily intake as recommended 
on the following day.  
If a dose is missed during the once daily treatment phase, the patient should take Xarelto immediately, 
and continue on the following day with the once daily intake as recommended. The dose should not be 
doubled within the same day to make up for a missed dose.  
Converting from Vitamin K Antagonists (VKA) to Xarelto 
For patients treated for DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence, VKA treatment should be stopped and 
Xarelto therapy should be initiated once the International Normalised Ratio (INR) is ≤ 2.5.  
When converting patients from VKAs to Xarelto, INR values will be falsely elevated after the intake 
of Xarelto. The INR is not valid to measure the anticoagulant activity of Xarelto, and therefore should 
not be used (see section 4.5). 
Converting from Xarelto to Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) 
There is a potential for inadequate anticoagulation during the transition from Xarelto to VKA. 
Continuous adequate anticoagulation should be ensured during any transition to an alternate 
anticoagulant. It should be noted that Xarelto can contribute to an elevated INR.  
In patients converting from Xarelto to VKA, VKA should be given concurrently until the INR is ≥ 2.0. 
For the first two days of the conversion period, standard initial dosing of VKA should be used 
followed by VKA dosing, as guided by INR testing. While patients are on both Xarelto and VKA the 
INR should not be tested earlier than 24 hours after the previous dose but prior to the next dose of 
Xarelto. Once Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably at least 24 hours after the last 
dose (see sections 4.5 and 5.2). 
Converting from parenteral anticoagulants to Xarelto 
For patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, discontinue the parenteral anticoagulant 
and start Xarelto 0 to 2 hours before the time that the next scheduled administration of the parenteral 
medicinal product (e.g. low molecular weight heparins) would be due or at the time of discontinuation 
of a continuously administered parenteral medicinal product (e.g. intravenous unfractionated heparin). 
Converting from Xarelto to parenteral anticoagulants 
Give the first dose of parenteral anticoagulant at the time the next Xarelto dose would be taken.  
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Limited clinical data for patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) 
indicate that rivaroxaban plasma concentrations are significantly increased. Therefore, Xarelto is to be 
used with caution in these patients. Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance 
< 15 ml/min (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
In patients with moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) or severe (creatinine clearance 
15 - 29 ml/min) renal impairment the following dose recommendations apply: 
- 
For the treatment of DVT, treatment of PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE, patients 
should be treated with 15 mg twice daily for the first 3 weeks.  
Thereafter, when the recommended dose is 20 mg once daily, a reduction of the dose from 
20 mg once daily to 15 mg once daily should be considered if the patient’s assessed risk for 
bleeding outweighs the risk for recurrent DVT and PE. The recommendation for the use of 
15 mg is based on PK modelling and has not been studied in this clinical setting (see 
sections 4.4, 5.1 and 5.2).  
When the recommended dose is 10 mg once daily, no dose adjustment from the recommended 
dose is necessary. 
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 ml/min) (see section 5.2).  
Hepatic impairment 
Xarelto is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically 
relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see sections 4.3 and 5.2). 
Elderly population  
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Body weight 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Gender 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
Paediatric population 
Xarelto treatment initiation pack should not be used in children aged 0 to 18 years because it is 
specifically designed for treatment of adult patients and is not appropriate for use in paediatric 
patients.  
Method of administration  
Xarelto is for oral use.  
The tablets are to be taken with food (see section 5.2). 
Crushing of tablets 
For patients who are unable to swallow whole tablets, Xarelto tablet may be crushed and mixed with 
water or apple puree immediately prior to use and administered orally. After the administration of 
crushed Xarelto 15 mg or 20 mg film-coated tablets, the dose should be immediately followed by 
food. 
The crushed tablet may also be given through gastric tubes (see sections 5.2 and 6.6). 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active clinically significant bleeding. 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lesion or condition, if considered to be a significant risk for major bleeding. This may include current 
or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants, e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, apixaban, etc.) except under specific circumstances of 
switching anticoagulant therapy (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Clinical surveillance in line with anticoagulation practice is recommended throughout the treatment 
period. 
Haemorrhagic risk 
As with other anticoagulants, patients taking Xarelto are to be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. 
It is recommended to be used with caution in conditions with increased risk of haemorrhage. Xarelto 
administration should be discontinued if severe haemorrhage occurs (see section 4.9). 
In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito urinary 
including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more frequently 
during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to adequate 
clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to detect occult 
bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be appropriate. 
Several sub-groups of patients, as detailed below, are at increased risk of bleeding. These patients are 
to be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding complications and anaemia after 
initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).  
Any unexplained fall in haemoglobin or blood pressure should lead to a search for a bleeding site. 
Although treatment with rivaroxaban does not require routine monitoring of exposure, rivaroxaban 
levels measured with a calibrated quantitative anti-factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional 
situations where knowledge of rivaroxaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g. 
overdose and emergency surgery (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
In patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) rivaroxaban plasma levels 
may be significantly increased (1.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk. 
Xarelto is to be used with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min. Use is not 
recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Xarelto should be used with caution in patients with renal impairment concomitantly receiving other 
medicinal products which increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (see section 4.5). 
Interaction with other medicinal products 
The use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with 
azole-antimycotics (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) or HIV 
protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir). These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-gp and therefore may increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant degree 
(2.6 fold on average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk (see section 4.5). 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with medicinal products affecting haemostasis 
such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs), acetylsalicylic acid and 
platelet aggregation inhibitors or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). For patients at risk of ulcerative gastrointestinal disease 
an appropriate prophylactic treatment may be considered (see section 4.5).  
Other haemorrhagic risk factors 
As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding 
risk such as: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension 
other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding 
complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroesophageal 
reflux disease) 
vascular retinopathy 
bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding 
• 
• 
Patients with cancer 
Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The 
individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients 
with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of disease. Tumours 
located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of 
bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  
In patients with malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Patients with prosthetic valves 
Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been studied 
in patients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that Xarelto provides 
adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Xarelto is not recommended for 
these patients. 
Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome 
Direct acting Oral Anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients 
with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for 
patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates 
of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
Haemodynamically unstable PE patients or patients who require thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy 
Xarelto is not recommended as an alternative to unfractionated heparin in patients with pulmonary 
embolism who are haemodynamically unstable or may receive thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy since the safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in these clinical 
situations.  
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or puncture 
When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, 
patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk 
of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. 
The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or 
the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by 
traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder 
dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior 
to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical 
experience with the use of 15 mg or 20 mg rivaroxaban in these situations. 
To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and 
neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or spinal puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of 
rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when 
the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low. However, the exact timing to reach a 
sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known. 
For the removal of an epidural catheter and based on the general PK characteristics at least 2x half-
life, i.e. at least 18 hours in young patients and 26 hours in elderly patients should elapse after the last 
administration of rivaroxaban (see section 5.2). Following removal of the catheter, at least 6 hours 
should elapse before the next rivaroxaban dose is administered. 
If traumatic puncture occurs the administration of rivaroxaban is to be delayed for 24 hours. 
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto 15 mg/ Xarelto 20 mg should be 
stopped at least 24 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the 
physician.  
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the 
urgency of the intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention 
provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by 
the treating physician (see section 5.2). 
Elderly population 
Increasing age may increase haemorrhagic risk (see section 5.2). 
Dermatological reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS 
syndrome, have been reported during post-marketing surveillance in association with the use of 
rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the 
course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of 
treatment. Rivaroxaban should be discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. 
spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal 
lesions. 
Information about excipients 
Xarelto contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase 
deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dosage unit, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a 
day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in 
mean rivaroxaban Cmax, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving 
concomitant systemic treatment with azole-antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).  
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either 
CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in 
Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be 
potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax. The interaction with erythromycin is likely not 
clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500 mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see 
section 4.4). 
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mean Cmax. The interaction with 
fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-
risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Given the limited clinical data available with dronedarone, co-administration with rivaroxaban should 
be avoided. 
Anticoagulants 
After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10 mg single 
dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observed without any additional effects on 
clotting tests (PT, aPTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban. 
Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any 
other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors 
No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of 
rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more 
pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a 
pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 
observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P-selectin or 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels. 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) 
and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding 
risk (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs/SNRIs 
As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in 
case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When 
concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, numerically higher rates of major or non-
major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups. 
Warfarin 
Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or 
from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) 
more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on aPTT, 
inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti-
factor Xa activity, PiCT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (including PT, aPTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity 
and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR 
measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of 
rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point. 
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban. 
CYP3A4 inducers  
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be 
avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms of thrombosis. 
Other concomitant therapies  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P-gp), 
atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban 
neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4. 
Laboratory parameters 
Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, aPTT, HepTest) are affected as expected by the mode of action of 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1).  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential reproductive toxicity, the intrinsic 
risk of bleeding and the evidence that rivaroxaban passes the placenta, Xarelto is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Women of child-bearing potential should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with rivaroxaban. 
Breast-feeding 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in breast-feeding women. Data from animals 
indicate that rivaroxaban is secreted into milk. Therefore Xarelto is contraindicated during breast-
feeding (see section 4.3). A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from therapy.  
Fertility 
No specific studies with rivaroxaban in humans have been conducted to evaluate effects on fertility. In 
a study on male and female fertility in rats no effects were seen (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xarelto has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions like syncope 
(frequency: uncommon) and dizziness (frequency: common) have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Patients experiencing these adverse reactions should not drive or use machines. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of rivaroxaban has been evaluated in thirteen pivotal phase III studies (see Table 1).  
Overall, 69,608 adult patients in nineteen phase III studies and 488 paediatric patients in two phase II 
and two phase III studies were exposed to rivaroxaban. 
125 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Number of patients studied, total daily dose and maximum treatment duration in adult 
and paediatric phase III studies 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
6,097 
10 mg 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of VTE in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) 
and prevention of recurrence 
3,997 
6,790 
Treatment of VTE and prevention 
of VTE recurrence in term neonates 
and children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
329 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients after an ACS 
7,750 
10,225 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients with CAD/PAD 
18,244 
3,256** 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
39 days 
39 days 
21 months 
12 months 
41 months 
31 months  
47 months 
42 months 
10 mg 
Day 1 - 21: 30 mg 
Day 22 and onwards: 
20 mg 
After at least 6 months: 
10 mg or 20 mg 
Body weight-adjusted 
dose to achieve a similar 
exposure as that observed 
in adults treated for DVT 
with 20 mg rivaroxaban 
once daily 
20 mg 
5 mg or 10 mg 
respectively, co-
administered with either 
ASA or ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA or 10 mg alone 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA 
* 
** 
Patients exposed to at least one dose of rivaroxaban 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving rivaroxaban were bleedings (see 
section 4.4. and ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below) (Table 2). The most commonly 
reported bleedings were epistaxis (4.5 %) and gastrointestinal tract haemorrhage (3.8 %). 
126 
 
 
 
 
2.1% of patients 
12.6% of patients 
Any bleeding 
6.8% of patients 
Anaemia 
5.9% of patients 
Table 2: Bleeding* and anaemia events rates in patients exposed to rivaroxaban across the 
completed adult and paediatric phase III studies 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention 
of recurrence 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of 
VTE recurrence in term neonates and 
children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients after an ACS 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients with CAD/PAD 
2.5 per 100 patient 
years 
28 per 100 patient 
years 
39.5% of patients 
4.6% of patients 
1.6% of patients 
23% of patients 
22 per 100 patient 
years 
6.7 per 100 patient 
years 
8.38 per 100 patient 
years # 
1.4 per 100 patient 
years 
0.15 per 100 patient 
years**  
0.74 per 100 patient 
years*** # 
For all rivaroxaban studies all bleeding events are collected, reported and 
In the COMPASS study, there is a low anaemia incidence as a selective 
* 
adjudicated. 
**  
approach to adverse event collection was applied 
***  A selective approach to adverse event collection was applied 
# 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions reported with Xarelto in adult and paediatric patients are 
summarised in Table 3 below by system organ class (in MedDRA) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10)  
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)  
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
very rare (< 1/10,000)  
not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
127 
 
 
  
Uncommon 
Table 3: All adverse reactions reported in adult patients in phase III clinical studies or through 
post-marketing use* and in two phase II and two phase III studies in paediatric patients 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia (incl. 
respective 
laboratory 
parameters) 
Immune system disorders 
Thrombocytosis 
(incl. platelet count 
increased)A, 
thrombocytopenia 
Very rare 
Rare 
Allergic reaction, 
dermatitis allergic, 
angioedema and 
allergic oedema 
Anaphylactic 
reactions including 
anaphylactic shock  
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness, 
headache 
Cerebral and 
intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
syncope 
Eye disorders 
Eye haemorrhage 
(incl. conjunctival 
haemorrhage) 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia  
Dry mouth 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension, 
haematoma 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gingival bleeding, 
gastrointestinal 
tract haemorrhage 
(incl. rectal 
haemorrhage), 
gastrointestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
dyspepsia, nausea, 
constipationA, 
diarrhoea, 
vomitingA 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Increase in 
transaminases 
Hepatic 
impairment, 
increased bilirubin, 
increased blood 
alkaline 
phosphataseA, 
increased GGTA 
Jaundice, bilirubin 
conjugated 
increased (with or 
without 
concomitant 
increase of ALT), 
cholestasis, 
hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular 
injury) 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis, DRESS 
syndrome  
Compartment 
syndrome 
secondary to a 
bleeding 
Renal failure/acute 
renal failure 
secondary to a 
bleeding sufficient 
to cause 
hypoperfusion, 
Anticoagulant-
related nephropathy 
Rare 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus (incl. 
uncommon cases of 
generalised 
pruritus), rash, 
ecchymosis, 
cutaneous and 
subcutaneous 
haemorrhage 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Pain in extremityA  Haemarthrosis 
Muscle 
haemorrhage 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Urogenital tract 
haemorrhage (incl. 
haematuria and 
menorrhagiaB), 
renal impairment 
(incl. blood 
creatinine 
increased, blood 
urea increased) 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
FeverA, peripheral 
Feeling unwell 
(incl. malaise)  
oedema, decreased 
general strength 
and energy (incl. 
fatigue and 
asthenia) 
Investigations 
Localised oedemaA   
Increased LDHA, 
increased lipaseA, 
increased amylaseA 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Vascular 
Postprocedural 
pseudoaneurysmC 
haemorrhage (incl. 
postoperative 
anaemia, and 
wound 
haemorrhage), 
contusion, wound 
secretionA 
A:   observed in prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery 
B:   observed in treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence as very common in women 
< 55 years 
C:   observed as uncommon in prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients after an ACS 
(following percutaneous coronary intervention) 
*   A pre-specified selective approach to adverse event collection was applied in selected phase III 
studies. The incidence of adverse reactions did not increase and no new adverse drug reaction 
was identified after analysis of these studies. 
129 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Due to the pharmacological mode of action, the use of Xarelto may be associated with an increased 
risk of occult or overt bleeding from any tissue or organ which may result in post haemorrhagic 
anaemia. The signs, symptoms, and severity (including fatal outcome) will vary according to the 
location and degree or extent of the bleeding and/or anaemia (see section 4.9 “Management of 
bleeding”). In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito 
urinary including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more 
frequently during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to 
adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. The risk of bleedings may be increased in certain patient groups, e.g. those patients with 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or on concomitant treatment affecting haemostasis (see 
section 4.4 “Haemorrhagic risk”). Menstrual bleeding may be intensified and/or prolonged. 
Haemorrhagic complications may present as weakness, paleness, dizziness, headache or unexplained 
swelling, dyspnoea and unexplained shock. In some cases as a consequence of anaemia, symptoms of 
cardiac ischaemia like chest pain or angina pectoris have been observed.  
Known complications secondary to severe bleeding such as compartment syndrome and renal failure 
due to hypoperfusion, or anticoagulant-related nephropathy have been reported for Xarelto. Therefore, 
the possibility of haemorrhage is to be considered in evaluating the condition in any anticoagulated 
patient. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Rare cases of overdose up to 1,960 mg have been reported. In case of overdose, the patient should be 
observed carefully for bleeding complications or other adverse reactions (see section “Management of 
bleeding”). Due to limited absorption a ceiling effect with no further increase in average plasma 
exposure is expected at supratherapeutic doses of 50 mg rivaroxaban or above.  
A specific reversal agent (andexanet alfa) antagonising the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban is 
available (refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of andexanet alfa). 
The use of activated charcoal to reduce absorption in case of rivaroxaban overdose may be considered.  
Management of bleeding 
Should a bleeding complication arise in a patient receiving rivaroxaban, the next rivaroxaban 
administration should be delayed or treatment should be discontinued as appropriate. Rivaroxaban has 
a half-life of approximately 5 to 13 hours (see section 5.2). Management should be individualised 
according to the severity and location of the haemorrhage. Appropriate symptomatic treatment could 
be used as needed, such as mechanical compression (e.g. for severe epistaxis), surgical haemostasis 
with bleeding control procedures, fluid replacement and haemodynamic support, blood products 
(packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma, depending on associated anaemia or coagulopathy) or 
platelets. 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, either the administration of a specific 
factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent (andexanet alfa), which antagonises the pharmacodynamic effect of 
rivaroxaban, or a specific procoagulant agent, such as prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), 
activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (r-FVIIa), should be 
considered. However, there is currently very limited clinical experience with the use of these 
medicinal products in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. The recommendation is also based on limited 
non-clinical data. Re-dosing of recombinant factor VIIa shall be considered and titrated depending on 
improvement of bleeding. Depending on local availability, a consultation with a coagulation expert 
should be considered in case of major bleedings (see section 5.1). 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
Protamine sulphate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. 
There is limited experience with tranexamic acid and no experience with aminocaproic acid and 
aprotinin in individuals receiving rivaroxaban. There is neither scientific rationale for benefit nor 
experience with the use of the systemic haemostatic desmopressin in individuals receiving 
rivaroxaban. Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF01  
Mechanism of action 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of 
factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting 
both thrombin formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin 
(activated factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Dose-dependent inhibition of factor Xa activity was observed in humans. Prothrombin time (PT) is 
influenced by rivaroxaban in a dose dependent way with a close correlation to plasma concentrations 
(r value equals 0.98) if Neoplastin is used for the assay. Other reagents would provide different results. 
The readout for PT is to be done in seconds, because the INR is only calibrated and validated for 
coumarins and cannot be used for any other anticoagulant.  
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence, the 5/95 
percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 2 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the time of maximum effect) for 
15 mg rivaroxaban twice daily ranged from 17 to 32 s and for 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily from 15 
to 30 s. At trough (8 - 16 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles for 15 mg twice daily ranged from 
14 to 24 s and for 20 mg once daily (18 - 30 h after tablet intake) from 13 to 20 s. 
In patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation receiving rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism, the 5/95 percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 1 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the 
time of maximum effect) in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged from 14 to 40 s and in 
patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 10 to 50 s. At trough 
(16 - 36 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged 
from 12 to 26 s and in patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 12 
to 26 s. 
In a clinical pharmacology study on the reversal of rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics in healthy adult 
subjects (n=22), the effects of single doses (50 IU/kg) of two different types of PCCs, a 3-factor PCC 
(Factors II, IX and X) and a 4-factor PCC (Factors II, VII, IX and X) were assessed. The 3-factor PCC 
reduced mean Neoplastin PT values by approximately 1.0 second within 30 minutes, compared to 
reductions of approximately 3.5 seconds observed with the 4-factor PCC. In contrast, the 3-factor PCC 
had a greater and more rapid overall effect on reversing changes in endogenous thrombin generation 
than the 4-factor PCC (see section 4.9). 
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and HepTest are also prolonged dose-dependently; 
however, they are not recommended to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban. There is no 
need for monitoring of coagulation parameters during treatment with rivaroxaban in clinical routine. 
However, if clinically indicated rivaroxaban levels can be measured by calibrated quantitative anti-
factor Xa tests (see section 5.2). 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrent DVT and PE  
The rivaroxaban clinical programme was designed to demonstrate the efficacy of rivaroxaban in the 
initial and continued treatment of acute DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence. 
Over 12,800 patients were studied in four randomised controlled phase III clinical studies (Einstein 
DVT, Einstein PE, Einstein Extension and Einstein Choice) and additionally a predefined pooled 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
analysis of the Einstein DVT and Einstein PE studies was conducted. The overall combined treatment 
duration in all studies was up to 21 months. 
In Einstein DVT 3,449 patients with acute DVT were studied for the treatment of DVT and the 
prevention of recurrent DVT and PE (patients who presented with symptomatic PE were excluded 
from this study). The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial 3 week treatment of acute DVT 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily. This 
was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
In Einstein PE, 4,832 patients with acute PE were studied for the treatment of PE and the prevention of 
recurrent DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for 3, 6 or 12 months depending on the clinical 
judgement of the investigator. 
For the initial treatment of acute PE 15 mg rivaroxaban was administered twice daily for three weeks. 
This was followed by 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily.  
In both the Einstein DVT and the Einstein PE study, the comparator treatment regimen consisted of 
enoxaparin administered for at least 5 days in combination with vitamin K antagonist treatment until 
the PT/INR was in therapeutic range ( 2.0). Treatment was continued with a vitamin K antagonist 
dose-adjusted to maintain the PT/INR values within the therapeutic range of 2.0 to 3.0. 
In Einstein Extension 1,197 patients with DVT or PE were studied for the prevention of recurrent 
DVT and PE. The treatment duration was for an additional 6 or 12 months in patients who had 
completed 6 to 12 months of treatment for venous thromboembolism depending on the clinical 
judgment of the investigator. Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily was compared with placebo.  
Einstein DVT, PE and Extension used the same pre-defined primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE. The secondary efficacy outcome was defined as the composite of 
recurrent DVT, non-fatal PE and all-cause mortality.  
In Einstein Choice, 3,396 patients with confirmed symptomatic DVT and/or PE who completed 6-12 
months of anticoagulant treatment were studied for the prevention of fatal PE or non-fatal 
symptomatic recurrent DVT or PE. Patients with an indication for continued therapeutic-dosed 
anticoagulation were excluded from the study. The treatment duration was up to 12 months depending 
on the individual randomisation date (median: 351 days). Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily and 
rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily were compared with 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid once daily. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE defined as the composite of recurrent 
DVT or fatal or non-fatal PE.  
In the Einstein DVT study (see Table 4) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p < 0.0001 (test for non-inferiority); Hazard Ratio 
(HR): 0.680 (0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 (test for superiority)). The prespecified net clinical benefit 
(primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding events) was reported with a HR of 0.67 
((95% CI: 0.47 - 0.95), nominal p value p=0.027) in favour of rivaroxaban. INR values were within 
the therapeutic range a mean of 60.3% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 189 days, and 
55.4%, 60.1%, and 62.8% of the time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration groups, 
respectively. In the enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of mean 
centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 - 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the incidence of 
the recurrent VTE (P=0.932 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to centre, the HR 
with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.69 (95% CI: 0.35 - 1.35). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) as well as the secondary safety outcome (major bleeding events) were similar for both 
treatment groups. 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein DVT 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,718 
51 
(3.0%) 
18 
(1.0%) 
28 
(1.6%) 
3,449 patients with symptomatic acute deep vein thrombosis 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=1,731 
36 
(2.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
1 
(0.1%) 
4 
(0.2%) 
139 
(8.1%) 
14 
(0.8%) 
6 
(0.3%) 
138 
(8.1%) 
20 
(1.2%) 
0 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 0.680 (0.443 - 1.042), p=0.076 
(superiority) 
In the Einstein PE study (see Table 5) rivaroxaban was demonstrated to be non-inferior to 
enoxaparin/VKA for the primary efficacy outcome (p=0.0026 (test for non-inferiority); HR: 1.123 
(0.749 - 1.684)). The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding 
events) was reported with a HR of 0.849 ((95% CI: 0.633 - 1.139), nominal p value p= 0.275). INR 
values were within the therapeutic range a mean of 63% of the time for the mean treatment duration of 
215 days, and 57%, 62%, and 65% of the time in the 3-, 6-, and 12-month intended treatment duration 
groups, respectively. In the enoxaparin/VKA group, there was no clear relation between the level of 
mean centre TTR (Time in Target INR Range of 2.0 – 3.0) in the equally sized tertiles and the 
incidence of the recurrent VTE (p=0.082 for interaction). Within the highest tertile according to 
centre, the HR with rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 0.642 (95% CI: 0.277 - 1.484). 
The incidence rates for the primary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding 
events) were slightly lower in the rivaroxaban treatment group (10.3% (249/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA treatment group (11.4% (274/2405)). The incidence of the secondary safety outcome 
(major bleeding events) was lower in the rivaroxaban group (1.1% (26/2412)) than in the 
enoxaparin/VKA group (2.2% (52/2405)) with a HR 0.493 (95% CI: 0.308 - 0.789). 
133 
 
 
 
Table 5: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
4,832 patients with an acute symptomatic PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,419 
50 
(2.1%) 
23 
(1.0%) 
18 
(0.7%) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=2,413 
44 
(1.8%) 
20 
(0.8%) 
17 
(0.7%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
7 
(0.3%) 
274 
(11.4%) 
52 
(2.2%) 
0 
11 
(0.5%) 
249 
(10.3%) 
26 
(1.1%) 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0026 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 2.0); HR: 1.123 (0.749 - 1.684)  
A prespecified pooled analysis of the outcome of the Einstein DVT and PE studies was conducted (see 
Table 6). 
Table 6: Efficacy and safety results from pooled analysis of phase III Einstein DVT and 
Einstein PE 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Symptomatic PE and 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major or clinically relevant non-
major bleeding 
Major bleeding events 
8,281 patients with an acute symptomatic DVT or PE 
Rivaroxaban a) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,150 
86 
(2.1%) 
43 
(1.0%) 
32 
(0.8%) 
1 
(<0.1%) 
15 
(0.4%) 
388 
(9.4%) 
40 
(1.0%) 
Enoxaparin/VKAb) 
3, 6 or 12 months 
N=4,131 
95 
(2.3%) 
38 
(0.9%) 
45 
(1.1%) 
2 
(<0.1%) 
13 
(0.3%) 
412 
(10.0%) 
72 
(1.7%) 
a) 
b) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily for 3 weeks followed by 20 mg once daily 
Enoxaparin for at least 5 days, overlapped with and followed by VKA 
p < 0.0001 (non-inferiority to a prespecified HR of 1.75); HR: 0.886 (0.661 - 1.186) 
The prespecified net clinical benefit (primary efficacy outcome plus major bleeding events) of the 
pooled analysis was reported with a HR of 0.771 ((95% CI: 0.614 - 0.967), nominal p value 
p = 0.0244). 
134 
 
 
 
 
In the Einstein Extension study (see Table 7) rivaroxaban was superior to placebo for the primary and 
secondary efficacy outcomes. For the primary safety outcome (major bleeding events) there was a 
non-significant numerically higher incidence rate for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once 
daily compared to placebo. The secondary safety outcome (major or clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding events) showed higher rates for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily compared 
to placebo.  
Table 7: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Extension 
Study population 
Treatment dose and duration 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE* 
Symptomatic recurrent PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Major bleeding events 
1,197 patients continued treatment and prevention 
of recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban a)  
Placebo 
6 or 12 months 
6 or 12 months 
N=594 
N=602 
42 
8 
(7.1%) 
(1.3%) 
13 
2 
(2.2%) 
(0.3%) 
31 
5 
(5.2%) 
(0.8%) 
1 
1 
(0.2%) 
(0.2%) 
0 
4 
(0.0%) 
(0.7%) 
7 
32 
(1.2%) 
(5.4%) 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
a) 
* 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily 
p < 0.0001 (superiority), HR: 0.185 (0.087 - 0.393) 
In the Einstein Choice study (see Table 8) rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg were both superior to 100 mg 
acetylsalicylic acid for the primary efficacy outcome. The principal safety outcome (major bleeding 
events) was similar for patients treated with rivaroxaban 20 mg and 10 mg once daily compared to 100 
mg acetylsalicylic acid.  
135 
 
 
 
Table 8: Efficacy and safety results from phase III Einstein Choice 
Study population 
Treatment dose  
Treatment duration median 
[interquartile range] 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
PE 
Symptomatic recurrent 
DVT 
Fatal PE/death where PE 
cannot be ruled out 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE, 
MI, stroke, or non-CNS 
systemic embolism 
Major bleeding events 
3,396 patients continued prevention of 
recurrent venous thromboembolism 
Rivaroxaban 20 mg 
once daily 
N=1,107 
Rivaroxaban 10 
mg once daily 
N=1,127 
ASA 100 mg once 
daily 
N=1,131 
349 [189-362] days 
353 [190-362] days 
350 [186-362] days 
17 
(1.5%)* 
6 
(0.5%) 
9 
(0.8%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
13 
(1.2%)** 
6 
(0.5%) 
8 
(0.7%) 
0 
(0.0%) 
18 
(1.6%) 
50 
(4.4%) 
19 
(1.7%) 
30 
(2.7%) 
2 
(0.2%) 
56 
(5.0%) 
6 
(0.5%) 
30  
(2.7) 
5 
(0.4%) 
22  
(2.0) 
3 
(0.3%) 
20  
(1.8) 
Clinically relevant non-major 
bleeding 
Symptomatic recurrent VTE 
or major bleeding (net 
clinical benefit) 
*   p<0.001(superiority) rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.34 (0.20-0.59) 
**  p<0.001 (superiority) rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.26 (0.14-0.47) 
+   Rivaroxaban 20 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.44 (0.27-0.71), p=0.0009 (nominal)  
++   Rivaroxaban 10 mg od vs ASA 100 mg od; HR=0.32 (0.18-0.55), p<0.0001 (nominal) 
17  
(1.5%)++ 
23  
(2.1%)+ 
53  
(4.7%) 
In addition to the phase III EINSTEIN programme, a prospective, non-interventional, open-label 
cohort study (XALIA) with central outcome adjudication including recurrent VTE, major bleeding and 
death has been conducted. 5,142 patients with acute DVT were enrolled to investigate the long-term 
safety of rivaroxaban compared with standard-of-care anticoagulation therapy in clinical practice. 
Rates of major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality for rivaroxaban were 0.7%, 1.4% and 
0.5%, respectively. There were differences in patient baseline characteristics including age, cancer and 
renal impairment. A pre-specified propensity score stratified analysis was used to adjust for measured 
baseline differences but residual confounding may, in spite of this, influence the results. Adjusted HRs 
comparing rivaroxaban and standard-of-care for major bleeding, recurrent VTE and all-cause mortality 
were 0.77 (95% CI 0.40 - 1.50), 0.91 (95% CI 0.54 - 1.54) and 0.51 (95% CI 0.24 - 1.07), respectively.  
These results in clinical practice are consistent with the established safety profile in this indication. 
In a post-authorisation, non-interventional study, in more than 40,000 patients without a history of 
cancer from four countries, rivaroxaban was prescribed for the treatment or prevention of DVT and 
PE. The event rates per 100 patient-years for symptomatic/clinically apparent VTE/thromboembolic 
events leading to hospitalisation ranged from 0.64 (95% CI 0.40 - 0.97) in the UK to 2.30 (95% CI 
2.11 - 2.51) for Germany. Bleeding resulting in hospitalisation occurred at event rates per 100 patient-
years of 0.31 (95% CI 0.23 - 0.42) for intracranial bleeding, 0.89 (95% CI 0.67 - 1.17) for 
gastrointestinal bleeding, 0.44 (95% CI 0.26 - 0.74) for urogenital bleeding and 0.41 (95% CI 
0.31 - 0.54) for other bleeding. 
Patients with high risk triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome 
In an investigator sponsored, randomised open-label multicentre study with blinded endpoint 
adjudication, rivaroxaban was compared to warfarin in patients with a history of thrombosis, 
diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome and at high risk for thromboembolic events (positive for 
all 3 antiphospholipid tests: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
136 
 
 
 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies). The study was terminated prematurely after the enrolment of 
120 patients due to an excess of events among patients in the rivaroxaban arm. Mean follow-up was 
569 days. 59 patients were randomised to rivaroxaban 20 mg (15 mg for patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) < 50 mL/min) and 61 to warfarin (INR 2.0-3.0). Thromboembolic events occurred in 
12% of patients randomised to rivaroxaban (4 ischaemic strokes and 3 myocardial infarctions). No 
events were reported in patients randomised to warfarin. Major bleeding occurred in 4 patients (7%) 
of the rivaroxaban group and 2 patients (3%) of the warfarin group. 
Paediatric population 
Xarelto treatment initiation pack is specifically designed for treatment of adult patients and is not 
appropriate for use in paediatric patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Rivaroxaban is rapidly absorbed with maximum concentrations (Cmax) appearing 2 - 4 hours after 
tablet intake.  
Oral absorption of rivaroxaban is almost complete and oral bioavailability is high (80 - 100%) for the 
2.5 mg and 10 mg tablet dose, irrespective of fasting/fed conditions. Intake with food does not affect 
rivaroxaban AUC or Cmax at the 2.5 mg and 10 mg dose.  
Due to a reduced extent of absorption an oral bioavailability of 66% was determined for the 20 mg 
tablet under fasting conditions. When rivaroxaban 20 mg tablets are taken together with food increases 
in mean AUC by 39% were observed when compared to tablet intake under fasting conditions, 
indicating almost complete absorption and high oral bioavailability. Rivaroxaban 15 mg and 20 mg are 
to be taken with food (see section 4.2). 
Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg once daily in fasting state. 
Under fed conditions rivaroxaban 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg tablets demonstrated dose-proportionality. 
At higher doses rivaroxaban displays dissolution limited absorption with decreased bioavailability and 
decreased absorption rate with increased dose.  
Variability in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics is moderate with inter-individual variability (CV%) 
ranging from 30% to 40%. 
Absorption of rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of its release in the gastrointestinal tract. A 29% 
and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax compared to tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is 
released in the proximal small intestine. Exposure is further reduced when rivaroxaban is released in 
the distal small intestine, or ascending colon. Therefore, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the 
stomach should be avoided since this can result in reduced absorption and related rivaroxaban 
exposure. 
Bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) was comparable for 20 mg rivaroxaban administered orally as a 
crushed tablet mixed in apple puree, or suspended in water and administered via a gastric tube 
followed by a liquid meal, compared to a whole tablet. Given the predictable, dose-proportional 
pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban, the bioavailability results from this study are likely applicable 
to lower rivaroxaban doses. 
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding in humans is high at approximately 92% to 95%, with serum albumin being 
the main binding component. The volume of distribution is moderate with Vss being approximately 
50 litres. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
Of the administered rivaroxaban dose, approximately 2/3 undergoes metabolic degradation, with half 
then being eliminated renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 of the 
administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the urine, mainly 
via active renal secretion. 
Rivaroxaban is metabolised via CYP3A4, CYP2J2 and CYP-independent mechanisms. Oxidative 
degradation of the morpholinone moiety and hydrolysis of the amide bonds are the major sites of 
biotransformation. Based on in vitro investigations rivaroxaban is a substrate of the transporter 
proteins P-gp (P-glycoprotein) and Bcrp (breast cancer resistance protein). 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important compound in human plasma, with no major or active 
circulating metabolites being present. With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be 
classified as a low-clearance substance. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the 
elimination half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration the elimination becomes absorption 
rate limited. Elimination of rivaroxaban from plasma occurs with terminal half-lives of 5 to 9 hours in 
young individuals, and with terminal half-lives of 11 to 13 hours in the elderly. 
Special populations 
Gender 
There were no clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics between 
male and female patients. 
Elderly population 
Elderly patients exhibited higher plasma concentrations than younger patients, with mean AUC values 
being approximately 1.5 fold higher, mainly due to reduced (apparent) total and renal clearance. No 
dose adjustment is necessary. 
Different weight categories 
Extremes in body weight (< 50 kg or > 120 kg) had only a small influence on rivaroxaban plasma 
concentrations (less than 25%). No dose adjustment is necessary. 
Inter-ethnic differences 
No clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences among Caucasian, African-American, Hispanic, 
Japanese or Chinese patients were observed regarding rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics. 
Hepatic impairment 
Cirrhotic patients with mild hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh A) exhibited only minor 
changes in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), nearly 
comparable to their matched healthy control group. In cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment (classified as Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban mean AUC was significantly increased by 
2.3 fold compared to healthy volunteers. Unbound AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also 
had reduced renal elimination of rivaroxaban, similar to patients with moderate renal impairment. 
There are no data in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
The inhibition of factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 2.6 in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment as compared to healthy volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor 
of 2.1. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment were more sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a 
steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Rivaroxaban is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and 
clinically relevant bleeding risk, including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see 
section 4.3). 
Renal impairment 
There was an increase in rivaroxaban exposure correlated to decrease in renal function, as assessed via 
creatinine clearance measurements. In individuals with mild (creatinine clearance 50 - 80 ml/min), 
moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) and severe (creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min) renal 
impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were increased 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 fold 
respectively. Corresponding increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more pronounced. In 
individuals with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of factor Xa 
activity was increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively as compared to healthy volunteers; 
prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. There are no 
data in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. Rivaroxaban is to be used 
with caution in patients with creatinine clearance 15 - 29 ml/min (see section 4.4). 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of acute DVT 20 mg once daily the geometric mean 
concentration (90% prediction interval) 2 - 4 h and about 24 h after dose (roughly representing 
maximum and minimum concentrations during the dose interval) was 215 (22 - 535) and 
32 (6 - 239) mcg/l, respectively. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship between rivaroxaban plasma 
concentration and several PD endpoints (factor Xa inhibition, PT, aPTT, Heptest) has been evaluated 
after administration of a wide range of doses (5 - 30 mg twice a day). The relationship between 
rivaroxaban concentration and factor Xa activity was best described by an Emax model. For PT, the 
linear intercept model generally described the data better. Depending on the different PT reagents 
used, the slope differed considerably. When Neoplastin PT was used, baseline PT was about 13 s and 
the slope was around 3 to 4 s/(100 mcg/l). The results of the PK/PD analyses in Phase II and III were 
consistent with the data established in healthy subjects.  
Paediatric population 
Xarelto treatment initiation pack is specifically designed for treatment of adult patients and is not 
appropriate for use in paediatric patients. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, phototoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and juvenile 
toxicity. 
Effects observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies were mainly due to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
activity of rivaroxaban. In rats, increased IgG and IgA plasma levels were seen at clinically relevant 
exposure levels. 
In rats, no effects on male or female fertility were seen. Animal studies have shown reproductive 
toxicity related to the pharmacological mode of action of rivaroxaban (e.g. haemorrhagic 
complications). Embryo-foetal toxicity (post-implantation loss, retarded/progressed ossification, 
hepatic multiple light coloured spots) and an increased incidence of common malformations as well as 
placental changes were observed at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. In the pre- and post-
natal study in rats, reduced viability of the offspring was observed at doses that were toxic to the dams. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Lactose monohydrate 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Magnesium stearate 
Film-coat 
Macrogol (3350) 
Hypromellose (2910) 
Titanium dioxide (E 171) 
Iron oxide red (E 172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed rivaroxaban tablets are stable in water and in apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Treatment initiation pack for the first 4 weeks of treatment:  
Wallet containing 49 film-coated tablets in PP/Aluminium foil blisters:  
42 film-coated tablets of 15 mg and 7 film-coated tablets of 20 mg.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Crushing of tablets 
Rivaroxaban tablets may be crushed and suspended in 50 mL of water and administered via a 
nasogastric tube or gastric feeding tube after confirming gastric placement of the tube. Afterwards, the 
tube should be flushed with water. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on the site of active 
substance release, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the stomach should be avoided, as this can 
result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced active substance exposure. After the administration 
of a crushed rivaroxaban 15 mg or 20 mg tablet, the dose should then be immediately followed by 
enteral feeding. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/040 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 September 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension  
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
The granules contain 19.7 mg rivaroxaban per gram. 
Each bottle contains 51.7 mg rivaroxaban or 103.4 mg rivaroxaban. 
Following reconstitution the oral suspension contains 1 mg rivaroxaban per mL. 
Excipient with known effect 
Each mL of the reconstituted oral suspension contains 1.8 mg sodium benzoate (E 211), see 
section 4.4. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Granules for oral suspension 
White granules 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and prevention of VTE recurrence in term neonates, 
infants and toddlers, children, and adolescents aged less than 18 years after at least 5 days of initial 
parenteral anticoagulation treatment. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The dose and frequency of administration are determined based on body weight (see Table 1).  
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Recommended dose for Xarelto in paediatric patients from full-term neonates 
(following at least 10 days of oral feeding and weighing at least 2.6 kg) to children less than 
18 years of age 
Bodyweight 
[kg] 
Regimen  
Dose rivaroxaban 
(1 mg rivaroxaban corresponds to 1 mL of the suspension) 
once a day 
2 times a day 
syringe  
Total daily dose Suitable blue 
Min  Max 
2.6 
3 
4 
5 
7 
8 
9 
10 
12 
30 
≥ 50 
< 3 
< 4 
< 5 
< 7 
< 8 
< 9 
< 10 
< 12 
< 30 
< 50 
5 mg 
15 mg 
20 mg 
3 times a day 
0.8 mg 
0.9 mg 
1.4 mg 
1.6 mg 
1.8 mg 
2.4 mg 
2.8 mg 
3.0 mg 
2.4 mg 
2.7 mg 
4.2 mg 
4.8 mg 
5.4 mg 
7.2 mg 
8.4 mg 
9.0 mg 
10 mg 
15 mg 
20 mg 
1 mL 
1 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL or 10 mL 
10 mL 
10 mL 
The weight of the child should be monitored and the dose reviewed regularly, especially for children 
below 12 kg. This is to ensure that a therapeutic dose is maintained. Dose adjustments should be made 
based on changes in body weight only. 
Frequency of dosing:  
• 
For a once a day regimen 
The doses should be taken approximately 24 hours apart. 
For a two times a day regimen 
The doses should be taken approximately 12 hours apart. 
For a three times a day regimen 
The doses should be taken approximately 8 hours apart. 
• 
• 
For patients with body weight of at least 2.6 kg to less than 30 kg only the oral suspension should be 
used. Do not split Xarelto tablets or use Xarelto tablets of lower strength in an attempt to provide 
doses for children with body weight below 30 kg.  
For patients with body weight of at least 30 kg, Xarelto oral suspension or tablets of 15 mg or 20 mg 
strength can be administered once a day.  
Xarelto oral suspension is provided with either 1 mL or 5 mL and 10 mL blue syringes (oral dosing 
syringe) with their adapter. To ensure accurate dosing it is recommended to use the blue syringes as 
follows (see Table 1): 
• 
• 
1 mL blue syringe (with 0.1 mL graduations) must be used in patients weighing less than 4 kg 
5 mL blue syringe (with 0.2 mL graduations) may be used in patients weighing 4 kg up to less 
than 30 kg 
10 mL blue syringe (with 0.5 mL graduations) is only recommended for use in patients 
weighing 12 kg or more 
• 
For patients weighing 12 kg up to less than 30 kg, either 5 mL or 10 mL blue syringes can be used. 
It is recommended that the healthcare professional advises the patient or caregiver which blue syringe 
to use to ensure that the correct volume is administered. 
Instructions for Use booklet is provided with the medicinal product. 
Initiation of treatment  
• 
Paediatric patients from term neonates to less than 6 months 
Treatment for paediatric patients from term neonates to less than 6 months of age, who at birth 
had at least 37 weeks of gestation, weigh at least 2.6 kg, and have had at least 10 days of oral 
feeding should be initiated following at least 5 days of initial parenteral anticoagulation 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatment (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). Xarelto is dosed based on body weight using the oral 
suspension formulation (see Table 1).  
• 
Paediatric patients from 6 months of age to less than 18 years 
Treatment for paediatric patients from 6 months to less than 18 years of age should be initiated 
following at least 5 days of initial parenteral anticoagulation treatment (see section 5.1). Xarelto 
is dosed based on body weight (see Table 1).  
Duration of treatment  
• 
All children, except those aged less than 2 years with catheter-related thrombosis 
Therapy should be continued for at least 3 months. Treatment can be extended up to 12 months 
when clinically necessary. There is no data available in children to support a dose reduction 
after 6 months treatment. The benefit-risk of continued therapy after 3 months should be 
assessed on an individual basis taking into account the risk for recurrent thrombosis versus the 
potential bleeding risk. 
• 
Children aged less than 2 years with catheter-related thrombosis 
Therapy should be continued for at least 1 month. Treatment can be extended up to 3 months 
when clinically necessary. The benefit-risk of continued therapy after 1 month should be 
assessed on an individual basis taking into account the risk for recurrent thrombosis versus the 
potential bleeding risk. 
Missed doses 
• 
Once a day regimen 
If taken once a day, a missed dose should be taken as soon as possible after it is noticed, but 
only on the same day. If this is not possible, the patient should skip the dose and continue with 
the next dose as prescribed. The patient should not take two doses to make up for a missed dose. 
• 
• 
Two times a day regimen 
If taken twice a day, a missed morning dose should be taken immediately when it is noticed, and 
it may be taken together with the evening dose. A missed evening dose can only be taken during 
the same evening, the patient should not take two doses the next morning. 
Three times a day regimen  
If taken three times a day, the three times daily administration schedule with approximately 
8-hour intervals should simply be resumed at the next scheduled dose without compensating for 
the missed dose. 
On the following day, the child should continue with the regular once, twice or three times daily 
regimen. 
Converting from parenteral anticoagulants to Xarelto  
For patients currently receiving a parenteral anticoagulant, start Xarelto 0 to 2 hours before the time of 
the next scheduled administration of the parenteral medicinal product (e.g. LMWH) or at the time of 
discontinuation of a continuously administered parenteral medicinal product (e.g. intravenous 
unfractionated heparin). 
Converting from Xarelto to parenteral anticoagulants  
Discontinue Xarelto and give the first dose of parenteral anticoagulant at the time that the next Xarelto 
dose would be taken.  
Converting from Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) to Xarelto  
VKA treatment should be stopped and Xarelto therapy should be initiated once the International 
Normalised Ratio (INR) is ≤ 2.5.  
When converting patients from VKAs to Xarelto, INR values will be falsely elevated after the intake 
of Xarelto. The INR is not valid to measure the anticoagulant activity of Xarelto, and therefore should 
not be used (see section 4.5). 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Converting from Xarelto to Vitamin K antagonists (VKA)  
There is a potential for inadequate anticoagulation during the transition from Xarelto to VKA. 
Continuous adequate anticoagulation should be ensured during any transition to an alternate 
anticoagulant. It should be noted that Xarelto can contribute to an elevated INR. 
Children who convert from Xarelto to VKA need to continue Xarelto for 48 hours after the first dose 
of VKA. After 2 days of co-administration an INR should be obtained prior to the next scheduled dose 
of Xarelto. Co-administration of Xarelto and VKA is advised to continue until the INR is ≥ 2.0. Once 
Xarelto is discontinued INR testing may be done reliably 24 hours after the last dose (see above and 
section 4.5). 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
• 
Children 1 year or older with mild renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
50 - 80 mL/min/1.73 m2): no dose adjustment is required, based on data in adults and limited 
data in paediatric patients (see section 5.2).  
Children 1 year or older with moderate or severe renal impairment (glomerular filtration rate 
< 50 mL/min/1.73 m2): Xarelto is not recommended as no clinical data is available (see 
section 4.4).  
Children below 1 year: the renal function should only be determined using serum creatinine. 
Xarelto is not recommended in children younger than 1 year with serum creatinine results above 
97.5th percentile (see Table 2), as no data are available (see section 4.4). 
• 
• 
Table 2: Reference values of serum creatinine in children younger than 1 year of age (Boer et al, 
2010) 
Age 
97.5th percentile of 
creatinine (µmol/L ) 
81 
69 
62 
58 
55 
53 
51 
46 
41 
37 
33 
30 
30 
30 
32 
97.5th percentile of 
creatinine (mg/dL ) 
0.92 
0.78 
0.70 
0.66 
0.62 
0.60 
0.58 
0.52 
0.46 
0.42 
0.37 
0.34 
0.34 
0.34 
0.36 
Day 1 
Day 2 
Day 3 
Day 4 
Day 5 
Day 6 
Day 7 
Week 2 
Week 3 
Week 4 
Month 2 
Month 3 
Month 4–6 
Month 7–9 
Month 10–12 
Hepatic impairment 
No clinical data is available in children with hepatic impairment. 
Xarelto is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically 
relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 4.3 and 5.2). 
Body weight  
For children the dose is determined based on body weight (see Posology above). 
Gender 
No dose adjustment (see section 5.2) 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Xarelto in children aged 0 to < 18 years have not been established in 
indications other than treatment of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and prevention of VTE 
recurrence. No or insufficient data are available for other indications (see also section 5.1). 
Therefore, Xarelto is not recommended for use in children below 18 years of age in indications other 
than the treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence. 
Method of administration  
Xarelto is for oral use. 
The oral suspension should be taken with feeding or with food (see section 5.2). 
For details on preparation and administration of the oral suspension see section 6.6.  
The oral suspension may be given through a nasogastric or gastric feeding tube (see sections 5.2 and 
6.6). 
Each dose should be immediately followed by the intake of one typical serving of liquid. This typical 
serving may include liquid volume used for feeding. 
In case the patient immediately spits up the dose or vomits within 30 minutes after receiving the dose, 
a new dose should be given. However, if the patient vomits more than 30 minutes after the dose, the 
dose should not be re-administered and the next dose should be taken as scheduled.  
If the oral suspension is not immediately available, when doses of 15 mg or 20 mg rivaroxaban are 
prescribed, these could be provided by crushing the 15 mg or 20 mg tablet and mixing it with water or 
apple puree immediately prior to use and administering it orally (see sections 5.2 and 6.6).  
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active clinically significant bleeding. 
Lesion or condition, if considered to be a significant risk for major bleeding. This may include current 
or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, recent 
brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known or suspected oesophageal varices, arteriovenous malformations, vascular aneurysms or major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities. 
Concomitant treatment with any other anticoagulants, e.g. unfractionated heparin (UFH), low 
molecular weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin, etc.), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux, etc.), oral 
anticoagulants (warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, apixaban, etc.) except under specific circumstances of 
switching anticoagulant therapy (see section 4.2) or when UFH is given at doses necessary to maintain 
an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk including cirrhotic 
patients with Child Pugh B and C (see section 5.2). 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Clinical surveillance in line with anticoagulation practice is recommended throughout the treatment 
period. 
Dosing of rivaroxaban cannot be reliably determined in the following patient populations and was not 
studied. It is therefore not recommended in children less than 6 months of age who: 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
at birth had less than 37 weeks of gestation, or 
have a body weight of less than 2.6 kg, or 
had less than 10 days of oral feeding. 
Haemorrhagic risk 
As with other anticoagulants, patients taking Xarelto are to be carefully observed for signs of bleeding. 
It is recommended to be used with caution in conditions with increased risk of haemorrhage. Xarelto 
administration should be discontinued if severe haemorrhage occurs (see section 4.9). 
In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito urinary 
including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more frequent 
during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to adequate 
clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to detect occult 
bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be appropriate. 
Several sub-groups of patients, as detailed below, are at an increased risk of bleeding. These patients 
are to be carefully monitored for signs and symptoms of bleeding complications and anaemia after 
initiation of treatment (see section 4.8).  
Any unexplained fall in haemoglobin or blood pressure should lead to a search for a bleeding site. 
Although treatment with rivaroxaban does not require routine monitoring of exposure, rivaroxaban 
levels measured with a calibrated quantitative anti-factor Xa assay may be useful in exceptional 
situations where knowledge of rivaroxaban exposure may help to inform clinical decisions, e.g. 
overdose and emergency surgery (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
There is limited data in children with cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis who have a CNS infection 
(see section 5.1). The risk of bleeding should be carefully evaluated before and during therapy with 
rivaroxaban. 
Renal impairment 
Xarelto is not recommended in children 1 year or older with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2), as no clinical data is available.  
Xarelto is not recommended in children younger than 1 year with serum creatinine results above 
97.5th percentile, as no clinical data are available.  
Interaction with other medicinal products 
No clinical data is available in children receiving concomitant systemic treatment with strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp.  
Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving concomitant systemic treatment with azole-
antimycotics (such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole and posaconazole) or HIV protease 
inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir). These active substances are strong inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp and 
therefore may increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a clinically relevant degree (2.6 fold on 
average) which may lead to an increased bleeding risk (see section 4.5). 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with medicinal products affecting haemostasis 
such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medicinal products (NSAIDs), acetylsalicylic acid and 
platelet aggregation inhibitors or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin 
norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). For patients at risk of ulcerative gastrointestinal disease 
an appropriate prophylactic treatment may be considered (see section 4.5).  
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other haemorrhagic risk factors 
As with other antithrombotics, rivaroxaban is not recommended in patients with an increased bleeding 
risk such as: 
• 
• 
• 
congenital or acquired bleeding disorders 
uncontrolled arterial hypertension  
other gastrointestinal disease without active ulceration that can potentially lead to bleeding 
complications (e.g. inflammatory bowel disease, oesophagitis, gastritis and gastroesophageal 
reflux disease) 
vascular retinopathy 
bronchiectasis or history of pulmonary bleeding 
• 
• 
Patients with cancer 
Patients with malignant disease may simultaneously be at higher risk of bleeding and thrombosis. The 
individual benefit of antithrombotic treatment should be weighed against risk for bleeding in patients 
with active cancer dependent on tumour location, antineoplastic therapy and stage of disease. Tumours 
located in the gastrointestinal or genitourinary tract have been associated with an increased risk of 
bleeding during rivaroxaban therapy.  
In patients with malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, the use of rivaroxaban is contraindicated 
(see section 4.3). 
Patients with prosthetic valves 
Rivaroxaban should not be used for thromboprophylaxis in patients having recently undergone 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR). Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been studied 
in patients with prosthetic heart valves; therefore, there are no data to support that this medicinal 
product provides adequate anticoagulation in this patient population. Treatment with Xarelto is not 
recommended for these patients. 
Patients with antiphospholipid syndrome 
Direct acting oral anticoagulants (DOACs) including rivaroxaban are not recommended for patients 
with a history of thrombosis who are diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome. In particular for 
patients that are triple positive (for lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies), treatment with DOACs could be associated with increased rates 
of recurrent thrombotic events compared with vitamin K antagonist therapy. 
Haemodynamically unstable PE patients or patients who require thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy 
Xarelto is not recommended as an alternative to unfractionated heparin in patients with pulmonary 
embolism who are haemodynamically unstable or may receive thrombolysis or pulmonary 
embolectomy since the safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in these clinical 
situations.  
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or lumbar puncture 
When neuraxial anaesthesia (spinal/epidural anaesthesia) or spinal/epidural puncture is employed, 
patients treated with antithrombotic agents for prevention of thromboembolic complications are at risk 
of developing an epidural or spinal haematoma which can result in long-term or permanent paralysis. 
The risk of these events may be increased by the post-operative use of indwelling epidural catheters or 
the concomitant use of medicinal products affecting haemostasis. The risk may also be increased by 
traumatic or repeated epidural or spinal puncture. Patients are to be frequently monitored for signs and 
symptoms of neurological impairment (e.g. numbness or weakness of the legs, bowel or bladder 
dysfunction). If neurological compromise is noted, urgent diagnosis and treatment is necessary. Prior 
to neuraxial intervention the physician should consider the potential benefit versus the risk in 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. There is no clinical 
experience with the use of rivaroxaban in these situations. 
To reduce the potential risk of bleeding associated with the concurrent use of rivaroxaban and 
neuraxial (epidural/spinal) anaesthesia or lumbar puncture, consider the pharmacokinetic profile of 
rivaroxaban. Placement or removal of an epidural catheter or lumbar puncture is best performed when 
the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is estimated to be low. However, the exact timing to reach a 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
sufficiently low anticoagulant effect in each patient is not known and should be weighed against the 
urgency of a diagnostic procedure. 
No data is available on the timing of the placement or removal of neuraxial catheter in children while 
on Xarelto. In such cases, discontinue rivaroxaban and consider a short acting parenteral 
anticoagulant. 
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention  
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto should be stopped at least 
24 hours before the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician.  
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the 
urgency of the intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted as soon as possible after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention 
provided the clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by 
the treating physician (see section 5.2). 
Dermatological reactions 
Serious skin reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis and DRESS 
syndrome, have been reported during post-marketing surveillance in association with the use of 
rivaroxaban (see section 4.8). Patients appear to be at highest risk for these reactions early in the 
course of therapy: the onset of the reaction occurring in the majority of cases within the first weeks of 
treatment. Rivaroxaban should be discontinued at the first appearance of a severe skin rash (e.g. 
spreading, intense and/or blistering), or any other sign of hypersensitivity in conjunction with mucosal 
lesions. 
Information about excipients 
Xarelto granules for oral suspension contains 1.8 mg sodium benzoate (E 211) in each mL oral 
suspension. Sodium benzoate may increase jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn 
infants (up to 4 weeks old). Increase in bilirubinaemia following its displacement from albumin may 
increase neonatal jaundice which may develop into kernicterus (non-conjugated bilirubin deposits in 
the brain tissue). 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per millilitre, that is to say 
essentially “sodium-free”. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The extent of interactions in the paediatric population is not known. The below mentioned interaction 
data was obtained in adults and the warnings in section 4.4 should be taken into account for the 
paediatric population. 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg once a day) or ritonavir (600 mg twice a 
day) led to a 2.6 fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in 
mean rivaroxaban Cmax, with significant increases in pharmacodynamic effects which may lead to an 
increased bleeding risk. Therefore, the use of Xarelto is not recommended in patients receiving 
concomitant systemic treatment with azole-antimycotics such as ketoconazole, itraconazole, 
voriconazole and posaconazole or HIV protease inhibitors. These active substances are strong 
inhibitors of both CYP3A4 and P-gp (see section 4.4).  
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either 
CYP3A4 or P-gp, are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. 
Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and 
moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in 
Cmax. The interaction with clarithromycin is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be 
potentially significant in high-risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Erythromycin (500 mg three times a day), which inhibits CYP3A4 and P-gp moderately, led to a 
1.3 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and Cmax. The interaction with erythromycin is likely not 
clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment erythromycin (500 mg three times a day) led to a 1.8 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. In subjects with moderate renal impairment, erythromycin led to a 2.0 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and 1.6 fold increase in Cmax when compared to subjects with 
normal renal function. The effect of erythromycin is additive to that of renal impairment (see 
section 4.4). 
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold 
increase in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.3 fold increase in mean Cmax. The interaction with 
fluconazole is likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-
risk patients. (For patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
Given the limited clinical data available with dronedarone, co-administration with rivaroxaban should 
be avoided. 
Anticoagulants 
After combined administration of enoxaparin (40 mg single dose) with rivaroxaban (10 mg single 
dose) an additive effect on anti-factor Xa activity was observed without any additional effects on 
clotting tests (PT, aPTT). Enoxaparin did not affect the pharmacokinetics of rivaroxaban. 
Due to the increased bleeding risk care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with any 
other anticoagulants (see sections 4.3 and 4.4).  
NSAIDs/platelet aggregation inhibitors 
No clinically relevant prolongation of bleeding time was observed after concomitant administration of 
rivaroxaban (15 mg) and 500 mg naproxen. Nevertheless, there may be individuals with a more 
pronounced pharmacodynamic response.  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with 500 mg acetylsalicylic acid. 
Clopidogrel (300 mg loading dose followed by 75 mg maintenance dose) did not show a 
pharmacokinetic interaction with rivaroxaban (15 mg) but a relevant increase in bleeding time was 
observed in a subset of patients which was not correlated to platelet aggregation, P-selectin or 
GPIIb/IIIa receptor levels. 
Care is to be taken if patients are treated concomitantly with NSAIDs (including acetylsalicylic acid) 
and platelet aggregation inhibitors because these medicinal products typically increase the bleeding 
risk (see section 4.4). 
SSRIs/SNRIs 
As with other anticoagulants the possibility may exist that patients are at increased risk of bleeding in 
case of concomitant use with SSRIs or SNRIs due to their reported effect on platelets. When 
concomitantly used in the rivaroxaban clinical programme, numerically higher rates of major or non-
major clinically relevant bleeding were observed in all treatment groups. 
Warfarin 
Converting patients from the vitamin K antagonist warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) to rivaroxaban (20 mg) or 
from rivaroxaban (20 mg) to warfarin (INR 2.0 to 3.0) increased prothrombin time/INR (Neoplastin) 
more than additively (individual INR values up to 12 may be observed), whereas effects on aPTT, 
inhibition of factor Xa activity and endogenous thrombin potential were additive.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban during the conversion period, anti-
factor Xa activity, PiCT, and Heptest can be used as these tests were not affected by warfarin. On the 
fourth day after the last dose of warfarin, all tests (including PT, aPTT, inhibition of factor Xa activity 
and ETP) reflected only the effect of rivaroxaban.  
If it is desired to test the pharmacodynamic effects of warfarin during the conversion period, INR 
measurement can be used at the Ctrough of rivaroxaban (24 hours after the previous intake of 
rivaroxaban) as this test is minimally affected by rivaroxaban at this time point. 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No pharmacokinetic interaction was observed between warfarin and rivaroxaban. 
CYP3A4 inducers  
Co-administration of rivaroxaban with the strong CYP3A4 inducer rifampicin led to an approximate 
50% decrease in mean rivaroxaban AUC, with parallel decreases in its pharmacodynamic effects. The 
concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital or St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum)) may also lead to reduced rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations. Therefore, concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 inducers should be 
avoided unless the patient is closely observed for signs and symptoms of thrombosis.  
Other concomitant therapies  
No clinically significant pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic interactions were observed when 
rivaroxaban was co-administered with midazolam (substrate of CYP3A4), digoxin (substrate of P-gp), 
atorvastatin (substrate of CYP3A4 and P-gp) or omeprazole (proton pump inhibitor). Rivaroxaban 
neither inhibits nor induces any major CYP isoforms like CYP3A4. 
Laboratory parameters 
Clotting parameters (e.g. PT, aPTT, HepTest) are affected as expected by the mode of action of 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1).  
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Due to the potential reproductive toxicity, the intrinsic 
risk of bleeding and the evidence that rivaroxaban passes the placenta, Xarelto is contraindicated 
during pregnancy (see section 4.3).  
Female adolescents of child-bearing potential should avoid becoming pregnant during treatment with 
rivaroxaban. 
Breast-feeding 
Safety and efficacy of Xarelto have not been established in breast-feeding women. Data from animals 
indicate that rivaroxaban is secreted into milk. Therefore Xarelto is contraindicated during breast-
feeding (see section 4.3). A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to 
discontinue/abstain from therapy.  
Fertility 
No specific studies with rivaroxaban in humans have been conducted to evaluate effects on fertility. In 
a study on male and female fertility in rats no effects were seen (see section 5.3).  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xarelto has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Adverse reactions like syncope 
(frequency: uncommon) and dizziness (frequency: common) have been reported (see section 4.8). 
Patients experiencing these adverse reactions should not drive or use machines. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The safety of rivaroxaban has been evaluated in thirteen pivotal phase III studies (see Table 3).  
Overall, 69,608 adult patients in nineteen phase III studies and 488 paediatric patients in two phase II 
and two phase III studies were exposed to rivaroxaban. 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Number of patients studied, total daily dose and maximum treatment duration in adult 
and paediatric phase III studies 
Number of 
patients* 
Total daily dose 
6,097 
10 mg 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of VTE in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE) 
and prevention of recurrence 
3,997 
6,790 
Treatment of VTE and prevention 
of VTE recurrence in term neonates 
and children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
329 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-
valvular atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients after an ACS 
7,750 
10,225 
Prevention of atherothrombotic 
events in patients with CAD/PAD 
18,244 
3,256** 
Maximum 
treatment 
duration 
39 days 
39 days 
21 months 
12 months 
41 months 
31 months  
47 months 
42 months 
10 mg 
Day 1 - 21: 30 mg 
Day 22 and onwards: 
20 mg 
After at least 6 months: 
10 mg or 20 mg 
Body weight-adjusted 
dose to achieve a similar 
exposure as that observed 
in adults treated for DVT 
with 20 mg rivaroxaban 
once daily 
20 mg 
5 mg or 10 mg 
respectively, co-
administered with either 
ASA or ASA plus 
clopidogrel or ticlopidine 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA or 10 mg alone 
5 mg co-administered 
with ASA 
* 
** 
Patients exposed to at least one dose of rivaroxaban 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving rivaroxaban were bleedings (see 
section 4.4. and ‘Description of selected adverse reactions’ below) (Table 4). The most commonly 
reported bleedings were epistaxis (4.5 %) and gastrointestinal tract haemorrhage (3.8 %). 
151 
 
 
 
2.1% of patients 
12.6% of patients 
Any bleeding 
6.8% of patients 
Anaemia 
5.9% of patients 
Table 4: Bleeding* and anaemia events rates in patients exposed to rivaroxaban across the 
completed adult and paediatric phase III studies 
Indication 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) in adult 
patients undergoing elective hip or 
knee replacement surgery 
Prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in medically ill 
patients 
Treatment of DVT, PE and prevention 
of recurrence 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of 
VTE recurrence in term neonates and 
children aged less than 18 years 
following initiation of standard 
anticoagulation treatment 
Prevention of stroke and systemic 
embolism in patients with non-valvular 
atrial fibrillation 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients after an ACS 
Prevention of atherothrombotic events 
in patients with CAD/PAD 
2.5 per 100 patient 
years 
28 per 100 patient 
years 
39.5% of patients 
1.6% of patients 
4.6% of patients 
23% of patients 
22 per 100 patient 
years 
6.7 per 100 patient 
years 
8.38 per 100 patient 
years # 
1.4 per 100 patient 
years 
0.15 per 100 patient 
years**  
0.74 per 100 patient 
years*** # 
For all rivaroxaban studies all bleeding events are collected, reported and 
In the COMPASS study, there is a low anaemia incidence as a selective 
* 
adjudicated. 
**  
approach to adverse event collection was applied 
***  A selective approach to adverse event collection was applied 
# 
From the VOYAGER PAD study 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The frequencies of adverse reactions reported with Xarelto in adult and paediatric patients are 
summarised in Table 5 below by system organ class (in MedDRA) and by frequency. 
Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10)  
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10)  
uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100)  
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000) 
very rare (< 1/10,000)  
not known (cannot be estimated from the available data) 
152 
 
 
  
Uncommon 
Table 5: All adverse reactions reported in adult patients in phase III clinical studies or through 
post-marketing use* and in two phase II and two phase III studies in paediatric patients 
Common 
Not known 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Anaemia (incl. 
respective 
laboratory 
parameters) 
Immune system disorders 
Thrombocytosis 
(incl. platelet count 
increased)A, 
thrombocytopenia 
Very rare 
Rare 
Allergic reaction, 
dermatitis allergic, 
angioedema and 
allergic oedema 
Anaphylactic 
reactions including 
anaphylactic shock  
Nervous system disorders 
Dizziness, 
headache 
Cerebral and 
intracranial 
haemorrhage, 
syncope 
Eye disorders 
Eye haemorrhage 
(incl. conjunctival 
haemorrhage) 
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Eosinophilic 
pneumonia  
Dry mouth 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension, 
haematoma 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Epistaxis, 
haemoptysis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Gingival bleeding, 
gastrointestinal 
tract haemorrhage 
(incl. rectal 
haemorrhage), 
gastrointestinal and 
abdominal pains, 
dyspepsia, nausea, 
constipationA, 
diarrhoea, 
vomitingA 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Increase in 
transaminases 
Hepatic 
impairment, 
increased bilirubin, 
increased blood 
alkaline 
phosphataseA, 
increased GGTA 
Jaundice, bilirubin 
conjugated 
increased (with or 
without 
concomitant 
increase of ALT), 
cholestasis, 
hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular 
injury) 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very rare 
Not known 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/Toxic 
Epidermal 
Necrolysis, DRESS 
syndrome  
Compartment 
syndrome 
secondary to a 
bleeding 
Renal failure/acute 
renal failure 
secondary to a 
bleeding sufficient 
to cause 
hypoperfusion, 
Anticoagulant-
related nephropathy 
Rare 
Urticaria 
Uncommon 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Pruritus (incl. 
uncommon cases of 
generalised 
pruritus), rash, 
ecchymosis, 
cutaneous and 
subcutaneous 
haemorrhage 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Pain in extremityA  Haemarthrosis 
Muscle 
haemorrhage 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Urogenital tract 
haemorrhage (incl. 
haematuria and 
menorrhagiaB), 
renal impairment 
(incl. blood 
creatinine 
increased, blood 
urea increased) 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
FeverA, peripheral 
Feeling unwell 
(incl. malaise)  
oedema, decreased 
general strength 
and energy (incl. 
fatigue and 
asthenia) 
Investigations 
Localised oedemaA   
Increased LDHA, 
increased lipaseA, 
increased amylaseA 
Injury, poisoning and procedural complications 
Vascular 
Postprocedural 
pseudoaneurysmC 
haemorrhage (incl. 
postoperative 
anaemia, and 
wound 
haemorrhage), 
contusion, wound 
secretionA 
A:   observed in prevention of VTE in adult patients undergoing elective hip or knee replacement 
surgery 
B:   observed in treatment of DVT, PE and prevention of recurrence as very common in women 
< 55 years 
C:   observed as uncommon in prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients after an ACS 
(following percutaneous coronary intervention) 
*   A pre-specified selective approach to adverse event collection was applied in selected phase III 
studies. The incidence of adverse reactions did not increase and no new adverse drug reaction 
was identified after analysis of these studies. 
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Due to the pharmacological mode of action, the use of Xarelto may be associated with an increased 
risk of occult or overt bleeding from any tissue or organ which may result in post haemorrhagic 
anaemia. The signs, symptoms, and severity (including fatal outcome) will vary according to the 
location and degree or extent of the bleeding and/or anaemia (see section 4.9 “Management of 
bleeding”). In the clinical studies mucosal bleedings (i.e. epistaxis, gingival, gastrointestinal, genito 
urinary including abnormal vaginal or increased menstrual bleeding) and anaemia were seen more 
frequently during long term rivaroxaban treatment compared with VKA treatment. Thus, in addition to 
adequate clinical surveillance, laboratory testing of haemoglobin/haematocrit could be of value to 
detect occult bleeding and quantify the clinical relevance of overt bleeding, as judged to be 
appropriate. The risk of bleedings may be increased in certain patient groups, e.g. those patients with 
uncontrolled severe arterial hypertension and/or on concomitant treatment affecting haemostasis (see 
section 4.4 “Haemorrhagic risk”). Menstrual bleeding may be intensified and/or prolonged. 
Haemorrhagic complications may present as weakness, paleness, dizziness, headache or unexplained 
swelling, dyspnoea and unexplained shock. In some cases as a consequence of anaemia, symptoms of 
cardiac ischaemia like chest pain or angina pectoris have been observed.  
Known complications secondary to severe bleeding such as compartment syndrome and renal failure 
due to hypoperfusion, or anticoagulant-related nephropathy have been reported for Xarelto. Therefore, 
the possibility of haemorrhage is to be considered in evaluating the condition in any anticoagulated 
patient. 
Paediatric patients 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence 
The safety assessment in children and adolescents is based on the safety data from two phase II and 
one phase III open-label active controlled studies in paediatric patients aged birth to less than 18 years. 
The safety findings were generally similar between rivaroxaban and comparator in the various 
paediatric age groups. Overall, the safety profile in the 412 children and adolescents treated with 
rivaroxaban was similar to that observed in the adult population and consistent across age subgroups, 
although assessment is limited by the small number of patients.  
In paediatric patients, headache (very common, 16.7%), fever (very common, 11.7%), epistaxis (very 
common, 11.2%), vomiting (very common, 10.7%), tachycardia (common, 1.5%), increase in bilirubin 
(common, 1.5%) and bilirubin conjugated increased (uncommon, 0.7%) were reported more 
frequently as compared to adults. Consistent with adult population, menorrhagia was observed in 6.6% 
(common) of female adolescents after menarche. Thrombocytopenia as observed in the post-marketing 
experience in adult population was common (4.6%) in paediatric clinical studies. The adverse drug 
reactions in paediatric patients were primarily mild to moderate in severity. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose  
In adults, rare cases of overdose up to 1,960 mg have been reported. In case of overdose, the patient 
should be observed carefully for bleeding complications or other adverse reactions (see section 
“Management of bleeding”). There is limited data available in children. Due to limited absorption a 
ceiling effect with no further increase in average plasma exposure is expected at supratherapeutic 
doses of 50 mg rivaroxaban or above in adults, however no data is available at supratherapeutic doses 
in children. 
A specific reversal agent antagonising the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban is not established in 
children. 
The use of activated charcoal to reduce absorption in case of rivaroxaban overdose may be considered. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
155 
 
 
 
 
 
Management of bleeding 
Should a bleeding complication arise in a patient receiving rivaroxaban, the next rivaroxaban 
administration should be delayed or treatment should be discontinued as appropriate. Rivaroxaban has 
a half-life of approximately 5 to 13 hours in adults. The half-life in children estimated using 
population pharmacokinetic (popPK) modelling approaches is shorter (see section 5.2). Management 
should be individualised according to the severity and location of the haemorrhage. Appropriate 
symptomatic treatment could be used as needed, such as mechanical compression (e.g. for severe 
epistaxis), surgical haemostasis with bleeding control procedures, fluid replacement and 
haemodynamic support, blood products (packed red cells or fresh frozen plasma, depending on 
associated anaemia or coagulopathy) or platelets. 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, administration of a specific procoagulant 
agent should be considered, such as prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), activated prothrombin 
complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant factor VIIa (r-FVIIa). However, there is currently very 
limited clinical experience with the use of these medicinal products in adults and in children receiving 
rivaroxaban (see section 5.1). 
Protamine sulphate and vitamin K are not expected to affect the anticoagulant activity of rivaroxaban. 
There is limited experience with tranexamic acid and no experience with aminocaproic acid and 
aprotinin in adults receiving rivaroxaban. There is no experience on the use of these agents in children 
receiving rivaroxaban. There is neither scientific rationale for benefit nor experience with the use of 
the systemic haemostatic desmopressin in individuals receiving rivaroxaban.  
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antithrombotic agents, direct factor Xa inhibitors, ATC code: B01AF01  
Mechanism of action 
Rivaroxaban is a highly selective direct factor Xa inhibitor with oral bioavailability. Inhibition of 
factor Xa interrupts the intrinsic and extrinsic pathway of the blood coagulation cascade, inhibiting 
both thrombin formation and development of thrombi. Rivaroxaban does not inhibit thrombin 
(activated factor II) and no effects on platelets have been demonstrated. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
Dose-dependent inhibition of factor Xa activity was observed in humans. Prothrombin time (PT) is 
influenced by rivaroxaban in a dose dependent way with a close correlation to plasma concentrations 
(r value equals 0.98) if Neoplastin is used for the assay. Other reagents would provide different results. 
The readout for PT is to be done in seconds, because the INR is only calibrated and validated for 
coumarins and cannot be used for any other anticoagulant.  
In patients receiving rivaroxaban for treatment of DVT and PE and prevention of recurrence, the 5/95 
percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 2 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the time of maximum effect) for 
15 mg rivaroxaban twice daily ranged from 17 to 32 s and for 20 mg rivaroxaban once daily from 15 
to 30 s. At trough (8 - 16 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles for 15 mg twice daily ranged from 
14 to 24 s and for 20 mg once daily (18 - 30 h after tablet intake) from 13 to 20 s. 
In patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation receiving rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism, the 5/95 percentiles for PT (Neoplastin) 1 - 4 hours after tablet intake (i.e. at the 
time of maximum effect) in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged from 14 to 40 s and in 
patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 10 to 50 s. At trough 
(16 - 36 h after tablet intake) the 5/95 percentiles in patients treated with 20 mg once daily ranged 
from 12 to 26 s and in patients with moderate renal impairment treated with 15 mg once daily from 12 
to 26 s. 
In a clinical pharmacology study on the reversal of rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics in healthy adult 
subjects (n=22), the effects of single doses (50 IU/kg) of two different types of PCCs, a 3-factor PCC 
(Factors II, IX and X) and a 4-factor PCC (Factors II, VII, IX and X) were assessed. The 3-factor PCC 
reduced mean Neoplastin PT values by approximately 1.0 second within 30 minutes, compared to 
156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reductions of approximately 3.5 seconds observed with the 4-factor PCC. In contrast, the 3-factor PCC 
had a greater and more rapid overall effect on reversing changes in endogenous thrombin generation 
than the 4-factor PCC (see section 4.9). 
The activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and HepTest are also prolonged dose-dependently; 
however, they are not recommended to assess the pharmacodynamic effect of rivaroxaban. There is no 
need for monitoring of coagulation parameters during treatment with rivaroxaban in routine clinical 
practice. However, if clinically indicated rivaroxaban levels can be measured by calibrated 
quantitative anti-factor Xa tests (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
PT (neoplastin reagent), aPTT, and anti-Xa assay (with a calibrated quantitative test) display a close 
correlation to plasma concentrations in children. The correlation between anti-Xa to plasma 
concentrations is linear with a slope close to 1. Individual discrepancies with higher or lower anti-Xa 
values as compared to the corresponding plasma concentrations may occur. There is no need for 
routine monitoring of coagulation parameters during clinical treatment with rivaroxaban. However, if 
clinically indicated, rivaroxaban concentrations can be measured by calibrated quantitative 
anti-Factor Xa tests in mcg/L (see Table 8 in section 5.2 for ranges of observed rivaroxaban plasma 
concentrations in children). The lower limit of quantifications must be considered when the anti-Xa 
test is used to quantify plasma concentrations of rivaroxaban in children. No threshold for efficacy or 
safety events has been established. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Treatment of VTE and prevention of VTE recurrence in paediatric patients  
A total of 727 children with confirmed acute VTE, of whom 528 received rivaroxaban, were studied in 
6 open-label, multicentre paediatric studies. Body weight-adjusted dosing in patients from birth to less 
than 18 years resulted in rivaroxaban exposure similar to that observed in adult DVT patients treated 
with rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily as confirmed in the phase III study (see section 5.2).  
The EINSTEIN Junior phase III study was a randomised, active-controlled, open-label multicentre 
clinical study in 500 paediatric patients (aged from birth to < 18 years) with confirmed acute VTE. 
There were 276 children aged 12 to < 18 years, 101 children aged 6 to < 12 years, 69 children aged 2 
to < 6 years, and 54 children aged < 2 years.  
Index VTE was classified as either central venous catheter-related VTE (CVC-VTE; 90/335 patients 
in the rivaroxaban group, 37/165 patients in the comparator group), cerebral vein and sinus thrombosis 
(CVST; 74/335 patients in the rivaroxaban group, 43/165 patients in the comparator group), and all 
others including DVT and PE (non-CVC-VTE; 171/335 patients in the rivaroxaban group, 
85/165 patients in the comparator group). The most common presentation of index thrombosis in 
children aged 12 to < 18 years was non-CVC-VTE in 211 (76.4%); in children aged 6 to < 12 years 
and aged 2 to < 6 years was CVST in 48 (47.5%) and 35 (50.7%), respectively; and in children aged 
< 2 years was CVC-VTE in 37 (68.5%). There were no children < 6 months with CVST in the 
rivaroxaban group. 22 of the patients with CVST had a CNS infection (13 patients in the rivaroxaban 
group and 9 patients in comparator group). 
VTE was provoked by persistent, transient, or both persistent and transient risk factors in 438 (87.6%) 
children.  
Patients received initial treatment with therapeutic doses of UFH, LMWH, or fondaparinux for at least 
5 days, and were randomised 2:1 to receive either body weight-adjusted doses of rivaroxaban or 
comparator group (heparins, VKA) for a main study treatment period of 3 months (1 month for 
children < 2 years with CVC-VTE). At the end of the main study treatment period, the diagnostic 
imaging test, which was obtained at baseline, was repeated, if clinically feasible. The study treatment 
could be stopped at this point, or at the discretion of the Investigator continued for up to 12 months 
(for children < 2 years with CVC-VTE up to 3 months) in total. 
The primary efficacy outcome was symptomatic recurrent VTE. The primary safety outcome was the 
composite of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding (CRNMB). All efficacy and 
157 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
safety outcomes were centrally adjudicated by an independent committee blinded for treatment 
allocation. The efficacy and safety results are shown in Tables 6 and 7 below. 
Recurrent VTEs occurred in the rivaroxaban group in 4 of 335 patients and in the comparator group in 
5 of 165 patients. The composite of major bleeding and CRNMB was reported in 10 of 329 patients 
(3%) treated with rivaroxaban and in 3 of 162 patients (1.9%) treated with comparator. Net clinical 
benefit (symptomatic recurrent VTE plus major bleeding events) was reported in the rivaroxaban 
group in 4 of 335 patients and in the comparator group in 7 of 165 patients. Normalisation of the 
thrombus burden on repeat imaging occurred in 128 of 335 patients with rivaroxaban treatment and in 
43 of 165patients in the comparator group. These findings were generally similar among age groups. 
There were 119 (36.2%) children with any treatment-emergent bleeding in the rivaroxaban group and 
45 (27.8%) children in the comparator group. 
Table 6: Efficacy results at the end of the main treatment period  
Event 
Recurrent VTE (primary efficacy outcome) 
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + 
asymptomatic deterioration on repeat imaging 
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + 
asymptomatic deterioration + no change on repeat 
imaging 
Normalisation on repeat imaging  
Composite: Symptomatic recurrent VTE + major 
bleeding (net clinical benefit) 
Fatal or non-fatal pulmonary embolism 
Rivaroxaban  
N=335* 
4 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.4% – 3.0%) 
5 
(1.5%, 95% CI 
0.6% – 3.4%) 
21 
(6.3%, 95% CI 
4.0% – 9.2%) 
128 
(38.2%, 95% CI 
33.0% - 43.5%) 
4 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.4% - 3.0%) 
1 
(0.3%, 95% CI 
0.0% – 1.6%) 
Comparator 
N=165* 
5 
(3.0%, 95% CI 
1.2% - 6.6%) 
6 
(3.6%, 95% CI 
1.6% – 7.6%) 
19 
(11.5%, 95% CI 
7.3% – 17.4%) 
43 
(26.1%, 95% CI 
19.8% - 33.0%) 
7 
(4.2%, 95% CI 
2.0% - 8.4%) 
1 
(0.6%, 95% CI 
0.0% – 3.1%) 
* 
FAS = full analysis set, all children who were randomised 
Table 7: Safety results at the end of the main treatment period  
Composite: Major bleeding + CRNMB (primary safety 
outcome) 
Major bleeding 
Rivaroxaban  
N=329* 
10 
(3.0%, 95% CI 
1.6% - 5.5%) 
0 
(0.0%, 95% CI 
0.0% - 1.1%) 
119 (36.2%) 
Comparator 
N=162* 
3 
(1.9%, 95% CI 
0.5% - 5.3%) 
2 
(1.2%, 95% CI 
0.2% - 4.3%) 
45 (27.8%) 
Any treatment-emergent bleedings 
* 
SAF = safety analysis set, all children who were randomised and received at least 1 dose of study 
medicinal product  
The efficacy and safety profile of rivaroxaban was largely similar between the paediatric VTE 
population and the DVT/PE adult population, however, the proportion of subjects with any bleeding 
was higher in the paediatric VTE population as compared to the DVT/PE adult population. 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thromboprophylaxis in Paediatric Patients with Congenital Heart Disease after the Fontan 
Procedure  
The efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban for thromboprophylaxis in 110 paediatric patients with 
congenital heart disease who have undergone the Fontan procedure within 4 months prior to enrolment 
was evaluated in a prospective, open-label, 2-part (part B active-controlled) study (UNIVERSE) where 
rivaroxaban was used for thromboprophylaxis for 12 months compared with acetylsalicylic acid in 
children 2 to 8 years of age with single ventricle physiology who had the Fontan procedure. Patients 
received either body weight-adjusted doses of rivaroxaban ([n=76], exposures to match that of 10 mg 
daily dose in adults) or acetylsalicylic acid ([n=34] approximately 5 mg/kg). The dosing studied in 
UNIVERSE for thromboprophylaxis was thus lower and cannot be derived from the approved 
paediatric dose for the treatment of VTE.  
Few thromboembolic events were observed in the UNIVERSE study (rivaroxaban group (1 [1.6%]) vs 
acetylsalicylic acid group (3 [8.8%])) and the amount of bleeding events was similar between study 
arms with 5 (7.8%) clinically relevant bleedings (including 1 major) in the rivaroxaban group versus 
3 (8.8%; none of which major) in the acetylsalicylic acid group. 
Patients with high risk triple positive antiphospholipid syndrome 
In an investigator sponsored, randomised open-label multicentre study with blinded endpoint 
adjudication, rivaroxaban was compared to warfarin in patients with a history of thrombosis, 
diagnosed with antiphospholipid syndrome and at high risk for thromboembolic events (positive for all 
3 antiphospholipid tests: lupus anticoagulant, anticardiolipin antibodies, and 
anti-beta 2-glycoprotein I antibodies). The study was terminated prematurely after the enrolment of 
120 patients due to an excess of events among patients in the rivaroxaban arm. Mean follow-up was 
569 days. 59 patients were randomised to rivaroxaban 20 mg (15 mg for patients with creatinine 
clearance (CrCl) < 50 mL/min) and 61 to warfarin (INR 2.0-3.0). Thromboembolic events occurred in 
12% of patients randomised to rivaroxaban (4 ischaemic strokes and 3 myocardial infarctions). No 
events were reported in patients randomised to warfarin. Major bleeding occurred in 4 patients (7%) of 
the rivaroxaban group and 2 patients (3%) of the warfarin group. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
The following information is based on the data obtained in adults.  
Rivaroxaban is rapidly absorbed with maximum concentrations (Cmax) appearing 2 - 4 hours after 
tablet intake.  
Oral absorption of rivaroxaban is almost complete and oral bioavailability is high (80 - 100%) for the 
2.5 mg and 10 mg tablet dose, irrespective of fasting/fed conditions.  
Due to a reduced extent of absorption an oral bioavailability of 66% was determined for the 20 mg 
tablet under fasting conditions. When rivaroxaban 20 mg tablets are taken together with food increases 
in mean AUC by 39% were observed when compared to tablet intake under fasting conditions, 
indicating almost complete absorption and high oral bioavailability.  
Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg once daily in fasting state. 
Under fed conditions rivaroxaban 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg tablets demonstrated dose-proportionality. 
At higher doses rivaroxaban displays dissolution limited absorption with decreased bioavailability and 
decreased absorption rate with increased dose.  
Bioequivalence was demonstrated for the granules for oral suspension formulation compared to the 
marketed tablet at the 10 mg dose in fasted state as well as for the 20 mg dose in fed state. 
Variability in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics is moderate with inter-individual variability (CV%) 
ranging from 30% to 40%. 
Absorption of rivaroxaban is dependent on the site of its release in the gastrointestinal tract. A 29% 
and 56% decrease in AUC and Cmax compared to tablet was reported when rivaroxaban granulate is 
released in the proximal small intestine. Exposure is further reduced when rivaroxaban is released in 
the distal small intestine, or ascending colon. Therefore, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the 
stomach should be avoided since this can result in reduced absorption and related rivaroxaban 
exposure. 
Bioavailability (AUC and Cmax) was comparable for 20 mg rivaroxaban administered orally as a 
crushed tablet mixed in apple puree, or suspended in water and administered via a gastric tube 
159 
 
 
 
followed by a liquid meal, compared to a whole tablet. Given the predictable, dose-proportional 
pharmacokinetic profile of rivaroxaban, the bioavailability results from this study are likely applicable 
to lower rivaroxaban doses. 
Paediatric population 
Children received a rivaroxaban tablet or oral suspension during or closely after feeding or food intake 
and with a typical serving of liquid to ensure reliable dosing in children. As in adults, rivaroxaban is 
readily absorbed after oral administration as a tablet or granules for oral suspension formulation in 
children. No difference in the absorption rate nor in the extent of absorption between the tablet and 
granules for oral suspension formulation was observed. No PK data following intravenous 
administration to children is available so the absolute bioavailability of rivaroxaban in children is 
unknown. A decrease in the relative bioavailability for increasing doses (in mg/kg bodyweight) was 
found, suggesting absorption limitations for higher doses, even when taken together with food. 
Rivaroxaban oral suspension should be taken with feeding or with food (see section 4.2).  
Distribution 
Plasma protein binding in adults is high at approximately 92% to 95%, with serum albumin being the 
main binding component. The volume of distribution is moderate with Vss being approximately 
50 litres. 
Paediatric population 
No data on rivaroxaban plasma protein binding specific to children is available. No PK data following 
intravenous administration of rivaroxaban to children is available. Vss estimated via population PK 
modelling in children (age range 0 to < 18 years) following oral administration of rivaroxaban is 
dependent on body weight and can be described with an allometric function, with an average of 113 L 
for a subject with a body weight of 82.8 kg. 
Biotransformation and elimination  
In adults, of the administered rivaroxaban dose, approximately 2/3 undergoes metabolic degradation, 
with half then being eliminated renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 
of the administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the urine, 
mainly via active renal secretion. 
Rivaroxaban is metabolised via CYP3A4, CYP2J2 and CYP-independent mechanisms. Oxidative 
degradation of the morpholinone moiety and hydrolysis of the amide bonds are the major sites of 
biotransformation. Based on in vitro investigations rivaroxaban is a substrate of the transporter 
proteins P-gp (P-glycoprotein) and Bcrp (breast cancer resistance protein). 
Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important compound in human plasma, with no major or active 
circulating metabolites being present. With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be 
classified as a low-clearance substance. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the 
elimination half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration the elimination becomes absorption 
rate limited. Elimination of rivaroxaban from plasma occurs with terminal half-lives of 5 to 9 hours in 
young individuals, and with terminal half-lives of 11 to 13 hours in the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
No metabolism data specific to children is available. No PK data following intravenous administration 
of rivaroxaban to children is available. CL estimated via population PK modelling in children (age 
range 0 to < 18 years) following oral administration of rivaroxaban is dependent on body weight and 
can be described with an allometric function, with an average of 8 L/h for a subject with body weight 
of 82.8 kg. The geometric mean values for disposition half-lives (t1/2) estimated via population PK 
modelling decrease with decreasing age and ranged from 4.2 h in adolescents to approximately 3 h in 
children aged 2-12 years down to 1.9 and 1.6 h in children aged 0.5-< 2 years and less than 0.5 years, 
respectively. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
No clinical data is available in children with hepatic impairment. In adults, cirrhotic patients with mild 
hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh A) exhibited only minor changes in rivaroxaban 
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), nearly comparable to their 
matched healthy control group. In cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic impairment (classified as 
Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban mean AUC was significantly increased by 2.3 fold compared to healthy 
volunteers. Unbound AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also had reduced renal elimination 
of rivaroxaban, similar to patients with moderate renal impairment. There are no data in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment. 
The inhibition of factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 2.6 in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment as compared to healthy volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor 
of 2.1. Patients with moderate hepatic impairment were more sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a 
steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Rivaroxaban is contraindicated in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and 
clinically relevant bleeding risk, including cirrhotic patients with Child Pugh B and C (see 
section 4.3). 
Renal impairment 
No clinical data is available in children 1 year or older with moderate or severe renal impairment 
(glomerular filtration rate < 50 mL/min/1.73 m2) or in children younger than 1 year with serum 
creatinine results above 97.5th percentile (see section 4.4). 
In adults, there was an increase in rivaroxaban exposure correlated to decrease in renal function, as 
assessed via creatinine clearance measurements. In individuals with mild (creatinine clearance 
50 - 80 mL/min), moderate (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 mL/min) and severe (creatinine clearance 
15 - 29 mL/min) renal impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were increased 1.4, 1.5 
and 1.6 fold respectively. Corresponding increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more 
pronounced. In individuals with mild, moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of 
factor Xa activity was increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively as compared to healthy 
volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4 respectively. 
There are no data in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 mL/min. 
Due to the high plasma protein binding rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. 
Gender 
In adults, there were no clinically relevant differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics 
between male and female patients. An exploratory analysis did not reveal relevant differences in 
rivaroxaban exposure between male and female children.  
Different weight categories 
In adults, extremes in body weight (< 50 kg or > 120 kg) had only a small influence on rivaroxaban 
plasma concentrations (less than 25%). In children, rivaroxaban is dosed based on body weight. An 
exploratory analysis in children did not reveal a relevant impact of underweight or obesity on 
rivaroxaban exposure.  
Inter-ethnic differences 
In adults, no clinically relevant inter-ethnic differences among Caucasian, African-American, 
Hispanic, Japanese or Chinese patients were observed regarding rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacodynamics.  
An exploratory analysis did not reveal relevant inter-ethnic differences in rivaroxaban exposure among 
Japanese, Chinese or Asian children outside Japan and China compared to the respective overall 
paediatric population.  
Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
In paediatric patients with acute VTE receiving body weight-adjusted rivaroxaban leading to an 
exposure similar to that in adult DVT patients receiving a 20 mg once daily dose, the geometric mean 
concentrations (90% interval) at sampling time intervals roughly representing maximum and minimum 
concentrations during the dose interval are summarised in Table 8.  
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Summary statistics (geometric mean (90% interval)) of rivaroxaban steady state 
plasma concentrations (mcg/L) by dosing regimen and age 
Time 
intervals 
o.d. 
N 
12 -
< 18 years 
N 
6 -< 12 years 
2.5-4h post 
171  241.5  
(105-484) 
20-24h post 
151  20.6 
24 
24 
b.i.d. 
2.5-4h post 
N 
36 
10-16h post 
33 
t.i.d. 
0.5-3h post 
7-8h post 
N 
5 
5 
 (5.69-66.5) 
6 -< 12 years  N 
38 
145.4  
(46.0-343) 
26.0  
(7.99-94.9) 
2 -< 6 years 
37 
N 
164.7  
(108-283) 
33.2  
(18.7-99.7) 
25 
23 
229.7  
(91.5-777) 
15.9  
(3.42-45.5)  
2 -< 6 years 
171.8  
(70.7-438) 
22.2  
(0.25-127) 
Birth -
< 2 years 
111.2  
(22.9-320) 
18.7  
(10.1-36.5) 
N   0.5 -< 2 years 
2 
n.c. 
3 
N 
10.7  
(n.c.-n.c.) 
0.5 -< 2 years  N  Birth -
< 0.5 years 
13  114.3  
12  108.0  
(22.9-346) 
(19.2-320) 
12  21.4  
11  16.1  
(10.5-65.6) 
(1.03-33.6) 
o.d. = once daily, b.i.d. = twice daily, t.i.d. three times daily, n.c. = not calculated 
Values below lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) were substituted by ½ LLOQ for the calculation of 
statistics (LLOQ = 0.5 mcg/L). 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
The pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) relationship between rivaroxaban plasma 
concentration and several PD endpoints (factor Xa inhibition, PT, aPTT, Heptest) has been evaluated 
after administration of a wide range of doses (5 - 30 mg twice a day). The relationship between 
rivaroxaban concentration and factor Xa activity was best described by an Emax model. For PT, the 
linear intercept model generally described the data better. Depending on the different PT reagents 
used, the slope differed considerably. When Neoplastin PT was used, baseline PT was about 13 s and 
the slope was around 3 to 4 s/(100 mcg/L). The results of the PK/PD analyses in Phase II and III were 
consistent with the data established in healthy subjects.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, single dose toxicity, phototoxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential and juvenile 
toxicity. 
Effects observed in repeat-dose toxicity studies were mainly due to the exaggerated pharmacodynamic 
activity of rivaroxaban. In rats, increased IgG and IgA plasma levels were seen at clinically relevant 
exposure levels. 
In rats, no effects on male or female fertility were seen. Animal studies have shown reproductive 
toxicity related to the pharmacological mode of action of rivaroxaban (e.g. haemorrhagic 
complications). Embryo-foetal toxicity (post-implantation loss, retarded/progressed ossification, 
hepatic multiple light coloured spots) and an increased incidence of common malformations as well as 
placental changes were observed at clinically relevant plasma concentrations. In the pre- and 
post-natal study in rats, reduced viability of the offspring was observed at doses that were toxic to the 
dams. 
Rivaroxaban was tested in juvenile rats up to 3-month treatment duration starting at postnatal day 4 
showing a non dose-related increase in periinsular haemorrhage. No evidence of target organ-specific 
toxicity was seen.  
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Citric acid, anhydrous (E 330) 
Hypromellose (2910)  
Mannitol (E 421) 
Microcrystalline cellulose and carmellose sodium 
Sodium benzoate (E 211) 
Sucralose (E 955) 
Xanthan gum (E 415) 
Flavour sweet and creamy: flavouring substances, maltodextrin (maize), propylene glycol (E 1520) 
and acacia gum (E 414). 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
After reconstitution the suspension is stable for 14 days. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30 °C. 
Do not freeze.  
Store the prepared suspension upright. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension is packed in a folding box containing:  
• 
For children weighing less than 4 kg: 
- 
2.625 g granules, corresponding to 51.7 mg rivaroxaban, in 1 brown glass bottle 100 mL, 
closed with a child resistant screw cap  
2 blue syringes 1 mL with 0.1 mL marked graduations 
1 adapter for bottles and blue syringes  
1 water syringe 50 mL with 1 mL marked graduations 
or 
• 
For children weighing 4 kg and more:  
- 
5.25 g granules, corresponding to 103.4 mg rivaroxaban, in 1 brown glass bottle 250 mL, 
closed with a child resistant screw cap  
2 blue syringes 5 mL with 0.2 mL marked graduations 
2 blue syringes 10 mL with 0.5 mL marked graduations 
1 adapter for bottles and blue syringes  
1 water syringe 100 mL with 2 mL marked graduations 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling  
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
163 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
50 mL for the 100 mL bottle containing 2.625 g granules  
100 mL for the 250 mL bottle containing 5.25 g granules  
Suspension 
Before administration the granules must be suspended into a homogenous suspension with non-
carbonated water giving a final concentration of 1 mg per mL. 
The amount of water to be used is:  
- 
- 
The bottle has to be shaken after reconstitution for 60 seconds and before each dose for 10 seconds.  
After reconstitution the medicinal product is a white to off-white suspension.  
For dose administration after reconstitution, the blue syringes (1 mL, 5 mL or 10 mL) are provided 
(see section 4.2, Table 1).  
Complete details on preparation and administration of the oral suspension can be found in the 
Instructions for Use that is provided with the medicinal product or in an educational video which can 
be accessed via QR code displayed on the Patient Alert Card that is also provided with the medicinal 
product.  
The suspension may be given through a nasogastric or gastric feeding tube. Gastric placement of the 
tube should be confirmed before administering Xarelto. Since rivaroxaban absorption is dependent on 
the site of active substance release, administration of rivaroxaban distal to the stomach should be 
avoided, as this can result in reduced absorption and thereby, reduced active substance exposure. After 
the administration, the feeding tube should be flushed with water. This should then be immediately 
followed by nasogastric or gastric feeding. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/050-051 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 30 September 2008 
Date of latest renewal: 22 May 2018 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Bayer AG 
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
Bayer HealthCare Manufacturing Srl. 
Via delle Groane, 126 
20024 Garbagnate Milanese 
Italy 
Bayer Bitterfeld GmbH 
Ortsteil Greppin, Salegaster Chaussee 1 
06803 Bitterfeld-Wolfen 
Germany  
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
•  Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH shall provide an educational pack prior to launch, targeting all physicians who are expected 
to prescribe/use Xarelto. The educational pack is aimed at increasing awareness about the potential 
risk of bleeding during treatment with Xarelto and providing guidance on how to manage that risk. 
The physician educational pack should contain: 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
• 
Prescriber Guide 
• 
Patient Alert Cards [Text included in Annex III] 
• 
Patient Alert Cards (Xarelto granules for oral suspension) [Text included in Annex III] 
• 
The MAH must agree the content and format of the Prescriber Guide together with a communication 
plan, with the national competent authority in each Member State prior to distribution of the 
educational pack in their territory. The Prescriber Guide should contain the following key safety 
messages: 
•  Details of populations potentially at higher risk of bleeding 
•  Recommendations for dose reduction in at risk populations 
•  Guidance regarding switching from or to rivaroxaban treatment  
•  The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
•  Management of overdose situations 
•  The use of coagulation tests and their interpretation 
•  That all patients should be counselled about: 
➢  Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care 
provider. 
➢  Importance of treatment compliance 
➢  The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
➢  Necessity to carry the Patient Alert Card that is included in each pack, with them at all 
times 
➢  The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Xarelto if they need 
to have any surgery or invasive procedure. 
•  That all parents/caregivers of paediatric patients and all paediatric patients administered 
Xarelto granules for oral suspension should be counselled about: 
➢  reconstitution and dosing of the oral suspension 
The MAH shall also provide a Patient Alert Card in each medicine pack, the text of which is included 
in Annex III.  
To ensure correct reconstitution and handling of Xarelto granules for oral suspension, a training video 
for healthcare providers and caregivers will be made available by the MAH electronically on company 
webpages (as per local country requirements). The MAH shall send notifications to potential 
prescribers in line with the communication plan agreed with the national competent authority detailing 
the location of the training video, the necessity of training and the documentation of training.  
167 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 2.5 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
14 film-coated tablets 
20 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
30 film-coated tablets 
56 film-coated tablets 
60 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
196 film-coated tablets 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets 
100 x 1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/025  14 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/026  28 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/027  56 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/028  60 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/08/472/029  98 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/030  168 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/031  196 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/032  10 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/033  100 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/035  30 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/041  20 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/047  14 film-coated tablets  
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 2.5 mg 
171 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
172 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 2.5 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 100 (10 packs of 10 x 1) film-coated tablets.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
173 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/034 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 2.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
174 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 2.5 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets. 
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/034 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 2.5 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER (10 x 1 TABLETS) FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
177 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 10 TABLETS FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
178 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 14 TABLETS FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Mon. 
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
sun as symbol 
moon as symbol 
179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND LABEL FOR HDPE BOTTLE FOR 2.5 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 2.5 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
180 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/046 
100 film-coated tablets  
(HDPE Bottle) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. (only applicable for bottle label, not applicable for 
outer carton) 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 2.5 mg (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable 
for bottle label) 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
SN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
NN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
181 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR 10 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 10 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
5 film-coated tablets 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets  
30 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets 
100 x 1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/001  5 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/002  10 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/003  30 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/004  100 x 1 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/08/472/005  5 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/006  10 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/007  30 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/008  100 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/009  10 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/010  10 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/042  14 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/043  28 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/044  98 film-coated tablets  
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 10 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
183 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
184 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) FOR 10 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 10 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 100 (10 packs of 10 x 1) film-coated tablets.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/022 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 10 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
186 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) FOR 10 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 10 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets.  
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
187 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/022  100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 10 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
188 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 10 TABLETS FOR 10 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
189 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 14 TABLETS FOR 10 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Mon. 
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
190 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND LABEL FOR HDPE BOTTLE FOR 10 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 10 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
191 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/045 
100 film-coated tablets  
(HDPE Bottle) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. (only applicable for bottle label, not applicable for 
outer carton) 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 10 mg (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable 
for bottle label) 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
SN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
NN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
192 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR UNIT PACK FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 15 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
42 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets 
100 x 1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
193 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/011  14 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/012  28 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/013  42 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/014  98 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/015  10 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/016  100 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/038  10 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/048  14 film-coated tablets  
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 15 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
194 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 15 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 100 (10 packs of 10 x 1) film-coated tablets.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
195 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/023 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 15 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
196 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 15 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets. 
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/023 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 15 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
198 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER (10 X 1 TABLETS) FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
199 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 14 TABLETS FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Mon. 
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 10 TABLETS FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
201 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND LABEL FOR HDPE BOTTLE FOR 15 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 15 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
202 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/036 
100 film-coated tablets  
(HDPE Bottle) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. (only applicable for bottle label, not applicable for 
outer carton) 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 15 mg (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label)  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable 
for bottle label) 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
SN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
NN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
203 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR UNIT PACK FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 film-coated tablets 
14 film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
98 film-coated tablets 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets 
100 x 1 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
204 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/017  14 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/018  28 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/019  98 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/020  10 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/021  100 x 1 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/039  10 film-coated tablets  
EU/1/08/472/049  14 film-coated tablets  
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
(PVC/PVDC/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 20 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
205 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Multipack: 100 (10 packs of 10 x 1) film-coated tablets.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
206 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/024 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 20 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
207 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
10 x 1 film-coated tablets.  
Component of a multipack, can’t be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
208 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/024 
100 film-coated tablets (10 x 10 x 1) (multipack)  (PP/Aluminium foil blisters) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 20 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
209 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
UNIT DOSE BLISTER (10 X 1 TABLETS) FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
210 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 14 TABLETS FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Mon. 
Tue. 
Wed. 
Thu. 
Fri. 
Sat. 
Sun. 
211 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF 10 TABLETS FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
212 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND LABEL FOR HDPE BOTTLE FOR 20 MG 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each film-coated tablet contains 20 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
100 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
213 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/037 
100 film-coated tablets  
(HDPE Bottle) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. (only applicable for bottle label, not applicable for 
outer carton) 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 20 mg (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable 
for bottle label) 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
SN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
NN (only applicable for outer carton, not applicable for bottle label) 
214 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON OF TREATMENT INITIATION PACK (42 FILM-COATED TABLETS OF 
15 MG AND 7 FILM-COATED TABLETS OF 20 MG) (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg  
Xarelto 20 mg  
film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each red film-coated tablet for week 1, 2 and 3 contains 15 mg rivaroxaban. 
Each brown-red film-coated tablet for week 4 contains 20 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Each pack of 49 film-coated tablets contains:  
42 film-coated tablets of 15 mg rivaroxaban 
7 film-coated tablets of 20 mg rivaroxaban 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Treatment Initiation Pack  
This treatment initiation pack is only for the first 4 weeks of treatment.  
DOSE 
Day 1 to 21: One 15 mg tablet twice a day (one 15 mg tablet in the morning and one in the evening) 
together with food.  
From Day 22: One 20 mg tablet once a day (taken at same time each day) together with food.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
215 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/040 
42 film-coated tablets of 15 mg rivaroxaban and 
7 film-coated tablets of 20 mg rivaroxaban  
(treatment initiation pack) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 15 mg  
Xarelto 20 mg  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN  
NN  
216 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
WALLET OF TREATMENT INITIATION PACK (42 FILM-COATED TABLETS OF 15 MG 
AND 7 FILM-COATED TABLETS OF 20 MG) (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg  
Xarelto 20 mg  
film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each red film-coated tablet for week 1, 2 and 3 contains 15 mg rivaroxaban. 
Each brown-red film-coated tablet for week 4 contains 20 mg rivaroxaban. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Each pack of 49 film-coated tablets contains:  
42 film-coated tablets of 15 mg rivaroxaban 
7 film-coated tablets of 20 mg rivaroxaban 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Treatment Initiation Pack  
This treatment initiation pack is only for the first 4 weeks of treatment.  
Back and front side 
DOSE and DOSING SCHEME 
Day 1 to 21: One 15 mg tablet twice a day (one 15 mg tablet in the morning and one in the evening) 
with food.  
From Day 22: One 20 mg tablet once a day (taken at same time each day) with food.  
Initial treatment   Xarelto 15 mg twice a day  
Continuous treatment   Xarelto 20 mg once a day  
ensure continued treatment. 
To be taken with food.  
First 3 weeks 
Week 4 onwards  Visit your doctor to 
217 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Xarelto 15 mg 
Start of therapy  
15 mg 
twice a day  
Start date  
WEEK 1, WEEK 2, WEEK 3  
DAY 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21  
sun as symbol 
moon as symbol 
Dose change  
Xarelto 20 mg 
20 mg  
once a day  
taken at same time each day 
Date of dose change  
WEEK 4 
DAY 22 DAY 23 DAY 24 DAY 25 DAY 26 DAY 27 DAY 28  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
218 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/040 
42 film-coated tablets of 15 mg rivaroxaban and 
7 film-coated tablets of 20 mg rivaroxaban  
(treatment initiation pack) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted.  
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
219 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER OF TREATMENT INITIATION PACK IN WALLET (42 FILM-COATED 
TABLETS OF 15 MG AND 7 FILM-COATED TABLETS OF 20 MG) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 15 mg tablets 
Xarelto 20 mg tablets 
rivaroxaban 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer (logo) 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
220 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON FOR GLASS BOTTLE 100 ML (GRANULES) (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension 
rivaroxaban 
For children weighing less than 4 kg 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The granules contain 19.69 mg rivaroxaban per gram. 
The glass bottle contains 51.7 mg rivaroxaban. 
Following reconstitution the oral suspension contains 1 mg rivaroxaban per mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium benzoate (E 211). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules for oral suspension  
The bottle contains 2.625 g granules to be resuspended in 50 mL water. 
1 bottle 100 mL 
1 water syringe 50 mL  
2 blue syringes 1 mL 
1 adapter 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Please ask your pharmacist or doctor to fill in the prescription information:  
Body weight of the child:  
mL 
Dose for the child:   
This dose is to be given to the child three times a day  
kg 
Shake after preparation at least 60 seconds.  
Shake before each use at least 10 seconds.  
Oral use only after reconstitution.  
Read the package leaflet and the Instructions for Use before use.  
221 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After reconstitution the suspension is stable for 14 days. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. Do not freeze. Store the prepared suspension upright. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/050 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL 
222 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.  
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN  
NN 
223 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
LABEL FOR GLASS BOTTLE 100 ML (GRANULES) (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension 
rivaroxaban 
For children weighing less than 4 kg.  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The granules contain 19.69 mg rivaroxaban per gram. 
The bottle contains 51.7 mg rivaroxaban. 
Following reconstitution the oral suspension contains 1 mg rivaroxaban per mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium benzoate (E 211). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules for oral suspension 
2.625 g granules to be resuspended in 50 mL water.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake after preparation at least 60 seconds.  
Shake before each use at least 10 seconds.  
Oral use only after reconstitution.  
Read the package leaflet and the Instructions for Use before use.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
224 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Expiry date (= date of preparation + 14 days):  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. Do not freeze. Store the prepared suspension upright. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/050 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
225 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR GLASS BOTTLE 250 ML (GRANULES) (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension 
rivaroxaban 
For children weighing 4 kg and more. 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The granules contain 19.69 mg rivaroxaban per gram. 
The glass bottle contains 103.4 mg rivaroxaban. 
Following reconstitution the oral suspension contains 1 mg rivaroxaban per mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium benzoate (E 211). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules for oral suspension  
The bottle contains 5.25 g granules to be resuspended in 100 mL water.  
1 bottle 250 mL 
1 water syringe 100 mL  
2 blue syringes 5 mL  
2 blue syringes 10 mL 
1 adapter 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
kg 
Please ask your pharmacist or doctor to fill in the prescription information:  
Body weight of the child:  
Dose for the child:   
This dose is to be given to the child (tick the box): 
□ Once daily 
□ Twice daily 
□ Three times a day  
mL 
Shake after preparation at least 60 seconds. 
Shake before each use at least 10 seconds. 
Oral use only after reconstitution.  
Read the package leaflet and the Instructions for Use before use.  
226 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
After reconstitution the suspension is stable for 14 days. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. Do not freeze. Store the prepared suspension upright. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/051 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
227 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
228 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
LABEL FOR GLASS BOTTLE 250 ML (GRANULES) (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension 
rivaroxaban 
For children weighing 4 kg and more. 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
The granules contain 19.69 mg rivaroxaban per gram. 
The bottle contains 103.4 mg rivaroxaban. 
Following reconstitution the oral suspension contains 1 mg rivaroxaban per mL. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains sodium benzoate (E 211). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Granules for oral suspension 
5.25 g granules to be resuspended in 100 mL water.  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Shake after preparation at least 60 seconds.  
Shake before each use at least 10 seconds.  
Oral use only after reconstitution.  
Read the package leaflet and the Instructions for Use before use.  
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
229 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
Expiry date (= date of preparation + 14 days):  
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C. Do not freeze. Store upright after reconstitution. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/08/472/051 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
230 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PATIENT ALERT CARD 
[Xarelto tablets 2.5 mg / 10 mg / 15 mg / 20 mg / treatment initiation pack] 
Patient Alert Card 
Bayer (logo) 
Xarelto 2.5 mg (tick box to tick the prescribed dose) 
Xarelto 10 mg (tick box to tick the prescribed dose) 
Xarelto 15 mg (tick box to tick the prescribed dose) 
Xarelto 20 mg (tick box to tick the prescribed dose) 
♦ Keep this card with you at all times 
♦ Present this card to every physician or dentist prior to treatment 
I am under anticoagulation treatment with Xarelto (rivaroxaban) 
Name: 
Address: 
Birth date: 
Weight: 
Other medicines / conditions: 
In case of emergency, please notify: 
Doctor’s name: 
Doctor’s phone: 
Doctor’s stamp: 
Please also notify: 
Name: 
Phone: 
Relationship: 
Information for health care providers: 
♦ INR values should not be used as they are not a dependable measure of the anticoagulant activity of 
Xarelto. 
What should I know about Xarelto? 
♦ Xarelto thins the blood, which prevents you from getting dangerous blood clots. 
♦ Xarelto must be taken exactly as prescribed by your doctor. To ensure optimal protection from blood 
clots, never skip a dose. 
♦ You must not stop taking Xarelto without first talking to your doctor as your risk of blood clots may 
increase. 
♦ Tell your health care provider about any other medicines you are currently taking, took recently or 
intend to start taking, before you start Xarelto. 
♦ Tell your health care provider that you are taking Xarelto before any surgery or invasive procedure. 
When should I seek advice from my health care provider? 
When taking a blood thinner such as Xarelto it is important to be aware of its possible side effects. 
Bleeding is the most common side effect. Do not start taking Xarelto if you know you are at risk of 
bleeding, without first discussing this with your doctor. Tell your health care provider straight away if 
you have any signs or symptoms of bleeding such as the following: 
♦ pain 
♦ swelling or discomfort 
♦ headache, dizziness or weakness 
♦ unusual bruising, nosebleeds, bleeding of gums, cuts that take a long time to stop bleeding 
♦ menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding that is heavier than normal 
♦ blood in your urine which may be pink or brown, red or black stools 
♦ coughing up blood, or vomiting blood or material that looks like coffee grounds 
231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How do I take Xarelto? 
♦ To ensure optimal protection, Xarelto 
- 
- 
- 
- 
2.5 mg can be taken with or without food 
10 mg can be taken with or without food 
15 mg must be taken with food 
20 mg must be taken with food 
232 
 
 
 
 
 
PATIENT ALERT CARD 
[Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension] 
Patient Alert Card 
Bayer (logo) 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension 
Information to caregivers/patients: 
♦ Keep this card with you at all times. 
♦ Present this card to every physician or dentist prior to treatment of the patient. 
[QR code], [web address] 
Watch the educational video showing how to prepare and administer the oral suspension. 
The patient who is under anticoagulation treatment with Xarelto (rivaroxaban): 
Name: 
Address: 
Birth date: 
Weight: 
Other medicines / conditions: 
In case of emergency, please notify: 
Doctor’s name: 
Doctor’s phone: 
Doctor’s stamp: 
Please also notify: 
Name: 
Phone: 
Relationship: 
Information for health care providers: 
♦ INR values should not be used as they are not a dependable measure of the anticoagulant activity of 
Xarelto. 
What should I know about Xarelto? 
♦ Xarelto thins the blood, which prevents from getting dangerous blood clots. 
♦ Xarelto must be taken exactly as prescribed by the doctor. To ensure optimal protection from blood 
clots, never skip a dose. 
♦ You must not stop giving/taking Xarelto without first talking to the doctor as the risk of blood clots 
may increase. 
♦ Tell the health care provider about any other medicines the child is/you are currently taking, took 
recently or intend to start taking, before starting Xarelto. 
♦ Tell the health care provider that the child is/you are taking Xarelto before any surgery or invasive 
procedure. 
When should I seek advice from a health care provider? 
When taking a blood thinner such as Xarelto it is important to be aware of its possible side effects. 
Bleeding is the most common side effect. Do not start giving Xarelto to the child/taking Xarelto if you 
know the child is/you are at risk of bleeding, without first discussing this with the doctor. Tell the 
233 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
health care provider straight away if the child has/you have any signs or symptoms of bleeding such as 
the following: 
♦ pain 
♦ swelling or discomfort 
♦ headache, dizziness or weakness 
♦ unusual bruising, nosebleeds, bleeding of gums, cuts that take a long time to stop bleeding 
♦ menstrual flow or vaginal bleeding that is heavier than normal 
♦ blood in the urine which may be pink or brown, red or black stools 
♦ coughing up blood, or vomiting blood or material that looks like coffee grounds 
How do I give Xarelto to the child?/ How do I take Xarelto? 
♦ To ensure optimal protection, Xarelto 1 mg/mL must be given/taken with feeding (breast milk or 
formula feeding) or with a meal.  
It can be administered through a nasogastric or gastric feeding tube.  
234 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
235 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Xarelto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Xarelto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
You have been given Xarelto because  
- 
- 
you have been diagnosed with an acute coronary syndrome (a group of conditions that 
includes heart attack and unstable angina, a severe type of chest pain) and have been 
shown to have had an increase in certain cardiac blood tests. 
Xarelto reduces the risk in adults of having another heart attack or reduces the risk of 
dying from a disease related to your heart or your blood vessels. 
Xarelto will not be given to you on its own. Your doctor will also tell you to take either: 
• 
• 
acetylsalicylic acid or 
acetylsalicylic acid plus clopidogrel or ticlopidine. 
or  
you have been diagnosed with a high risk of getting a blood clot due to a coronary artery 
disease or peripheral artery disease which causes symptoms.  
Xarelto reduces the risk in adults of getting blot clots (atherothrombotic events).  
Xarelto will not be given to you on its own. Your doctor will also tell you to take 
acetylsalicylic acid.  
In some cases, if you get Xarelto after a procedure to open a narrowed or closed artery of 
your leg to restore blood flow, your doctor may also prescribe clopidogrel for you to take 
in addition to acetylsalicylic acid for a short while.  
Xarelto contains the active substance rivaroxaban and belongs to a group of medicines called 
antithrombotic agents. It works by blocking a blood clotting factor (factor Xa) and thus reducing the 
tendency of the blood to form clots.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
Do not take Xarelto 
• 
if you are allergic to rivaroxaban or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
236 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
if you are bleeding excessively 
if you have a disease or condition in an organ of the body that increases the risk of serious 
bleeding (e.g. stomach ulcer, injury or bleeding in the brain, recent surgery of the brain or eyes) 
if you are taking medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, apixaban or 
heparin), except when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin through a 
venous or arterial line to keep it open 
if you have an acute coronary syndrome and previously had a bleeding or a blood clot in your 
brain (stroke)  
if you have coronary artery disease or peripheral artery disease and previously had a bleeding in 
your brain (stroke) or where there was a blockage of the small arteries providing blood to the 
brain’s deep tissues (lacunar stroke) or if you had a blood clot in your brain (ischaemic, non-
lacunar stroke) in the previous month  
if you have a liver disease which leads to an increased risk of bleeding 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding 
• 
• 
Do not take Xarelto and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Xarelto. 
Xarelto should not be used in combination with certain other medicines which reduce blood clotting 
such as prasugrel or ticagrelor other than acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel/ticlopidine. 
Take special care with Xarelto 
• 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you have an increased risk of bleeding, as could be the case in situations such as: 
▪ 
 severe kidney disease, since your kidney function may affect the amount of medicine that 
works in your body 
 if you are taking other medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, 
apixaban or heparin), when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin 
through a venous or arterial line to keep it open (see section “Other medicines and 
Xarelto”) 
 bleeding disorders  
 very high blood pressure, not controlled by medical treatment 
 diseases of your stomach or bowel that might result in bleeding, e.g. inflammation of the 
bowels or stomach, or inflammation of the oesophagus (gullet), e.g. due to 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (disease where stomach acid goes upwards into the 
oesophagus) or tumours located in the stomach or bowels or genital tract or urinary tract 
a problem with the blood vessels in the back of your eyes (retinopathy) 
a lung disease where your bronchi are widened and filled with pus (bronchiectasis), or 
previous bleeding from your lung 
you are older than 75 years  
you weigh less than 60 kg  
you have a coronary artery disease with severe symptomatic heart failure 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
if you have a prosthetic heart valve 
if you know that you have a disease called antiphospholipid syndrome (a disorder of the 
immune system that causes an increased risk of blood clots), tell your doctor who will decide if 
the treatment may need to be changed. 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before you take Xarelto. Your doctor will decide, 
if you should be treated with this medicine and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If you need to have an operation 
• 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the operation exactly at the times you have 
been told by your doctor. 
If your operation involves a catheter or injection into your spinal column (e.g. for epidural or 
spinal anaesthesia or pain reduction): 
▪ 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the injection or removal of the catheter 
exactly at the times you have been told by your doctor 
• 
• 
• 
237 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
tell your doctor immediately if you get numbness or weakness of your legs or problems 
with your bowel or bladder after the end of anaesthesia, because urgent care is necessary. 
Children and adolescents 
Xarelto 2.5 mg tablets are not recommended for people under 18 years of age. There is not enough 
information on their use in children and adolescents. 
Other medicines and Xarelto 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
• 
If you are taking 
▪ 
some medicines for fungal infections (e.g. fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, 
posaconazole), unless they are only applied to the skin 
ketoconazole tablets (used to treat Cushing’s syndrome - when the body produces an 
excess of cortisol) 
some medicines for bacterial infections (e.g. clarithromycin, erythromycin)  
some anti-viral medicines for HIV / AIDS (e.g. ritonavir) 
other medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. enoxaparin, clopidogrel or vitamin K 
antagonists such as warfarin and acenocoumarol, prasugrel and ticagrelor (see section 
“Warnings and Precautions”))  
anti-inflammatory and pain relieving medicines (e.g. naproxen or acetylsalicylic acid) 
dronedarone, a medicine to treat abnormal heart beat 
some medicines to treat depression (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or 
serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs)) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be increased. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with this medicine 
and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If your doctor thinks that you are at increased risk of developing stomach or bowel ulcers, he 
may also use a preventative ulcer treatment.  
• 
some medicines for treatment of epilepsy (phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital) 
St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used for depression 
 rifampicin, an antibiotic 
If you are taking 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be reduced. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with Xarelto and if 
you should be kept under closer observation.  
Pregnancy and breast---feeding 
Do not take Xarelto if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. If there is a chance that you could become 
pregnant, use a reliable contraceptive while you are taking Xarelto. If you become pregnant while you 
are taking this medicine, tell your doctor immediately, who will decide how you should be treated. 
Driving and using machines 
Xarelto may cause dizziness (common side effect) or fainting (uncommon side effect) (see section 4, 
”Possible side effects”). You should not drive, ride a bicycle or use any tools or machines if you are 
affected by these symptoms.  
Xarelto contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially ”sodium-
free”. 
238 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Xarelto 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
How much to take 
The recommended dose is one 2.5 mg tablet twice a day. Take Xarelto around the same time every day 
(for example, one tablet in the morning and one in the evening). This medicine can be taken with or 
without food.  
If you have difficulty swallowing the tablet whole, talk to your doctor about other ways to take 
Xarelto. The tablet may be crushed and mixed with water or apple puree immediately before you take 
it.  
If necessary, your doctor may also give you the crushed Xarelto tablet through a stomach tube. 
Xarelto will not be given to you on its own. 
Your doctor will also tell you to take acetylsalicylic acid.  
If you get Xarelto after an acute coronary syndrome, your doctor may tell you to also take clopidogrel 
or ticlopidine. 
If you get Xarelto after a procedure to open a narrowed or closed artery of your leg to restore blood 
flow, your doctor may also prescribe clopidogrel for you to take in addition to acetylsalicylic acid for a 
short while. 
Your doctor will tell you how much of these to take (usually between 75 to 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid 
daily or a daily dose of 75 to 100 mg acetylsalicylic acid plus a daily dose of either 75 mg clopidogrel 
or a standard daily dose of ticlopidine). 
When to start Xarelto 
Treatment with Xarelto after an acute coronary syndrome should be started as soon as possible after 
stabilisation of the acute coronary syndrome, at the earliest 24 hours after admission to hospital and at 
the time when parenteral (via injection) anticoagulation therapy would normally be stopped. 
Your doctor will tell you when to start treatment with Xarelto if you have been diagnosed with 
coronary artery disease or peripheral artery disease. 
Your doctor will decide how long you must continue treatment. 
If you take more Xarelto than you should 
Contact your doctor immediately if you have taken too many Xarelto tablets. Taking too much Xarelto 
increases the risk of bleeding.  
If you forget to take Xarelto  
Do not take a double dose to make up for a missed dose. If you miss a dose, take your next dose at the 
usual time. 
If you stop taking Xarelto 
Take Xarelto on a regular basis and for as long as your doctor keeps prescribing it.  
Do not stop taking Xarelto without talking to your doctor first. If you stop taking this medicine, it may 
increase your risk of having another heart attack or stroke or dying from a disease related to your heart 
or your blood vessels. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Xarelto can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
239 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
Like other similar medicines to reduce the formation of blood clots, Xarelto may cause bleeding which 
may potentially be life threatening. Excessive bleeding may lead to a sudden drop in blood pressure 
(shock). In some cases the bleeding may not be obvious. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following side effects: 
• 
Signs of bleeding 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (symptoms can include headache, one-sided 
weakness, vomiting, seizures, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness. 
A serious medical emergency. Seek medical attention immediately!) 
 long or excessive bleeding 
 exceptional weakness, tiredness, paleness, dizziness, headache, unexplained swelling, 
breathlessness, chest pain or angina pectoris 
Your doctor may decide to keep you under closer observation or change the treatment.  
• 
• 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Signs of severe skin reactions 
- 
spreading intense skin rash, blisters or mucosal lesions, e.g. in the mouth or eyes 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis).  
a drug reaction that causes rash, fever, inflammation of internal organs, blood 
abnormalities and systemic illness (DRESS syndrome).  
The frequency of these side effects is very rare (up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
Signs of severe allergic reactions 
- 
 swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty swallowing; hives and 
breathing difficulties; sudden drop in blood pressure.  
The frequencies of severe allergic reactions are very rare (anaphylactic reactions, including 
anaphylactic shock; may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) and uncommon (angioedema and 
allergic oedema; may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Overall list of possible side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
bleeding in the stomach or bowel, urogenital bleeding (including blood in the urine and heavy 
menstrual bleeding), nose bleed, bleeding in the gum 
bleeding into the eye (including bleeding from the whites of the eyes) 
bleeding into tissue or a cavity of the body (haematoma, bruising)  
coughing up blood 
bleeding from the skin or under the skin 
bleeding following an operation  
oozing of blood or fluid from surgical wound 
swelling in the limbs 
pain in the limbs 
impaired function of the kidneys (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
fever 
stomach ache, indigestion, feeling or being sick, constipation, diarrhoea 
low blood pressure (symptoms may be feeling dizzy or fainting when standing up) 
decreased general strength and energy (weakness, tiredness), headache, dizziness 
rash, itchy skin 
blood tests may show an increase in some liver enzymes 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (see above, signs of bleeding)  
bleeding into a joint causing pain and swelling 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets, which are cells that help blood to clot) 
allergic reactions, including allergic skin reactions 
impaired function of the liver (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
240 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin, some pancreatic or liver enzymes or in the 
number of platelets 
fainting 
feeling unwell  
faster heartbeat 
dry mouth 
hives 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
bleeding into a muscle 
cholestasis (decreased bile flow), hepatitis incl. hepatocellular injury (inflamed liver incl. liver 
injury) 
yellowing of the skin and eye (jaundice) 
localised swelling 
collection of blood (haematoma) in the groin as a complication of the cardiac procedure where a 
catheter is inserted in your leg artery (pseudoaneurysm)  
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
accumulation of eosinophils, a type of white granulocytic blood cells that cause inflammation in 
the lung (eosinophilic pneumonia) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
kidney failure after a severe bleeding 
bleeding in the kidney sometimes with presence of blood in urine leading to inability of the 
kidneys to work properly (anticoagulant-related nephropathy) 
increased pressure within muscles of the legs or arms after a bleeding, which leads to pain, 
swelling, altered sensation, numbness or paralysis (compartment syndrome after a bleeding) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet.You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed 
in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Xarelto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each blister or 
bottle after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed tablets are stable in water or apple puree for up tp 4 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Xarelto contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is rivaroxaban. Each tablet contains 2.5 mg of rivaroxaban. 
The other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate, 
241 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hypromellose (2910), sodium laurilsulfate, magnesium stearate. See section 2 “Xarelto contains 
lactose and sodium”. 
Tablet film coat: macrogol (3350), hypromellose (2910), titanium dioxide (E 171), iron oxide 
yellow (E 172).  
What Xarelto looks like and contents of the pack 
Xarelto 2.5 mg film-coated tablets are light yellow, round, biconvex and marked with the BAYER-
cross on one side and “2.5” and a triangle on the other side.  
They come  
-  
-  
-  
-  
in blisters in cartons of 14, 20, 28, 30, 56, 60, 98, 168 or 196 film-coated tablets or 
in unit dose blisters in cartons of 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 or  
in multipacks comprising 10 cartons, each containing 10 x 1 film-coated tablets or  
in bottles of 100 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
The manufacturer can be identified by the batch number printed on the side flap of the carton and on 
each blister or bottle:  
•  
•  
•  
If the first and second characters are BX, the manufacturer is  
Bayer AG  
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee  
51368 Leverkusen  
Germany  
If the first and second characters are IT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer HealthCare Manufacturing Srl.  
Via delle Groane, 126  
20024 Garbagnate Milanese  
Italy  
If the first and second characters are BT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer Bitterfeld GmbH  
Ortsteil Greppin, Salegaster Chaussee 1  
06803 Bitterfeld-Wolfen  
Germany 
242 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België / Belgique / Belgien 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
България 
Байер България ЕООД 
Тел: +359-(0)2-424 72 80 
Česká republika 
Bayer s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-266 101 111 
Danmark 
Bayer A/S 
Tlf: +45-45 235 000 
Deutschland 
Bayer Vital GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48 
Eesti 
Bayer OÜ 
Tel: +372-655 85 65 
Ελλάδα 
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ 
Τηλ:  +30-210-618 75 00 
España 
Bayer Hispania S.L. 
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00 
France 
Bayer HealthCare 
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54 
Hrvatska 
Bayer d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900 
Ireland 
Bayer Limited 
Tel: +353 1 216 3300 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354-540 80 00 
Italia 
Bayer S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-02-3978 1 
Lietuva 
UAB Bayer 
Tel: +370-5-233 68 68 
Luxembourg / Luxemburg 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
Magyarország 
Bayer Hungária KFT 
Tel: +36-1-487 4100 
Malta 
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd. 
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05 
Nederland 
Bayer B.V. 
Tel: +31-23-799 1000 
Norge 
Bayer AS 
Tlf: +47-23 13 05 00 
Österreich 
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H. 
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 460 
Polska 
Bayer Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48-22-572 35 00 
Portugal 
Bayer Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00 
România 
SC Bayer SRL  
Tel: +40-(0)21-529 59 00 
Slovenija 
Bayer d. o. o. 
Tel: +386-(0)1-58 14 400 
Slovenská republika 
Bayer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +421-(0)2-59 21 31 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Bayer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358-(0)20-78521  
243 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
NOVAGEM Limited 
Τηλ: +357-22-48 38 58 
Latvija 
SIA Bayer 
Tel: +371-67 84 55 63 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Sverige 
Bayer AB 
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Bayer AG 
Tel: +44-(0) 118 206 3000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
244 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet  
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Xarelto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Xarelto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
Xarelto contains the active substance rivaroxaban and is used in adults to  
-  
prevent blood clots in the veins after a hip or knee replacement operation. Your doctor has 
prescribed this medicine for you because after an operation you are at an increased risk of 
getting blood clots. 
treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) and in the blood vessels of 
your lungs (pulmonary embolism), and to prevent blood clots from re-occurring in the blood 
vessels of your legs and/or lungs. 
-  
Xarelto belongs to a group of medicines called antithrombotic agents. It works by blocking a blood 
clotting factor (factor Xa) and thus reducing the tendency of the blood to form clots.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
Do not take Xarelto 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to rivaroxaban or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are bleeding excessively 
if you have a disease or condition in an organ of the body that increases the risk of serious 
bleeding (e.g. stomach ulcer, injury or bleeding in the brain, recent surgery of the brain or eyes) 
if you are taking medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, apixaban or 
heparin), except when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin through a 
venous or arterial line to keep it open 
if you have a liver disease which leads to an increased risk of bleeding 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding 
- 
- 
Do not take Xarelto and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Xarelto. 
245 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Take special care with Xarelto 
• 
if you have an increased risk of bleeding, as could be the case in situations such as: 
▪ 
moderate or severe kidney disease, since your kidney function may affect the amount of 
medicine that works in your body 
if you are taking other medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, 
apixaban or heparin), when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin 
through a venous or arterial line to keep it open (see section “Other medicines and 
Xarelto”) 
bleeding disorders  
very high blood pressure, not controlled by medical treatment 
diseases of your stomach or bowel that might result in bleeding, e.g. inflammation of the 
bowels or stomach, or inflammation of the oesophagus (gullet), e.g. due to 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (disease where stomach acid goes upwards into the 
oesophagus) or tumours located in the stomach or bowels or genital tract or urinary tract 
a problem with the blood vessels in the back of your eyes (retinopathy) 
a lung disease where your bronchi are widened and filled with pus (bronchiectasis), or 
previous bleeding from your lung 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a prosthetic heart valve 
if you know that you have a disease called antiphospholipid syndrome (a disorder of the 
immune system that causes an increased risk of blood clots), tell your doctor who will decide if 
the treatment may need to be changed. 
if your doctor determines that your blood pressure is unstable or another treatment or surgical 
procedure to remove the blood clot from your lungs is planned. 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before you take Xarelto. Your doctor will decide, 
if you should be treated with this medicine and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If you need to have an operation 
• 
• 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the operation exactly at the times you have 
been told by your doctor.  
If your operation involves a catheter or injection into your spinal column (e.g. for epidural or 
spinal anaesthesia or pain reduction):  
▪ 
▪ 
it is very important to take Xarelto exactly at the times you have been told by your doctor  
tell your doctor immediately if you get numbness or weakness of your legs or problems 
with your bowel or bladder after the end of anaesthesia, because urgent care is necessary. 
Children and adolescents 
Xarelto 10 mg tablets are not recommended for people under 18 years of age. There is not enough 
information on their use in children and adolescents. 
Other medicines and Xarelto 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
246 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you are taking 
▪ 
 some medicines for fungal infections (e.g. fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, 
posaconazole), unless they are only applied to the skin 
ketoconazole tablets (used to treat Cushing’s syndrome - when the body produces an 
excess of cortisol) 
some medicines for bacterial infections (e.g. clarithromycin, erythromycin)  
 some anti-viral medicines for HIV / AIDS (e.g. ritonavir) 
 other medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. enoxaparin, clopidogrel or vitamin K 
antagonists such as warfarin and acenocoumarol)  
 anti-inflammatory and pain relieving medicines (e.g. naproxen or acetylsalicylic acid) 
 dronedarone, a medicine to treat abnormal heart beat 
 some medicines to treat depression (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or 
serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs)) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be increased. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with this medicine 
and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If your doctor thinks that you are at increased risk of developing stomach or bowel ulcers, he 
may also use a preventative ulcer treatment. 
• 
- 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If you are taking 
 some medicines for treatment of epilepsy (phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital) 
 St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used for depression 
 rifampicin, an antibiotic 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be reduced. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with Xarelto and if 
you should be kept under closer observation.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not take Xarelto if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. If there is a chance that you could become 
pregnant, use a reliable contraceptive while you are taking Xarelto. If you become pregnant while you 
are taking this medicine, tell your doctor immediately, who will decide how you should be treated. 
Driving and using machines 
Xarelto may cause dizziness (common side effect) or fainting (uncommon side effect) (see section 4 
”Possible side effects”). You should not drive, ride a bicycle or use any tools or machines if you are 
affected by these symptoms.  
Xarelto contains lactose and sodium  
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially “sodium-
free”. 
3. 
How to take Xarelto 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure. 
How much to take 
- 
To prevent blood clots in the veins after a hip or knee replacement operation 
The recommended dose is one tablet Xarelto 10 mg once a day.  
- 
To treat blood clots in the veins of your legs and blood clots in the blood vessels of your lungs, 
and for preventing blood clots from re-occurring 
247 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After at least 6 months blood clot treatment, the recommended dose is either one 10 mg tablet 
once a day or one 20 mg tablet once a day. Your doctor has prescribed you Xarelto 10 mg once 
a day.  
Swallow the tablet preferably with water. 
Xarelto can be taken with or without food. 
If you have difficulty swallowing the tablet whole, talk to your doctor about other ways to take 
Xarelto. The tablet may be crushed and mixed with water or apple puree immediately before you take 
it.  
If necessary, your doctor may also give you the crushed Xarelto tablet through a stomach tube. 
When to take Xarelto 
Take the tablet every day until your doctor tells you to stop.  
Try to take the tablet at the same time every day to help you to remember it. 
Your doctor will decide how long you must continue treatment.  
To prevent blood clots in the veins after a hip or knee replacement operation: 
Take the first tablet 6 - 10 hours after your operation.  
If you have had a major hip operation you will usually take the tablets for 5 weeks.  
If you have had a major knee operation you will usually take the tablets for 2 weeks. 
If you take more Xarelto than you should 
Contact your doctor immediately if you have taken too many Xarelto tablets. Taking too much Xarelto 
increases the risk of bleeding.  
If you forget to take Xarelto  
If you have missed a dose, take it as soon as you remember. Take the next tablet on the following day 
and then carry on taking a tablet once a day as normal.  
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten tablet. 
If you stop taking Xarelto  
Do not stop taking Xarelto without talking to your doctor first, because Xarelto prevents the 
development of a serious condition. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects  
Like all medicines, Xarelto can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Like other similar medicines to reduce the formation of blood clots, Xarelto may cause bleeding which 
may potentially be life threatening. Excessive bleeding may lead to a sudden drop in blood pressure 
(shock). In some cases the bleeding may not be obvious. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following side effects: 
• 
Signs of bleeding 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (symptoms can include headache, one-sided 
weakness, vomiting, seizures, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness. 
A serious medical emergency. Seek medical attention immediately!) 
 long or excessive bleeding 
 exceptional weakness, tiredness, paleness, dizziness, headache, unexplained swelling, 
breathlessness, chest pain or angina pectoris 
- 
- 
Your doctor may decide to keep you under closer observation or change the treatment.  
248 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Signs of severe skin reactions 
- 
spreading intense skin rash, blisters or mucosal lesions, e.g. in the mouth or eyes 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis).  
a drug reaction that causes rash, fever, inflammation of internal organs, blood 
abnormalities and systemic illness (DRESS syndrome).  
- 
The frequency of these side effects is very rare (up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
Signs of severe allergic reactions 
- 
 swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty swallowing; hives and 
breathing difficulties; sudden drop in blood pressure.  
The frequencies of severe allergic reactions are very rare (anaphylactic reactions, including 
anaphylactic shock; may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) and uncommon (angioedema and 
allergic oedema; may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Overall list of possible side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people)  
- 
reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
bleeding in the stomach or bowel, urogenital bleeding (including blood in the urine and heavy 
menstrual bleeding), nose bleed, bleeding in the gum 
bleeding into the eye (including bleeding from the whites of the eyes) 
bleeding into tissue or a cavity of the body (haematoma, bruising) 
coughing up blood 
bleeding from the skin or under the skin 
bleeding following an operation  
oozing of blood or fluid from surgical wound 
swelling in the limbs 
pain in the limbs 
impaired function of the kidneys (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
fever 
stomach ache, indigestion, feeling or being sick, constipation, diarrhoea 
low blood pressure (symptoms may be feeling dizzy or fainting when standing up) 
decreased general strength and energy (weakness, tiredness), headache, dizziness 
rash, itchy skin 
blood tests may show an increase in some liver enzymes  
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (see above, signs of bleeding)  
bleeding into a joint causing pain and swelling 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets, which are cells that help blood to clot) 
allergic reactions, including allergic skin reactions 
impaired function of the liver (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin, some pancreatic or liver enzymes or in the 
number of platelets 
fainting 
feeling unwell  
faster heartbeat 
dry mouth 
hives 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
bleeding into a muscle 
cholestasis (decreased bile flow), hepatitis incl. hepatocellular injury (inflamed liver incl. liver 
injury) 
yellowing of the skin and eye (jaundice) 
localised swelling 
collection of blood (haematoma) in the groin as a complication of the cardiac procedure where a 
catheter is inserted in your leg artery (pseudoaneurysm) 
249 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
 
 
 
 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
accumulation of eosinophils, a type of white granulocytic blood cells that cause inflammation in 
the lung (eosinophilic pneumonia) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
- 
kidney failure after a severe bleeding 
bleeding in the kidney sometimes with presence of blood in urine leading to inability of the 
kidneys to work properly (anticoagulant-related nephropathy) 
increased pressure within muscles of the legs or arms after a bleeding, which leads to pain, 
swelling, altered sensation, numbness or paralysis (compartment syndrome after a bleeding) 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Xarelto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each blister or 
bottle after EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed tablets are stable in water or apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Xarelto contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is rivaroxaban. Each tablet contains 10 mg of rivaroxaban. 
The other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate, 
hypromellose (2910), sodium laurilsulfate, magnesium stearate. See section 2 “Xarelto contains 
lactose and sodium”. 
Tablet film coat: macrogol (3350), hypromellose (2910), titanium dioxide (E 171), iron oxide 
red (E 172).  
What Xarelto looks like and contents of the pack 
Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets are light red, round, biconvex and marked with the BAYER-cross 
on one side and “10” and a triangle on the other side.  
They come  
- 
in blisters in cartons of 5, 10, 14, 28, 30 or 98 film-coated tablets or  
in unit dose blisters in cartons of 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 or  
in multipacks comprising 10 cartons, each containing 10 x 1 film-coated tablets or  
in bottles of 100 film-coated tablets. 
- 
- 
- 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
250 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
The manufacturer can be identified by the batch number printed on the side flap of the carton and on 
each blister or bottle:  
•  
•  
•  
If the first and second characters are BX, the manufacturer is  
Bayer AG  
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee  
51368 Leverkusen  
Germany  
If the first and second characters are IT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer HealthCare Manufacturing Srl.  
Via delle Groane, 126  
20024 Garbagnate Milanese  
Italy  
If the first and second characters are BT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer Bitterfeld GmbH  
Ortsteil Greppin, Salegaster Chaussee 1  
06803 Bitterfeld-Wolfen  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder. 
België / Belgique / Belgien 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
България 
Байер България ЕООД 
Тел: +359-(0)2-424 72 80 
Česká republika 
Bayer s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-266 101 111 
Danmark 
Bayer A/S 
Tlf: +45-45 235 000 
Deutschland 
Bayer Vital GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48 
Eesti 
Bayer OÜ 
Tel: +372-655 85 65 
Lietuva 
UAB Bayer 
Tel: +370-5-233 68 68 
Luxembourg / Luxemburg 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
Magyarország 
Bayer Hungária KFT 
Tel: +36-1-487 4100 
Malta 
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd. 
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05 
Nederland 
Bayer B.V. 
Tel: +31-23-799 1000 
Norge 
Bayer AS 
Tlf: +47-23 13 05 00 
251 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ελλάδα 
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ 
Τηλ:  +30-210-618 75 00 
España 
Bayer Hispania S.L. 
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00 
France 
Bayer HealthCare 
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54 
Hrvatska 
Bayer d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900 
Ireland 
Bayer Limited 
Tel: +353 1 216 3300 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354-540 80 00 
Italia 
Bayer S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-02-3978 1 
Κύπρος 
NOVAGEM Limited 
Τηλ: +357-22-48 38 58 
Latvija 
SIA Bayer 
Tel: +371-67 84 55 63 
Österreich 
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H. 
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 460 
Polska 
Bayer Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48-22-572 35 00 
Portugal 
Bayer Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00 
România 
SC Bayer SRL  
Tel: +40-(0)21-529 59 00 
Slovenija 
Bayer d. o. o. 
Tel: +386-(0)1-58 14 400 
Slovenská republika 
Bayer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +421-(0)2-59 21 31 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Bayer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358-(0)20-78521  
Sverige 
Bayer AB 
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Bayer AG 
Tel: +44-(0) 118 206 3000 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
252 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
rivaroxaban 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Xarelto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Xarelto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
Xarelto contains the active substance rivaroxaban.  
Xarelto is used in adults to:  
- 
- 
prevent blood clots in brain (stroke) and other blood vessels in your body if you have a form of 
irregular heart rhythm called non-valvular atrial fibrillation.  
treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) and in the blood vessels of 
your lungs (pulmonary embolism), and to prevent blood clots from re-occurring in the blood 
vessels of your legs and/or lungs. 
Xarelto is used in children and adolescents below 18 years and with a body weight of 30 kg or more 
to:  
- 
treat blood clots and prevent re-occurrence of blood clots in the veins or in the blood vessels of 
the lungs, following initial treatment of at least 5 days with injectable medicines used to treat 
blood clots.  
Xarelto belongs to a group of medicines called antithrombotic agents. It works by blocking a blood 
clotting factor (factor Xa) and thus reducing the tendency of the blood to form clots.  
253 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
Do not take Xarelto 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to rivaroxaban or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are bleeding excessively 
if you have a disease or condition in an organ of the body that increases the risk of serious 
bleeding (e.g. stomach ulcer, injury or bleeding in the brain, recent surgery of the brain or eyes) 
if you are taking medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, apixaban or 
heparin), except when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin through a 
venous or arterial line to keep it open. 
if you have a liver disease which leads to an increased risk of bleeding 
if you are pregnant or are breast-feeding 
- 
- 
Do not take Xarelto and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Xarelto. 
Take special care with Xarelto 
• 
if you have an increased risk of bleeding, as could be the case in situations such as: 
▪ 
severe kidney disease for adults, and moderate or severe kidney disease for children and 
adolescents, since your kidney function may affect the amount of medicine that works in 
your body 
if you are taking other medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, 
apixaban or heparin), when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin 
through a venous or arterial line to keep it open (see section “Other medicines and 
Xarelto”) 
bleeding disorders  
very high blood pressure, not controlled by medical treatment 
diseases of your stomach or bowel that might result in bleeding, e.g. inflammation of the 
bowels or stomach, or inflammation of the oesophagus (gullet), e.g. due to 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (disease where stomach acid goes upwards into the 
oesophagus) or tumours located in the stomach or bowels or genital tract or urinary tract 
a problem with the blood vessels in the back of your eyes (retinopathy) 
a lung disease where your bronchi are widened and filled with pus (bronchiectasis), or 
previous bleeding from your lung 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a prosthetic heart valve 
if you know that you have a disease called antiphospholipid syndrome (a disorder of the 
immune system that causes an increased risk of blood clots), tell your doctor who will decide if 
the treatment may need to be changed. 
if your doctor determines that your blood pressure is unstable or another treatment or surgical 
procedure to remove the blood clot from your lungs is planned 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before you take Xarelto. Your doctor will decide, 
if you should be treated with this medicine and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If you need to have an operation 
• 
• 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the operation exactly at the times you have 
been told by your doctor. 
If your operation involves a catheter or injection into your spinal column (e.g. for epidural or 
spinal anaesthesia or pain reduction): 
▪ 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the injection or removal of the catheter 
exactly at the times you have been told by your doctor 
tell your doctor immediately if you get numbness or weakness of your legs or problems 
with your bowel or bladder after the end of anaesthesia, because urgent care is necessary. 
▪ 
254 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
Xarelto tablets are not recommended for children with a body weight below 30 kg.  
There is not enough information on the use of Xarelto in children and adolescents in the adult 
indications.  
Other medicines and Xarelto 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
• 
If you are taking 
▪ 
 some medicines for fungal infections (e.g. fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, 
posaconazole), unless they are only applied to the skin 
ketoconazole tablets (used to treat Cushing’s syndrome - when the body produces an 
excess of cortisol) 
some medicines for bacterial infections (e.g. clarithromycin, erythromycin)  
 some anti-viral medicines for HIV / AIDS (e.g. ritonavir) 
 other medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. enoxaparin, clopidogrel or vitamin K 
antagonists such as warfarin and acenocoumarol)  
 anti-inflammatory and pain relieving medicines (e.g. naproxen or acetylsalicylic acid) 
 dronedarone, a medicine to treat abnormal heart beat 
 some medicines to treat depression (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or 
serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs)) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be increased. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with this medicine 
and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If your doctor thinks that you are at increased risk of developing stomach or bowel ulcers, he 
may also use a preventative ulcer treatment.  
• 
If you are taking 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
 some medicines for treatment of epilepsy (phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital) 
 St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used for depression 
 rifampicin, an antibiotic 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be reduced. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with Xarelto and if 
you should be kept under closer observation.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not take Xarelto if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. If there is a chance that you could become 
pregnant, use a reliable contraceptive while you are taking Xarelto. If you become pregnant while you 
are taking this medicine, tell your doctor immediately, who will decide how you should be treated. 
Driving and using machines 
Xarelto may cause dizziness (common side effect) or fainting (uncommon side effect) (see section 4, 
”Possible side effects”). You should not drive, ride a bicycle or use any tools or machines if you are 
affected by these symptoms.  
Xarelto contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially “sodium-
free”. 
255 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Xarelto 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
You must take Xarelto together with a meal.  
Swallow the tablet(s) preferably with water. 
If you have difficulty swallowing the tablet whole, talk to your doctor about other ways to take 
Xarelto. The tablet may be crushed and mixed with water or apple puree immediately before you take 
it. This mixture should be immediately followed by food. 
If necessary, your doctor may also give you the crushed Xarelto tablet through a stomach tube. 
How much to take 
• 
Adults 
▪ 
To prevent blood clots in brain (stroke) and other blood vessels in your body 
The recommended dose is one tablet Xarelto 20 mg once a day.  
If you have kidney problems, the dose may be reduced to one tablet Xarelto 15 mg once a 
day.  
If you need a procedure to treat blocked blood vessels in your heart (called a 
percutaneous coronary intervention - PCI with an insertion of a stent), there is limited 
evidence to reduce the dose to one tablet Xarelto 15 mg once a day (or to one tablet 
Xarelto 10 mg once a day in case your kidneys are not working properly) in addition to an 
antiplatelet medicine such as clopidogrel. 
▪ 
To treat blood clots in the veins of your legs and blood clots in the blood vessels of your 
lungs, and for preventing blood clots from re-occurring 
The recommended dose is one tablet Xarelto 15 mg twice a day for the first 3 weeks. For 
treatment after 3 weeks, the recommended dose is one tablet Xarelto 20 mg once a day.  
After at least 6 months blood clot treatment your doctor may decide to continue treatment 
with either one 10 mg tablet once a day or one 20 mg tablet once a day. 
If you have kidney problems and take one tablet Xarelto 20 mg once a day, your doctor 
may decide to reduce the dose for the treatment after 3 weeks to one tablet Xarelto 15 mg 
once a day if the risk for bleeding is greater than the risk for having another blood clot.  
• 
Children and adolescents  
The dose of Xarelto depends on the body weight, and will be calculated by the doctor.  
▪ 
The recommended dose for children and adolescents with a body weight between 30 kg 
and less than 50 kg is one Xarelto 15 mg tablet once a day. 
The recommended dose for children and adolescents with a body weight of 50 kg or 
more is one Xarelto 20 mg tablet once a day.  
▪ 
Take each Xarelto dose with a drink (e.g. water or juice) during a meal. Take the tablets every 
day at approximately the same time. Consider setting an alarm to remind you. 
For parents or caregivers: please observe the child to ensure the full dose is taken.  
As the Xarelto dose is based on body weight it is important to keep scheduled doctor’s visits 
because the dose may need to be adjusted as the weight changes. 
Never adjust the dose of Xarelto by yourself. The doctor will adjust the dose if necessary. 
Do not split the tablet in an attempt to provide a fraction of a tablet dose. If a lower dose is 
required please use the alternative presentation of Xarelto granules for oral suspension. 
For children and adolescents who are unable to swallow tablets whole, please use Xarelto 
granules for oral suspension.  
If the oral suspension is not available, you may crush the Xarelto tablet and mix with water or 
apple puree immediately before taking. Take some food after taking this mixture. If necessary, 
your doctor may also give the crushed Xarelto tablet through a stomach tube. 
256 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you spit up the dose or vomit 
• 
• 
less than 30 minutes after you have taken Xarelto, take a new dose.  
more than 30 minutes after you have taken Xarelto, do not take a new dose. In this case, 
take the next Xarelto dose at the usual time. 
Contact the doctor if you repeatedly spit up the dose or vomit after taking Xarelto. 
When to take Xarelto 
Take the tablet(s) every day until your doctor tells you to stop.  
Try to take the tablet(s) at the same time every day to help you to remember it. 
Your doctor will decide how long you must continue treatment.  
To prevent blood clots in the brain (stroke) and other blood vessels in your body: 
If your heart beat needs to be restored to normal by a procedure called cardioversion, take Xarelto at 
the times your doctor tells you. 
If you forget to take Xarelto 
- 
Adults, children and adolescents:  
If you are taking one 20 mg tablet or one 15 mg tablet once a day and have missed a dose, take 
it as soon as you remember. Do not take more than one tablet in a single day to make up for a 
forgotten dose. Take the next tablet on the following day and then carry on taking one tablet 
once a day. 
- 
Adults: 
If you are taking one 15 mg tablet twice a day and have missed a dose, take it as soon as you 
remember. Do not take more than two 15 mg tablets in a single day. If you forget to take a dose 
you can take two 15 mg tablets at the same time to get a total of two tablets (30 mg) on one day. 
On the following day you should carry on taking one 15 mg tablet twice a day. 
If you take more Xarelto than you should 
Contact your doctor immediately if you have taken too many Xarelto tablets. Taking too much Xarelto 
increases the risk of bleeding.  
If you stop taking Xarelto 
Do not stop taking Xarelto without talking to your doctor first, because Xarelto treats and prevents 
serious conditions.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Xarelto can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Like other similar medicines to reduce the formation of blood clots, Xarelto may cause bleeding which 
may potentially be life threatening. Excessive bleeding may lead to a sudden drop in blood pressure 
(shock). In some cases the bleeding may not be obvious. 
257 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
Tell your doctor immediately if you or the child experience any of the following side effects: 
• 
Signs of bleeding 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (symptoms can include headache, one-sided 
weakness, vomiting, seizures, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness. 
A serious medical emergency. Seek medical attention immediately!) 
 long or excessive bleeding 
 exceptional weakness, tiredness, paleness, dizziness, headache, unexplained swelling, 
breathlessness, chest pain or angina pectoris 
Your doctor may decide to keep you under closer observation or change the treatment.  
Signs of severe skin reactions 
- 
spreading intense skin rash, blisters or mucosal lesions, e.g. in the mouth or eyes 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis).  
a drug reaction that causes rash, fever, inflammation of internal organs, blood 
abnormalities and systemic illness (DRESS syndrome).  
The frequency of these side effects is very rare (up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
Signs of severe allergic reactions 
- 
 swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty swallowing; hives and 
breathing difficulties; sudden drop in blood pressure.  
The frequencies of severe allergic reactions are very rare (anaphylactic reactions, including 
anaphylactic shock; may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) and uncommon (angioedema and 
allergic oedema; may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Overall list of possible side effects found in adults, children and adolescents 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
bleeding in the stomach or bowel, urogenital bleeding (including blood in the urine and heavy 
menstrual bleeding), nose bleed, bleeding in the gum 
bleeding into the eye (including bleeding from the whites of the eyes) 
bleeding into tissue or a cavity of the body (haematoma, bruising)  
coughing up blood 
bleeding from the skin or under the skin 
bleeding following an operation  
oozing of blood or fluid from surgical wound 
swelling in the limbs 
pain in the limbs 
impaired function of the kidneys (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
fever 
stomach ache, indigestion, feeling or being sick, constipation, diarrhoea 
low blood pressure (symptoms may be feeling dizzy or fainting when standing up) 
decreased general strength and energy (weakness, tiredness), headache, dizziness 
rash, itchy skin 
blood tests may show an increase in some liver enzymes 
• 
• 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
258 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (see above, signs of bleeding) 
bleeding into a joint causing pain and swelling 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets, which are cells that help blood to clot) 
allergic reactions, including allergic skin reactions 
impaired function of the liver (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin, some pancreatic or liver enzymes or in the 
number of platelets 
fainting 
feeling unwell  
faster heartbeat 
dry mouth 
hives 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
bleeding into a muscle 
cholestasis (decreased bile flow), hepatitis incl. hepatocellular injury (inflamed liver incl. liver 
injury) 
yellowing of the skin and eye (jaundice) 
localised swelling 
collection of blood (haematoma) in the groin as a complication of the cardiac procedure where a 
catheter is inserted in your leg artery (pseudoaneurysm) 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
accumulation of eosinophils, a type of white granulocytic blood cells that cause inflammation in 
the lung (eosinophilic pneumonia) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)  
- 
kidney failure after a severe bleeding 
bleeding in the kidney sometimes with presence of blood in urine leading to inability of the 
kidneys to work properly (anticoagulant-related nephropathy) 
increased pressure within muscles of the legs or arms after a bleeding, which leads to pain, 
swelling, altered sensation, numbness or paralysis (compartment syndrome after a bleeding) 
Side effects in children and adolescents  
In general, the side effects observed in children and adolescents treated with Xarelto were similar in 
type to those observed in adults and were primarily mild to moderate in severity. 
Side effects that were observed more often in children and adolescents: 
headache 
fever 
nose bleeding 
vomiting 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
raised heartbeat 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin (bile pigment) 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets which are cells that help blood to clot)  
heavy menstrual bleeding  
blood tests may show an increase in a subcategory of bilirubin (direct bilirubin, bile pigment) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
259 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Xarelto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each blister or 
bottle after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed tablets are stable in water or apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Xarelto contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is rivaroxaban. Each tablet contains 15 mg or 20 mg of rivaroxaban. 
The other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate, 
hypromellose (2910), sodium laurilsulfate, magnesium stearate. See section 2 “Xarelto contains 
lactose and sodium” 
Tablet film coat: macrogol (3350), hypromellose (2910), titanium dioxide (E 171), iron oxide 
red (E 172).  
What Xarelto looks like and contents of the pack 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets are red, round, biconvex and marked with the BAYER-cross on one 
side and “15” and a triangle on the other side.  
They come  
- 
in blisters in cartons of 10, 14, 28, 42 or 98 film-coated tablets or  
in unit dose blisters in cartons of 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 or  
in multipacks comprising 10 cartons, each containing 10 x 1 film-coated tablets or  
in bottles of 100 film-coated tablets. 
- 
- 
- 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets are brown-red, round, biconvex and marked with the BAYER-cross 
on one side and “20” and a triangle on the other.  
They come  
- 
in blisters in cartons of 10, 14, 28 or 98 film-coated tablets or  
in unit dose blisters in cartons of 10 x 1 or 100 x 1 or  
in multipacks comprising 10 cartons, each containing 10 x 1 film-coated tablets or  
in bottles of 100 film-coated tablets. 
- 
- 
- 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
260 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
The manufacturer can be identified by the batch number printed on the side flap of the carton and on 
each blister or bottle:  
•  
•  
•  
If the first and second characters are BX, the manufacturer is  
Bayer AG  
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee  
51368 Leverkusen  
Germany  
If the first and second characters are IT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer HealthCare Manufacturing Srl.  
Via delle Groane, 126  
20024 Garbagnate Milanese  
Italy  
If the first and second characters are BT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer Bitterfeld GmbH  
Ortsteil Greppin, Salegaster Chaussee 1  
06803 Bitterfeld-Wolfen  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België / Belgique / Belgien 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
България 
Байер България ЕООД 
Тел: +359-(0)2-424 72 80 
Česká republika 
Bayer s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-266 101 111 
Danmark 
Bayer A/S 
Tlf: +45-45 235 000 
Deutschland 
Bayer Vital GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48 
Eesti 
Bayer OÜ 
Tel: +372-655 85 65 
Ελλάδα 
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ 
Τηλ:  +30-210-618 75 00 
Lietuva 
UAB Bayer 
Tel: +370-5-233 68 68 
Luxembourg / Luxemburg 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
Magyarország 
Bayer Hungária KFT 
Tel: +36-1-487 4100 
Malta 
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd. 
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05 
Nederland 
Bayer B.V. 
Tel: +31-23-799 1000 
Norge 
Bayer AS 
Tlf: +47-23 13 05 00 
Österreich 
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H. 
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 460 
261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
España 
Bayer Hispania S.L. 
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00 
France 
Bayer HealthCare 
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54 
Hrvatska 
Bayer d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900 
Ireland 
Bayer Limited 
Tel: +353 1 216 3300 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354-540 80 00 
Italia 
Bayer S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-02-3978 1 
Κύπρος 
NOVAGEM Limited 
Τηλ: +357-22-48 38 58 
Latvija 
SIA Bayer 
Tel: +371-67 84 55 63 
Polska 
Bayer Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48-22-572 35 00 
Portugal 
Bayer Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00 
România 
SC Bayer SRL  
Tel: +40-(0)21-529 59 00 
Slovenija 
Bayer d. o. o. 
Tel: +386-(0)1-58 14 400 
Slovenská republika 
Bayer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +421-(0)2-59 21 31 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Bayer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358-(0)20-78521  
Sverige 
Bayer AB 
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Bayer AG 
Tel: +44-(0) 118 206 3000 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
262 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets 
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets 
Treatment Initiation Pack 
Not for use in children. 
rivaroxaban 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Xarelto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Xarelto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
Xarelto contains the active substance rivaroxaban and is used in adults to:  
- 
treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) and in the blood vessels of 
your lungs (pulmonary embolism), and to prevent blood clots from re-occurring in the blood 
vessels of your legs and/or lungs. 
Xarelto belongs to a group of medicines called antithrombotic agents. It works by blocking a blood 
clotting factor (factor Xa) and thus reducing the tendency of the blood to form clots.  
2.  What you need to know before you take Xarelto 
Do not take Xarelto 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to rivaroxaban or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6) 
if you are bleeding excessively 
if you have a disease or condition in an organ of the body that increases the risk of serious 
bleeding (e.g. stomach ulcer, injury or bleeding in the brain, recent surgery of the brain or eyes) 
if you are taking medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, apixaban or 
heparin), except when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin through a 
venous or arterial line to keep it open. 
if you have a liver disease which leads to an increased risk of bleeding 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding 
- 
- 
Do not take Xarelto and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Xarelto. 
263 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Take special care with Xarelto 
• 
if you have an increased risk of bleeding, as could be the case in situations such as: 
▪ 
severe kidney disease, since your kidney function may affect the amount of medicine that 
works in your body 
if you are taking other medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, 
apixaban or heparin), when changing anticoagulant treatment or while getting heparin 
through a venous or arterial line to keep it open (see section “Other medicines and 
Xarelto”) 
bleeding disorders  
very high blood pressure, not controlled by medical treatment 
diseases of your stomach or bowel that might result in bleeding, e.g. inflammation of the 
bowels or stomach, or inflammation of the oesophagus (gullet), e.g. due to 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (disease where stomach acid goes upwards into the 
oesophagus) or tumours located in the stomach or bowels or genital tract or urinary tract 
a problem with the blood vessels in the back of your eyes (retinopathy) 
a lung disease where your bronchi are widened and filled with pus (bronchiectasis), or 
previous bleeding from your lung 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
• 
• 
• 
if you have a prosthetic heart valve 
if you know that you have a disease called antiphospholipid syndrome (a disorder of the 
immune system that causes an increased risk of blood clots), tell your doctor who will decide if 
the treatment may need to be changed. 
if your doctor determines that your blood pressure is unstable or another treatment or surgical 
procedure to remove the blood clot from your lungs is planned 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before you take Xarelto. Your doctor will decide, 
if you should be treated with this medicine and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If you need to have an operation 
• 
• 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the operation exactly at the times you have 
been told by your doctor. 
If your operation involves a catheter or injection into your spinal column (e.g. for epidural or 
spinal anaesthesia or pain reduction): 
▪ 
it is very important to take Xarelto before and after the injection or removal of the catheter 
exactly at the times you have been told by your doctor 
tell your doctor immediately if you get numbness or weakness of your legs or problems 
with your bowel or bladder after the end of anaesthesia, because urgent care is necessary. 
▪ 
Children and adolescents 
Xarelto treatment initiation pack is not recommended for people under 18 years of age as it is 
specifically designed for initiation of treatment in adult patients and is not appropriate for use in 
children and adolescents. 
Other medicines and Xarelto 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
264 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
If you are taking 
▪ 
 some medicines for fungal infections (e.g. fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, 
posaconazole), unless they are only applied to the skin 
ketoconazole tablets (used to treat Cushing’s syndrome - when the body produces an 
excess of cortisol) 
some medicines for bacterial infections (e.g. clarithromycin, erythromycin)  
 some anti-viral medicines for HIV / AIDS (e.g. ritonavir) 
 other medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. enoxaparin, clopidogrel or vitamin K 
antagonists such as warfarin and acenocoumarol)  
 anti-inflammatory and pain relieving medicines (e.g. naproxen or acetylsalicylic acid) 
 dronedarone, a medicine to treat abnormal heart beat 
 some medicines to treat depression (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or 
serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs)) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be increased. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with this medicine 
and if you should be kept under closer observation.  
If your doctor thinks that you are at increased risk of developing stomach or bowel ulcers, he 
may also use a preventative ulcer treatment.  
If you are taking 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
 some medicines for treatment of epilepsy (phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital) 
 St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used for depression 
 rifampicin, an antibiotic 
If any of the above apply to you, tell your doctor before taking Xarelto, because the effect of 
Xarelto may be reduced. Your doctor will decide, if you should be treated with Xarelto and if 
you should be kept under closer observation.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Do not take Xarelto if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. If there is a chance that you could become 
pregnant, use a reliable contraceptive while you are taking Xarelto. If you become pregnant while you 
are taking this medicine, tell your doctor immediately, who will decide how you should be treated. 
Driving and using machines 
Xarelto may cause dizziness (common side effect) or fainting (uncommon side effect) (see section 4, 
”Possible side effects”). You should not drive, ride a bicycle or use any tools or machines if you are 
affected by these symptoms.  
Xarelto contains lactose and sodium 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially “sodium-
free”. 
3. 
How to take Xarelto 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist 
if you are not sure.  
You must take Xarelto together with a meal.  
Swallow the tablet(s) preferably with water. 
If you have difficulty swallowing the tablet whole, talk to your doctor about other ways to take 
Xarelto. The tablet may be crushed and mixed with water or apple puree immediately before you take 
it. This mixture should be immediately followed by food. 
If necessary, your doctor may also give you the crushed Xarelto tablet through a stomach tube. 
265 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How much to take 
The recommended dose is one tablet Xarelto 15 mg twice a day for the first 3 weeks. For treatment 
after 3 weeks, the recommended dose is one tablet Xarelto 20 mg once a day.  
This Xarelto 15 mg and 20 mg treatment initiation pack is only for the first 4 weeks of treatment.  
Upon completion of this pack, treatment will continue on Xarelto 20 mg once daily as your doctor has 
told you.  
If you have kidney problems, your doctor may decide to reduce the dose for the treatment after 3 
weeks to one tablet Xarelto 15 mg once a day if the risk for bleeding is greater than the risk for having 
another blood clot.  
When to take Xarelto 
Take the tablet(s) every day until your doctor tells you to stop.  
Try to take the tablet(s) at the same time every day to help you to remember it. 
Your doctor will decide how long you must continue treatment.  
If you take more Xarelto than you should 
Contact your doctor immediately if you have taken too many Xarelto tablets. Taking too much Xarelto 
increases the risk of bleeding.  
If you forget to take Xarelto 
- 
If you are taking one 15 mg tablet twice a day and have missed a dose, take it as soon as you 
remember. Do not take more than two 15 mg tablets in a single day. If you forget to take a dose 
you can take two 15 mg tablets at the same time to get a total of two tablets (30 mg) on one day. 
On the following day you should carry on taking one 15 mg tablet twice a day. 
- 
If you are taking one 20 mg tablet once a day and have missed a dose, take it as soon as you 
remember. Do not take more than one tablet in a single day to make up for a forgotten dose. 
Take the next tablet on the following day and then carry on taking one tablet once a day. 
If you stop taking Xarelto 
Do not stop taking Xarelto without talking to your doctor first, because Xarelto treats and prevents 
serious conditions.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Xarelto can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Like other similar medicines to reduce the formation of blood clots, Xarelto may cause bleeding which 
may potentially be life threatening. Excessive bleeding may lead to a sudden drop in blood pressure 
(shock). In some cases the bleeding may not be obvious. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you experience any of the following side effects: 
• 
Signs of bleeding 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (symptoms can include headache, one-sided 
weakness, vomiting, seizures, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness. 
A serious medical emergency. Seek medical attention immediately!) 
 long or excessive bleeding 
 exceptional weakness, tiredness, paleness, dizziness, headache, unexplained swelling, 
breathlessness, chest pain or angina pectoris 
- 
- 
Your doctor may decide to keep you under closer observation or change the treatment.  
266 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Signs of severe skin reactions 
- 
spreading intense skin rash, blisters or mucosal lesions, e.g. in the mouth or eyes 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis).  
a drug reaction that causes rash, fever, inflammation of internal organs, blood 
abnormalities and systemic illness (DRESS syndrome).  
- 
The frequency of these side effects is very rare (up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
Signs of severe allergic reactions 
- 
 swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty swallowing; hives and 
breathing difficulties; sudden drop in blood pressure.  
The frequencies of severe allergic reactions are very rare (anaphylactic reactions, including 
anaphylactic shock; may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) and uncommon (angioedema and 
allergic oedema; may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Overall list of possible side effects 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
bleeding in the stomach or bowel, urogenital bleeding (including blood in the urine and heavy 
menstrual bleeding), nose bleed, bleeding in the gum 
bleeding into the eye (including bleeding from the whites of the eyes) 
bleeding into tissue or a cavity of the body (haematoma, bruising)  
coughing up blood 
bleeding from the skin or under the skin 
bleeding following an operation  
oozing of blood or fluid from surgical wound 
swelling in the limbs 
pain in the limbs 
impaired function of the kidneys (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
fever 
stomach ache, indigestion, feeling or being sick, constipation, diarrhoea 
low blood pressure (symptoms may be feeling dizzy or fainting when standing up) 
decreased general strength and energy (weakness, tiredness), headache, dizziness 
rash, itchy skin 
blood tests may show an increase in some liver enzymes 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (see above, signs of bleeding) 
bleeding into a joint causing pain and swelling 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets, which are cells that help blood to clot) 
allergic reactions, including allergic skin reactions 
impaired function of the liver (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin, some pancreatic or liver enzymes or in the 
number of platelets 
fainting 
feeling unwell  
faster heartbeat 
dry mouth 
hives 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
bleeding into a muscle 
cholestasis (decreased bile flow), hepatitis incl. hepatocellular injury (inflamed liver incl. liver 
injury) 
yellowing of the skin and eye (jaundice) 
localised swelling 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
267 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
collection of blood (haematoma) in the groin as a complication of the cardiac procedure where a 
catheter is inserted in your leg artery (pseudoaneurysm) 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
accumulation of eosinophils, a type of white granulocytic blood cells that cause inflammation in 
the lung (eosinophilic pneumonia) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)  
- 
kidney failure after a severe bleeding 
bleeding in the kidney sometimes with presence of blood in urine leading to inability of the 
kidneys to work properly (anticoagulant-related nephropathy) 
increased pressure within muscles of the legs or arms after a bleeding, which leads to pain, 
swelling, altered sensation, numbness or paralysis (compartment syndrome after a bleeding) 
- 
- 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Xarelto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on each wallet after 
EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Crushed tablets 
Crushed tablets are stable in water or apple puree for up to 4 hours. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Xarelto contains  
- 
- 
The active substance is rivaroxaban. Each tablet contains 15 mg or 20 mg of rivaroxaban, 
respectively. 
The other ingredients are:  
Tablet core: microcrystalline cellulose, croscarmellose sodium, lactose monohydrate, 
hypromellose (2910), sodium laurilsulfate, magnesium stearate. See section 2 “Xarelto contains 
lactose and sodium”. Tablet film coat: macrogol (3350), hypromellose (2910), titanium dioxide 
(E 171), iron oxide red (E 172).  
What Xarelto looks like and contents of the pack 
Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets are red, round, biconvex and marked with the BAYER-cross on one 
side and “15” and a triangle on the other side.  
Xarelto 20 mg film-coated tablets are brown-red, round, biconvex and marked with the BAYER-cross 
on one side and “20” and a triangle on the other.  
First 4 weeks treatment initiation pack: each pack of 49 film-coated tablets for the first 4 weeks of 
treatment contains:  
268 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
42 film-coated tablets of 15 mg rivaroxaban and 7 film-coated tablets of 20 mg rivaroxaban in a 
wallet.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
Manufacturer 
The manufacturer can be identified by the batch number printed on the side flap of the carton and on 
each blister or bottle:  
•  
•  
•  
If the first and second characters are BX, the manufacturer is  
Bayer AG  
Kaiser-Wilhelm-Allee  
51368 Leverkusen  
Germany  
If the first and second characters are IT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer HealthCare Manufacturing Srl.  
Via delle Groane, 126  
20024 Garbagnate Milanese  
Italy  
If the first and second characters are BT, the manufacturer is  
Bayer Bitterfeld GmbH  
Ortsteil Greppin, Salegaster Chaussee 1  
06803 Bitterfeld-Wolfen  
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België / Belgique / Belgien 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
България 
Байер България ЕООД 
Тел: +359-(0)2-424 72 80 
Česká republika 
Bayer s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-266 101 111 
Danmark 
Bayer A/S 
Tlf: +45-45 235 000 
Deutschland 
Bayer Vital GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48 
Lietuva 
UAB Bayer 
Tel: +370-5-233 68 68 
Luxembourg / Luxemburg 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
Magyarország 
Bayer Hungária KFT 
Tel: +36-1-487 4100 
Malta 
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd. 
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05 
Nederland 
Bayer B.V. 
Tel: +31-23-799 1000 
269 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
Bayer OÜ 
Tel: +372-655 85 65 
Ελλάδα 
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ 
Τηλ:  +30-210-618 75 00 
España 
Bayer Hispania S.L. 
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00 
France 
Bayer HealthCare 
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54 
Hrvatska 
Bayer d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900 
Ireland 
Bayer Limited 
Tel: +353 1 216 3300 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354-540 80 00 
Italia 
Bayer S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-02-3978 1 
Κύπρος 
NOVAGEM Limited 
Τηλ: +357-22-48 38 58 
Latvija 
SIA Bayer 
Tel: +371-67 84 55 63 
Norge 
Bayer AS 
Tlf: +47-23 13 05 00 
Österreich 
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H. 
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 460 
Polska 
Bayer Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48-22-572 35 00 
Portugal 
Bayer Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00 
România 
SC Bayer SRL  
Tel: +40-(0)21-529 59 00 
Slovenija 
Bayer d. o. o. 
Tel: +386-(0)1-58 14 400 
Slovenská republika 
Bayer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +421-(0)2-59 21 31 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Bayer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358-(0)20-78521  
Sverige 
Bayer AB 
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Bayer AG 
Tel: +44-(0) 118 206 3000 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
270 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL granules for oral suspension 
rivaroxaban 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information. This leaflet has been written for the patient (“you”) and the parent or 
caregiver who will give this medicine to the child.  
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you or the child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may 
harm them, even if their signs of illness are the same. 
If you or the child get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any 
possible side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take or give Xarelto 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take or give Xarelto 
Possible side effects 
How to store Xarelto 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Xarelto is and what it is used for 
Xarelto contains the active substance rivaroxaban. 
Xarelto belongs to a group of medicines called antithrombotic agents. It works by blocking a blood 
clotting factor (factor Xa) and thus reducing the tendency of the blood to form clots. 
Xarelto is used in full-term newborn babies, infants and toddlers, children and adolescents below 
18 years to: 
- 
treat blood clots and prevent re-occurrence of blood clots in the veins or in the blood vessels of 
the lungs, following an initial treatment of at least 5 days with injectable medicines used to treat 
blood clots. 
Read and follow the Instructions for Use provided with this medicine because it will show you how to 
prepare and take or give Xarelto oral suspension. 
2.  What you need to know before you take or give Xarelto 
- 
Do not take or give Xarelto if you or the child  
- 
- 
- 
are allergic to rivaroxaban or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6) 
are bleeding excessively 
have a disease or condition in an organ of the body that increases the risk of serious bleeding 
(e.g. stomach ulcer, injury or bleeding in the brain, recent surgery of the brain or eyes) 
are taking medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, dabigatran, apixaban or heparin), 
except 
• 
• 
have a liver disease associated with an increased risk of bleeding 
are pregnant or breast-feeding 
when changing medicines to prevent blood clotting or  
while getting heparin through a venous or arterial line to keep it open. 
- 
- 
Do not take or give Xarelto and tell your doctor if any of these apply to you or the child. 
271 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Xarelto if: 
• 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
you or the child have an increased risk of bleeding. This could be the case in situations such as: 
moderate or severe kidney disease; as the kidney function may affect the amount of 
▪ 
medicine that works in the body 
if you or the child are taking other medicines to prevent blood clotting (e.g. warfarin, 
dabigatran, apixaban or heparin), if these are absolutely necessary (see section “Do not 
take or give Xarelto”) 
bleeding disorders 
very high blood pressure, not controlled by medical treatment 
diseases of stomach or bowel that might result in bleeding, e.g. inflammation of the 
bowels or stomach, or inflammation of the food pipe due to a disease where stomach acid 
goes upwards into the food pipe or tumours located in the stomach or bowels or genital 
tract or urinary tract 
a problem with the blood vessels in the back of the eyes (retinopathy) 
a lung disease where the bronchi are widened and filled with pus (bronchiectasis), or 
previous bleeding from the lung 
you or the child have a prosthetic heart valve 
you or the child have a disease called antiphospholipid syndrome (a disorder of the immune 
system that causes an increased risk of blood clots) 
your or the child’s blood pressure is unstable  
another treatment or surgical procedure is planned to remove the blood clot from the lungs  
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you or to the child, tell your doctor before you take or give Xarelto. The 
doctor will decide, if you or the child should be treated with this medicine and should be kept under 
closer observation.  
were born before 37 weeks of pregnancy, or 
weigh less than 2.6 kg, or 
had less than 10 days of breast or formula feeding 
Do not give Xarelto to children under 6 months of age who  
- 
- 
- 
In these cases, dosing of Xarelto cannot be reliably determined and has not been studied in these 
children. 
If you or the child need to have an operation 
• 
It is very important to take or give Xarelto before and after the operation exactly at the times 
your doctor has told you. 
If the operation involves a catheter or injection into the spinal column (e.g. for epidural or spinal 
anaesthesia or pain reduction): 
▪ 
it is very important to take or give Xarelto before and after the injection or removal of the 
catheter exactly at the times your doctor has told you  
tell your doctor immediately if you or the child get numbness or weakness of the legs or 
problems with the bowel or bladder after the end of anaesthesia. In this case, urgent care is 
necessary. 
▪ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Children and adolescents 
Xarelto oral suspension is to be used for patients below 18 years to treat blood clots and prevent 
re-occurrence of blood clots in the veins or in the blood vessels of the lungs. There is not enough 
information on its use in children and adolescents in other indications. 
Other medicines and Xarelto 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or the child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
272 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you or the child are taking: 
▪ 
 some medicines for fungal infections (e.g. fluconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, 
posaconazole), unless they are only applied to the skin 
ketoconazole tablets (used to treat Cushing’s syndrome - when the body produces an 
excess of cortisol) 
some medicines for bacterial infections (e.g. clarithromycin, erythromycin)  
 some medicines for HIV/AIDS (e.g. ritonavir) 
 other medicines to reduce blood clotting (e.g. enoxaparin, clopidogrel or vitamin K 
antagonists such as warfarin and acenocoumarol)  
 medicines to relieve inflammation and pain (e.g. naproxen or acetylsalicylic acid) 
 dronedarone, a medicine to treat abnormal heart beat 
 some medicines to treat depression (selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) or 
serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
If any of the above apply to you or the child, tell your doctor before taking or giving Xarelto, 
because the effect of Xarelto may be increased. Your doctor will decide, if you or the child 
should be treated with this medicine and should be kept under closer observation. 
If the doctor thinks that you or the child are at increased risk of developing stomach or bowel 
ulcers, a preventive ulcer treatment might be necessary.  
• 
If you or the child are taking: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
 some medicines to treat epilepsy (phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital) 
 St John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal product used for depression 
 rifampicin, an antibiotic 
If any of the above apply to you or the child, tell your doctor before taking or giving Xarelto, 
because the effect of Xarelto may be reduced. The doctor will decide, if you or the child should 
be treated with Xarelto and should be kept under closer observation.  
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
If you or the adolescent are pregnant or breast-feeding do not take or give Xarelto.  
If there is a chance that you or the adolescent could become pregnant, a reliable contraceptive 
should be used while taking Xarelto.  
If you or the adolescent become pregnant while taking this medicine, tell your doctor 
immediately, who will decide how the treatment should be continued. 
• 
Driving and using machines 
Xarelto may cause dizziness or fainting. You or the child should not drive, ride a bicycle or use any 
tools or machines if affected by these symptoms.  
Xarelto contains sodium benzoate and sodium 
This medicine contains 1.8 mg sodium benzoate (E 211) in each mL oral suspension. Sodium benzoate 
(E 211) may increase jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn babies (up to 4 weeks old). 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per millilitre, that is to say essentially 
“sodium-free”. 
3. 
How to take or give Xarelto 
Always take this medicine or give this medicine to the child exactly as your doctor has told you. 
Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.  
Make sure that the correct information on how much and how often to take or give Xarelto is written 
on the designated area of the carton. If not, ask your pharmacist or doctor to provide the relevant 
information.  
273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for Use 
For how to prepare and take or give the Xarelto oral suspension:   
- 
- 
See the Instructions for Use booklet included in the carton and  
Watch the educational video which you can access via the QR code which is displayed on the 
Patient Alert Card that is provided with this medicine.  
How to take or give  
Take or give Xarelto oral suspension with feeding (breast milk or formula feeding) or with a meal. 
Each Xarelto dose has to be swallowed along with one typical serving of liquid (for example 20 mL in 
children aged 6 months up to 240 mL in adolescents). This typical serving may include usual amount 
of drink used for feeding (e.g. breast milk, infant formula, nutrition drink). 
Your doctor may give the oral suspension also via a stomach tube. 
How much to take or give 
The dose of Xarelto depends on the patient’s body weight. It will be calculated by the doctor as an 
amount (volume) in millilitres (mL) of the oral suspension. This should be measured out using the 
blue syringe (either 1 mL or 5 mL or 10 mL syringe, see table 1) supplied with this medicine. Your 
doctor will prescribe the volume required including the particular syringe you should use.  
Your doctor will tell you how much of the oral suspension you or the child must take. 
Below is the table that your doctor will use. Do not adjust the dose yourself. 
All materials to prepare and administer the oral suspension are provided with the medicine (except for 
drinking water.) Only use non-carbonated water to avoid bubbles. Only use the syringe provided to 
administer Xarelto to ensure accurate dosing. Do not use any other method to administer the solution, 
e.g. alternative syringe, spoon etc. 
As the Xarelto dose is based on body weight it is important to keep scheduled doctor’s visits because 
the dose may need to be adjusted as the weight changes, especially for children below 12 kg. This 
ensures that the child receives the correct dose of Xarelto. 
Table 1: Recommended dose for Xarelto in children   
Body weight [kg] 
Single dose* 
Daily frequency of 
intake  
Total daily dose*  
2.6 to under 3 
3 to under 4 
4 to under 5 
5 to under 7 
7 to under 8 
8 to under 9 
9 to under 10 
10 to under 12 
12 to under 30 
30 to under 50 
50 or more 
* 
0.8 mL 
0.9 mL 
1.4 mL 
1.6 mL 
1.8 mL 
2.4 mL 
2.8 mL 
3.0 mL 
5.0 mL 
15.0 mL 
20.0 mL 
3 times 
2 times 
once 
2.4 mL 
2.7 mL 
4.2 mL 
4.8 mL 
5.4 mL 
7.2 mL 
8.4 mL 
9.0 mL 
10.0 mL 
15.0 mL 
20.0 mL 
1 mL of the oral suspension corresponds to 1 mg rivaroxaban.  
Your doctor may also prescribe tablets if you or the child are able to swallow the tablet and are 
weighing at least 30 kg. 
When to take or give Xarelto 
Take or give the oral suspension as directed every day until the doctor tells you to stop. 
Take or give the oral suspension at the same time every day to help you to remember it. Consider 
setting an alarm to remind you.  
Please observe the child to ensure the full dose is taken.  
274 
Suitable blue 
syringe 
1 mL 
5 mL 
5 mL or 10 mL 
10 mL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the doctor has told you to take or give Xarelto: 
- 
- 
- 
once a day, do this approximately 24 hours apart 
twice a day, do this approximately 12 hours apart 
three times a day, do this approximately 8 hours apart 
Your doctor will decide how long you or the child must continue treatment. 
If you or the child spits up the dose or vomits 
- 
- 
less than 30 minutes after the intake of Xarelto, take or give a new dose.  
more than 30 minutes after the intake of Xarelto, do not take or give a new dose. Continue to 
take or give the next Xarelto dose at the next scheduled time. 
Contact the doctor if you or the child repeatedly spit up the dose or vomit after taking Xarelto. 
If you forget to take or give Xarelto  
- 
If you are taking or giving Xarelto once a day, take or give the missed Xarelto dose as soon 
as you remember on the same day. If this is not possible, skip this dose. Then take or give the 
next Xarelto dose on the following day. Do not take or give more than one dose per day.  
If you are taking or giving Xarelto twice a day:  
• 
Missed morning dose: Take or give the missed dose as soon as you remember. You may 
take or give it together with the evening dose.  
Missed evening dose: You may take or give the missed dose only in the same evening. 
Do not take or give two doses the next morning.  
• 
If you are taking or giving Xarelto three times  a day, do not make up for the missed dose. 
Continue with the next scheduled dose (given every 8 hours). 
- 
- 
On the day following a missed dose, continue as prescribed by the doctor once, twice or three times a 
day. 
If you take or give more Xarelto than you should 
Contact your doctor immediately if you have taken or given too much Xarelto oral suspension. Taking 
or giving too much Xarelto increases the risk of bleeding. 
If you stop taking or giving Xarelto  
Do not stop Xarelto without talking to your doctor first, because Xarelto treats and prevents serious 
conditions. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Like other similar medicines to reduce the formation of blood clots, Xarelto may cause bleeding which 
may potentially be life threatening. Excessive bleeding may lead to a sudden drop in blood pressure 
(shock). In some cases the bleeding may not be obvious. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you or the child experience any of the following side effects: 
• 
Signs of bleeding 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (symptoms can include headache, one-sided 
weakness, vomiting, seizures, decreased level of consciousness, and neck stiffness. 
A serious medical emergency. Seek medical attention immediately!) 
long or excessive bleeding 
exceptional weakness, tiredness, paleness, dizziness, headache, unexplained swelling, 
breathlessness, chest pain or angina pectoris 
- 
- 
275 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your doctor may decide to keep you or the child under closer observation or change the 
treatment. 
• 
• 
Signs of severe skin reactions 
- 
spreading intense skin rash, blisters or mucosal lesions, e.g. in the mouth or eyes 
(Stevens-Johnson syndrome/toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
a drug reaction that causes rash, fever, inflammation of internal organs, blood 
abnormalities and systemic illness (DRESS syndrome) 
- 
The frequency of these side effects is very rare (up to 1 in 10,000 people). 
Signs of severe allergic reactions 
- 
swelling of the face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty swallowing; hives and 
breathing difficulties; sudden drop in blood pressure 
The frequencies of severe allergic reactions are very rare (anaphylactic reactions, including 
anaphylactic shock; may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) and uncommon (angioedema and 
allergic oedema; may affect up to 1 in 100 people). 
Overall list of possible side effects found in adults and children and adolescents: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
reduction in red blood cells which can make the skin pale and cause weakness or breathlessness 
bleeding in the stomach or bowel, urogenital bleeding (including blood in the urine and heavy 
menstrual bleeding), nose bleed, bleeding in the gum 
bleeding into the eye (including bleeding from the whites of the eyes) 
bleeding into tissue or a cavity of the body (haematoma, bruising)  
coughing up blood 
bleeding from the skin or under the skin 
bleeding following an operation  
oozing of blood or fluid from surgical wound 
swelling in the limbs 
pain in the limbs 
impaired function of the kidneys (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
fever 
stomach ache, indigestion, feeling or being sick, constipation, diarrhoea 
low blood pressure (symptoms may be feeling dizzy or fainting when standing up) 
decreased general strength and energy (weakness, tiredness), headache, dizziness 
rash, itchy skin 
blood tests may show an increase in some liver enzymes 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
bleeding into the brain or inside the skull (see above, possible side effects which may be a sign 
of bleeding) 
bleeding into a joint causing pain and swelling 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets, which are cells that help blood to clot) 
allergic reactions, including allergic skin reactions 
impaired function of the liver (may be seen in tests performed by your doctor) 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin, some pancreatic or liver enzymes or in the 
number of platelets 
fainting 
feeling unwell  
faster heartbeat 
dry mouth 
hives 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
276 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
bleeding into a muscle 
cholestasis (decreased bile flow), hepatitis incl. hepatocellular injury (inflamed liver incl. liver 
injury) 
yellowing of the skin and eye (jaundice) 
localised swelling 
collection of blood (haematoma) in the groin as a complication of the cardiac procedure where a 
catheter is inserted in your leg artery (pseudoaneurysm) 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
- 
accumulation of eosinophils, a type of white granulocytic blood cells that cause inflammation in 
the lung (eosinophilic pneumonia) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data)  
- 
kidney failure after a severe bleeding 
bleeding in the kidney sometimes with presence of blood in urine leading to inability of the 
kidneys to work properly (anticoagulant-related nephropathy) 
increased pressure within muscles of the legs or arms after a bleeding, which leads to pain, 
swelling, altered sensation, numbness or paralysis (compartment syndrome after a bleeding) 
Side effects in children and adolescents 
In general, the side effects observed in children and adolescents treated with Xarelto were similar in 
type to those observed in adults and were primarily mild to moderate in severity. 
Side effects that were observed more often in children and adolescents: 
Headache 
fever 
nose bleeding 
vomiting 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
raised heartbeat 
blood tests may show an increase in bilirubin (bile pigment) 
thrombocytopenia (low number of platelets which are cells that help blood to clot)  
heavy menstrual bleeding  
blood tests may show an increase in a subcategory of bilirubin (direct bilirubin, bile pigment) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you or the child get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Xarelto 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after 
EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
After preparation, the shelf life of the suspension is 14 days at room temperature.  
Do not store above 30 °C. 
Do not freeze. Store the prepared suspension upright. 
277 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Xarelto contains  
- 
The active substance is rivaroxaban. One glass bottle contains 51.7 mg (for the 100 mL bottle) 
or 103.4 mg (for the 250 mL bottle) of rivaroxaban. After preparation, each mL of the 
suspension contains 1 mg of rivaroxaban. 
The other ingredients are:  
Citric acid, anhydrous (E 330), hypromellose (2910), mannitol (E 421), microcrystalline 
cellulose, carboxymethylcellulose sodium, sodium benzoate (E 211) (see section 2 “Xarelto 
contains sodium benzoate and sodium”), sucralose (E 955), xanthan gum (E 415), flavour sweet 
and creamy (consist of flavouring substances, maltodextrin (maize), propylene glycol (E 1520) 
and acacia gum (E 414)). 
What Xarelto looks like and contents of the pack 
Xarelto granules for oral suspension are white granules in a glass bottle with child resistant srew cap.  
Pack sizes  
- 
For children weighing less than 4 kg:  
Folding box with one brown glass bottle (100 mL) containing 2.625 g granules (corresponding 
to 51.7 mg rivaroxaban), two 1 mL blue syringes, one 50 mL water syringe and one adapter. 
For children weighing 4 kg or more:  
Folding box with one brown glass bottle (250 mL) containing 5.25 g granules (corresponding to 
103.4 mg rivaroxaban), two 5 mL and two 10 mL blue syringes, one 100 mL water syringe and 
one adapter. 
- 
- 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.  
The individual weight-adjusted dose volume and frequency should be specified by the prescriber. It 
should be written on the outer carton when provided to the parents, caregivers or patients. 
Please follow carefully the Instructions for Use booklet which is provided in each pack.  
Watch the educational video which you can access via the QR code which is displayed on the Patient 
Alert Card that is provided with this medicine. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer  
Bayer AG 
51368 Leverkusen 
Germany 
278 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België / Belgique / Belgien 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
България 
Байер България ЕООД 
Тел: +359-(0)2-424 72 80 
Česká republika 
Bayer s.r.o. 
Tel: +420-266 101 111 
Danmark 
Bayer A/S 
Tlf: +45-45 235 000 
Deutschland 
Bayer Vital GmbH 
Tel: +49-(0)214-30 513 48 
Eesti 
Bayer OÜ 
Tel: +372-655 85 65 
Ελλάδα 
Bayer Ελλάς ΑΒΕΕ 
Τηλ:  +30-210-618 75 00 
España 
Bayer Hispania S.L. 
Tel: +34-93-495 65 00 
France 
Bayer HealthCare 
Tél (N° vert): +33-(0)800 87 54 54 
Hrvatska 
Bayer d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385-(0)1-6599 900 
Ireland 
Bayer Limited 
Tel: +353 1 216 3300 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: +354-540 80 00 
Italia 
Bayer S.p.A. 
Tel: +39-02-3978 1 
Lietuva 
UAB Bayer 
Tel: +370-5-233 68 68 
Luxembourg / Luxemburg 
Bayer SA-NV 
Tél/Tel: +32-(0)2-535 63 11 
Magyarország 
Bayer Hungária KFT 
Tel: +36-1-487 4100 
Malta 
Alfred Gera and Sons Ltd. 
Tel: +356-21 44 62 05 
Nederland 
Bayer B.V. 
Tel: +31-23-799 1000 
Norge 
Bayer AS 
Tlf: +47-23 13 05 00 
Österreich 
Bayer Austria Ges. m. b. H. 
Tel: +43-(0)1-711 460 
Polska 
Bayer Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: +48-22-572 35 00 
Portugal 
Bayer Portugal, Lda. 
Tel: +351-21-416 42 00 
România 
SC Bayer SRL  
Tel: +40-(0)21-529 59 00 
Slovenija 
Bayer d. o. o. 
Tel: +386-(0)1-58 14 400 
Slovenská republika 
Bayer, spol. s r.o. 
Tel: +421-(0)2-59 21 31 11 
Suomi/Finland 
Bayer Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358-(0)20-78521  
279 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
NOVAGEM Limited 
Τηλ: +357-22-48 38 58 
Latvija 
SIA Bayer 
Tel: +371-67 84 55 63 
This leaflet was last revised in  
Sverige 
Bayer AB 
Tel: +46-(0)8-580 223 00  
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Bayer AG 
Tel: +44-(0) 118 206 3000 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency website: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for Use (IFU) 
Instructions for Use  
Xarelto 1 mg/mL 
100 mL bottle with 2.625 g granules for preparation of oral suspension  
Active pharmaceutical ingredient: Rivaroxaban 
Preparation and administration of the oral suspension (granules-water-mixture) 
Glossary and symbols  
• 
Granules: powder (provided in the bottle) which contains active pharmaceutical 
ingredient 
•  Water syringe: 50 mL syringe used to measure and add 50 mL of water to the bottle 
containing Xarelto granules. 
Suspension: granules-water-mixture (for oral application) 
Blue syringe: syringe with blue plunger to extract and orally administer Xarelto. 
• 
• 
Caution: Consult Instructions for Use for relevant information related to warnings 
and precautions. 
Consult Instructions for Use (IFU). 
Keep away from sunlight 
Protect from moisture 
Manufacturing date 
Expiry date  
Reference number  
Batch number 
For oral use only  
281 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before you start  
• 
Read all sections of the Instructions for Use carefully before using Xarelto for the first 
time and before administering each dose. 
•  Watch the educational video which you can access via the QR code displayed on the 
Patient Alert Card that is provided with this medicine.  
Be sure you understand the instructions before starting. If not, call your doctor. 
Further information regarding Xarelto can be found in the Package Leaflet 
• 
• 
Packaging contents 
Every Xarelto box contains the following components: 
1 bottle with child resistant screw cap containing Xarelto granules. 
1 packaged 50 mL water syringe (for single use only) 
The water syringe is used to extract the exact quantity of water required 
to prepare Xarelto suspension.  
1 packaged bottle adapter 
The adapter is inserted into the neck of the bottle containing Xarelto 
granules after the exact quantity of water is added to the bottle. 
This  bottle  adapter  connects  the  blue  syringe  to  the  bottle  to  ensure  the 
correct amount of suspension can be extracted from the bottle into the blue 
syringe. 
2 packaged 1 mL blue syringes (one is a spare syringe): 
This blue syringe is used to administer volumes up to 1 mL 
Use the appropriate blue syringe for the volume of suspension that is to 
be administered. 
The blue syringes have a red button under the label. This button serves to 
fix the required dosing volume. 
Keep the label at this place on the blue syringe until instructed to remove 
it. 
282 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Instructions for Use (IFU) (this document) 
The IFU contains a description of the preparation of the suspension and 
how the blue syringe is set up and handled. 
1 Package Leaflet  
Provides important information about Xarelto. 
1 Patient Alert Card  
Important information in case of emergency. 
To be kept with the patient at all times and presented to every physician 
or dentist prior to treatment  
Cautionary Information:  
Do not unpack the single components until the instructions tell you to do so. 
Do not use Xarelto if any of the parts have been opened or are damaged. 
Do not use Xarelto after the expiry date which is stated on the box. 
Warnings and precautions 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Use the water syringe for measurement of 50 mL water, see below for more information. 
Measure the amount water to be provided to the bottle very carefully. 
Only use non-carbonated drinking water to prepare the suspension to avoid bubbles. That 
means you can use either 
▪ 
fresh tap water or 
▪ 
non-carbonated (still) mineral water 
It is very important that the precise amount of water is added to the granules in the bottle to 
ensure the correct concentration of Xarelto. 
▪ 
▪ 
After preparation the suspension can be used for 14 days if stored at room temperature.  
Ensure to write the expiry date of the suspension (date of preparation plus 14 days) on the 
dedicated field on the bottle label. 
Do not store the suspension above 30 °C. Do not freeze.  
If the suspension has been stored in the refrigerator, allow the suspension to adjust to room 
temperature before extracting the relevant dose. 
Shake the suspension for initial preparation for at least 60 seconds.  
Shake the suspension in the bottle for at least 10 seconds before each administration. 
It is very important that the prescribed dose volume of Xarelto is being administered. 
▪ 
Make sure that you know the prescribed dose and frequency of administration. Ask your 
doctor or pharmacist if you do not know the prescribed dose and frequency.  
Carefully adjust the blue syringe according the prescribed volume. 
Administer the prescribed dose by using the blue syringe. Follow the doctor’s instructions 
▪ 
▪ 
283 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
on how often per day you should administer the prescribed dose.   
Check for air bubbles in the blue syringe before administration of the oral suspension. 
▪ 
If your child repeatedly does not take all the required dose or spits some of it out, call your 
child’s doctor to find out what to do. 
Between dosing, store the oral suspension out of sight and reach of children. 
Keep the Instructions for Use so that you can refer to them later during the use of Xarelto. 
• 
• 
• 
Using Xarelto  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Xarelto suspension is for oral use only. 
Volume and frequency of administration of Xarelto depend on your child’s weight, so it 
will change over time if your child will receive Xarelto for a longer time. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Your child's doctor will tell you the right dose volume . 
Do not change the dose yourself. 
Always use the volume prescribed by your child's doctor and have the correct dosing of 
administration written on the designated field on the outside of the box. 
If it is not written on the field, ask your child's doctor or pharmacist to provide the 
relevant information. 
Follow the detailed Instructions for Use given in the chapters below. 
Take care to comply with the instructions concerning administration: 
▪ 
▪ 
Intake: Three times a day 
Administration: Approximately 8 hours apart with feeding  
1. Preparing the oral suspension  
Step 1.1: Preparation – Get ready 
The preparation of the suspension is done once with every new package.  
Before preparing the suspension: 
a. Thoroughly wash your hands with soap and dry them afterwards 
b. Check the expiry date on the label provided on the box. 
Do not use the medicine if the medicine has expired. 
284 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c. Obtain the following additional items: 
▪  Container with at least 150 mL of water: 
•  Either fresh tap water or non-carbonated (still) mineral 
water 
•  Water should be at room temperature 
▪  Tissue for soaking up any excess water 
Step 1.2: Filling the required volume of water 
Every time you start a new pack, use only the new materials contained in the new package. 
a. Unpack the water syringe. 
b. Dip the opening of the water syringe into the container with 
water. 
c. Extract a volume of more than 50 mL. 
To do this, pull the plunger rod towards you, and make sure 
that the opening of the water syringe stays below the water 
surface all the time. This will avoid air bubbles in the syringe. 
d. Take the syringe out of the water. 
e. Turn the water syringe in a way that the opening is facing 
upwards. 
→ Any air bubbles will move to the top when holding the 
syringe upwards. 
Tap it with your fingers to further move any air bubble to the 
top. 
f.  Push the plunger rod until the upper ring of the plunger 
reaches the 50 mL mark. 
→ When pressing the plunger, water can come out of the tip 
of the water syringe. This waste water can be soaked up with 
a tissue. 
285 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Information:  
The upper ring of the black plunger must be precisely in line 
with the 50 mL mark to be able to achieve the correct 
concentration of the suspension. 
g.  Continue to hold the water syringe with the opening facing 
upwards and check the water in the syringe carefully: 
for correct volume, 
for air bubbles. 
• 
• 
Small air bubbles are uncritical, but big air bubbles are 
critical. See below for more explanation on what to do. 
h.  If the syringe is not loaded correctly or contains too much 
air: 
•  Empty the water syringe 
•  Repeat steps b. to h  
Step 1.3: Adding water to the granules 
a. If the granules in the bottle appear to be clumpy: 
•  Gently tap the bottle on your hand. 
•  Be careful since the bottle is made of glass. 
286 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
b. Unscrew the child resistant cap of the bottle (push down and 
turn counterclockwise). 
c.  Place the filled water syringe on the upper edge of the bottle 
opening 
d. Hold the bottle firmly. 
e.  Press the plunger rod down slowly. 
  The full volume of water must be transferred to the 
bottle. 
f.  Dispose of the water syringe in household waste. 
Step 1.4: Fitting the adapter and mixing the oral suspension 
The adapter is used to fill the blue syringe with suspension. 
a. Unpack the bottle adapter 
b. Push the adapter completely into the neck of the bottle  
287 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c. Close the bottle tightly with the screw cap. 
d. Shake the bottle gently for at least 60 seconds. 
→ This is intended to provide a well-mixed suspension. 
e. Check whether the suspension is thoroughly mixed: 
•  no clumps 
•  no deposit. 
Cautionary Information:  
To guarantee correct dose, the suspension must not contain any 
clumps or deposit. 
f. If there are clumps or sediment repeat steps d. to f. 
→ When no clumps or deposits are left, the suspension is 
ready for use. 
Do not add more water to the bottle. 
The suspension has a shelf life of 14 days at room 
temperature.  
g. Write the date of expiry of the just prepared suspension on the 
label of the bottle. 
Date of preparation + 14 days 
The shown pictogram is only an example.  
2. Setting the prescribed dose with every new blue syringe 
288 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To prevent overdosing or underdosing an exact dose of suspension is required. 
Before you take the first dose out of the bottle, the enclosed blue syringe must be set up in 
accordance with the dose prescribed by your child's doctor. This information can be found on the 
dedicated area of the box. If no information has been entered here check back with the child's 
doctor or pharmacist. 
After setting the dose the same blue syringe can be used for all administrations from the bottle of 
suspension prepared in step 1. 
Once the dose has been fixed on the blue syringe, it cannot be changed. 
The blue syringe features a scale (mL). 
The scale of the 1 mL blue syringe starts with 0.2 mL. 
The graduation marks are in increments of 0.1 mL. 
Note: 
Do not remove the peelable label until you are prompted 
in the Instructions for Use. 
The blue syringe features a red button to adjust the volume. 
This button is initially covered by a peelable label. 
By pressing the red button the volume of the syringe is set, 
which can only be done once. Do not press the red button 
until the Instructions for Use tell you to do so. 
Once the red button has been pressed, the volume can no 
longer be adjusted. 
a.  Review the dose provided in the respective field on the 
outside of the box. 
b.  If the information is not available: 
Ask your pharmacist or doctor to provide it. 
c. Hold the blue syringe with the opening pointing upwards 
d. Pull the plunger rod slowly until the upper margin reaches 
the mark of the volume to be administered. 
→ When moving the plunger rod, you can hear a “Click” for 
each adjustable volume step. 
Cautionary Information:  
The upper edge of the plunger must be exactly in line with the 
correct mark of the volume to be administered. 
289 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The shown pictogram is only an example. Your volume might 
be different. 
Be careful, do not pull the plunger past the volume to be 
administered. 
Be careful, do not press on the label when pulling the plunger. 
e.  Remove the label of the blue syringe completely. 
→ You can now see the red button for setting the volume. 
f.   Check the position of the plunger again. Ensure the upper 
edge of the plunger is exactly in line with the correct mark 
of the volume to be administered. 
g.  If the position of the blue plunger does not match the 
required volume:  
Adjust it accordingly  
h. If the position of the blue plunger matches the required 
volume, push the red button to fix the adjustment. 
→ The required dose is now set. 
→ Pressing the red button will produce another clicking sound. 
  The clicking sound will not be audible afterwards. 
Cautionary Information:  
If you notice that the wrong dose has been selected (the red 
button has been pushed, when the plunger was in the wrong 
position) use the appropriate spare blue syringe. 
Repeat steps a. to h. with a new blue syringe. 
i. Push the plunger upwards in the blue syringe as far as it 
goes. 
The blue syringe can now be used. 
3. 
Administering the oral suspension  
Follow the steps described below for each required administration. 
Step 3.1: Mixing the oral suspension  
290 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Information:  
Allow the suspension to adjust to room temperature if it has been stored in the refrigerator. 
a. Gently shake the bottle for at least 10 seconds before each 
dose. 
→ This is intended to provide a well-mixed suspension. 
b. Check whether the suspension is mixed thoroughly, i.e.: 
•  no clumps 
•  no deposit. 
c. If there are clumps or deposit:  
Repeat steps a. and b. 
d. Shaking can lead to formation of foam.  
Let the bottle stand until the foam dissolves. 
e. Unscrew the bottle cap, but keep the adapter on the top of the 
bottle. 
Note: 
The larger opening visible on the adapter is used to connect the 
blue syringe. 
The surface of the bottle adapter should be free of liquid. 
f. If there is any liquid on the adapter:  
Remove the liquid with a clean tissue  
Step 3.2: Extracting the required dose 
291 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a. Keep the bottle in the upright position. Insert the tip of the 
blue syringe fully into the large opening of the adapter 
b. Turn the bottle upside down. 
c. Pull the blue plunger rod slowly until it stops (i.e. until the set 
dose is reached). 
d. Carefully check for air in the blue syringe.  
Smaller air bubbles are not critical. 
292 
 
 
 
 
e. If there are bigger air bubbles: 
•  Return the suspension to the bottle by pushing back the 
plunger rod into the blue syringe as far as possible. 
•  Repeat steps b. to e. 
f. Return the bottle to the upright position. 
g. Remove the blue syringe carefully from the adapter 
h. Hold the blue syringe upright and check: 
that the tip of the blue syringe is filled 
• 
•  whether the right dose has been filled into the blue 
syringe 
that no big air bubbles are present. 
• 
i. If there are bigger air bubbles or air in the tip: 
• 
Insert the tip of the blue syringe again fully into the 
large opening of the adapter 
•  Return the suspension to the bottle by pushing back the 
plunger rod into the blue syringe as far as it goes. 
•  Repeat steps b. to h. until no bigger air bubbles are 
visible. 
j. Close the bottle with the screw cap. 
Administer the suspension immediately after filling the blue 
syringe (step 3.3) 
Step 3.3: Administration of prescribed dose 
293 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
a.  Place the blue syringe into the mouth of the patient. 
b. Direct its tip into the cheek to allow for natural swallowing. 
c. Push the plunger rod down slowly until the plunger stops 
(blue syringe is completely empty). 
d. Ensure that the patient swallows the entire dose. 
Cautionary Information:  
The patient must swallow the full dose of medicine. 
If the dose repeatedly is not completely swallowed or if the 
patient is vomiting, consult your doctor for further instructions. 
e. Encourage the patient to drink one typical serving of liquid. 
•  For an infant of 6 months, for example, this may be 
20 mL. 
•  This can also be breast-feeding.  
4. Cleaning and storage 
The blue syringe must be cleaned following every application. 
Follow the steps listed below to clean the device. Altogether, three cycles of cleaning are necessary to 
ensure proper cleaning. 
Before you start, you will need the following equipment for step 4.1: 
•  Get two containers (such as a cup or bowl) 
o  one container filled with drinking water, 
o 
the other container empty 
Step 4.1: Cleaning 
a.  Dip the tip of the blue syringe into the container of water. 
b. Withdraw water until plunger rod stops. 
294 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
c. Empty the blue syringe into the prepared empty container 
d. Repeat steps a. to c. an additional two times. 
e. After cleaning, push the plunger rod back in until it stops. 
f. Dry the outer surface of the syringe with a clean tissue 
Cautionary Information:  
▪ 
▪ 
Do not clean the blue syringe in the dish washer. 
Never boil the blue syringe. 
Step 4.2: Storage 
Store the blue syringe in a clean and dry place until next use, e.g. keep it in the box Xarelto 
was given to you.  
Keep away from sunlight. 
Cautionary Information:  
The blue syringe can be used for up to 14 days. 
Store the suspension below 30 °C. 
Cautionary Information:  
Do not freeze the suspension. 
The prepared suspension is stable at room teperature for up to 14 days (preparation date plus 14 days). 
Keep Xarelto out of the sight and reach of children. 
Store the prepared suspension upright. 
5. Disposal 
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
295 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for Use (IFU) 
Instructions for Use 
Xarelto 1 mg/mL 
250 mL bottle with 5.25 g granules for preparation of oral suspension  
Active pharmaceutical ingredient: Rivaroxaban 
Preparation and administration of the oral suspension (granules-water-mixture) 
Glossary and symbols  
• 
Granules: powder (provided in the bottle) which contains active pharmaceutical 
ingredient 
•  Water syringe: 100 mL syringe used to measure and add 100 mL of water to the bottle 
containing Xarelto granules. 
Suspension: granules-water-mixture (for oral application) 
Blue syringe: syringe with blue plunger to extract and orally administer Xarelto. 
• 
• 
Caution: Consult Instructions for Use for relevant information related to warnings 
and precautions. 
Consult Instructions for Use (IFU). 
Keep away from sunlight 
Protect from moisture 
Manufacturing date 
Expiry date  
Reference number  
Batch number 
For oral use only 
296 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Before you start  
• 
Read all sections of the Instructions for Use carefully before using Xarelto for the first 
time and before administering each dose. 
•  Watch the educational video which you can access via the QR code displayed on the 
Patient Alert Card that is provided with this medicine.  
Be sure you understand the instructions before starting. If not, call your doctor. 
Further information regarding Xarelto can be found in the Package Leaflet 
• 
• 
Packaging contents 
Every Xarelto box contains the following components: 
1 bottle with child resistant screw cap containing Xarelto granules. 
1 packaged 100 mL water syringe (for single use only) 
The water syringe is used to extract the exact quantity of water required 
to prepare Xarelto suspension. 
1 packaged bottle adapter 
The adapter is inserted into the neck of the bottle containing Xarelto 
granules after the exact quantity of water is added to the bottle. 
This  bottle  adapter  connects  the  blue  syringe  to  the  bottle  to  ensure  the 
correct amount of suspension can be extracted from the bottle into the blue 
syringe.  
2 packaged 5 mL blue syringes (one is a spare syringe) : 
This blue syringe is used to administer volumes up to 5 mL 
297 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 packaged 10 mL blue syringes (one is a spare syringe):  
This blue syringe is used to administer volumes of 5 mL up to 10 mL. 
Use the appropriate blue syringe for the volume of suspension that is to 
be administered. 
The blue syringes have a red button under the label. This button serves to 
fix the required dosing volume. 
Keep the label at this place on the blue syringe until instructed to remove 
it. 
1 Instructions for Use (IFU) (this document) 
The IFU contains a description of the preparation of the suspension and 
how the blue syringe is set up and handled. 
1 Package Leaflet  
Provides important information about Xarelto. 
1 Patient Alert Card  
Important information in case of emergency. 
To be kept with the patient at all times and presented to every physician 
or dentist prior to treatment  
Cautionary Information:  
Do not unpack the single components until the instructions tell you to do so. 
Do not use Xarelto if any of the parts have been opened or are damaged. 
Do not use Xarelto after the expiry date which is stated on the box. 
Warnings and precautions 
• 
• 
Only use non-carbonated drinking water to prepare the suspension to avoid bubbles. That 
means you can use either 
▪ 
fresh tap water or 
▪ 
non-carbonated (still) mineral water 
It is very important that the precise amount of water is added to the granules in the bottle to 
ensure the correct concentration of Xarelto. 
▪ 
Use the water syringe for measurement of 100 mL water, see below for more information. 
298 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Measure the amount water to be provided to the bottle very carefully. 
▪ 
After preparation the suspension can be used for 14 days if stored at room temperature.  
Ensure to write the expiry date of the suspension (date of preparation plus 14 days) on the 
dedicated field on the bottle label. 
Do not store the suspension above 30 °C. Do not freeze.  
If the suspension has been stored in the refrigerator, allow the suspension to adjust to room 
temperature before extracting the relevant dose. 
Shake the suspension for initial preparation for at least 60 seconds.  
Shake the suspension in the bottle for at least 10 seconds before each administration. 
It is very important that the prescribed dose volume of Xarelto is being administered. 
▪ 
Make sure that you know the prescribed dose and frequency of administration. Ask your 
doctor or pharmacist if you do not know the prescribed dose and frequency. 
Carefully adjust the blue syringe according the prescribed volume. 
Administer the prescribed dose by using the blue syringe. Follow the doctor’s instructions 
on how often per day you should administer the prescribed dose.  
Check for air bubbles in the blue syringe before administration of the oral suspension. 
▪ 
If your child repeatedly does not take all the required dose or spits some of it out, call your 
child’s doctor to find out what to do. 
Between dosing, store the oral suspension out of sight and reach of children. 
Keep the Instructions for Use so that you can refer to them later during the use of Xarelto. 
▪ 
▪ 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Using Xarelto  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Xarelto suspension is for oral use only. 
Volume and frequency of administration of Xarelto depend on your child’s weight, so it 
will change over time if your child will receive Xarelto for a longer time. 
▪ 
Your child's doctor will tell you the right dose volume and the frequency of 
administration. 
Do not change the dose yourself. 
Always use the volume prescribed by your child's doctor and have the correct dosing and 
frequency of administration written on the designated field on the outside of the box. 
If it is not written on the field, ask your child's doctor or pharmacist to provide the 
relevant information. 
▪ 
▪ 
Follow the detailed Instructions for Use given in the chapters below. 
Take care to comply with the instructions concerning administration: 
Intake 
once a day 
Administration 
time point 
Time span between 
administrations 
approximately 
24 hours apart 
approximately 
12 hours apart 
approximately 
8 hours apart 
twice a day 
with feeding or with a meal 
three times a day 
1. Preparing the oral suspension  
Step 1.1: Preparation – Get ready 
The preparation of the suspension is done once with every new package.  
Before preparing the suspension: 
299 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a. Thoroughly wash your hands with soap and dry them 
afterwards. 
b. Check the expiry date on the label provided on the box. 
Do not use the medicine if the medicine has expired. 
c. Obtain the following additional items: 
▪  Container with at least 150 mL of water: 
•  Either fresh tap water or non-carbonated (still) mineral 
water 
•  Water should be at room temperature 
▪  Tissue for soaking up any excess water 
Step 1.2: Filling the required volume of water 
Every time you start a new pack, use only the new materials contained in the new package. 
a.  Unpack the water syringe. 
b.  Dip the opening of the water syringe into the container with 
water. 
c.  Extract a volume of more than 100 mL. 
To do this, pull the plunger rod towards you, and make sure 
that the opening of the water syringe stays below the water 
surface all the time. This will avoid air bubbles in the syringe. 
d.  Take the syringe out of the water. 
300 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e.  Turn the water syringe in a way that the opening is facing 
upwards. 
  → Any air bubbles will move to the top when holding the 
syringe upwards. 
  Tap it with your fingers to further move any air bubble to the 
top. 
f.  Push the plunger rod until the upper ring of the plunger 
reaches the 100 mL mark. 
→ When pressing the plunger, water can come out of the tip 
of the water syringe. This waste water can be soaked up with a 
tissue. 
Cautionary Information:  
The upper ring of the black plunger must be precisely in line 
with the 100 mL mark to be able to achieve the correct 
concentration of the suspension. 
g.  Continue to hold the water syringe with the opening facing 
upwards and check the water in the syringe carefully: 
• 
• 
Small air bubbles are uncritical, but big air bubbles are 
critical. See below for more explanation on what to do. 
for correct volume, 
for air bubbles. 
301 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
h.  If the syringe is not loaded correctly or contains too much 
air: 
•  Empty the water syringe 
•  Repeat steps b. to h  
Step 1.3: Adding water to the granules 
a.  If the granules in the bottle appear to be clumpy: 
•  Gently tap the bottle on your hand. 
•  Be careful since the bottle is made of glass. 
b.  Unscrew the child resistant cap of the bottle (push down and 
turn counterclockwise). 
c.  Place the filled water syringe on the upper edge of the bottle 
opening 
d.  Hold the bottle firmly. 
e.  Press the plunger rod down slowly. 
  The full volume of water must be transferred to the 
bottle. 
f.  Dispose of the water syringe in household waste. 
302 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1.4: Fitting the adapter and mixing the oral suspension 
The adapter is used to fill the blue syringe with suspension. 
a.  Unpack the bottle adapter 
b.  Push the adapter completely into the neck of the bottle  
c.  Close the bottle tightly with the screw cap. 
d.  Shake the bottle gently for at least 60 seconds. 
→ This is intended to provide a well-mixed suspension. 
e.  Check whether the suspension is thoroughly mixed: 
•  no clumps 
•  no deposit. 
Cautionary Information:  
To guarantee correct dose, the suspension must not contain any 
clumps or deposit. 
303 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
f.  If there are clumps or sediment repeat steps d. to f. 
→ When no clumps or deposits are left, the suspension is ready for 
use. 
Do not add more water to the bottle. 
The suspension has a shelf life of 14 days at room temperature. 
g.  Write the date of expiry of the just prepared suspension on the label 
of the bottle. 
Date of preparation + 14 days 
The shown pictogram is only an example.  
2. Setting the prescribed dose with every new blue syringe  
To prevent overdosing or underdosing an exact dose of suspension is required. 
Before you take the first dose out of the bottle, the enclosed blue syringe must be set up in 
accordance with the dose prescribed by your child's doctor. This information can be found on the 
dedicated area of the box. If no information has been entered here check back with the child's 
doctor or pharmacist. 
After setting the dose the same blue syringe can be used for all administrations from the bottle of 
suspension prepared in step 1. 
Once the dose has been fixed on the blue syringe, it cannot be changed. 
Step 2.1: Selecting a suitable blue syringe 
Dosing devices with different capacities are included in this pack: 
5 mL blue syringes for doses from 1 mL to 5 mL 
10 mL blue syringes for doses from 5 mL to 10 mL 
a.  Select the suitable blue syringe based on the dose prescribed by 
your child's doctor. 
The other blue syringes are not needed. 
b.  Unpack the blue syringe. 
Note: 
Do not remove the peelable label until you are prompted in 
the Instructions for Use. 
The blue syringe features a red button to adjust the volume. This 
button is initially covered by a peelable label. 
By pressing the red button the volume of the syringe is set, which 
can only be done once. Do not press the red button until the 
Instructions for Use tell you to do so. 
Once the red button has been pressed, the volume can no longer 
be adjusted. 
Step 2.2: Setting the required dose on new blue syringe 
The blue syringe features a scale (mL). 
304 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The scale of the 5 mL blue syringe starts with 1 mL. The graduation marks are in increments of 
0.2 mL. 
The scale of the 10 mL blue syringe starts with 2 mL. The graduation marks are in increments of 
0.5 mL. 
a.  Review the dose provided in the respective field on the outside of 
the box. 
Note: 
Use the 10 mL blue syringe for prescribed doses larger than 
10 mL as follows: 
Dose of 15 mL: 2 x 7.5 mL blue syringe  
Dose of 20 mL: 2 x 10 mL blue syringe 
b.  If the information is not available: 
Ask your pharmacist or doctor to provide it. 
c.  Hold the blue syringe with the opening pointing upwards 
d.  Pull the plunger rod slowly until the upper margin reaches the 
mark of the volume to be administered. 
→ When moving the plunger rod, you can hear a “Click” for each 
adjustable volume step. 
Cautionary Information:  
The upper edge of the plunger must be exactly in line with the 
correct mark of the volume to be administered. 
The shown pictogram is only an example. Your volume might be 
different. 
Be careful, do not pull the plunger past the volume to be 
administered. 
Be careful, do not press on the label when pulling the plunger. 
e.  Remove the label of the blue syringe completely. 
→ You can now see the red button for setting the volume. 
f.  Check the position of the plunger again. Ensure the upper edge of 
the plunger is exactly in line with the correct mark of the volume 
to be administered. 
g.   If the position of the blue plunger does not match the required 
volume:  
Adjust it accordingly  
305 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
h.  If the position of the blue plunger matches the required volume, 
push the red button to fix the adjustment. 
→ The required dose is now set. 
→ Pressing the red button will produce another clicking sound. 
→ The clicking sound will not be audible afterwards. 
Cautionary Information:  
If you notice that the wrong dose has been selected (the red button 
has been pushed, when the plunger was in the wrong position) use the 
appropriate spare blue syringe. 
Repeat steps a. to h. with a new blue syringe. 
i.  Push the plunger upwards in the blue syringe as far as it goes. 
The blue syringe can now be used. 
3. 
Administering the oral suspension  
Follow the steps described below for each required administration. 
Step 3.1: Mixing the oral suspension  
Cautionary Information:  
Allow the suspension to adjust to room temperature if it has been stored in the refrigerator. 
a. Gently shake the bottle for at least 10 seconds before each 
dose. 
→ This is intended to provide a well-mixed suspension. 
306 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b. Check whether the suspension is mixed thoroughly, i.e.: 
•  no clumps 
•  no deposit. 
c. If there are clumps or deposit:  
Repeat steps a. and b. 
d. Shaking can lead to formation of foam.  
Let the bottle stand until the foam dissolves. 
e. Unscrew the bottle cap, but keep the adapter on the top of the 
bottle. 
Note: 
The larger opening visible on the adapter is used to connect the 
blue syringe. 
The surface of the bottle adapter should be free of liquid. 
f. If there is any liquid on the adapter:  
Remove the liquid with a clean tissue  
Step 3.2: Extracting the required dose 
a. Keep the bottle in the upright position. Insert the tip of the 
blue syringe fully into the large opening of the adapter 
307 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
b. Turn the bottle upside down. 
c. Pull the blue plunger rod slowly until it stops (i.e. until the set 
dose is reached). 
d. Carefully check for air in the blue syringe.  
Smaller air bubbles are not critical. 
e. If there are bigger air bubbles: 
•  Return the suspension to the bottle by pushing back the 
plunger rod into the blue syringe as far as possible. 
•  Repeat steps b. to e. 
f. Return the bottle to the upright position. 
g. Remove the blue syringe carefully from the adapter 
308 
 
 
 
 
 
h. Hold the blue syringe upright and check: 
that the tip of the blue syringe is filled 
• 
•  whether the right dose has been filled into the blue 
syringe 
that no big air bubbles are present. 
• 
i. If there are bigger air bubbles or air in the tip: 
• 
Insert the tip of the blue syringe again fully into the 
large opening of the adapter 
•  Return the suspension to the bottle by pushing back the 
plunger rod into the blue syringe as far as it goes. 
•  Repeat steps b. to h. until no bigger air bubbles are 
visible. 
j. Close the bottle with the screw cap. 
Administer the suspension immediately after filling the blue 
syringe (step 3.3) 
Step 3.3: Administration of prescribed dose 
a. Place the blue syringe into the mouth of the patient. 
b. Direct its tip into the cheek to allow for natural swallowing. 
c. Push the plunger rod down slowly until the plunger stops (blue 
syringe is completely empty). 
d. Ensure that the patient swallows the entire dose. 
Cautionary Information:  
The patient must swallow the full dose of medicine. 
If the dose repeatedly is not completely swallowed or if the patient is 
vomiting, consult your doctor for further instructions. 
309 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
e. Encourage the patient to drink one typical serving of liquid. 
•  For an infant of 6 months, for example, this may be 20 mL. 
•  This can also be breast-feeding.  
•  For an adolescent it may be a volume up to 240 mL 
4. Cleaning and storage 
The blue syringe must be cleaned following every application. 
Follow the steps listed below to clean the device. Altogether, three cycles of cleaning are necessary to 
ensure proper cleaning. 
Before you start, you will need the following equipment for step 4.1: 
•  Get two containers (such as a cup or bowl) 
o  one container filled with drinking water, 
o 
the other container empty 
Step 4.1: Cleaning 
a. Dip the tip of the blue syringe into the container of water. 
b. Withdraw water until plunger rod stops. 
c. Empty the blue syringe into the prepared empty container 
d. Repeat steps a. to c. an additional two times. 
e. After cleaning, push the plunger rod back in until it stops. 
f. Dry the outer surface of the syringe with a clean tissue 
310 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Information:  
▪ 
▪ 
Do not clean the blue syringe in the dish washer. 
Never boil the blue syringe. 
Step 4.2: Storage 
Store the blue syringe in a clean and dry place until next use, e.g. keep it in the box Xarelto 
was given to you. 
Keep away from sunlight. 
Cautionary Information:  
The blue syringe can be used for up to 14 days. 
Store the suspension below 30 °C. 
Cautionary Information:  
Do not freeze the suspension. 
The prepared suspension is stable at room teperature for up to 14 days (preparation date plus 14 days). 
Keep Xarelto out of the sight and reach of children. 
Store the prepared suspension upright. 
5. Disposal  
Any unused medicine or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
311 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation(s) 
Annex IV 
312 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for rivaroxaban, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of the available data on “anticoagulant related nephropathy” (ARN) from the literature and 
spontaneous reports, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between rivaroxaban and ARN is at 
least a reasonable possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products 
containing rivaroxaban should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for rivaroxaban the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing rivaroxaban is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
313 
 
 
