27 June 2013 
EMA/380964/2013  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Xarelto 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000944/II/0023 
Marketing authorisation holder (MAH): Bayer Pharma AG 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Bayer Pharma AG submitted to the 
European Medicines Agency on 13 May 2013 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
Xarelto 
name: 
rivaroxaban 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
C.I.3.b 
C.I.3.b - Implementation of change(s) requested following the 
See Annex A 
Type 
II 
assessment of an USR, class labelling, a PSUR, RMP, FUM/SO, data 
submitted under A 45/46, or amendments to reflect a Core SPC - 
Change(s) with new additional data submitted by the MAH 
Update of sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.9 of the SmPC in order to update the contraindication related to 
bleeding across indications, add a warning related to increased haemorrhagic risk of with age, update the 
drug interaction information and add information related to the management of overdose upon request 
from CHMP/PRAC. 
In addition, as requested by the CHMP, the wording of the 10 mg strength is clarified in section 4.4 in 
relation to spinal/epidural anaesthesia. 
In addition the package leaflet of 10mg strength is updated to bring it in line with the other strengths.  
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and package 
leaflet. 
Rapporteur: 
Bengt Ljungberg 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
13 May 2013 
28 May 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
14 June 2013 
circulated on: 
Rapporteur’s updated assessment report circulated 
26 June 2013 
on: 
Second Rapporteur’s updated assessment report 
27 June 2013 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
27 June 2013 
Page 2/11 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Xarelto (rivaroxaban) is a highly selective, direct factor Xa inhibitor. Factor Xa directly converts prothrombin 
to thrombin through the prothrombinase complex, leading to fibrin clot formation and activation of platelets 
by thrombin. In the blood coagulation cascade, one molecule of Factor Xa is able to generate more than 
1000 molecules of thrombin. This signal amplification, coupled with an approximately 3x105 fold increase in 
the reaction rate of prothrombinase-bound Factor Xa relative to free Factor Xa, leads to an explosive burst 
of thrombin generation. Conversely, inhibitors of Factor Xa can terminate this thrombin burst at drug 
inhibitor concentrations that are orders of magnitude lower than the concentration of available thrombin. 
Rivaroxaban has been approved in the indication “prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients 
undergoing major orthopaedic surgery of the lower limbs” at a dose of 10 mg once daily for a treatment 
duration of 2 weeks in major knee surgery and 5 weeks in major hip surgery. Xarelto 20 mg/15 mg 
film-coated tablets have been approved in the indications “Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in 
patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation” and “Treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and for the 
prevention of recurrent DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE)”. 
Within the assessment of the latest PSUR for Xarelto, the PRAC made a review and recommended SmPC 
updates. It was requested that specific wording for SPC and PIL should be provided for CHMP adoption. 
The MAH was requested to submit a type II variation for inclusion of update of contraindication, clarification 
regarding interaction data in renal impairment in the SmPC section 4.5 and potentially section 4.4 as well as 
update of section 4.9.  
Within this type II variation, the MAH was also requested to consider a further change to the SmPC and PIL 
regarding minor wording updates to improve the clarity of the text on patients who have had epidural or 
spinal anaesthesia/pain reduction.  
2.1.1.  Changes to the SmPC  
The MAH submitted an updated wording for the contraindication in order to harmonise this section for all 
indications and strengths.  The changes introduced in the existing wording for the 2.5, 15 and 20 mg are 
introduced here and implemented also for the 10 mg strength.  
The proposed text is accepted and in accordance with the PRAC and CHMP request from previous 
discussions.  
•  Section  4.3,  contraindications  relating  to  lesions,  conditions,  and  treatments  at 
significant risk of major bleeding 
Active clinically significant bleeding 
Lesion or condition, if considered a at significant risk factor forof major bleeding. This may include such 
as current or recent gastrointestinal ulceration, presence of malignant neoplasms at high risk of bleeding, 
recent brain or spinal injury, recent brain, spinal or ophthalmic surgery, recent intracranial haemorrhage, 
known  or  suspected  oesophageal  varices,  arteriovenous  malformations,  vascular  aneurysms  or  major 
intraspinal or intracerebral vascular abnormalities 
Concomitant  treatment  with  any  other  anticoagulants  e.g.  unfractionated  heparin  (UFH),  low  molecular 
weight heparins (enoxaparin, dalteparin etc), heparin derivatives (fondaparinux etc), oral anticoagulants 
(warfarin, dabigatran etexilate, rivaroxaban, apixaban [delete anticoagulant in question] etc) except under 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 3/11 
  
  
 
the circumstances of switching therapy to or from [anticoagulant in question] (see section 4.2) or when UFH 
is given at doses necessary to maintain an open central venous or arterial catheter (see section 4.5) 
•  Section 4.4 warning of increased risk of bleeding in elderly patients 
The CHMP asked the MAH to consider inclusion of a warning about the increased risk of bleeding in elderly 
patients in the SmPC of Xarelto. It has been commented that although it may be considered to be basic 
medical  knowledge  that  advanced  age  is  an  independent  risk  factor  for  bleeding  when  treating  with 
anticoagulants, for the sake of completeness, it is considered to be an advantage if the risk is specifically 
mentioned in the SmPC of all anticoagulants. 
MAH comment: 
The MAH has considered the request regarding mentioning of increasing age as independent risk factor for 
bleeding in Section 4.4. Although the MAH supports the concept of raising the practitioner’s consciousness 
around bleeding in the elderly in general, the MAH’s position is that increasing age in patients on rivaroxaban 
is  not  a  strong  independent  risk  factor  for  bleeding.  Rather,  as  patients’  age,  renal  function  decreases. 
Rivaroxaban  exposure  is  driven  more  by  renal  function  than  age,  and  renal  function  is  the  primary 
determinant of an increased risk of bleeding in elderly patients without other important co-morbidities. At 
the  same  time,  the  MAH  recognizes  that  advanced  age,  renal  function,  and  comorbidities  are  highly 
correlated. 
The MAH proposes changes to sections 4.4 and 5.1 as detailed below. PK studies show that elderly subjects 
exhibit  approximately  40%  higher  AUC  (statistically  significant;  approximately  8%  higher  Cmax  without 
statistical significance) than young subjects with only minor differences between males and females. The 
elderly/young difference can be attributed to reduced (apparent) total body clearance as well as reduced 
renal  clearance  in  the  elderly  subjects.  In  clinical  trials,  the  efficacy  of  Xarelto  relative  to  control  in  the 
elderly (65 years or older) was similar to that seen in patients younger than 65 years. Both thrombotic and 
bleeding  event  rates  were  higher  in  older  patients, but  the  benefit/risk  profile  was  favourable  in  all  age 
groups. In a post-hoc analysis of study 11630, the primary efficacy endpoint favoured rivaroxaban more 
strongly than the overall population. The MAH’s position is that increasing age in patients on rivaroxaban is 
not a strong independent risk factor for bleeding. Moreover, being elderly as a baseline characteristic by 
itself is not deemed by the MAH as a requirement to dose adjust rivaroxaban. Elderly age is accounted for in 
the  recommendations  for  renal  impairment,  and  in  appropriate  clinical  situations,  such  as  in  stroke 
prevention  in  atrial  fibrillation,  where  dose  adjustment  advice  based  on  the  degree  of  renal  impairment 
estimated using the Cockcroft-Gault formula has  been included in the label. 
The MAH proposes that for Xarelto in Section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use, under the new 
subheader “Elderly population”, the following statement be included: 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
… 
Elderly population 
Increasing age may increase hemorrhagic risk (see section 5.2). 
In addition, it is proposed to include a cross-reference from the new statement on elderly patients in section 
4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use, to the following paragraph on the elderly population already 
included in section 5.2, Pharmacokinetic properties; subheader “Special populations” of the SmPCs of all 
approved strengths 
The proposal from the MAH is acceptable by CHMP for sections 4.4 and 5.2. 
In  addition,  for  section  4.4  it  has  been  addressed  that  the  wording  in  section  4.4  for  Xarelto  refers  to 
‘adequate haemostasis’ when advising on appropriate re-starting of treatment after surgery and that it 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 4/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
would be helpful to clarify the meaning of the term and to provide a more precise definition (consistent for 
all three anticoagulants). 
MAH comment:  
Haemostasis is a complex and well described process. The term “adequate haemostasis”, when referring to 
patients having just undergone an invasive procedure or surgical intervention, is meant to convey the level 
of  haemostatic  control  observed  by  the  physician  caregiver  and  considered  by  that  physician  to  be 
satisfactory  to  allow  initiation  of  anticoagulation  when  indicated.  This  was  the  guidance  given  to  the 
physician  investigators  in  the  surgical  clinical  trial  program  (RECORD),  and  to  physician  investigators 
throughout the rivaroxaban clinical trial program. As with all anticoagulants and depending on the patient's 
individual  situation,  the  treating  physician  has  to  decide,  based  on  common  medical  knowledge  and  his 
medical judgement, when and whether not it is appropriate to re-initiate treatment with Xarelto. To reflect 
this, the MAH proposes the following wording to be added in section 4.4: 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
… 
Dosing recommendations before and after invasive procedures and surgical intervention 
If an invasive procedure or surgical intervention is required, Xarelto should be stopped at least 24 hours before 
the intervention, if possible and based on the clinical judgement of the physician. 
If the procedure cannot be delayed the increased risk of bleeding should be assessed against the urgency of the 
intervention. 
Xarelto should be restarted after the invasive procedure or surgical intervention as soon as possible provided the 
clinical situation allows and adequate haemostasis has been established as determined by the treating physician. 
(See section 5.2). 
CHMP comments:  
The proposal from the MAH is acceptable, adding the wording “as determined by the treating physician”, as 
it  is  agreed  that  the  patient’s  individual  situation  must  be  taken  into  account  by  the  caregiver.  Further 
explanation of what is intended by “adequate haemostasis” could be considered superfluous. 
•  Section 4.5  
Drug-drug interactions: ketoconazole, itraconazole, ritonavir, and other protease inhibitors 
Itraconazole 
It was considered to update these interactions to form a contraindication. The following rationales were 
presented: 
•  Ketoconazole 
For rivaroxaban, the AUC increase is similar to that seen for dabigatran, but the Cmax increase appears less 
pronounced. An upgrade to a contraindication may be considered, but there could be information available 
speaking against an upgrade. 
• 
No DDI studies have been conducted for any of the medicines, but the inhibitory profile with regard to P-gp 
and  CYP3A4  is  similar  to  that  of  ketoconazole.  Recognising  the  limitations  of  extrapolating  from  various 
inhibitors  to  various  substrates,  it  is  still  suggested  that  the  wording  for  itraconazole  be  aligned  with 
ketoconazole. 
•  Ritonavir and other protease inhibitors 
For rivaroxaban (where DDI study shows marked increase in rivaroxaban exposure), one might consider 
contraindication (should be aligned with ketoconazole which shows almost identical results). 
MAH comment:  
The  MAH  has  re-assessed  the  rapporteur’s  recommendation  to  consider  a  contraindication  for  the 
concomitant  administration  of  the  strong  CYP3A4  and  P-gp  inhibitors  ketoconazole,  itraconazole  and 
ritonavir and other protease inhibitors. 
The MAH does not recommend an upgrade to a contraindication for the concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 
and  P-gp  inhibitors  with  Xarelto  tablets,  10  mg,  15  mg  and  20  mg  strengths  but  rather  to  continue  to 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 5/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintain  their  mention  in  section  4.5,  Interaction  with  other  medicinal  products  and  other  forms  of 
interaction, of the SmPC for the three approved rivaroxaban doses.  
Metabolism  of  rivaroxaban  is  mediated  via  CYP3A4/3A5  and  2J2.  Elimination  occurs  via  both  renal  and 
biliary/faecal routes; up to 30% of the administered dose is excreted unchanged via the kidneys via both 
P-glycoprotein  (P-gp)/Bcrp-mediated  active  renal  secretion  and  glomerular  filtration.  Therefore,  as 
rivaroxaban is a substrate of CYP3A4, mean exposure of rivaroxaban will be affected by strong inhibitors or 
inducers of the CYP3A4 and/or P-gp/Bcrp transporter systems.  
Co-administration of 10 mg rivaroxaban with ketoconazole (400 mg od) or ritonavir (600 mg bid) led to a 2.6 
fold / 2.5 fold increase in mean rivaroxaban steady state AUC and a 1.7 fold / 1.6 fold increase in mean 
rivaroxaban  Cmax,  with  significant  increases  in  its  pharmacodynamic  effects.  These  levels  of  exposure 
(approximately corresponding to 30 mg od dose) have been studied in the phase II investigations. 
In the context of the EU RMP, the MAH conducts Drug Utilisation Studies (DUS) which encompass amongst 
others concomitant prescriptions of CYP3A4 inhibiting and inducing substances and P-gp inhibitors. Three 
DUS which were performed for the surgical indication are completed and the final reports attached to Xarelto 
PSUR covering the time period from 16 Sep 2011 to 15 Sep 2012. The number and percentage of Xarelto 
users with any prescribing of these concomitant medications were very low and therefore does not raise 
safety concerns at this time. 
Three  additional  DUS  studies  in  other  Xarelto  indications  are  currently  ongoing  and  will  provide  further 
insights into the co-prescription patterns. In line with this only few spontaneous reports have been received 
to date concerning the concomitant use of CYP3A4 inhibiting and inducing substances and P-gp inhibitors. 
Due  to  known  limitations  of  spontaneous  reporting,  in  particular  the  non-systematic  approach  to 
concomitant medications utilisation, a firm conclusion cannot be drawn at this time. 
This re-assessment of the MAH does not provide any rationale to change our previous assessment not to 
recommend contraindication of these medications in our EU SmPC. There are no new clinical pharmacology 
study results to cause us to change our current position that concomitant use of strong CYP3A4 and P-gp 
inhibitors should not be a Contraindication for the use of Xarelto. Moreover, this is consistent with the data 
received from spontaneous monitoring, which currently do not indicate a safety signal. 
CHMP comments  
Although  it  is  shown  that  co-administration  of  rivaroxaban  and  ketoconazole  or  ritonavir  increases 
rivaroxaban steady state AUC, as well as mean rivaroxaban Cmax – levels of exposure thus corresponding to 
a dose of 30 mg OD. However, there seems to be no difference in AEs in the studies performed (e.g. the 
RECORD  programme,  the  EINSTEIN  VTE  programme,  the  ROCKET  trial)  when  subjects/patients  were 
exposed to strong CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors. The CHMP agrees that there is no need to update the existing 
wording in the SmPC.  
Drug-drug interactions: Cyclosporine, Tacrolimus, Amiodarone, Quinidine, and Verapamil 
A  consideration  of  an  upgrade  of  the  drug-drug  interactions  with  cyclosporine,  tacrolimus,  amiodarone, 
quinidine, and verapamil of the SmPC to be used with caution has been requested. The following rationales 
have been given in the assessment report: 
•  Cyclosporine 
No DDI studies have been conducted for any of the medicines, but the inhibitory profile with regard to P-gp 
(but not CYP3A4) is similar to that of ketoconazole. Since there is no evidenced CYP3A4 inhibition, more than 
a caution is probably not warranted for rivaroxaban. 
Tacrolimus 
• 
No DDI studies have been conducted for any of the  medicines. There is conflicting information, but it is 
agreed that tacrolimus is not as strong a P-gp inhibitor as ketoconazole. Since the CYP3A4 inhibition is not 
major, more than a caution is probably not warranted for rivaroxaban. 
•  Amiodarone 
Depending on clinical outcome data in subsets of patients from clinical studies treated with amiodarone, 
inclusion of caution may be considered for rivaroxaban. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 6/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Quinidine 
Because of the rarity of quinidine treatment, clinical outcome data are probably very limited. The interaction 
potential is likely to be similar to that of amiodarone, and the recommendations should be aligned. 
•  Verapamil 
Depending  on  clinical  outcome  data  in  subsets  of  patients  from  clinical  studies  treated  with  verapamil, 
inclusion of caution may be considered for rivaroxaban. 
For the 10 mg tablets  
Any CYP3A4 inhibitor use was reported in 458 of 6183 rivaroxaban treated subjects. Among all rivaroxaban 
treated subjects, clinically relevant bleeding was reported in 197 (3.2%) subjects. Among subjects receiving 
any CYP3A4 inhibitor administration, clinically relevant bleeding was reported in 10 of 458 subjects (2.2%). 
No  tacrolimus  use  was  reported.  Amiodarone  use  was  reported  in  52  subjects  with  3  (5.8%)  clinically 
relevant bleeds. Any P-gp inhibitor use was reported in 128 subjects of whom 5 (3.9%) developed a clinically 
relevant treatment emergent bleed. Verapamil use was reported in 101 subjects with 3 (3.0%) clinically 
relevant treatment emergent bleeds. Cyclosporine use was reported in 8 subjects with 1 (12.5%) clinically 
relevant treatment emergent bleeds. Quinidine use was reported in 1 subject who experienced a clinically 
relevant treatment emergent bleed. 
For the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets 
→  Venous Thromboembolic Disease Treatment and Secondary Prevention 
Any CYP3A4 inhibitor use  was reported in 424 of 4130 rivaroxaban treated patients and in 434 of 4116 
enoxaparin/VKA treated subjects. Any clinically relevant bleeding was reported for 388 of 4130 (9.4 %) 
rivaroxaban treated subjects and for 412 of 4116 (10.0%) enoxaparin/VKA-treated subjects overall. Of 403 
rivaroxaban  treated  subjects  receiving  any  CYP3A4  inhibitors,  33  (8.2%)  developed  clinically  relevant 
bleeding  events.  Tacrolimus  use  was  reported  in  3  subjects  with  0  clinically  relevant  bleeds  (13.8%), 
Amiodarone use was reported in 60 subjects with 4 clinically relevant bleeding events (6.7%). Verapamil use 
was reported in 56 subjects with 6 clinically relevant bleeding events (10.7%). Quinidine use was reported 
for  1  subject  who  did  develop  a  non-major  clinically  relevant  bleed.  Cyclosporine  use  was  reported  in  3 
subjects with 0 clinically relevant bleeding events. Of 414 enoxaparin/VKA treated subjects receiving any 
CYP3A4 inhibitors, 40 (9.7%) developed clinically relevant bleeding events. 
→  Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation 
Any CYP3A4 inhibitor use was reported in 1688 of 7111 rivaroxaban treated subjects. Among subjects not 
reporting CYP3A4 inhibitor use, clinically relevant bleeding was reported 1088 of 5350 subjects (20.3%). 
Among subjects receiving CYP3A4 inhibitor administration, clinically relevant bleeding was reported in 343 
of  1688  subjects  (20.3%).  Tacrolimus  use  was  reported  in  6  subjects  with  1  clinically  relevant  bleeds 
(16.7%),  Amiodarone  use  was  reported  in  720  subjects  with  113  clinically  relevant  bleeding  events 
(15.7%).  Verapamil  use  was  reported  as  verapamil  and  verapamil  hydrochloride  respectively;  in  289 
verapamil treated subjects, 71 clinically relevant bleeding events (24.6 %) and in verapamil hydrochloride 
treated subjects, 8 clinically relevant bleeding events (30.8%) were reported. Quinidine use was reported 
for 6 subject with 1 clinically relevant bleed events (16.7%). Cyclosporine use was reported in 6 subjects 
with 5 clinically relevant bleeding events (83.3%). 
MAH comment:  
Based on the re-assessment of the preclinical and clinical results, the MAH does not recommend mention of 
cyclosporine,  tacrolimus,  amiodarone,  quinidine,  and  verapamil in  Section  4.5  of  the  Xarelto  SmPC.  The 
internal  and  published  in  vitro  study  results  demonstrate  that  clinically  relevant  increases  in  Xarelto 
exposure would not be observed when these drugs are administered concomitantly. The clinical trial results 
do not show an overall increased risk of clinically relevant bleeding events when these specific subgroups are 
individually analysed for occurrence of bleeding events. Results for individual drugs themselves are difficult 
to interpret as the number of subjects exposed to the individual drugs identified is in some instances quite 
small. 
CHMP comments: 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 7/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the trials there were no clinically relevant bleeding events in these population groups, and it is agreed that 
there are few numbers of patients taking any specific drug. Therefore the opinion of the MAH is endorsed, 
and no change to the SmPC is warranted. 
The MAH has been requested to keep the “caution statement” for the moderate P-gp and strong CYP3A4 
inhibitor clarithromycin and include in section 4.5 a “caution statement” in patients with renal impairment. 
MAH comment:  
The MAH proposes with this variation application the following changes of the SmPC of Xarelto, to which the 
CHMP agreed. 
•  Xarelto 10 mg film-coated tablets: 
Addition of the cautionary statement regarding patients with renal impairment concomitantly receiving other 
medicinal  products  that  are  potent  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4,  that  is  listed  under  the  subheader  “renal 
impairment” in section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use, of the SmPC for Xarelto 15mg and 20 
mg 
•  Xarelto 10, 15 and 20 mg film-coated tablets: 
Inclusion of a reference to section 4.4, Special warnings and precautions for use, in section 4.5, Interaction 
with  other  medicinal  products  and  other  forms  of  interaction,  under  the  subheader  “CYP3A4  and  P-gp 
inhibitors” as follows: 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inhibitors 
… 
Active substances strongly inhibiting only one of the rivaroxaban elimination pathways, either CYP3A4 or P-gp, 
are expected to increase rivaroxaban plasma concentrations to a lesser extent. Clarithromycin (500 mg twice a 
day), for instance, considered as a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor and moderate P-gp inhibitor, led to a 1.5 fold increase 
in mean rivaroxaban AUC and a 1.4 fold increase in Cmax. This increase is not considered clinically relevant. (For 
patients with renal impairment: see section 4.4). 
A  consideration  of  an  upgrade  of  the  drug-drug  interactions  with  rifampicin  and  other  strong  P-gp  and 
CYP3A4 inducers in the SmPC to non-recommendation has been requested. The following rationales have 
been given: 
Rifampicin and other strong P-gp and CYP3A4 inducers 
The reduction in exposure is in the same range for all three medicines and is considered substantial enough 
to warrant a non-recommendation. 
MAH comment:  
The MAH has re-assessed the CHMP recommendation to consider an upgrade from a caution statement to a 
non-recommendation statement in Section 4.5 when the concomitant administration of strong CYP3A4 and 
P-gp inducers is required and proposes to maintain the current administered with caution statement for the 
following reasons:  
Rivaroxaban  is  cleared  via  mainly  cytochrome  P450-mediated  hepatic  metabolism  (CYP3A4/3A5  and 
CYP2J2)  and  direct  renal  excretion  involving  glomerular  filtration  and  the  P-gp  and/or  Bcrp  transporter 
systems, classifying it susceptible to PK interactions. Combined treatment with drugs classified as strong 
CYP3A4 and P-gp inducers, such as the antibiotic rifampicin, led to an approximate doubling in rivaroxaban 
total body clearance, and approximately 50% reduction in rivaroxaban AUC and elimination half-life. While 
the  amount  of  rivaroxaban  excreted  unchanged  into  urine  was  markedly  decreased,  rivaroxaban  renal 
clearance remained unaffected. 
The concomitant use of rivaroxaban with other strong CYP3A4 inducers (e.g. phenytoin, carbamazepine, 
phenobarbitone, or St. John’s Wort) potentially leads to decreased rivaroxaban plasma concentrations. No 
information on the potential effect of inducers of the transporter proteins P-gp or Bcrp alone on rivaroxaban 
pharmacokinetics can be provided due to lack of known selective inducers. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 8/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH’s review of the information does not indicate a substantial risk for unfavourable outcomes overall 
in  our  studies  in  indications  for  which  CYP3A4  inducer  subgroup  analyses  are  available.  Accordingly, 
maintaining the current statement in Section 4.5, Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms 
of interactions, of the Xarelto SmPC is proposed. This is agreed by the CHMP.  
Potential interaction with fruit juice 
A  consideration  of  inclusion  of  a  potential  interaction  with  grapefruit  juice  in  the  SmPCs  of  Xarelto  was 
requested, as grapefruit juice is a CYP3A4 inhibitor. 
MAH comment:  
The  MAH  has  assessed  the  recommendation  to  consider  mention  of  grapefruit  juice  in  the  SmPC  and 
proposes not to mention grapefruit juice in the SmPC of Xarelto for the following reasons: 
Ingredients present in commercially available grapefruit juice have the capacity to inhibit human CYP3A4 
activity. Consumption of typical quantities of grapefruit juice increased the oral bioavailability of various 
CYP3A4  substrates  (e.g.  oral  midazolam)  without  affecting  their  elimination,  consistent  with  selective 
inhibition of intestinal but not hepatic CYP3A4. Drugs are considered susceptible for this ‘specific food-drug 
interaction’ if 1) the drug in question is a substrate for human CYP3A4, 2) has a low oral bioavailability as a 
result of pre-systemic extraction, and 3) enteric CYP3A contributes significantly to pre-systemic extraction. 
Large quantities of grapefruit juice have recently been suggested to also affect hepatic CYP3A4 in a juice 
exposure-dependent manner. 
Rivaroxaban has an oral bioavailability of close to 100% (for the 10 mg tablet this high bioavailability is 
achieved irrespective of food intake; for the 20 mg tablet this high bioavailability is achieved when taken 
with  food),  indicating  the  lack  of  relevant  pre-systemic  extraction  (absolute  bioavailability  study, 
PH-34919).  The  contribution  of  CYP3A4  to  its  overall  clearance  is  approximately  20%.  This  means  that 
rivaroxaban should be rather insensitive to the grapefruit juice interaction. 
Grapefruit juice is classified as moderate to strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, similar to erythromycin. Therefore, 
increases  in  rivaroxaban  exposure  upon  grapefruit  juice  consumption  are  not  expected  to  exceed  the 
1.3-fold increase observed on average in healthy subjects when pre- and co-treated with erythromycin 500 
mg tid. This increase is within the magnitude of normal inter-individual variability of AUC and Cmax and is 
considered as clinically not relevant. 
Grapefruit juice ingestion was not excluded or recorded during any rivaroxaban phase 2 or phase 3 clinical 
trial. We have no clinical interaction data concerning the effect, if any, on clinical outcomes with either the 
Xarelto 10 mg, 15 mg or 20 mg film-coated tablet. 
CHMP comments:  
The discussion by the MAH is agreed. No change to the SmPC is warranted. 
•  Update of section 4.9 overdose 
It  has  been  requested  that  a  recommendation  to  consult  a  coagulation  expert  when  managing  serious 
bleedings should also be included in the SmPCs for Xarelto. The following rationales have been given in the 
assessment report: 
The potential consultation of a coagulation expert may be an obvious consideration for most emergency 
ward physicians treating a major bleeding complication to an overdose with an anticoagulant. However, a 
specific recommendation in the SmPC could be helpful to younger physicians, and having a recommendation 
in the Pradaxa SmPC and not in the SmPCs for Xarelto may lead to misunderstandings. 
MAH comment: - 
Proposed to be added in the SmPC, section 4.9 Overdose is: 
4.9 Overdose 
Management of bleeding 
… 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 9/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
If bleeding cannot be controlled by the above measures, administration of a specific procoagulant reversal agent 
should  be  considered,  such  as  prothrombin  complex  concentrate  (PCC),  activated  prothrombin  complex 
concentrate  (APCC)  or  recombinant  factor  VIIa  (r-FVIIa).  However,  there  is  currently  very  limited  clinical 
experience  with  the  use  of  these  products  in  individuals  receiving  rivaroxaban.  The  recommendation  is  also 
based  on  limited  non-clinical  data.  Re-dosing  of  recombinant  factor  VIIa  shall  be  considered  and  titrated 
depending on improvement of bleeding. Depending on local availability, a consultation with a coagulation expert 
should be considered in case of major bleedings. 
… 
CHMP comments:  
The  added  wording  “Depending  on  local  availability,  a  consultation  with  a  coagulation  expert  should  be 
considered in case of major bleeding” is agreed. 
•  Update of section 4.4 for the 10 mg strength only 
The wording detailed below has been proposed to clarify the wording of the 10 mg strength in relation to 
Spinal/epidural anaesthesia for implementation with this variation to be submitted in May 2013. 
SmPC (section 4.4) 
“Spinal/epidural anaesthesia or puncture 
……...  Prior  to  neuraxial  intervention  the  physician  should  consider  the  potential  benefit  versus  the  risk  in 
anticoagulated patients or in patients to be anticoagulated for thromboprophylaxis. 
An epidural catheter is not to be removed earlier than 18 hours after the last administration of 
Rivaroxaban. The next rivaroxaban dose is to be administered not earlier than 6 hours after the removal of the 
catheter. At least 18 hours should elapse after the last administration of rivaroxaban before removal 
of an epidural catheter. Following removal of the catheter, at least 6 hours should elapse before the 
next rivaroxaban dose is administered. 
If traumatic puncture occurs the administration of rivaroxaban is to be delayed for 24 hours.” 
MAH comment: The wording in relation to Spinal/epidural anaesthesia in the SmPC of Xarelto 10 mg has 
been changed according to the PRAC proposal. 
CHMP comment:  
The change is made according to request of CHMP. This is acceptable. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
All  CHMP/PRAC  requests  have  been  addressed  by  the  MAH.  The  benefit/risk  balance  of  Xarelto  remains 
unchanged in the approved indications.  
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation(s) to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following change(s): 
Variation(s) requested 
C.I.3.b 
C.I.3.b - Implementation of change(s) requested following the 
assessment of an USR, class labelling, a PSUR, RMP, FUM/SO, data 
submitted under A 45/46, or amendments to reflect a Core SPC - 
Change(s) with new additional data submitted by the MAH 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Type 
II 
Page 10/11 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Update of sections 4.3, 4.4, 4.5 and 4.9 of the SmPC in order to update the contraindication related to 
bleeding across indications, add a warning related to increased haemorrhagic risk of with age, update the 
drug interaction information and add information related to the management of overdose upon request 
from CHMP/PRAC. 
In addition, as requested by the CHMP, the wording of the 10 mg strength  is clarified in section 4.4  in 
relation to spinal/epidural anaesthesia . 
 In addition the package leaflet of 10mg strength is updated to bring it in line with the other strengths.  
 The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics and package      
leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/380964/2013 
Page 11/11 
  
  
 
 
