22 September 2011 
EMA/42547/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report  
Xarelto 
rivaroxaban   
Procedure No.:  EMEA/H/C/000944/II/0012 
Note 
Variation  assessment  report  as  adopted  by  the  CHMP  with  all  information  of  a  commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Introduction 
This variation concerns an extension of indication for the use of rivaroxaban in the prevention of stroke 
and systemic embolism in patients with non valvular atrial fibrillation (SPAF).  
The  recommended  dose  is  20  mg  once  daily,  which  is  also  the  recommended  maximum  dose.  For 
patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30 - 49 ml/min) the recommended dose 
is 15 mg once daily. 
1.2.   Toxico-pharmacological 
The  non  clinical  studies  supporting  the  use  in  this  new  indication  were  submitted  in  a  parallel 
application  procedure  EMEA/H/C/000944/X10.  For  the  non  clinical  assessment  please  refer  to  the 
corresponding CHMP assessment report.   
1.3.   Clinical aspects 
1.3.1.   Clinical pharmacology 
The  applicant  has  submitted  a  population  PK  and  PK/PD  analysis  of  data  in  the  SPAF  population  and 
also an interaction study with fluconazole.  
1.3.1.1.  Study 12606: Fluconazole interaction study 
Rivaroxaban and fluconazole may be co-administered with caution according to the current EU labeling, 
whereas  the  concomitant  use  for  all  other  azole  anti-mycotics  is  not  recommended.  However,  clinical 
data  for  the  combined  administration  of  rivaroxaban  and  fluconazole  were  lacking.  Therefore,  an 
interaction  study  with  fluconazole,  reported  as  potent  inhibitor  of  CYP2C9  (Rivaroxaban  is  not 
metabolized  via  CYP2C9),  but  only  moderate  inhibitor  of  CYP3A4  with  potential  inhibitory  effects  on 
Bcrp, was conducted in healthy male subjects (Study 12606).  
Methods 
20  mg  rivaroxaban  were  administered  as  a  single  dose  in  one  period  of  the  trial.  After  a  wash-out 
period fluconazole (400 mg od) was administered for six days, with a concomitant administration of 20 
mg rivaroxaban on Day 5. All study medication was administered under fed conditions.  
Rivaroxaban  AUC  increased  significantly  by  1.42-fold  after  the  combination  of  rivaroxaban  and 
fluconazole compared to rivaroxaban alone. Also, Cmax was significantly increased, showing a 1.28-fold 
increase after the combined administration. Mean tmax was unchanged in the presence of fluconazole. 
Mean  terminal  half  life  showed  a  prolongation  from  7.6  hours  (rivaroxaban  alone)  to  9.5  hours 
(combination),  and  total  body  clearance  was  reduced  by  29%  from  11.3  L/h  to  8.1  L/h.  Elimination 
was mainly impaired by the fluconazole-mediated inhibition of the CYP3A4 enzyme system, resulting in 
a reduction of non-renal (i.e. oxidative metabolism in the liver) elimination of rivaroxaban by 34%. In 
addition,  renal  clearance of  rivaroxaban  was  reduced  from  3.6 L/h  after  rivaroxaban  alone  to  3.0  L/h 
after  the  combination  (19%  inhibition).  In  consequence,  the  increased  exposure  of  rivaroxaban  in 
plasma  led  to  a  slightly  higher  excretion  of  the  amount  of  rivaroxaban  excreted  into  urine  after  co-
administration  with  fluconazole  (37%)  as  compared  to  32%  when  rivaroxaban  was  given  alone.  In 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 2/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
detail,  both  renal  secretion  and  renal  filtration  were  decreased  by  22%  and  12%,  respectively,  when 
rivaroxaban was given together with fluconazole. The reduced renal filtration (calculated as creatinine 
clearance  *  fu/100)  was  a  result  of  a  slightly  reduced  creatinine  clearance  and  a  slightly  reduced 
fraction  unbound  after  combination  of  rivaroxaban  with  fluconazole.  In  contrast,  the  reduced  renal 
secretion might be explained by weak inhibition of BCRP by fluconazole.  
The  applicant  concluded  that  there  was  a  moderate  impact  of  the  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibitor 
fluconazole  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rivaroxaban  and  did  not  consider  the  interaction  clinically 
relevant. 
A  40%  increase  in  rivaroxaban  AUC  was  observed  in  combination  with  fluconazole.  The  data  suggest 
inhibition mainly of CYP3A4 (34% reduction of non renal clearance) and a mild inhibition of active renal 
secretion  (22%  decreased  of  CLRS)  which  is  postulated  to  be  due  to  weak  inhibition  of  BCRP.  The 
interaction is as expected of a lower magnitude than that observed for ketoconazole. 
It  was  previously  stated  in  the  SPC  that  fluconazole  was  expected  to  have  a  lower  effect  on 
rivaroxaban exposure than ketokonazole and could be administered with caution. This information has 
now been removed in section 4.5 and the following has been added:  
Fluconazole (400 mg once daily), considered as a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, led to a 1.4 fold increase 
in  mean  rivaroxaban  AUC  and  a  1.3  fold  increase  in  mean  Cmax.  This  increase  is  not  considered 
clinically relevant. 
1.3.1.2.  Population PK analysis in SPAF patient 
Study  AFL3001  /11630  (ROCKET-AF)  was  a  prospective,  randomized,  double-blind,  double-dummy, 
parallel-group,  active-controlled,  multicenter,  event-driven  Phase  3  study  comparing  the  efficacy  and 
safety  of  rivaroxaban  with  warfarin  for  the  prevention  of  stroke  and  non-CNS  systemic  embolism  in 
patients  with  non-valvular  atrial  fibrillation  (AF).  Those  patients  assigned  to  rivaroxaban  received 
rivaroxaban 20 mg p.o. once daily.  
Patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  at  screening  (defined  as  calculated  creatinine  clearance 
(CLCR) between 30 and 49 mL/min, inclusive) received a lower dose of rivaroxaban, 15 mg p.o. once 
daily.  
Methods/design 
Matched PK and PD blood samples were collected from 161 patients that were randomized to receive 
either  20  mg  or  15  mg  (patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment;  n=25)  of  rivaroxaban. 
Pharmacodynamic  markers 
included  prothrombin  time  (PT),  Factor  Xa  activity  (FXa),  and 
prothrombinase  induced  clotting  time  (PiCT)  and  were  taken  at  the  same  time-points  as  the  PK 
samples.  There  were  two  matched  PK/PD  sampling  periods,  in  which  matched  samples  were  taken 
predose, within 1 hour before evening drug administration, and in the intervals 1 to 3 hours and 3 to 
16  hours  following  drug  administration.  The  second  matched  PK/PD  sampling  period  was  to  occur  at 
least 1 month (but as close to the end-of-study visit as possible, 6 to 12 months recommended) after 
the first sampling period.  
The median age of patients with normal renal function and moderate renal impairment participating in 
this sub-study was 64 and 76 years of age, respectively.  
The objectives of this analysis were to: 
  Confirm the structural population PK model to characterize and predict the overall exposure to 
rivaroxaban using current data from the time-matched PK/PD substudy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 3/53
 
 
 
 
  Confirm  the  effect  of  dosing  modification  on  exposure  for  moderate  renally  impaired  (modRI) 
subjects  who  received  15  mg,  while  patients  with  normal  renal  function  and  those  with  mild 
renal impairment received 20 mg of rivaroxaban. 
  Confirm  structural  population  PK/PD  models,  previously  developed,  to  relate  rivaroxaban 
exposure  to  both  prothrombin  time  (PT),  to  prothrombinase  induced  clotting  time  (PiCT)  and 
FXa activity.  
  Characterize the inter- and intra-individual variability in the derived PK and  PD parameters in 
this specific patient population. 
The structural model previously developed in the DVT-T population along with the previously identified 
covariate  relationships  were  used  in  the  current  analysis  and  the  prior  model  was  refitted  with  the 
current data. In order to confirm appropriateness of the prior PK model to describe the PK data for the 
present  indication,  the  new  parameter  estimates  were  used  to  generate  the  empirical  Bayesian 
(individual) predictions for all concentrations. Prediction errors were computed to provide a measure of 
bias  and  precision  by  assessing  the  differences  between  the  measured  and  predicted  individual 
concentrations. The model was considered acceptable and precise if the median PE% and the median 
|PE|% were ≤±20% and 40%, respectively.  
The impact of model covariates on the variation in exposure is as follows: 
  Age: 1.05% decrease in clearance and 0.13% decrease in volume of distribution per one year 
increase from the median age of 65 years, i.e. translating into approximately 30% higher drug 
exposure for a 90-year old patient compared with a 65-year old patient. 
  Serum creatinine: 1.94% decrease in clearance per 0.1 mg/dL increase from the median serum 
creatinine of 1.05 mg/dL, i.e. translating into an approximately 26% higher drug exposure for 
a moderately renal impaired patient with 2.4 mg/dL serum creatinine (approximate creatinine 
clearance of 30 mL/min) compared with a patient with serum creatinine of 1.05 mg/dL. 
 
Lean  body  mass:  1.18%  increase  in  volume  of  distribution  per  one  kg  decrease  from  the 
median lean body mass of 56 kg, i.e. translating into approximately 19% higher drug exposure 
for a patient exhibiting a lean body mass of 40 kg (body-weight about 45 kg) compared with a 
patient with lean body mass of 56 kg. 
In  general,  the  parameter  estimates  for  the  current  atrial  fibrillation  population  are  similar  to  those 
reported  for  the  deep  venous  thrombosis  population  used  to  construct  the  original  PK  model.  Oral 
clearance (CL/F) is around 15% lower for the AF population compared with the DVT population. On the 
other  hand,  the  volume  of  distribution  (V/F)  is  higher  by  about  16%.  The  small  differences  in  the 
parameter  estimates  between  the  two  populations  are  likely  due  to  different  patient  demographics, 
dissimilar covariate distributions, and/or due to influences of the underlying disease state on the PK of 
rivaroxaban.  The  inter-individual  variability  on  CL/F  and  V/F  and  residual  variability  terms  are  also 
similar,  35%,  18%,  and  48%,  respectively,  for  the  current  analysis  compared  with  40%,  29%  and 
41% using the DVT dataset. 
The  median  PE%  and  median  |PE|%,  respectively  were  -9.22%  and  32.99%,  confirming  that  the 
model can be considered valid from an accuracy and precision standpoint.  
Dose modification to 15 mg of rivaroxaban once daily for subjects with moderate renal impairment at 
screening (CRCL, between 30 and 49 mL/min, inclusive), compared to 20 mg for subjects with normal 
or mild impairment of renal function, was tested by simulation using the final population PK model. The 
calculated  Cmax  and  AUC0-24  ratio  of  the  means  between  15  mg  qd  in  moderqte  renal  impairment 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 4/53
 
 
 
 
and 20 mg qd in normal function were 0.88 and 0.91, respectively, confirming the dose reduction to 15 
mg qd. 
Based on post–hoc predicted individual concentration-time profiles, the following PK parameters were 
estimated:  C max,  C min  and  AUC 0-24.  Table  CP-2  provides  the  geometric  means,  with  5%  and  95% 
percentiles for the derived individual PK parameter estimates for the 20 mg o.d. and 15 mg o.d. dosing 
regimens,  based  on  the  final  SPAF  PK  model  and  the  total  study  population  (n=161).  The  table  also 
includes the predicted exposures in simulated SPAF patients for 20 mg OD (normal renal function)  and 
15  mg  OD  (moderate  renal  impairment)  dosing  regimens  based  on  final  PK  model  and  total  study 
population (n=870) in the two DVT dose-finding Phase 2 studies. 
Table CP-2.    Predicted  Rivaroxaban  PK  Parameters  at  steady-state  in  simulated  SPAF  patients  for 
20 mg OD (normal renal function) / 15 mg OD (moderate renal impairment) dosing regimens based 
on  final  PK  model  and  total  study  population  (n=870)  in  the  two  DVT  dose-finding  Phase  2  studies 
compared to post-hoc parameter estimates of the 20 mg OD and 15 mg OD patient cohorts in SPAF 
study 11630 [g. mean (5/95% percentiles);n=136/25] (Study IMP12143 and 11630) 
parameter 
prediction 
steady-state data: 
prediction: 
steady-state data: 
20 mg OD 
20 mg OD 
15 mg OD 
15 mg OD 
C max g/L 
C trough g/L 
AUC g·h/L 
274 (182–408) 
249 (184-343) 
270 (180–408) 
229 (178-313) 
30.4 (3.19–153) 
43.6 (12.2-137) 
30.7 (2.09–161) 
57.5 (17.6-136) 
3119 (1648–6055) 
3164 (1860-5434) 
3096 (1643–5912) 
3249 (1929-5311) 
a 
geometric mean / gSD 
The  rationale  for  dose  reduction  to  15mg  rivaroxaban  in  moderate  renally  impaired  patients  was 
derived  from  population  PK  modelling  which  showed  that  renally  impaired  patients  have  a  reduced 
rivaroxaban  clearance  leading  to  increased  Cmax  and  AUC  values.  Reduction  of  the  dose  to  15mg  od 
reduces  the  Cmax  and  AUC  values  in  this  population  into  ranges  obtained  with  normal  to  mild  renally 
impaired patients. This modelling was confirmed by PK measurements in the ROCKET study. The basis 
for dose reduction is acknowledged. 
Special populations 
No specific studies were submitted with this application.  
In  previous  studies  there  were  no  clinically  relevant  differences 
in  pharmacokinetics  and 
pharmacodynamics  based  on  gender,  race  or  weight.  Elderly  patients  exhibited  higher  plasma 
concentrations  than  younger  patients,  with  mean  AUC  values  being  approximately  1.5  fold  higher, 
mainly due to reduced (apparent) total and renal clearance. Rivaroxaban AUC was increased 1.4, 1.5 
and  1.6  fold  respectively  in  mild,  moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment.  Corresponding  increases  in 
pharmacodynamic  effects  were  more  pronounced  with  anti-factor  Xa  activity  increased  by  a  factor  of 
1.5,  1.9  and  2.0  respectively  and  prolongation  of  PT  increased  by  a  factor  of  1.3,  2.2  and  2.4 
respectively. 
As the current application concerns use of rivaroxaban in a new population at a higher dose, a revised 
discussion regarding the treatment recommendations in special populations is needed. This should be 
based on the exposure safety relationship for bleedings and other relevant safety information at higher 
exposure.  
Cirrhotic  patients  with  mild  hepatic  impairment  (classified  as  Child  Pugh  A)  exhibited  only  minor 
changes in rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics (1.2 fold increase in rivaroxaban AUC on average), while in 
cirrhotic patients with moderate hepatic impairment (classified as Child Pugh B), rivaroxaban unbound 
AUC was increased 2.6 fold. These patients also had reduced renal elimination of rivaroxaban, similar 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 5/53
 
 
 
 
 
to  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment.  Patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  were  more 
sensitive to rivaroxaban resulting in a steeper PK/PD relationship between concentration and PT.  
Impaired renal function 
To  construct  “virtual  SPAF  patients”,  the  DVT-T  patient  population  data  from  dose-finding  studies 
11223  and  11528  were  modified  to  reflect  the  demographic  characteristics  of  a  SPAF  patient 
population.  
Simulations demonstrated that moderate renal impairment and, to a lesser extent, increased age (≥75 
years) led to an increase in rivaroxaban exposure due to reduced rivaroxaban clearance, a prolonged 
elimination  half-life  and  increased  trough  levels.  Because  SPAF  patients  often  have  decreased  renal 
function, increased rivaroxaban exposure may be expected. Moderately renally impaired SPAF patients 
receiving a dose lowered to 15 mg od should therefore have a similar exposure to rivaroxaban as SPAF 
patients with normal renal function or mild renal impairment receiving 20 mg od. 
In conclusion, in the proposed SPC, the recommendations for use in special populations are the same 
as  for  Xarelto  10  mg  apart  from  the  dose  reduction  in  moderate  renal  impairment,  i.e.  no  dose 
adjustment  in  elderly,  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment  or  mild  hepatic  impairment.  15  mg  qd  is 
recommended in patients with moderate renal impairment.  
Xarelto  is  to  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  15-
29 ml/min) and moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh B) if it is not associated with coagulopathy. 
Use is not recommended in patients with creatinine clearance < 15 ml/min. Xarelto is contraindicated 
in patients with hepatic disease associated with coagulopathy and clinically relevant bleeding risk. 
1.3.1.3.  Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Previously  developed  structural  PK/PD  models  described  the  relationship  between  rivaroxaban 
concentrations  and  the  PD  measurements.  The  same  structural  models  along  with  the  previously 
identified covariates were used in the current analysis to confirm that they were adequate to describe 
the  PK/PD  for  the  atrial  fibrillation  population  and  to  estimate  the  PK/PD  parameter  values  for  the 
current population. 
Rivaroxaban  plasma  concentrations  exhibit  a  close-to-linear  relationship  with  PT  (Figure  CP-1).  At 
steady-state,  the  baseline  PT  was  estimated  to  be  11.4  seconds  and  the  slope  of  the  correlation 
between  PT  and  rivaroxaban  plasma  concentrations  was  4.26  seconds/  100 µg/L.  The  residual 
variability was low (12.85%).  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 6/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  CP-1.  Observed  Concentration-Effect  Relationship  for  Prothrombin  Time  in  SPAF  patients  at 
steady-state in the Phase 3 ROCKET-AF trial / PK/PD sub-study [solid curve indicates the trend line] 
0
8
0
6
0
4
0
2
)
c
e
s
(
T
P
0
200
400
600
Observed Concentrations (ug/L)
The  estimated  mean  slope  reflecting  the  sensitivity  of  this  coagulation  marker  towards  increases  in 
rivaroxaban drug exposure is similar to what was observed in the VTE-MOS (surgery) patients (3.2 sec 
in  hip  study  and  4.2  sec  in  the  knee  study  per  100  µg/L)  and  DVT-T  patients  (3.3  to  3.6  sec  per 
100µg/L). This close-to-linear relationship between rivaroxaban plasma concentrations and PT provides 
further  evidence  that  PT  assessments  may  be  a  suitable  tool  to  indirectly  estimate  rivaroxaban 
exposure  if  necessary,  as  was  previously  suggested.  A  close-to-linear  relationship  between  the 
prothrombinase-induced  clotting  time  (PiCT)  and  rivaroxaban  plasma  concentrations  was  defined. 
Plasma  rivaroxaban  concentrations  and  FXa  activity  were  correlated  by  an  inhibitory  Emax  model 
without a Hill coefficient.  
PT analyses in SPAF patients 
Descriptive summary statistics for PT Neoplastin® values observed in SPAF patients from the Phase 3 
(ROCKET-AF) were presented. The 5/95 percentiles for PT (Neoplastin®) measurements at ‘peak’ (1 to 
4 hr postdose) ranged from 14 to 40 sec in patients treated with 20 mg od and from 10 to 50 sec in 
patients with moderate renal function impairment (CLCR 30 - 50 mL/min) at baseline treated with 15 
mg od in this population.  
1.3.1.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The estimated effect of renal function on rivaroxaban clearance was smaller in this evaluation than in 
the  previous  population  PK  studies,  and  also  smaller  than  the  specific  study  in  renal  impairment.  In 
previous  popPK  analyses  (submitted  with  the  10  mg  application)  the  applicant  used  calculated 
creatinine clearance as covariate in some studies and in others serum creatinine was used as measure 
of renal function. In the latter models age was also included as a covariate. In the analysis of the DVT 
data, creatinine clearance was also evaluated as a covariate and was statistically significant in the first 
forward  step  with  a  drop  in  objective  function  value  being  almost  as  large  as  the  drop  in  OFV 
associated with the age relationship. This information suggests that the age effect is related to reduced 
renal function. Hence, age may not have been a significant covariate if creatinine clearance had been 
used as covariate for renal function.  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 7/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of 15 mg qd in patients with moderate renal impairment seems to result in similar exposure as 
20 mg qd in patients with normal renal function based on plots of the observed plasma concentrations. 
These data support the use of 15 mg in patients with moderate renal impairment. 
The  SPC  was  modified  to  recommend  the  15  mg  q.d.  dose  also  in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance 15-30 ml/min). 
 It  is  agreed  with  the  applicant  that  patients  with  coagulopathy  including  cirrhotic  patients  with  Child 
Pugh B (moderate hepatic impairment) have increased risk for bleeding and should be contraindicated. 
The  increased  exposure  in  the  elderly  is  to  a  large  extent  caused  by  reduced  renal  function. 
Consequently  dose  reduction  based  on  age  alone  is  not  considered  needed.  The  SPAF  population  is 
elderly and there is extensive experience in treating elderly patients with rivaroxaban 20 mg q.d.  
The  applicant  has  also  discussed  the  risk  for  interaction  between  rivaroxaban  and  antiarythmics  that 
affect the PgP, in particular amiodarone, dronedarone, verapamil and quinidin. The applicant presented 
in  vitro  inhibition  data  for  amiodarone,  verapamil  and  quinidine.  Based  on  these  data,  in  vivo 
concentrations  and  in  vivo  interaction  studies  evaluating  the  effect  of  chlarithromycin,  erythromycin, 
ketoconazole  and  ritonavir  on  rivaroxaban  PK,  is  the  CHMP  agreed  with  the  applicant  that  a  clinically 
relevant interaction is not expected with amiodarone, verapamil and quinidine.  
Dronedarone  is  a  potent  P-gp  inhibitor  and  is  also  a  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibitor.  Hence,  a  clinically 
relevant  effect  of  dronedarone  on  rivaroxaban  cannot  be  excluded.  The  SPC  has  been  amended  with 
this information. 
1.3.1.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The data provided in support to this extension application are acceptable taking into account revisions 
of the SPC above discussed (sections 4.2, 4.5). 
1.3.2.  Clinical efficacy 
The application is based on one large pivotal study and one supportive study as presented below (table 
3-1): 
 
Pivotal  global  Phase  III  study  (11630),  hereafter  referred  to  as  ROCKET  study  (Rivaroxaban 
Once-daily oral direct Factor Xa inhibition Compared with vitamin K antagonist for the prevention 
of stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation)  
  Supportive  Phase  III  study(11620)  conducted  in  Japanese  subjects,  hereafter  referred  to  as  J-
ROCKET study. 
The J-ROCKET study was designed primarily to evaluate the safety of rivaroxaban in Japanese subjects 
with  non-valvular  AF,  compared  with  that  of  dose-adjusted  warfarin,  and  to  demonstrate  that  the 
safety of rivaroxaban is non-inferior to warfarin as assessed by the composite of major and non-major 
clinically relevant bleeding events.  
Table 3-1. Overview of Phase III Efficacy Studies 
Study 
Study  Design  and 
Rivaroxaban 
Comparator 
Number 
of 
Number 
of 
number 
Type of Control 
dose 
(mg)  
and 
treatment 
subjects 
subjects 
and 
treatment 
duration 
exposed 
to 
exposed 
to 
duration 
rivaroxaban 
comparator 
11630 
Randomized, 
20  mg/day;  15  Warfarin;  adjusted  7133 R 
7136 R 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 8/53
 
 
 
 
 
(ROCKET) 
double-blind, 
mg/day 
for 
dose with INR target 
7081 ITTb 
parallel-
moderately 
2.5  (range  2.0-3.0) 
7111 VFSc 
group,warfarin 
renally-impaireda 
for all subjects 
6958 PPd 
12620  
Randomized, 
15 mg/day; 
Warfarin;  adjusted 
640 R 
(JJ-ROCKET) 
double-blind, 
10  mg/day 
for 
dose with INR target 
640 ITT 
parallel-group, 
moderately 
(range  2.0-3.0)  for 
639 VFS 
warfarin 
renally-impaireda 
subjects  <70  yrs 
637 PP 
7090 ITTb 
7125 VFSc 
7004 PPd 
640 R 
640 ITT 
639 VFS 
637 PP 
and 
1.6-2.6 
for 
subjects ≥70 yrs 
Abbreviations:  ITT=  intent-to-treat  analysis;  PP  =  per  protocol;  R=randomized;  VFS=valid  for  safety 
analysis; 
a  
Moderately renally-impaired subjects were those with calculated baseline creatinine clearance of  
             30-49 mL/min, inclusive. 
b  
c  
ITT population as used for the efficacy analyses (excluding data from site 042012) 
Safety per protocol population as used for the safety analyses (including data from site 042012) 
d          Per protocol population as used for the efficacy analyses (excluding data from site 042012) 
1.3.2.1.  Dose finding, phase II studies- Dose selection in SPAF population 
A  dose-finding  study  in  atrial  fibrillation  with  potential  for  under-treatment  of  study  groups  was  not 
considered  to  be  ethically  justified  and  would  furthermore  be  complicated  by  the  relatively  low 
incidence  of  the  hard  endpoints  that  are  considered  clinically  relevant.  Therefore,  the  dose  for 
prevention of stroke and non-CNS systemic embolism was derived from phase II studies in treatment 
of DVT together with PK simulations in a ‘virtual SPAF patient population’. Three small phase II trials 
were performed in Japan investigating the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic effects of different 
doses of rivaroxaban up to 20 mg. These trials were performed to support the choice of dose for the 
supportive phase III study performed in Japan (see below under supportive study). 
Selection  of  a  20  mg  once-daily  dose  for  investigation  in  the  SPAF  phase  III  trial  was  based  upon 
safety  and  efficacy  results  obtained  from  the  phase  II  dose-finding  studies  in  subjects  with  acute 
symptomatic  VTE  over  a  study  duration  of  12  weeks  [Studies  11223  (ODIXa-DVT)  and  11528 
(EINSTEIN-DVT)]. Compared to patients in the DVT-T population, SPAF patients tend to  be older and 
have  decreased  renal  function.  As  both  these  covariates  affect  rivaroxaban  exposure,  a  ‘virtual  SPAF 
patient population’ was created based on modification of patient demographics from the DVT-T phase 
II dose-finding studies to reflect those expected for SPAF patients. These simulations showed that the 
simulated  plasma  rivaroxaban  concentration-time  profile  for  patients  in  the  SPAF  patient  population 
with  normal  renal  function  receiving  20  mg  once  daily  was  similar  to  that  for  patients  in  the  DVT-T 
population  receiving  the  same  dose.  The  simulations  also  showed  that  moderate  renal  impairment 
(defined as calculated CLCR 30-50 mL/min) and, to a lesser extent, increased age ( 75 years) led to a 
slight  increase  in  rivaroxaban  exposure  (Figure  1).  Weight  and  gender  did  not  influence  rivaroxaban 
exposure  to  a  relevant  extent.  For  SPAF  patients  with  moderate  renal  impairment  (CrCl  30  to  50 
mL/min),  PK  simulations  showed  that  lowering  the  dose  to  15  mg  once  daily  should  result  in  similar 
exposures to SPAF patients with normal or mildly impaired renal function (CrCl > 50 mL/min) receiving 
a 20 mg od dose. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 9/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure CP-1.  Rivaroxaban  AUC  for  the  total  simulated  SPAF  population  (n=1000)  compared  with 
individual  demographic  extremes:  age   75 years  (n=298),  lean  body  mass  (LBM)   50 kg  (n=155), 
serum  creatinine  (SCRE)   1.2 mg/dL  (n=515)  and  creatinine  clearance  (CrCL)   50 mL/min  (n=309) 
[limits of the boxes are 25th and 75th percentiles with arithmetic mean as line, whiskers are 10th and 
90th percentiles, circles are 5th and 95th percentiles] (Study 12143) 
20 mg od
20 mg od
15 mg od
15 mg od
8000
8000
6000
6000
4000
4000
2000
2000
0
0
)
)
l
l
/
/
h
h
·
·
g
g
µ
µ
(
(
h
h
4
4
2
2
–
–
0
0
C
C
U
U
A
A
Total 
Total 
Age (≥75)
Age (≥75)
LBM
LBM
(≤50kg)
(≤50kg)
SCRE
SCRE
(≥1.2 mg/dl)
(≥1.2 mg/dl)
CrCL (≤50 ml/min)
CrCL (≤50 ml/min)
Treatment group 
Treatment group 
The  selection  of  15  mg  q.d.  in  moderate  renal  impairment  is  supported  by  the  simulation  using  the 
population  PK  model  developed  in  the  DVT  treatment  population.  This  is  in  line  with  study  11002 
evaluating  the  pharmacokinetics  of  rivaroxaban  in subjects  with  reduced  renal  function  where  a  50% 
increase in AUC was observed in subjects with moderate renal impairment. 
1.3.2.2.  Main study – study 11630 
Study  11630  was  a  prospective,  randomized,  double-blind,  double-dummy,  parallel-group,  active-
controlled,  multicenter,  event-driven  Phase  3  study  comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  rivaroxaban 
with  warfarin  for  the  prevention  of  stroke  and  non-CNS  systemic  embolism  in  subjects  with  non-
valvular atrial fibrillation. The demanding double blind design is considered to be a clear advantage of 
the trial. 
Objectives 
The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate that the efficacy of rivaroxaban, is non-inferior 
to  that  of  dose-adjusted  warfarin  for  the  prevention  of  thromboembolic  events  in  subjects  with  non-
valvular atrial fibrillation as measured by the composite of stroke (including primary ischemic, primary 
hemorrhagic,  and  unknown  type  unless  otherwise  stated)  and  non-central  nervous  system  (CNS) 
systemic embolism. 
The  principal  safety  objective  of  this  study  was  to  demonstrate  that  rivaroxaban  is  superior  to  dose-
adjusted  warfarin  as  assessed  by  the  composite  of  major  and  non-major  clinically  relevant  bleeding 
events. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 10/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary efficacy and principal safety objectives were based on Clinical Endpoint Committee (CEC) 
adjudicated results. 
Inclusion/exclusion criteria 
The important inclusion criteria were: 
Men or women aged ≥18 years with non-valvular atrial fibrillation (i.e., atrial fibrillation in the absence 
of rheumatic mitral valve disease, a prosthetic heart valve or mitral valve repair); 
With  in  addition  ,  history  of  prior  ischemic  stroke,  TIA  or  non-CNS  systemic  embolism  believed  to  be 
cardioembolic in origin or with 2 or more of the following risk factors: 
Heart failure and/or left ventricular ejection fraction ≤35%; 
Hypertension  (defined  as  use  of  antihypertensive  medications  within  6  months  before  the  screening 
visit  or  persistent  systolic  blood  pressure  above  140  mmHg  or  diastolic  blood  pressure  above  90 
mmHg); 
Age ≥75 years; 
Diabetes  mellitus  (defined  as  a  history  of  type  1  or  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  or  use  of  antidiabetic 
medications within 6 months before screening visit); 
Subjects with newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation could be included provided that: 
– Atrial fibrillation was non-valvular, cardioversion was not planned, Electrocardiogram evidence on 2 
occasions 24 hours apart demonstrating atrial fibrillation; 
Among the Exclusion Criteria the following are noted 
Cardiac-Related Conditions 
Hemorrhage Risk-Related Criteria 
Concomitant Conditions and Therapies 
  Severe,  disabling  stroke  within  3  months  or  any  stroke  within  14  days  before  the  randomization 
visit; 
 
 
 
Transient ischemic attack within 3 days before the randomization visit; 
Indication for anticoagulant therapy for a condition other than atrial fibrillation 
Treatment  with:  ASA  >100  mg  daily  or  ASA  in  combination  with  thienopyridines  within  5  days 
before  randomization;  Intravenous  antiplatelets  within  5  days  before  randomization;  Fibrinolytics 
within 10 days before randomization; 
  Anticipated need for chronic treatment with a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs); 
  Systemic treatment with a strong inhibitor of cytochrome P450 3A4 
 
Treatment with a strong inducer of cytochrome P450 3A4 
  Anemia (hemoglobin <10 g/dL) at the screening visit; 
  Calculated CrCL <30 mL/min at the screening visit  
  Known significant liver disease (e.g., acute clinical hepatitis, chronic active hepatitis, cirrhosis), or 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) >3x the upper limit of normal (ULN). 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 11/53
 
 
 
 
The described study population can be considered to be sufficiently representative for an AF population 
where treatment with VKA generally is recommended.  
Conduct of the study 
The study was divided into a screening period, a double-blind treatment period closing with an end-of-
study (EOS) visit, and a posttreatment observation period.  
The  screening  period  began  up  to  30  days  before  the  subject  was  randomly  assigned  to  study  drug. 
Once a subject was determined to be eligible for the study, the subject was instructed to discontinue 
their VKA (if applicable); in this case, unblinded INRs (i.e., not using the point-of-care device described 
below)  were  to  be  performed  every  1  to  2  days  based  on  the  initial  INR.  Subject  randomization 
occurred  as  soon  as  possible  when  the  INR  was  ≤3.0.  Investigators  were  encouraged  to  randomly 
assign subjects before the INR fell below 2.0. Randomization was to occur within 36 hours of the last 
unblinded INR. 
Subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of the following 2 treatment groups: 
  Oral rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily plus oral warfarin placebo once daily titrated to a target sham 
INR  of  2.5  (range  2.0  to  3.0,  inclusive).  Subjects  with  moderate  renal  impairment  at  screening 
(defined  as  calculated  creatinine  clearance  [CrCL]  between  30  and  49  mL/min,  inclusive)  had  a 
dose adaptation to oral rivaroxaban 15 mg once daily. 
OR 
  Oral  warfarin  once  daily  titrated  to  a  target  INR  of  2.5  (range  2.0  to  3.0,  inclusive)  plus  oral 
rivaroxaban placebo once daily. 
To  maintain  the  blind,  warfarin  and  its  matching  placebo  were  dose-adjusted  based  on  either  real  or 
sham  INR  results,  respectively.  Study  sites  were  provided  with  a  Hemosense®  point-of-care  INR 
device  (INRatio®)  that  was  modified  to  display  a  code  number  instead  of  the  actual  INR  value.  This 
code number was entered into the IVRS along with the subject’s study identification number. The IVRS 
decoded the  INR code number and then reported the actual INR value if the subject was assigned to 
receive warfarin or a sham value if the subject was assigned to receive rivaroxaban. The INR provided 
by  the  IVRS  was  to  be  used  by  the  investigator  to  adjust  the  warfarin/warfarin  placebo  dose  in  all 
subjects from the time of randomization until transition from study drug to an open-label VKA or other 
appropriate therapy. INR monitoring (using the point-of-care device provided) was to occur as clinically 
indicated but at least every 4 weeks. Unblinded INR measurements were not to be performed while on 
study  drug,  except  in  case  of  a  medical  emergency  and  then  investigators  were  instructed  to  omit 
these  unblinded  INRs  from  SAE  reports  and  from  any  documents  submitted  to  the  Clinical  Endpoint 
Committee (CEC).  
During  the  study,  there  were  2  protocol  amendments.  In  amendment  INT-1  (08  June  2007)  selected 
changes were an extended screening period to 30 days (Day –30 to Day 1) from 14 days; clarified that 
annuloplasty with or without prosthetic ring, commissurotomy and/or valvuloplasty were not exclusion 
criteria. 
In  the  second  amendment  (13  February  2009),  the  protocol  was  amended  to  facilitate  completion  of 
the PK/PD component of the study. The amendment was triggered by a low rate of enrollment into that 
part of the study.  
The protocol amendments are not judged to have had any major impact on the study. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 12/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints/outcomes 
Primary Efficacy Endpoint 
The  primary  efficacy  outcome  was  the  composite  of  stroke  and  non-CNS  systemic  embolism. 
Adjudicated results (by the independent blinded CEC) were used for the analysis. Stroke was defined 
as a new, sudden, focal neurological deficit resulting from a presumed cerebrovascular cause that was 
not  reversible  within  24  hours  and  not  due  to  another  readily  identifiable  cause  such  as  a  tumor, 
seizure, or trauma. If an event lasted less than 24 hours it was considered a TIA. Primary hemorrhagic 
stroke was defined as stroke with focal collections of intracerebral blood (i.e., intraparenchymal and/or 
intraventricular);  primary  ischemic  infarction  was  defined  as  stroke  without  focal  collections  of 
intracranial blood; and unknown/uncertain, stroke was defined as stroke with no available imaging or 
autopsy data. Other intracranial bleeding events such as subdural hematoma, epidural hematoma, and 
subarachnoid hemorrhage were not considered primary hemorrhagic strokes, but they were included in 
the safety summaries as intracranial bleeding. 
A  non-CNS  embolism  was  defined  as  an  abrupt  vascular  insufficiency  associated  with  clinical  or 
radiological  evidence  of  arterial  occlusion  in  the  absence  of  other  likely  mechanisms  (e.g.,  trauma, 
atherosclerosis, instrumentation). 
Secondary Endpoints 
Major secondary efficacy endpoints (selected): 
  Major  Secondary  Endpoint  1:  composite  of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic  embolism,  and  vascular 
death; 
  Major  Secondary  Endpoint  2:  composite  of  stroke, non-CNS  systemic  embolism, MI,  and vascular 
death. 
Other secondary efficacy endpoints included: 
 
Individual components of the composite primary and major secondary efficacy endpoints; 
  Disabling stroke; 
  All-cause mortality. 
Vascular death was defined as any death that was not clearly non-vascular. 
The subject’s global function was measured using the modified Rankin Scale.  Sites were to complete 
the  post-stroke  status  (modified  Rankin  scale  and  subject  status  of  care  (i.e.,  home,  rehabilitation 
center, long term care) 3 months after the stroke. 
The  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  end-points  are  appropriate  in  relation  to  the  objectives  of  the 
study. 
Statistical methods 
The duration of this study was event driven; with all events for sample size determination assumed to 
be  adjudicated  and  per  protocol.  The  required  number  of  primary  efficacy  endpoint  events  was 
determined based the following assumptions: 
  Non-inferiority margin of 1.46 for the risk (hazard) ratio (rivaroxaban/warfarin)  
 
 
Two-sided significance level of 0.05 (1-sided significance level of 0.025) 
Power of >95% when the true risk ratio is 1 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 13/53
 
 
 
 
  Exponential distributions for time from randomization to event 
Based  on  the  above  assumptions  the  total  number  of  events  from  the  per  protocol  population  was 
estimated to be 363 for 95% power. Increasing this number by approximately 10% to 405 provided a 
more robust number of events to assess consistency across important subgroups.  
The total number of randomized subjects for this study was estimated to be approximately 14,000. The 
expected study duration was anticipated to be approximately 32 months from the time of first subject 
randomized  to  the  occurrence  of  the  405th  event.  The  study  duration  was  either  increased  or 
decreased based on both the pace of study recruitment and endpoint event rates. The sample size was 
to have a maximum of 16,000 subjects, if needed. 
For  the  principal  safety  endpoint  defined  as  the  composite  of  major  and  non-major  clinically  relevant 
bleeding events, assuming that there was a 10% bleeding rate per subject year in the warfarin group, 
the study would have had approximately 80% and 95% power to detect 15% and 20% reductions in 
risk  ratio  (hazard  ratio  of  rivaroxaban  versus  warfarin)  at  a  1-sided  significance  level  0.025, 
respectively.  
The per protocol population for efficacy analyses consists of all intent-to-treat subjects excluding those 
who  have  specific  pre-defined  major  protocol  deviations  that  occurred  by  the  time  of  enrolment  into 
the study or during the trial. 
The safety population for efficacy and safety analyses consists of all intent-to-treat (ITT) subjects who 
took at least 1 dose of study medication after randomization during the double-blind treatment period. 
The  ITT  population  for  efficacy  analyses  consists  of  all  randomized  unique  subjects.  Subjects  were 
assigned to their randomized treatment allocation irrespective of the treatment actually received. 
For  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  based  on  time  from  randomization  to  the  first  occurrence  of  a 
primary  efficacy  endpoint  event,  the  hazard  ratio  (rivaroxaban/warfarin)  and  its  two-sided  95%  CI 
were analyzed using the Cox Proportional Hazards model with treatment group as a covariate. 
If  non-inferiority  on  the  primary  endpoint  was  demonstrated,  the  superiority  of  rivaroxaban  over 
warfarin  in  terms  of  the  primary  endpoint  would  be  tested  based  on  data  obtained  during  the  on-
treatment period in the safety population.  Superiority would be established if the upper limit of the 2-
sided 95% CI was less than 1.  
This multiple testing procedure would preserve the overall 0.05 significance level. 
Multiple Testing Procedure 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 14/53
 
 
 
 
 
The  statistical  methods  in  the  analysis  plan  are  judged  to  be  appropriate.  A  conventional  superiority 
analysis  on  the  ITT  population  with  the  full  duration  of  follow-up  both  on  and  off  study  medication 
would be informative. 
Results 
In total, 17,232 screenings for study eligibility occurred and 14,264 subjects were randomly assigned 
to treatment with either rivaroxaban or warfarin. 
Forty-five  countries  participated  in  this  study  and  each  country  was  assigned  to  1  of  5  regions. 
Asia/Pacific  contributed  with  15%  of  the  randomized  patients,  East  Europe  with  39%,  Latin  America 
with 13%, North America with 19% and West Europe with 15%. 
The  over-all  clinical  management  of  AF  patients  probably  varies  considerably  between  different 
regions, as does the extent to which AF patients are treated with VKA. This is probably true also within 
Europe.  However,  the  contributions  from  Europe  and  North  America  probably  make  the  study 
population sufficiently representative for the European target population. 
The  total  number  of  subjects  who  permanently  discontinued  study  drug  was  similar  between  the  two 
treatment  groups:  2,520  rivaroxaban  subjects  (35.44%)  and  2,468  warfarin  subjects  (34.64%).  The 
Kaplan- Meier estimated cumulative discontinuation rates at 1 and 2 years were 21.83% and 34.72% 
for  rivaroxaban  and  21.12%  and  33.52%  for  warfarin,  respectively.  The  discontinuation  rates  over 
time were similar in the two treatment groups. 
The  discontinuation  rates  were  high  which  to  some  extent  could  be  expected  for  a  long-term  safety 
study  in  an  elderly  population  with  co-morbid  conditions.  Furthermore,  a  substantial  number  of 
patients that discontinued study drug could be followed within the study. 
The  number  of  subjects  receiving  rivaroxaban  who  permanently  discontinued  study  drug  for  bleeding 
adverse events: 304 (4.28%) subjects in the rivaroxaban group compared with 219 (3.07%) subjects 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 15/53
 
 
 
 
 
in the warfarin group. Subjects who withdrew consent for study drug for other reasons were fairly well 
balanced between the 2 treatment groups. 
The higher discontinuation rate for bleeding in the rivaroxaban group is further discussed in the safety 
section of this report.  
Baseline characteristics 
Forty percent of the included patients had diabetes mellitus, 91% were classified as hypertensive, 55% 
had  prior  stroke/TIA/systemic  embolism.  Mean  systolic  blood  pressure  was  132  and  mean  diastolic 
pressure 79 mmHg.  
The mean CHADS2 score was 3.48 for the rivaroxaban group and 3.46 for the warfarin group. All but 3 
subjects, had baseline CHADS2 of 2 or more. 
Thus, in summary, the prevalence of concomitant diseases and strong risk factors for embolism were 
high  with  more  than  50%  had  had  a  previous  stroke,  almost  30%  had  CHF  NY  heart  class  III,  40% 
diabetes    and  17%  previous  MI.  Forty-four  %  were  older  than  75,  and  21%  had  moderate  renal 
impairment. That slightly more men were included probably represents a true imbalance between the 
genders in the incidences of AF in the general population if all age groups are pooled. Overall the study 
population represents patients with high risk for embolism and with rather severe co-morbidity.  
Prior VKA use was higher in North America (90 %) and Western Europe (77 %) compared with Eastern 
Europe (47 %), Asia Pacific (55 %), and Latin America (61 %). The percent of subjects with a history 
of Stroke/TIA/Non−CNS Systemic Embolism was higher in Eastern Europe (60 %) and Asia Pacific (61 
%) compared with Western Europe (54 %). History of CHF was more common in Eastern Europe (81 
%) compared with the other regions (e.g., Western Europe 48 %), and the percentage of subjects with 
CHF  NYHA  Class  III  was  higher  in  Eastern  Europe  (39  %)  and  Asia  Pacific  (24  %)  compared  with 
Western Europe  (15 %). The percent of subjects who entered the study with a prior MI was 18% in 
Western Europe and lower in Asia Pacific (9 %). 
The  overall  impression  is  that  patients  from  Eastern  Europe  had  higher  incidences  of  concomitant 
diseases but prior use of VKA was lower. 
The distribution of concomitant medication was similar between the two treatment groups. 
Use of amiodarone was similar between the 2 treatment groups: 897 subjects in the rivaroxaban group 
and 905 subjects in the warfarin group. 
The  prevalence  of  concomitant  medication  is  high  which  could  be  expected  taking  the  pattern  of 
concomitant diseases into account. 
A  total  of  655  (4.6%)  subjects  received  an  open-label  VKA  during  the  study  for  reasons  mentioned 
above  and  for  a  restricted  period  of  time.  Open-label  VKA  use  was  similar  between  the  treatment 
groups (317 rivaroxaban and 338 warfarin-treated subjects). 
Antithrombotic therapies received after last dose of double blind study medication was VKA in 78% of 
the patients, platelet aggregation inhibitors in 28% (mainly ASA) and other anticoagulants 6%. 
The CHMP agreed with the applicant that the large majority of the included patients would qualify for 
VKA treatment according to current standards. 
A  subset  of  all  protocol  deviations  was  considered  significant  to  remove  the  subjects  from  the  PP 
analysis. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 16/53
 
 
 
 
Table E-5 Reasons for exclusion from PP analyses, study11630 
Treatment compliance as proportion of days that study drug was taken was estimated to be more than 
98% in both treatment groups.  
INR control 
The mean time between INR measurements was 24.5 days. 
Table E-6 Time Interval in Days Between INR Measurements 
  rivaroxaban 
warfarin            Total 
  N=7111 
N=7125            N=14236 
The time intervals between INR measurements probably reflect common management of patients with 
AF. Longer intervals than 6 weeks should usually not be recommended. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 17/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the INR range of 2.0 to 3.0, the mean and median TTR was 55.2 % and 57.8 %, respectively, in 
the warfarin group. 
Table E-7. Percentage of INR Values for Warfarin 
TTR (time in target range) was calculated based on imputations of INR as per the Rosendaal method. 
The mean TTR in the warfarin group is considered to be somewhat low and lower than what has been 
seen  in  recent  trials  within  this  area.  This  may  partly  be  explained  by  the  inclusion  of  patients  with 
heavy comorbidity and possibly by less experience at some investigational centers. That a substantial 
portion of the patients had not been treated with VKA previously could also play a role. 
Specific warfarin/warfarin placebo dosing instructions were not provided to the treating physicians. It is 
stated that all sites were reminded periodically with newsletters, memos and at investigator meetings 
of the importance of maintaining an INR target of 2.5 (2.0 to 3.0). 
Variability in INR control by region was observed. 
Table E 8 Average Percentage of INR Values for Warfarin by Region 
Lower mean TTR (50% to 55%) was observed in patients contributed by the Latin American, Eastern 
European and Asia Pacific regions. The majority of the INR values that contributed to the low TTR were 
INRs of <2 across these regions.  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 18/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig  E-1  Proportion  of  Time  by  Region  for  Warfarin  Subjects  With  INR  Values  in  Specified 
Ranges 
Time  in  therapeutic  range  also  appears  to  have  been  influenced  by  patient  risk.  The  TTR  for  patients 
without congestive heart failure (mean 59.6, median 61.8) was higher than for those with congestive 
heart  failure  (mean  52.9,  median  55.6).  Given  the  high  representation  of  heart  failure  in  the  study 
(approximately 62%), this population contributed substantially to the overall TTR for the study. 
Those with a CHADS2 score of 2 had a mean TTR of 59.3 % while those with CHADS2 of 3 and 4 had a 
mean TTR of 55.0 % and 54.3 %, respectively. Those with a CHADS2 score of 5 and 6 had a mean TTR 
of  53.6  %  and  53.5  %,  respectively.  However,  in  centers  with  cTTR  >  70%  there  was  no  indication 
that CHADS2 score would have an impact on TTR. Thus, the burden of concomitant diseases and risk 
factors  among  the  recruited  patients  is  probably  not  a  major  explanation  for  the  comparatively  low 
mean TTR obtained in the study. 
As noted above, the mean TTR was lower in VKA-naïve subjects (47.4 %) than in those with prior VKA 
use (59.8 %). 
A total of 14,264 subjects were included in the intent-to-treat population. 
Table E-9 Summary of analysis sets 
Efficacy end-point results 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the composite of stroke and non-CNS systemic embolism in the per 
protocol  population/on-treatment  (defined  as  the  time  from  the  first  dose  to  the  last  dose  of  study 
drug plus 2 days). There were 188 of 6958 subjects in the rivaroxaban group and 241 of 7004 subjects 
in the warfarin group who experienced an endpoint event. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 19/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  E-10 Hierarchical Testing - Event Rate, Hazard Ratio and 95% Confidence Interval for Time to 
the First Occurrence of Efficacy Endpoints (Adjudicated by CEC) 
Fig  E-2  Kaplan-Meier  Plots  of  Time  From  Randomization  to  the  First  Occurrences  of  Primary  Efficacy 
Endpoint (Adjudicated by CEC) While on Treatment (up to Last Dose Plus 2 Days) 
As  seen  in  table  E-10  and  according  to  the  performed  analysis  rivaroxaban  was  superior  to  warfarin 
with  regard  to  the  primary  efficacy  end-point  with  an  event  rate  that  was  significantly  lower  in  the 
rivaroxaban group. 
However,  only  events  on  treatment  were  counted  in  the  prospectively  defined  superiority  analysis.  A 
more appropriate analysis would be an ITT analysis. The imbalance in stroke rates after discontinuation 
of  treatment  disfavouring  rivaroxaban  may  possibly  at  least  partially  be  explained  by  the  relatively 
short  duration  of  the  effect  of  rivaroxaban  when  discontinued.  However,  a  conservative  superiority 
analysis  should  include  the  time  period  up  to  end  of  study  visit.  The  higher  rate  of  events  in  the 
rivaroxaban group after discontinuation should have an impact on the superiority analysis. The results 
of  a  conventional  ITT  analysis  should  be  presented  in  the  SPC  and  any  general  claims  of  a  superior 
effect as compared to warfarin were not accepted. 
The performed sensitivity analyses supported the primary analysis, see table below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 20/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table E 11 Event Rate, Hazard Ratio and 95% Confidence Interval for Time to the First Occurrence of 
the  Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint  in  different  study  populations  and  at  different  time  points(Adjudicated 
byCEC) 
In  the  table  above  the  predefined  key  supportive  efficacy  sensitivity  analysis  for  non-inferiority,  time 
from  randomization  to  the  first  occurrence  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  for  the  safety 
population/on-treatment was performed using the same approach as in the primary efficacy endpoint 
analysis.  The  event  rate  was  significantly  lower  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  (1.70/100-patient  years) 
compared with the warfarin group (2.15/100-patient years); hazard ratio 0.79 (95% CI 0.65 to 0.95, 
p-value <0.001 for non-inferiority) supporting the robustness of the primary efficacy analysis. 
This is essentially the same analysis as the superiority test for the primary efficacy end-point, i.e. the 
first major secondary end-point.  
The  comparison  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  adjusted  for  region,  prior  VKA,  and  history  of  prior 
stroke (ischemic or unknown type), TIA or non-CNS systemic embolism provided similar results as the 
primary analysis (hazard ratio of 0.79 [95% CI 0.66 to 0.96], p-value <0.001, non-inferiority, p=0.017 
for superiority). 
The  pre-specified  efficacy  sensitivity  analysis  for  superiority  was  the  time  from  randomization  to  the 
first  occurrence  of  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  in  the  intent-to-treat  population/up  to  the  follow-up 
visit. Results of the sensitivity analysis showed the event rate was numerically lower in the rivaroxaban 
group  (2.18/100  patient-years)  compared  with  the  warfarin  group  (2.39/100  patient-years);  hazard 
ratio of 0.91 (95% CI 0.77, 1.08). 
For the period from Day 3 to Day 30 after the last dose of study drug based on the safety population, 
106  subjects  (64  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  42  in  the  warfarin  group)  had  a  CEC  adjudicated 
primary  efficacy  endpoint  event.  For  those  that  discontinued  study  drug  prematurely  there  were  42 
patients in the rivaroxaban and 36 in the warfarin group that had a primary event during the 30 day 
follow-up  period.  For  subjects  that  completed  the  study  drug  period  there  were  22  subjects  (whereof 
12  with  disabling  stroke)  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  6  in  the  warfarin  group  that  had  a  primary 
efficacy event during 30 day follow-up period. 
The imbalance in stroke rates during the follow-up period is of some concern is probably an illustration 
of the high risk in the study population manifested in strokes under a period of time when patients had 
insufficient medical prevention. There are no clear indications of a rebound phenomenon in the overall 
clinical documentation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 21/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoints 
Superiority  for  the  two  major  secondary  efficacy  endpoints  was  demonstrated  but  not  for  the  third 
hierarchically tested major endpoint (all cause mortality), but also all cause mortality was numerically 
in favor of rivaroxaban.  
Table E-12  Event Rate, Hazard Ratio and 95% Confidence Interval for Time to the First Occurrence of 
All Efficacy Endpoints (Adjudicated by CEC) While on Treatment (up to Last Dose Plus 2 Days) 
Thus, the outcome of the secondary end-points supports the primary analysis. 
Stroke characteristics 
There were 184 subjects in the rivaroxaban group and 221 subjects in the warfarin group who had a 
CEC adjudicated stroke.  
Disabling strokes with a modified Rankin Scale score of 3-5 inclusive occurred in 43 (0.61%) subjects 
in the rivaroxaban group and 57 (0.80%) subjects in the warfarin group. There were 6 subjects in the 
rivaroxaban group that were judged to have a primary ischemic stroke with haemorrhagic conversion 
vs. 8 in the warfarin group.  
The  difference  in  hemorrhagic  strokes  may  represent  an  important  advantage  with  rivaroxaban  as 
these  strokes  are  well  known  to  have  a  very  poor  prognosis  in  patients  treated  with  warfarin.  The 
potential importance is supported by the stroke fatality rates given below. 
Fatal strokes were classified in two groups. The broad definition included subjects who experienced an 
event  adjudicated  by  the  CEC  as  a  stroke  event  and  died  within  30  days  (Day  1  is  the  date  of  the 
stroke). The narrow definition included subjects with a CEC adjudicated stroke who died within 30 days 
(Day  1  is  the  date  of  the  stoke),  with  the  primary  cause  of  death  adjudicated  as  vascular  with 
subcategories of primary ischemic stroke or primary hemorrhagic stroke. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 22/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  E-  14  Hazard  Ratio  and  95%  Confidence  Interval  for  Time  to  the  First  Occurrence  of  Fatal 
Stroke (Stroke Adjudicated by CEC) While on Treatment (up to Last Dose Plus 2 Days) Safety Analysis 
Set) 
Systemic  non  CNS  embolism occurred in 5 vs. 22 subjects in the rivaroxaban and warfarin groups 
respectively. As could be expected they occurred most often in the lower leg, followed in incidence by 
the mesenteric, upper extremity, renal and splenic arteries. 
Thus,  the  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  rates  of  non-CNS  embolism  is  consistent  with  the 
difference in stroke rates which should be expected. 
Attempts have been performed to estimate the possible impact of INR control in the warfarin group on 
the comparative effect of rivaroxaban. An analysis that accounts for site-related factors (and provides 
a randomized comparator group) groups centers according to level of INR control in the warfarin group 
and then compares the rivaroxaban subjects to the warfarin subjects within each center. The results of 
this analysis are shown in the table below: 
Table  E-  15  Treatment  Comparisons  for  the  Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  (up  to 
Last Dose Plus 2 Days) According to Center TTR 
The results suggest that the rivaroxaban treatment effect is relatively independent of the level of INR 
control in the warfarin group. No statistical interaction was seen across quartiles of center TTR for the 
primary  efficacy  endpoint.  This  finding  suggests  that  INR  control  may  only  partially  account  for  the 
lower event rates seen in the best-controlled quartile in the warfarin group. Thus, center TTR may also 
be a surrogate for overall quality of cardiovascular management. 
The  efficacy  results  in  centers  with  mean  TTR  values  above  70%  were  consistent  with  the  overall 
results. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 23/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  could  be  expected  there  was  a  clear  difference  in  time  to  therapeutic  range  after  study  drug 
discontinuation between patients who had belonged to the rivaroxaban group and those in the warfarin 
group  that  continued  with  VKA  after  the  blinded  study  period.  Although  the  numbers  are  very  small, 
subjects  who  had  been  randomly  assigned  to  the  warfarin  group,  and  who  experienced  a  primary 
efficacy  endpoint,  a  shorter  time  to  reach  therapeutic  INR  was  observed,  3.85  mean  days  for  those 
without  an  event  and  7.60  mean  days  for  those  with  an  event.  In  subjects  who  had  been  randomly 
assigned to rivaroxaban, time to therapeutic INR was substantially longer, almost 13 days, regardless 
of whether subjects experienced a primary efficacy endpoint (12.9 mean days for those with an event 
and 12.5 mean days without an event). 
This may have contributed to the 
differences in stroke incidences between the treatment groups during 
the follow-up period 
Subgroup analyses 
The  results  were  essentially  consistent  in  different  subgroups.  The  slightly  higher  primary  efficacy 
event rate in the rivaroxaban group in patients younger than 65 may have been due to chance. 
ig  E-3  Plots  of  the  Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to  Last 
F
Dose Pl
us 2 Days) by Baseline Characteristics 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 24/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig  E-4  Plots  of  the  Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to  Last 
Dose Plus 2 Days) by Baseline Characteristics 
Fig  E-5  Plots  of  the  Primary  Efficacy  Endpoint  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to  Last 
Dose Plus 2 Days) by Baseline Characteristics 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 25/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy in moderate renal impairment 
The plasma exposures attained in the subjects that received the 15 mg dose were comparable to those 
that  received  the  20  mg  dose.  The  event  rate  for  subjects  with  moderate  renal  impairment  was 
numerically  higher  than  that  for  subjects  with  mild  renal  impairment  or  normal  renal  function, 
regardless  of  treatment  assignment.  Consistent  with  the  overall  results  the  event  rate  in  the 
rivaroxaban 15 mg dose group (2.29/100 patient years) was numerically lower than the event rate in 
subjects with moderate renal impairment who received warfarin (2.79/100 patient years) with a hazard 
ratio of 0.82 (95% CI 0.56 to 1.20). 
Approximately 338 subjects who presented with normal renal function or mild renal impairment had a 
decline in renal function into the moderate renal impairment range and continued to receive the 20 mg 
rivaroxaban  dose  that  they  were  randomized  to  receive.  Among  those  the  observed  hazard  ratio  for 
the primary efficacy outcome was 0.27 (95% CI 0.09 to 0.83) in favor of rivaroxaban 20 mg (0.61/100 
patient-years) relative to warfarin subjects (2.23/100 patient-years, N=307). 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  study  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 1.  Summary of Efficacy for trial 11630 
Title: A Prospective, Randomized, Double-Blind, Double-Dummy, Parallel-Group, Multicenter, Event-
Driven, Non-inferiority Study Comparing the Efficacy and Safety of Once Daily Oral Rivaroxaban (BAY 
59-7939)  With  Adjusted-Dose  Oral  Warfarin  for  the  Prevention  of  Stroke  and  Non-Central  Nervous 
System Systemic Embolism in Subjects With Non-Valvular Atrial Fibrillation 
Study identifier 
011630 
Design 
Prospective, 
randomized,  double-blind,  double-dummy,  parallel-group, 
active-controlled, multicenter, event-driven study comparing the efficacy and 
safety of rivaroxaban with warfarin for the prevention of stroke and non-CNS 
systemic embolism in subjects with non-valvular atrial fibrillation 
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
The expected maximum duration of the study 
was 32 months, but the protocol permitted it 
to  extend  to  a  maximum  of  4  years 
depending  on  the  rate  of  subject  recruitment 
and  endpoint  event  rates  (median  treatment 
duration: 590 days). 
Not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  Not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Non-inferiority 
Treatments groups 
Overall 
study 
cohort 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary 
outcome 
Composite  of 
stroke 
and 
non-CNS 
systemic 
embolism 
Rivaroxaban,  max  4 
duration, 7131 patients randomized 
years 
treatment 
Warfarin,  max  4  years  treatment  duration, 
7133 patients randomized 
The  composite  of  stroke  and  non-CNS 
systemic embolism  
Secondary 
outcome 
Major 
Secondary 
Endpoint 1 
The  composite  of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic 
embolism, and vascular death  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 26/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
outcome 
Secondary 
outcome 
Other 
endpoint 
Other 
endpoint 
Other 
endpoint 
Other 
endpoint 
Other 
endpoint 
Other 
endpoint 
Other 
endpoint 
20 Oct 2010 
Major 
Secondary 
Endpoint 2 
All-cause 
mortality 
Principal 
safety 
outcome 
Major 
bleeding 
events 
Fatal 
bleeding 
events 
Major 
bleeding 
events  in  a 
critical site 
Major 
bleeding 
event 
hemoglobin 
drop 
Major 
bleeding 
event 
transfusion 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage 
The  composite  of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic 
embolism, MI, and vascular death 
Incidence of deaths 
The  composite  of  major  bleeding  events  and 
clinically relevant non-major bleeding events 
Incidence of major bleeding events  
Incidence 
associated with fatal outcome 
of  major 
bleeding 
events 
site 
pericardial, 
(intracranial, 
Incidence  of  major  bleeding  events  in  a 
intraspinal, 
critical 
intraocular, 
intra-articular, 
intramuscular  with  compartment  syndrome, 
retroperitoneal) 
Incidence  of  major  bleeding  events  occurring 
as  overt  bleeding  associated  with  a  decrease 
in hemoglobin of 2 g/dL or more 
Incidence  of  major  bleeding  events  occurring 
as  overt  bleeding  associated  with  transfusion 
of  2  or  more  units  of  packed  red  blood  cells 
or whole blood 
Incidence of intracranial haemorrhage 
and 
Analysis  
Database lock 
Results 
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Per protocol population on treatment (excluding site 42012) 
Time to first event Cox’s proportional hazard model for rivaroxaban vs. warfarin 
Treatment group  Rivaroxaban  
Warfarin  
of 
Number 
subjects 
Primary  efficacy 
outcome  PP  on 
treatment 
(composite 
of 
stroke  and  non-
CNS 
systemic 
embolism)  
<variability 
statistic>  
6958 
7004 
Incidence 
rate: 
1.71/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
2.16/100  patient 
years 
not applicable 
not applicable 
Analysis description  Secondary Analyses 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
estimate 
and 
variability 
Safety population on treatment (excluding site 42012) 
Time  to  first  event  Cox’s  proportional  hazard  model  for  rivaroxaban  vs. 
warfarin 
Treatment group  Rivaroxaban  
Warfarin  
Number 
subjects 
of 
7061 
7082 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 27/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary  efficacy 
outcome 
(composite 
of 
stroke  and  non-
CNS 
systemic 
embolism)  
Major  Secondary 
Endpoint 1  
Major  Secondary 
2 
Endpoint 
All 
mortality 
cause 
rate: 
Incidence 
1.70/100  patient 
years 
rate: 
Incidence 
2.15/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
3.11/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
3.91/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
1.87/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
3.63/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
4.62/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
2.21/100  patient 
years 
Analysis description  Secondary Analyses 
Analysis 
and 
description 
time 
population 
point 
ITT site notification (excluding site 42012) 
Time  to  first  event  Cox’s  proportional  hazard  model  for  rivaroxaban  vs. 
warfarin 
Primary efficacy  
Major  Secondary 
Endpoint 1  
Major  Secondary 
2 
Endpoint 
All 
mortality 
cause 
Analysis description  Safety Analyses 
Incidence 
rate: 
2.12/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
4.51/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
5.24/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
4.52/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
2.42/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
4.81/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
5.65/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
4.91/100  patient 
years 
time 
population 
point 
Analysis 
and 
description 
Descriptive  statistics 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Safety population on treatment  
Time  to  first  event  Cox’s  proportional  hazard  model  for  rivaroxaban  vs. 
warfarin 
Treatment group  Rivaroxaban  
Warfarin  
of 
safety 
Number 
subjects 
Principal 
outcome 
of 
(composite 
bleeding 
major 
events 
and 
clinically  relevant 
non-major 
bleeding events)  
Major 
events 
Fatal 
events 
bleeding 
bleeding 
in 
bleeding 
a 
Major 
events 
critical site 
Major 
event 
hemoglobin drop 
bleeding 
7111 
7125 
rate: 
Incidence 
14.91/100 
patient years 
rate: 
Incidence 
14.52/100 
patient years 
rate: 
Incidence 
3.60/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
0.24/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
0.82/100  patient 
years 
rate: 
Incidence 
2.77/100  patient 
years 
rate: 
Incidence 
3.45/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
0.48/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
1.18/100  patient 
years 
rate: 
Incidence 
2.26/100  patient 
years 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 28/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
protocol 
Per 
population 
on 
treatment  (excluding 
site 42012) 
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
Safety  population  on 
treatment  (excluding 
site 42012) 
bleeding 
Major 
event transfusion 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage 
efficacy 
Primary 
outcome 
(composite 
of 
stroke  and  non-
CNS 
systemic 
embolism) 
efficacy 
Primary 
outcome 
(composite 
of 
stroke  and  non-
CNS 
systemic 
embolism) 
Major  Secondary 
1 
Endpoint 
(composite 
of 
stroke,  non-CNS 
systemic 
embolism, 
vascular death) 
and 
Major  Secondary 
2 
Endpoint 
(composite 
of 
stroke,  non-CNS 
systemic 
embolism, 
and 
death) 
MI, 
vascular 
rate: 
Incidence 
1.65/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
0.49/100  patient 
years 
Comparison groups 
rate: 
Incidence 
1.32/100  patient 
years 
Incidence 
rate: 
0.74/100  patient 
years 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio  
0.79  
95% confidence interval  
0.66 – 0.96 
P-value, non-inferiority 
P < 0.001 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin 
Hazard ratio  
0.79  
95% confidence interval  
0.65 – 0.95 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.015 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
95% confidence interval 
P-value, superiority 
0.86 
0.74 -0.99 
P =0.034 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.85 
95% confidence interval 
0.74 -0.96 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.010 
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
ITT  site  notification 
(excluding 
site 
42012) 
All 
mortality  
cause 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.85 
95% confidence interval 
0.70 -1.02 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.073 
Primary efficacy  
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.88 
95% confidence interval 
0.74 -1.03 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.117 
Major  Secondary 
Endpoint 1 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.94 
95% confidence interval 
0.84 -1.05 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.265 
Major  Secondary 
Endpoint 2 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.93 
95% confidence interval 
0.83 -1.03 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 29/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.158 
cause 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
All 
mortality  
Effect  estimate  per 
comparison 
Safety  population  on 
treatment 
safety 
Principal 
outcome 
of 
(composite 
bleeding 
major 
events 
and 
clinically  relevant 
non-major 
bleeding events) 
Major 
events 
bleeding 
Hazard ratio 
0.92 
95% confidence interval 
0.82 -1.03 
P-value, superiority 
P =0.152 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
1.03 
95% confidence interval 
0.96 -1.11 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.442 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
1.04 
95% confidence interval 
0.90 -1.20 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.576 
Fatal 
events 
bleeding 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Major 
bleeding 
events in a critical 
site 
Major 
bleeding 
event  hemoglobin 
drop 
Hazard ratio 
0.50 
95% confidence interval 
0.31 -0.79 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.003 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.69 
95% confidence interval 
0.53 -0.91 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.007 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
1.22 
95% confidence interval 
1.03 -1.44 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.019 
Major 
event transfusion 
bleeding 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
1.25 
95% confidence interval 
1.01 -1.55 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.019 
Intracranial 
haemorrhage 
Comparison groups 
Rivaroxaban  vs.  Warfarin  
Hazard ratio 
0.67 
95% confidence interval 
0.47 -0.93 
P-value for superiority 
P =0.044 
Notes 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 30/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis description  The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  composite  of  stroke  and  non-CNS 
systemic  embolism.  Based  on  time  from  randomization  to  the  first 
occurrence  of  a  primary  efficacy  endpoint  event,  the  objective  of  the 
primary efficacy analysis was to establish that rivaroxaban is non-inferior to 
warfarin by a non-inferiority margin of 1.46 in terms of risk (hazard) ratio. 
The  non-inferiority  hypothesis  was  tested  at  a  1-sided  significance  level  of 
0.025 based on on-treatment data from the per protocol population. As an 
operationally  equivalent  procedure  to  the  above  testing  at  a  1-sided 
significance  level  of  0.025,  a  2-sided  95%  CI  for  the  risk  (hazard)  ratio 
(rivaroxaban/warfarin)  was  constructed  using  the  (non-stratified)  Cox 
Proportional Hazards model with treatment as a covariate. If the upper limit 
of  this  2-sided  confidence  interval  was  below  the  non-inferiority  margin  of 
1.46, then non-inferiority of the study drug could be declared. 
1.3.2.3.  Supportive  study – study 12620 
To  select  the  rivaroxaban  dose  for  the  supportive  study  performed  in  Japan  (J-ROCKET  study),  a 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic comparison between the Japanese and Caucasian populations 
were simulated using data obtained from 3 Phase II studies in Japanese subjects (see above) with AF 
and 2 global Phase II studies in subjects with deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 
The  simulation  results  revealed  that  steady-state  exposure  in  AF  patients  treated  with  20  mg  once-
daily  of  rivaroxaban  was  approximately  20  to  30%  higher  in  Japanese  patients  than  in  Caucasian 
patients,  mostly  based  on  a  lower  body  weight.  According  to  Japanese  local  guidelines,  the  target 
PTINR in Japan for the comparator therapy warfarin in AF patients aged ≥ 70 years was recommended 
at a lower range of 1.6 to 2.6 than the 2.0 to 3.0 range in other countries. 
Taking into consideration that the medical practice of anti thrombotic prophylaxis in Japan is generally 
more  conscious  of  safety  risk  in  comparison  to  other  countries,  it  was  considered  practical  and 
appropriate  to  set  the  rivaroxaban  dose  for  the  Japanese  Phase  III  study  at  15  mg  once-daily. 
Consistent  with  this  rationale,  it  was  decided  that  the  dose  for  subjects  with  moderate  renal 
impairment (CrCl 30 49 ml/min) should be 10 mg once-daily. 
Apart  from  the  dosing  regimen  the  study  was  similar  to  the  pivotal  study  with  a  double  blind  design 
and with similar inclusion and exclusion criteria and the same efficacy end-point and the same bleeding 
definitions. There was no pre-specified statistical hypothesis for efficacy and as the study was relatively 
underpowered to test efficacy hypothesis due to the small sample size of this trial, efficacy data were 
summarized descriptively (no formal testing for superiority). 
Due  to  the  different  dosing  regimen,  the  different  target  INR  and  the  limited  size  of  the  supportive 
study it is considered to be of limited relevance for the efficacy evaluation of the current variation. 
In  total  1280  subjects  were  randomized  at  164  study  centers  in  Japan  to  treatment  with  either 
rivaroxaban  or  warfarin.  The  characteristics  of  the  population  were  essentially  similar  to  the  pivotal 
study population. The mean duration of treatment was 490 days. For the warfarin subjects, 65.0% of 
INR values were within the target range during the overall treatment period. 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  composite  of  adjudicated  stroke  and  non-CNS  systemic 
embolism.  Regarding  results  for  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  (adjudicated  stroke  and  non-CNS 
systemic  embolism)  up  to  2  days  after  the  last  dose  for  the  PP  population,  which  is  the  primary 
analysis  for  efficacy,  the  rivaroxaban  group  had  a  lower  event  rate  compared  to  that  of  the  warfarin 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 31/53
 
 
 
 
 
group  (1.26  versus  2.61/100  patient-years,  hazard  ratio  0.49,  95%  CI  0.24  to  1.00).  There  were  11 
events  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  22  in  the  warfarin  group.  Interestingly,  there  were  11  subjects 
experiencing a primary efficacy endpoint starting more than 2 days after stop of study medication and 
up to the 30-day follow-up visit for the ITT population, as compared to 4 in the warfarin group.  
The majority of the patients that experienced embolism during the follow-up period had no or under-
dosed VKA treatment. 
The major secondary efficacy endpoints had numerically lower rates in the rivaroxaban group. 
In  summary,  the  efficacy  results  in  the  supportive  trial  were  essentially  consistent  with  the  pivotal 
study findings. 
1.3.3.  Discussion on Efficacy 
This  application  is  primarily  supported  by  one  large  pivotal  study,  which  was  an  adequately  designed 
double  blind  non-inferiority/superiority  study  with  appropriate  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  and  an 
appropriate  comparator  of  VKA  treatment.  The  demanding  double  blind  design  is  considered  to  be  a 
clear advantage of the trial. 
The  centrally  adjudicated  primary  efficacy  endpoint,  stroke  and  non-CNS  systemic  embolism,  is  a 
highly relevant endpoint. Secondary efficacy endpoints were also appropriate. 
The  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  were  appropriate.  The  included  patients  were  at  high  risk  for 
embolism with mean CHADS2 score of 3.5. More than 50% had had a previous stroke, almost 30% had 
CHF  NY  heart  class  III,  40%  diabetes  and  17%  previous  MI.  Forty-four  %  were  older  than  75,  and 
21%  had  moderate  renal  impairment.  Overall  the  study  population  represents  patients  with  high  risk 
for embolism and with rather severe co-morbidity. 
The  study  population  is  judged  to  be  representative  for  the  European  target  population.  There  were 
188  of  6958  subjects  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  241  of  7004  subjects  in  the  warfarin  group  who 
experienced  an  endpoint  event  corresponding  in  the  primary  non-inferiority  analysis  to  a  HR  of  0.79 
(95%CI  0.66,  0.96,  p<0.001).  Superiority  was  primarily  claimed  for  rivaroxaban  for  the  primary 
efficacy endpoint (HR 0.79, 95% CI 0.65, 0.95, p<0.015), however, this was based on an analysis of 
patients on treatment. An appropriate superiority analysis should be based on the ITT population and 
in  these  analyses  superiority  was  not  demonstrated.  Thus,  claims  for  superior  efficacy  as  compared 
with VKA treatment should not be accepted. This conclusion is supported by the overall somewhat low 
TTR  values  which  probably  were  due  to  the  inclusion  of  some  investigational  centers  with  less 
experience in VKA treatment. 
The outcome of the secondary end-points supports the primary analysis. For the two major secondary 
efficacy endpoints tested hierarchically according to the prospectively defined analysis plan (composite 
of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic  embolism,  vascular  death  and  composite  of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic 
embolism,  vascular  death  and  MI)  superiority  was  shown  for  rivaroxaban  in  an  analysis  based  on 
patients on treatment. Superiority was not demonstrated in a conventional superiority analysis based 
on the ITT population.  
For  the  third  predefined  secondary  efficacy  analysis,  all  cause  mortality,  a  rather  strong  numerical 
trend in favour of rivaroxaban with 208/7061 vs 250/7082 events corresponding to a HR of 0.85 (95% 
CI; 0.70, 1.02, p=0.073). 
The median TTR in the warfarin group is considered to be somewhat low (58%) and lower than what 
has been seen in recent trials within this area. This may to some extent be explained by the inclusion 
of  patients  with  heavy  comorbidity  and,  probably  more  importantly,  by  less  experience  at  some 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 32/53
 
 
 
 
investigational  centers.  That  a  substantial  portion  of  the  patients  had  not  been  treated  with  VKA 
previously could also play a role. 
The results suggest that the rivaroxaban treatment effect is relatively independent of the level of INR 
control in the warfarin group. No statistical interaction was seen across quartiles of center TTR for the 
primary  efficacy  endpoint.  This  finding  suggests  that  INR  control  may  only  partially  account  for  the 
lower event rates seen in the best-controlled quartile in the warfarin group. Thus, center TTR may also 
be a surrogate for overall quality of cardiovascular management. 
Non-inferiority  to  warfarin  was  convincingly  demonstrated  for  the  composite  primary  endpoint  with  a 
Hazard Ratio of 0.79 (95% CI 0.66; 0.96). Only events on treatment were counted in the prospectively 
defined superiority analysis (HR 0.79, 95%CI 0.65; 0.95). A more appropriate analysis is considered to 
be the ITT analysis in which statistical significant superiority was not demonstrated.  
The performed sensitivity analyses supported the primary analysis. 
The  overall  efficacy  results  were  essentially  consistent  in  important  subgroups,  such  as  different  age 
categories,  different  CHADS2  scores,  subgroups  with  different  degrees  of  renal  impairment  and 
concomitant  diseases.  The  results  in  centers  with  different  mean  time  in  therapeutic  range  for  VKA 
treatment was consistent with the overall results. 
The  difference  in  hemorrhagic  strokes  may  represent  an  important  advantage  with  rivaroxaban  as 
these  strokes  are  well  known  to  have  a  very  poor  prognosis  in  patients  treated  with  warfarin.  The 
potential  importance  is  supported  by  the  stroke  fatality  rates  (HR  0.64).  There  was  an  imbalance  in 
stroke  rates  after  discontinuation  of  treatment  disfavouring  rivaroxaban  (64  vs.  42  events)  that  may 
possibly  at  least  partially  be  explained  by  the  relatively  short  duration  of  the  effect  of  rivaroxaban 
when  discontinued.  There  are  no  clear  indications  of  a  rebound  phenomenon  in  the  compiled  study 
data. 
Consistent  with  the  overall  results  the  event  rate  in  the  rivaroxaban  15  mg  dose  group  (2.29/100 
patient years) was numerically lower than the event rate in subjects with moderate renal impairment 
who received warfarin. 
1.3.4.  Conclusions clinical efficacy 
In  conclusion,  rivaroxaban  has  been  convincingly  demonstrated  to  be  non  inferior  to  warfarin  for  the 
prevention of stroke and systemic embolisation in patients with atrial fibrillation. 
1.3.5.  Clinical safety 
1.3.5.1.  Patient exposure, phase III studies 
Since  the  overall  adverse  event  and  the  bleeding  patterns  was  so  similar  in  the  supportive  J-Rocket 
study the safety results from both phase III trials are pooled in the safety section of this report unless 
otherwise stated. This is also supported by the approximately similar exposure provided by the doses 
used in the J-Rocket trial as compared to the pivotal study. 
The  total  number  of  subjects  who  completed  study  medication  in  the  pooled  AF  studies  was  10,196 
(65.7%)  and  was  similar  between  the  two  treatment  groups,  5,071  (65.4%)  rivaroxaban  and  5,125 
(66.0%)  warfarin.  The  mean  duration  of  treatment  exposure  was  566.18  days  for  the  rivaroxaban 
subjects and 571.73 days for the warfarin subjects. Median durations of treatment exposure were 584 
days for rivaroxaban subjects and 588 days for warfarin subjects.  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 33/53
 
 
 
 
The total number of subjects who permanently discontinued study drug early was similar between the 
two treatment groups, 2,679 (34.6 %) for rivaroxaban and 2,639 (34.0 %) for warfarin). 
The  size  of  the  safety  database  is  judged  to  be  sufficient  for  a  reasonable  assessment  of  the  safety 
profile  of  the  product.  Also  long-term  safety  data  are  available  to  a  reasonable  extent.  The 
discontinuation  rates  are  high  but  to  some  extent  high  rates  could  be  expected  due  to  the  rather 
advanced  age  and  concomitant  diseases  of  the  study  population.  Furthermore,  many  patients  that 
discontinued  treatment  could  be  followed  within  the  study.  The  higher  rate  of  discontinuation  due  to 
bleeding in the rivaroxaban group is of some concern. However, the incidence of major bleedings does 
not appear to be higher in the rivaroxaban group as discussed below.  
1.3.5.2.  Adverse events 
An  overall  summary  of  adverse  events  (bleeding  and  non-bleeding)  that  occurred  in  the  pooled 
ROCKET and J-ROCKET studies is shown in the table below.  
The majority of adverse events were non-bleeding events, and the incidence of non-bleeding adverse 
events was similar in the 2 treatment groups. However, see below for discussion of some specific non-
bleeding adverse events. 
The  15  most  frequent  investigator-reported  treatment-emergent  events  based  on  the  rivaroxaban 
group is shown below by preferred terms 
Table  S-4  Incidence  of  the  15  Most  Frequent  Treatment-Emergent  Adverse  Events  Based  on  the 
Rivaroxaban Treatment Group by Preferred Term for Pooled Data (Study 11630 and Study 12620) 
Mucosal  bleedings  (epistaxis,  haematuria,  gingival)  seem  to  be  slightly  more  common  among  the 
rivaroxaban treated patients. 
There were some notable differences in non-bleeding adverse events between the 2 treatment groups 
based  on  either  clinical  importance  of  the  adverse  event  or  the  magnitude  of  the  difference.  These 
events were seen in the ROCKET study and when pooled with the J-ROCKET study, the differences in 
the  incidence  of  these  events  remained  essentially  the  same.  They  were:  syncope  (132  rivaroxaban 
subjects [1.70%], 111 warfarin subjects [1.43%]), cholelithiasis (79 rivaroxaban subjects [1.02%], 46 
warfarin  subjects  [0.59%],  anemia  (248  rivaroxaban  subjects  [3.20%],  165  warfarin  subjects 
[2.13%], and hypoglycemia (79 rivaroxaban subjects [1.02%], 48 warfarin subjects [0.62%]). 
Of  the  132  rivaroxaban-treated  subjects  with  syncope,  55  were  treatment-emergent  serious  adverse 
events,  and  of  the  111  warfarin-treated  subjects  with  syncope,  37  were  treatment-emergent  serious 
adverse  events.  Six  subjects  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  4  subjects  in  the  warfarin  group 
discontinued study drug prematurely due to syncope.  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 34/53
 
 
 
 
 
There is little evidence that rivaroxaban would induce arrhythmias. However, there may be a relation 
between  bleedings,  occult  bleedings,  anemia  on  one  hand  and  tendency  for  syncope  on  the  other. 
However,  syncope  associated  with  anaemia  was  reported  only  for  few  patients  without  any  clear 
difference between treatment groups. 
Cholelithiasis incidence was increased in the rivaroxaban group. In addition to the cholelithiasis events 
mentioned above, cholecystitis was also reviewed. For the terms cholecystitis (whether acute, chronic 
or not specified) the incidence appears balanced for the rivaroxaban group (0.66%) and the warfarin 
group (0.55%). Of the events of cholelithiasis in the rivaroxaban group 20 were serious adverse events 
compared with 14 in the warfarin group. However, in the compiled clinical documentation there is no 
clear evidence for an increased risk for cholelithiasis  
Of  the  rivaroxaban-treated  subjects  with  hypoglycemia,  18  were  reported  as  serious  adverse  events 
and  13  in  the  warfarin  group  were  serious.  No  clear  explanation  was  provided  in  response  of  CHMP 
request,  however  there  is  no  evidence  in  the  preclinical  or  clinical  documentation  that  rivaroxaban 
would have a direct glucose-lowering effect. Possibly the somewhat higher incidence of anemia in the 
rivaroxaban group could contribute as lower hematocrite is known to result in lower HbA1c values.  
1.3.5.3.  Serious adverse events and deaths 
Numerical  differences  for  investigator-reported,  treatment-emergent  serious  adverse  events  favoring 
warfarin  occurred  for  syncope,  anemia,  and  gastrointestinal  hemorrhage.  Numerical  differences 
favoring  rivaroxaban  occurred  for  pneumonia,  unstable  angina  and  transient  ischemic  attack.  A 
summary  of  the  15  most  frequent,  treatment-emergent  serious  adverse  events  based  on  the 
rivaroxaban group are shown below in Table S-5. 
Table  S-5 Incidence of the 15 Most Frequent Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events Based on 
the Rivaroxaban Treatment Group by Preferred Term for Pooled Data (Study 11630 and Study 12620) 
Regarding  events  leading  to  study  drug  discontinuation,  anemia  and  mucosal  bleedings  were  more 
common in the rivaroxaban group (GI bleeding, haematuria, epistaxis, gingival bleeding). 
1.3.5.4.  Deaths 
In the pooled AF studies, a total of 1321 deaths were adjudicated by the CEC in the safety analysis set 
(636  deaths  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  685  deaths  in  the  warfarin  group  regardless  of  treatment 
exposure. The incidence of all cause mortality was lower for the rivaroxaban group compared with the 
warfarin group at all time points. Based on the time from randomization to the last dose plus 2 days, 
the  event  rate  for  all-cause  mortality  was  numerically  lower  for  the  rivaroxaban  group  (1.80/100 
patient years) compared with that for the warfarin group (2.11/100 patient years; hazard ratio of 0.85 
[95% CI 0.71 to 1.02], p-value=0.088).  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 35/53
 
 
 
 
 
Table  S-7 Summary of Deaths (Adjudicated by CEC) (Regardless of Treatment Exposure) by Primary 
Cause and Death Cause Subclass for Pooled Data (Study 11630 and Study 12620) 
Overall,  the  event  rates  for  each  subgroup  were  lower  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  compared  with  the 
warfarin  group.  There  was  a  significant  interaction  with  treatment  observed  for  race  (p=0.021).  For 
Whites and Asians, relatively more deaths were observed in the warfarin group. For the small groups 
of  Blacks  and  Others,  more  deaths  were  observed  in  the  rivaroxaban  groups.  (Blacks:  7/94  vs.1/85; 
Other: 11/217 vs. 2/201). 
There  was  a  statistically  significant  interaction  seen  for  the  grouping  defined  by  history  of  prior  MI 
(p=0.027).  For  subjects  with  a  prior  MI,  there  were  numerically  more  who  died  in  the  rivaroxaban 
group. However, the numerical difference was small (74/1223 vs. 70/1335). For the different CHADS2 
score subgroups and for subgroups with prior stroke, CHF, hypertension, diabetes mortality rates were 
lower in the rivaroxaban groups as compared to the corresponding warfarin groups. 
The differences in relation to races and prior MI rely on small numbers and may very well have been 
due to chance. 
A summary of the primary causes of death as adjudicated by the CEC is presented for subjects in the 
pooled AF studies within the safety reporting period (i.e., subjects who died from the day of first dose 
of study drug up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug) in the table below. Results showed the 
event  rate  for  the  rivaroxaban  group  (3.03/100  patient  years)  was  numerically  lower  compared  with 
the  warfarin  group  (3.46/100  patient  years;  hazard  ratio  of  0.88  [95%  CI  0.76  to  1.00,  p-value  = 
0.057]. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 36/53
 
 
 
 
 
Overall mortality rates were numerically lower in the rivaroxaban group. The difference in intracranial 
bleeding is of potential interest with the well-known bad prognosis in these patients when on warfarin.  
Bleeding events 
Bleeding  events  were  classified  as  major,  non-major  clinically  relevant  bleeding,  or  minimal  bleeding 
by  the  investigators.  Safety  analyses of  the  principal  safety  endpoint  were  based  on  CEC  adjudicated 
bleeding events.  
Major bleeding was defined as clinically overt bleeding associated with: 
• 
• 
• 
A decrease in hemoglobin of 2 g/dL or more, or 
A transfusion of 2 or more units of packed red blood cells or whole blood, or 
Bleeding  at  a  critical  site:  intracranial,  intraspinal,  intraocular,  pericardial,  intra  articular, 
intramuscular with compartment syndrome, retroperitoneal 
• 
A fatal outcome. 
All  intracranial  hemorrhages  were  reviewed  by  the  CEC  to  determine  if  the  event  met  the  predefined 
criteria  of  a  stroke  and/or  bleed  event.  For  ROCKET,  intracranial  bleeding  events  were  classified  as 
intraparenchymal, intraventricular, subdural hematoma, subarachnoid and/or epidural hematoma. The 
CEC further classified intraparenchymal intracranial events as non-traumatic or traumatic. 
Non-Major Clinically Relevant Bleeding 
Non-major clinically relevant bleeding was defined as overt bleeding that did not meet the criteria for 
major  bleeding  but  was  associated  with  medical intervention,  unscheduled  contact  (visit or  telephone 
call) with a physician, (temporary) cessation of study treatment, or associated with discomfort for the 
subject such as pain or impairment of activities of daily life. Examples of non-major clinically relevant 
bleeding,  if  specified  conditions  were  met,  were:  epistaxis,  gingival  bleeding,  hematuria, macroscopic 
gastrointestinal  hemorrhage,  rectal  blood  loss,  hemoptysis,  intramuscular  hematoma,  subcutaneous 
hematoma, or multiple source bleeding.  
Minimal Bleeding  
All  other  overt  bleeding  episodes  that  did  not  meet  the  criteria  for  major  or  non-major  clinically 
relevant bleeding were classified as minimal bleeding. The principal safety endpoint for the AF studies 
was  the  composite  of  all  major  and  non-major  clinically  relevant  bleeding  events,  based  upon  CEC 
adjudicated events. 
Table  S-9  Hazard  Ratio  and  95%  Confidence  Interval  for  Time  to  the  First  Occurrence  of  Bleeding 
Events  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to  Last  Dose  Plus  2  Days)  for  Pooled  Data  - 
(Study 11630 and Study 12620) 
The incidence of major bleedings was approximately similar between the treatment groups. Thus, the 
primary  safety  objective  of  the  study;  to  demonstrate  a  reduction  of  the  principal  safety  end-point 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 37/53
 
 
 
 
 
failed.  However,  rates  of  critical  organ  bleedings  and  death  related  to  bleedings  were  lower  in  the 
rivaroxaban  group.  On  the  other  hand  haemoglobin/hematocrit  drop  and  transfusions  were  more 
common. This, together with the reported higher incidences of mucosal bleedings among rivaroxaban 
treated (see above and also further below) could indicate at difference in bleeding pattern between the 
two anticoagulants. This has been further discussed by the MAH. The tendency for mucosal bleedings is 
similar to what is seen in some patients with the very rare inherited factor X deficiency. 
The Kaplan-Meier plot (see Fig below) showed a similar incidence of principal safety endpoint bleeding 
in  the  rivaroxaban  group  compared  with  the  warfarin  group  (hazard  ratio  of  1.04  [95%  CI  0.97  to 
1.11, p value=0.327]). 
Fig  S-1  Pooled  Kaplan-Meier  Plot  of  Time  from  the  First  Study Medication  Administration  to  the  First 
Occurrences  of  Principal  Safety  Endpoint  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to  Last  Dose 
Plus 2 Days) 
Intracranial Bleeding 
The safety table below also includes 14 ischemic strokes which were hemorrhagic conversions: 6 in the 
rivaroxaban group and 8 in the warfarin group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 38/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  S-10  Summary  of  Intracranial  Hemorrhage  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to 
Last Dose Plus 2 Days) (Study 11630) 
In the J-ROCKET study, a total of 23 subjects experienced an intracranial hemorrhage (10 rivaroxaban, 
13  warfarin).  Fifteen  of  these  events  (5  rivaroxaban,  10  warfarin)  occurred  while  the  subjects  were 
receiving study drug or within 2 days of the last dose of study drug (on treatment). 
Although the numbers were small in the J-rocket study the results with regard to intracranial bleedings 
were consistent with the pivotal study. 
Fatal bleeding 
A total of 105 (0.68%) subjects had a fatal bleeding event while on treatment. 
Table S-11:  Incidence of  Fatal Bleeding Events (Major Bleeding Events Adjudicated by CEC) While on 
Treatment  (up  to  Last  Dose  Plus  2  Days)  Using  Broad  Definition  for  Pooled  Data  (Study  11630  and 
Study 12620) 
The  lower  fatal  bleeding  event  rate  for  rivaroxaban  was  maintained  up  to  the  last  dose  plus  30  days 
when compared with warfarin (0.38 and 0.64/100-patient years, respectively; hazard ratio 0.60 [95% 
CI 0.42 to 0.86, p value=0.005]. 
A more detailed description of the bleeding sites for major and clinically relevant non major bleedings 
is given in the two tables below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 39/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
TableS-12  Incidence of Major Bleeding Events (Adjudicated by CEC) While on Treatment (up
to Last Dose Plus 2 Days) by Bleeding Category and Bleeding Site for Pooled Data (Study 11630 
and Study 12620)  
Bleeding Category 
 Bleeding Site 
Total no. subjects With Bleeding Events While On
Treatment 
Rivaroxaba Warfarin  Total 
(N=7750) 
n (%) 
1758 (22.68) 1708 (22.00) 3466 (22.34) 
(N=15514) 
n (%) 
(N=7764) 
n (%) 
Major 
 421 ( 5.43)   416 ( 5.36)   837 ( 5.40) 
 Gastrointestinal - upper (hematemesis or melena) 
 Intracranial 
 Gastrointestinal - lower 
 Macroscopic (gross) hematuria 
 Rectal 
 Intraarticular 
 Intraocular/retinal 
 Bleeding associated with non-cardiac surgery 
 Epistaxis 
 Hematoma 
 Hemoptysis 
 Increased or prolonged menstrual or abnormal vaginal
bleeding 
 Intramuscular (with compartment syndrome) 
 Skin (ecchymosis other than instrumented site) 
 Intramuscular (without compartment syndrome) 
 Puncture site 
 Gingival 
 Retroperitoneal 
 Bleeding  associated  with  cardiac  surgery  (including
CABG) 
 Pericardial 
 Subconjunctival or other ocular 
 Other 
 157 ( 2.03)   116 ( 1.49)   273 ( 1.76) 
 154 ( 0.99) 
  94 ( 1.21) 
  60 ( 0.77) 
  85 ( 0.55) 
  35 ( 0.45) 
  50 ( 0.65) 
  48 ( 0.31) 
  21 ( 0.27) 
  27 ( 0.35) 
  35 ( 0.23) 
   8 ( 0.10) 
  27 ( 0.35) 
  42 ( 0.27) 
  22 ( 0.28) 
  20 ( 0.26) 
  46 ( 0.30) 
  26 ( 0.33) 
  20 ( 0.26) 
  45 ( 0.29) 
  26 ( 0.33) 
  19 ( 0.25) 
  31 ( 0.20) 
  16 ( 0.21) 
  15 ( 0.19) 
  42 ( 0.27) 
  28 ( 0.36) 
  14 ( 0.18) 
   9 ( 0.06) 
   4 ( 0.05) 
   5 ( 0.06) 
   4 ( 0.03) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
   3 ( 0.04) 
   3 ( 0.04) 
   3 ( 0.04) 
   2 ( 0.03) 
   2 ( 0.03) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
   0 
   0 
   0 
   7 ( 0.09) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
   3 ( 0.04) 
   4 ( 0.05) 
   4 ( 0.05) 
   2 ( 0.03) 
   3 ( 0.04) 
   3 ( 0.04) 
   4 ( 0.03) 
   6 ( 0.04) 
   6 ( 0.04) 
   6 ( 0.04) 
   3 ( 0.02) 
   4 ( 0.03) 
   3 ( 0.02) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
  20 ( 0.26) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
   1 ( 0.01) 
  27 ( 0.17) 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 40/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
 
Table  S-13  Non  major  clinically  relevant  bleeding  (Adjudicated  by  CEC)  While  on  Treatment  (up  to 
Last  Dose  Plus  2  Days)  by  Bleeding  Category  and  Bleeding  Site  for  Pooled  Data  (Study  11630  and 
Study 12620) 
These  analyses  provide  consistent  results  with  the  analyses  described  previously.  Approximately 
similar  incidences  in  total  numbers  of  major  bleedings  are  seen  but  again  with  more  GI  bleedings, 
mucosal bleedings in the rivaroxaban group and the reversed tendency for intracranial bleedings, skin 
and subconjuctival bleedings. 
There  were  more  events  of  severe  anemia  with  rivaroxaban  where  no  clinically  overt  bleeding  was 
apparent, although a gastrointestinal source of bleeding was suspected. Most transfusions for bleeding 
events  associated  with  rivaroxaban  were  given  for  chronic  gastrointestinal  bleeding  and  anemia. 
Overall,  there  were  more  gastrointestinal  hemorrhages  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  than  in  the  warfarin 
group,  99  vs.  62.  However,  there  were  no  deaths  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  (0/99)  and  there  were  5 
deaths in the warfarin group (5/62). 
Severe  intracranial  hemorrhage  was  significantly  less  frequent  with  rivaroxaban  (30/7111,  0.42%) 
than with warfarin (54/7125, 0.76%) and less likely to be fatal. There were 17 deaths (17/30; 56%) in 
the rivaroxaban group and 37 in the warfarin group (37/54; 69%). 
In  response  to  the  CHMP  LoQ  the  discordance  between  the  investigator  reported  and  centrally 
adjudicated  bleedings  was  analysed.  These  analyses  gave  not  indications  for  bias  between  treatment 
arms. 
Bleedings  after  study  discontinuation  were  more  common  among  rivaroxaban  treated  patients.  This 
difference was observed among study completers and the majority of bleedings occurred more than 2 
weeks after study drug discontinuation when many patients were on other anticoagulants. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 41/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bleeding risk in subgroups 
For  the  some  subgroups  potentially  relevant  differences  in  principal  safety  endpoint  (composite  of 
major and clinically relevant non-major bleedings) were seen. 
For  the  following  subgroups  numerically  more  principal  safety  endpoints  bleedings  were  seen  in  the 
rivaroxaban group (pooled data 11630 and 12620), age > 75 years,  males, blacks, weight < 50 kg, 
Chad score2, prior myocardial infarction.  
The  higher  bleeding  rates  in  elderly  are  of  concern  and  underlines  the  importance  of  clinical 
surveillance of fragile patients. However, the bleeding pattern in the elderly does not appear to differ 
from  what  is  seen  in  younger  patients  and  the  benefit/risk  balance  appears  to  be  similar.  The  other 
observed  differences  mentioned  above  may  have  been  due  to  chance.  A  somewhat  higher  bleeding 
rate  was  seen  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  in  patients  below  50  kg  in  weight,  which  could  be  due  to  a 
increased exposure or to other associated risk factors. 
The  event  rate  in  the  15  mg/10  mg  rivaroxaban  dose  group  (18.6/100-patient  years)  was  similar  to 
the  event  rate  in  subjects  with  moderate  renal  impairment  that  received  warfarin  (18.6/100  patient-
years). 
In  the  larger  11630  study  an  analysis  that  accounts  for  site  related  factors  is  to  group  centers 
according to level of INR control in the warfarin treated subjects, and then compare the rivaroxaban-
treated subjects to the warfarin treated subjects within each center. The results of this analysis for the 
principal  safety  endpoint  are  shown  in  the  table  below.  This  table  suggests  that  rivaroxaban  treated 
subjects had an increased risk of bleeding when compared to warfarin subjects in the quartile with the 
best INR control (TTR 65.71% to 100.00%). The hazard ratio for rivaroxaban versus warfarin was 1.23 
(95%  CI  1.08  to  1.40).  Also  interesting  is  the  event  rate  of  the  warfarin  treated  subjects.  While  the 
warfarin treated subjects in the fourth quartile should have had the best INR control, they also had the 
highest principal safety endpoint rate for warfarin (16.7 % patient years).  
Table S-14 Treatment Comparisons for the Principal Safety Endpoint (Adjudicated by CEC) (up to Last 
Dose Plus 2 Days) According to Center TTR, study 11630 
That  bleeding  rates  increased  in  the  warfarin  groups  for  centers  with  better  TTR  could  be    related  to 
the observation that patients probably primarily was under-dosed in centers with poorer TTR. That the 
same tendency was seen among the rivaroxaban treated patients is more unexpected considering that 
these centers overall tended to have patients with more serious concomitant disease and risk factors. 
One simple explanation could be that overall compliance to treatment was poor in these latter centers. 
Another explanation could be that bleeding events were not so rigorously captured in centers with low 
TTR. The MAH has not been able to provide more plausible explanations for these observations. 
In  centers  with  better  INR  control  major  and  clinically  relevant  bleedings  were  significantly  more 
common in the rivaroxaban group. Further analyses clarified that this was due to a higher incidence of 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 42/53
 
 
 
 
 
haemoglobin  drop  and/or  transfusions.  However  the  incidences  of  fatal  bleedings  or  critical  site 
bleedings were consistently lower in the rivaroxaban group independently of center TTR..  
The bleeding pattern in subgroups with concomitant medication (ASA, NSAI-COX-2 inhibitors excluded, 
statins etc) was clarified on request of the CHMP and did not indicate any relevant differences between 
the two treatment groups. 
Hepatic events 
All  subjects  with  know  significant  liver  disease  (e.g.  acute  clinical  hepatitis,  chronic  active  hepatitis, 
cirrhosis)  or  ALT  values  above  3  x  upper  limit  of  normal  (ULN)  at  baseline  were  not  eligible  for 
enrolment.  
Regularly  scheduled  laboratory  testing  (ALT,  bilirubin,  AST)  was  done  after  2  weeks,  4  weeks,  and 
every 4 weeks until 52 weeks and then every 12 weeks until the end of treatment. Samples were also 
scheduled  to  be  obtained  30  days  after  the  last  administration  of  study  treatment.  Expanded  testing 
and  clinical  investigation  was  to  be  performed  according  to  a  predefined  schedule  in  patients  with 
ALT>3ULN. 
ALT elevations for all the prespecified thresholds were balanced between the rivaroxaban and warfarin 
groups in the atrial fibrillation studies. The HR for the ROCKET study for ALT >3x ULN was 1.01 (95% 
CI, 0.83, 1.23) and for the pooled ROCKET and J-ROCKET studies was also 1.01 (95% CI, 0.84, 1.22). 
Similar results were observed for ALT >5x ULN, ALT >8x ULN and ALT > 10x ULN. 
Hepatic  disorder  adverse  events  excluding  the  subsearch  SMQ  Liver  related  coagulation  and  bleeding 
disturbances  were  comparable  between  the  2  treatment  groups.  Serious  hepatic  disorder  adverse 
events  and  events  leading  to  permanent  study  drug  discontinuation  were  infrequent  and  balanced 
between  the  two  treatment  groups.  Five  hepatic  disorder  adverse  events  with  outcome  of  death  was 
reported,  3  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  2  in  the  warfarin  group.  In  the  3  rivaroxaban  subjects  all 
were judged to be related to hepatic neoplasm. 
There are no indications in the provided data that rivaroxaban treatment would be associated with an 
increased risk for hepatic adverse events. 
Pancreatitis 
The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  pancreatitis-related  adverse  events  was  similar  between 
treatment groups (0.28% rivaroxaban, 0.30% warfarin).  
Amylase and lipase values in the pooled data were reviewed.  Routine amylase and lipase levels were 
obtained  from  subjects  every  6  months  for  the  first  year,  then  annually.    During  the  course  of  the 
Atrial Fibrilation studies, amylase values ≥2 X ULN at any time were seen in 11 (0.15%) rivaroxaban 
subjects and 18 (0.25%) warfarin treated subjects. 
Thrombocytopenia 
The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  thrombocytopenia-related  adverse  events  was  higher  in 
the warfarin group (0.86%) compared with the rivaroxaban group (0.48%). 
Acute renal failure 
The overall incidence of acute renal failure was similar in the rivaroxaban and warfarin groups (3.73% 
and 3.88%, respectively). This was consistent with the overall incidence of BUN and creatinine values 
>ULN and calculated CrCl < 30 mL/min. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 43/53
 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity reactions 
The  overall  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  hypersensitivity  reactions  was  very  small  in  both 
treatment  groups  but  more  subjects  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  (n=15)  experienced  a  hypersensitivity 
reaction  compared  with  the  warfarin  subjects  (n=7).  This  was  due  primarily  to  the  adverse  event 
preferred term of circulatory collapse in the ROCKET study. There were 5 rivaroxaban-treated subjects 
who  experienced  circulatory  collapse.  Of  these,  2  were  reported  as  serious  adverse  events.  One 
subject experienced circulatory collapse during a pacemaker placement. Most of the events appear to 
be related to either dizziness or fatigue without loss of consciousness. Four of the 5 subjects completed 
the  study.  There  was  no  suggestion  of  anaphylactic  shock  in  the  eCRF  and  the  events  were  not 
considered  related  to  study  drug  by  the  investigator.  The  1  subject  in  the  warfarin  group  with 
circulatory collapse had a serious adverse event that appeared to be cardiac arrest due to congestive 
heart failure.  
In  the  J-ROCKET  study,  treatment  emergent  hypersensitivity  reactions  were  noted  in  3  rivaroxaban 
subjects  (1  subject  each  had  erythema  multiform,  toxic  skin  eruption  and  anaphylactic  reaction)  and 
toxic skin eruption in 1 warfarin subject. In all cases the investigator did not consider the event to be 
related to study drug and the events either resolved or improved while continuing study medication. 
Laboratory findings 
Low  haemoglobin/haematocrit  levels  were  more  commonly  reported  among  the  rivaroxaban  treated 
patients. Haemoglobin values < 0.8 x baseline value were 604 in the rivaroxaban group as compared 
to  399  among  the  warfarin  treated.  A  more  detailed  description  of  the  differences  between  the 
treatment  groups  has  been  provided  by  the  MAH.  Recommendations  for  the  surveillance  of  treated 
patients for occult bleedings should be implemented in the SPC. 
1.3.5.5.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The total number of subjects who completed study medication in the pooled AF studies was 10,196 and 
was  similar  between  the  two  treatment  groups,  5,071  rivaroxaban  and  5,125  warfarin.  The  mean 
duration  of  treatment  exposure  was  566  days  for  the  rivaroxaban  subjects  and  571  days  for  the 
warfarin subjects. Median durations of treatment exposure were 584 days for rivaroxaban subjects and 
588  days  for  warfarin  subjects  and  over  6000  patients  were  treated  with  rivaroxaban  for  more  than 
one year and 2600 for more than two years. Thus, the experience from treatment with rivaroxaban in 
the proposed indication is sufficient for an assessment of important safety aspects. 
The  incidences  of  major  and  clinically  relevant  bleedings  were  approximately  similar  between  the 
treatment groups (5.4% in both groups) for major bleedings but rates of critical organ bleedings and 
death  related  to  bleedings  were  lower  in  the  rivaroxaban  group.  The  difference  in  the  incidences  of 
intracranial bleedings is of potential interest with the well-known bad prognosis in these patients when 
on warfarin (55/7111 vs. 84/7125 in the rivaroxaban and warfarin groups , respectively in the 11630 
study).  The  reported  higher  incidences  of  mucosal  bleedings  among  rivaroxaban  treated  patients  (GI 
bleeding, haematuria, epistaxis, gingival bleeding) indicate a probable difference in bleeding pattern as 
compared to warfarin. It is important that this is adequately described in the SPC. 
There were some notable differences in non-bleeding adverse events between the 2 treatment groups 
with higher incidences in the rivaroxaban groups. They were: syncope [1.70% vs 1.43%], cholelithiasis 
[1.02% vs. 0.59%], anemia [3.20% vs. 2.13%], and hypoglycemia [1.02% vs 0.62%].  
There  may  be  a  relation  between  bleedings,  occult  bleedings,  anemia  on  one  hand  and  tendency  for 
syncope on the other.  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 44/53
 
 
 
 
In the compiled clinical documentation, there is no clear evidence for an increased risk for cholelithiasis 
or cholecystitis and the imbalance observed in the pivotal study remains unexplained.  
There is no  evidence in the preclinical or clinical documentation that rivaroxaban would have a direct 
glucose-lowering  effect.  Possibly  the  somewhat  higher  incidence  of  anemia  in  the  rivaroxaban  group 
could contribute as lower hematocrite is known to result in lower HbA1c values.  
Hepatic  adverse  events  were  intensively  monitored  in  the  phase  III  studies.  There  are  so  far  no 
indications in the provided data that rivaroxaban treatment would be associated with an increased risk 
for hepatic adverse events. 
The  incidence  of  myocardial  infarction  was  numerically  lower  in  the  rivaroxaban  groups  as  compared 
with the warfarin groups. 
Based  on  the  time  from  randomization  to  the  last  dose  plus  2  days,  the  event  rate  for  all-cause 
mortality  was  numerically  lower  for  the  rivaroxaban  group  (1.80/100  patient  years)  compared  with 
that  for  the  warfarin  group  (2.11/100  patient  years;  hazard  ratio  of  0.85  [95%  CI  0.71  to  1.02],  p-
value=0.088). 
1.3.5.6.  Conclusions on Safety 
The size of the safety database is judged to be sufficient for an appropriate assessment of the safety 
profile  of  the  product.  Long-term  safety  data  are  available  to  a  reasonable  extent.  In  summary  the 
safety  characteristics  of  rivaroxaban  in  the  proposed  indication  are  considered  to  be  acceptable 
provided that patients are closely monitored clinically. 
Risk Management Plan 
The  information  provided  below  in  the  RMP  refers  to  both  DVT  treatment  and  SPAF  indications 
undergoing parallel review and adopted simultaneously by the CHMP.  
Updated summary of the RMP: 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan:  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 45/53
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern  
Proposed  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
and 
additional)  
(routine 
Important identified risks 
Proposed  risk  minimisation  activities 
(routine and additional)  
Haemorrhage 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
  Contraindication in SmPC section 4.3 
activities  
“Contraindication” 
  Additional  information  from 
ongoing trials 
  Modified  Prescription  event 
monitoring study  
utilisation 
  Drug 
studies  
database 
  Post-marketing 
the 
VTE 
non-
interventional  cohort  studies 
prevention 
in 
population  (XA0801;  XAMOS 
study  13802), 
the  SPAF 
population  (XA1101;  study 
VTE 
15914) 
the 
treatment 
population 
(XA1102; study 15915) 
and 
  Prescriber/patient 
surveys 
will  be  performed  in  order  to 
of 
measure 
additional  risk  minimisation 
activities 
effectiveness 
  Warning in SmPC section 4.4 “Special 
warnings and precautions for use”  
section 
  Warning 
SmPC 
in 
4.5 
other  medicinal 
of 
forms 
other 
P-gp 
inhibitors 
aggregation 
and 
“Interaction  with 
products 
interactions”  
CYP3A4 
and 
Anticoagulants 
NSAIDs/platelet 
inhibitors 
Warfarin 
  Haemorrhage  is  listed  in  the  SmPC 
section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” 
  For  VTE  treatment  and  SPAF  indication 
Additional risk minimisation activities: 
 
 
Prescriber guide 
Patient alert card 
Important potential risks 
Increase 
LFTs, bilirubin 
in 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Elevated liver enzymes/bilirubin are listed in 
the SmPC section 4.8.  
  Additional  information  from 
ongoing trials 
  Post-marketing 
non-
interventional    cohort  studies 
(XA0801; 
study 
13802, XA1101; study 15914 
and XA1102; study 15915) 
XAMOS 
VTE 
indication 
  Drug 
treatment 
  and  SPAF 
utilisation 
database 
studies  
Embryo-foetal 
toxicity 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  SmPC section 4.3 “Contraindication” 
  SmPC  section  4.6  “Fertility,  pregnancy 
  Modified  Prescription  event 
and breast feeding” 
monitoring study  
utilisation 
  Drug 
studies  
database 
  Post 
non-
marketing 
interventional  cohort    studies 
(XA1101;  study  15914  and 
XA1102; study 15915) 
Important missing information 
  Routine 
Patients 
undergoing 
major 
orthopaedic 
surgery 
than 
other 
elective 
  Drug 
studies  
activities 
pharmacovigilance 
utilisation 
database 
  SmPC (10 mg) section 4.1 “Therapeutic 
indications” and section 4.4 “Special 
warnings and precautions for use” 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 46/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern  
Proposed  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
and 
additional)  
(routine 
Proposed  risk  minimisation  activities 
(routine and additional)  
knee 
or 
hip 
replacement 
surgery 
Patients 
severe 
impairment 
(CrCl 
30 mL/min)  
with 
renal 
< 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  Post-marketing 
non-
interventional  cohort  studies 
(XA0801; 
study 
13802, XA1101; study 15914 
and XA1102; study 15915) 
XAMOS 
  SmPC section 4.2 “Posology and method 
of  administration”    (Renal  impairment) 
and  section  4.4  “Special  warnings  and 
precautions for use” (Renal impairment) 
Remedial  pro-
coagulant 
therapy 
excessive 
haemorrhage 
for 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
  SmPC section 4.9 “Overdose” 
activities 
  Additional  information  from 
ongoing trials  
  Post-marketing 
non 
interventional  cohort  studies 
(XA0801; 
study 
13802, XA1101; study 15914 
and XA1102; study 15915) 
XAMOS 
Patients 
receiving 
systemic 
treatment  with 
CYP3A4  and  P-
inhibitors 
gp 
other than azole 
antimycotics 
(e.g. 
ketoconazole) 
and 
protease 
inhibitors  (e.g. 
ritonavir) 
Pregnant 
breast-feeding 
women 
HIV-
or 
Patients with AF 
and a prosthetic 
heart valve  
term 
Long 
therapy 
with 
rivaroxaban  for 
treatment 
VTE 
SPAF 
and 
in 
indications 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  Modified  Prescription  event 
  SmPC section 4.5 “Interaction with other 
medicinal  products  and  other  forms  of 
interaction” 
monitoring study  
utilisation 
  Drug 
studies  
database 
  Post-marketing 
non-
interventional  cohort  studies 
(XA0801; 
study 
13802, XA1101; study 15914 
and XA1102; study 15915)  
XAMOS 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  SmPC section 4.3 “Contraindication” 
  SmPC  section  4.6  “Fertility,  pregnancy 
  Drug 
utilisation 
database 
and breast feeding” 
studies  
  Modified  Prescription  event 
monitoring study  
  Post-marketing 
non-
interventional  cohort  studies 
(XA1101;  study  15914  and 
XA1102; study 15915) 
  Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  SmPC 
(15mg/20mg) 
4.4 
“Special  warnings  and  precautions  for 
use”  (Patients with prosthetic valves) 
section 
  Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
  Modified  Prescription  event 
monitoring study  
utilisation 
  Drug 
studies  
database 
  All  safety  concerns  mentioned  in  this 
chapter  which  may  occur  during  long 
term  therapy  in  a  real  life  setting  for 
VTE  treatment  and  SPAF  indications  are 
addressed  in  the  SmPC    in  the  relevant 
sections  
Page 47/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern  
real-life setting  
(routine 
Proposed  pharmacovigilance 
activities 
and 
additional)  
  Post-marketing 
non-
interventional  cohort  studies 
(XA1101;  study  15914  and 
XA1102; study 15915)  
Proposed  risk  minimisation  activities 
(routine and additional)  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product:  
 
In addition to the product information; a Patient alert card and a Prescriber guide are included 
as risk minimisation activities, for the VTE treatment and SPAF indications. 
PSUR 
The  PSUR  cycle  is  revised  taking  into  account  this  extension  of  indication.  The  PSUR  cycle  will  be  6 
montlhy PSURs for 2 years then yearly hereafter for 5 years. 
Conditions  or  restrictions  with  regard  to  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the 
medicinal product 
The MAH shall provide an educational pack, targeting all physicians who are expected to prescribe/use 
Xarelto, prior to the launch of the new indication for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in 
adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with one or more risk factors. 
This  educational  pack  is  aimed  at  increasing  awareness  about  the  potential  risk  of  bleeding  during 
treatment with Xarelto and providing guidance on how to manage that risk. 
The  MAH  must  agree  the  content  and  format  of  the  educational  material,  together  with  a 
communication plan, with each national competent authority in the Member States prior to distribution 
of the educational pack in their territory.  
The physician educational pack should contain: 
 
 
 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
Prescriber Guide 
Patient Alert Cards 
The Prescriber Guide should contain the following key safety messages: 
  Details of populations potentially at higher risk of bleeding 
  Recommendations for dose reduction in at risk populations 
  Guidance regarding switching from or to rivaroxaban treatment  
The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
 
  Management of overdose situations 
 
 
The use of coagulation tests and their interpretation 
That all patients should be provided with a Patient alert card and be counselled about: 
  Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider. 
 
  The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
  Necessity to carry the Patient alert card with them at all times 
  The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Xarelto if they need to have 
Importance of treatment compliance 
any surgery or invasive procedure. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 48/53
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Patient alert card should contain the following key safety messages: 
  Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider. 
Importance of treatment compliance 
 
The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
 
  Necessity to carry the Patient alert card with them at all times 
 
The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Xarelto if they need to have any 
surgery or invasive procedure. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
The Member States shall ensure that the following conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and 
effective use of the medicinal product described below are implemented:  
 
 
 
 
 
The  MAH  shall  provide  an  educational  pack,  targeting  all  physicians  who  are  expected  to 
prescribe/use  Xarelto  prior  to  the  launch  of  the  new  indication  for  the  prevention  of  stroke  and 
systemic  embolism  in  adult  patients  with  non-valvular  atrial  fibrillation  with  one  or  more  risk 
factors. 
The educational pack is aimed at increasing awareness about the potential risk of bleeding during 
treatment with Xarelto and providing guidance on how to manage that risk.  
The content and format of the educational material, together with a communication plan, should be 
agreed with the MAH prior to distribution of the educational pack and launch of the new indication.  
The physician educational pack should contain: 
  The Summary of Product Characteristics 
  Prescriber Guide 
  Patient Alert Cards 
The Prescriber Guide should contain the following key safety messages: 
  Details of populations potentially at higher risk of bleeding 
  Recommendations for dose reduction in at risk populations 
  Guidance regarding switching from or to rivaroxaban treatment  
  The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
  Management of overdose situations 
  The use of coagulation tests and their interpretation 
  That all patients should be provided with a Patient alert card and be counselled about: 
  Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider. 
Importance of treatment compliance 
 
The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
 
  Necessity to carry the Patient alert card with them at all times 
 
The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Xarelto if they need 
to have any surgery or invasive procedure. 
 
The Patient alert card should contain the following key safety messages: 
  Signs or symptoms of bleeding and when to seek attention from a health care provider. 
Importance of treatment compliance 
 
The need for intake of the 15 mg and 20 mg tablets with food 
 
  Necessity to carry the Patient alert card with them at all times 
 
The need to inform Health Care Professionals that they are taking Xarelto if they need 
to have any surgery or invasive procedure. 
1.4.  Update of the Product Information 
The CHMP agreed to adopt a new indication for Xarelto 15mg and 20mg as follows:  
Section 4.1 :  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 49/53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prevention  of  stroke  and  systemic  embolism  in  adult  patients  with  non-valvular  atrial  fibrillation  with 
one  or  more  risk  factors,  such  as  congestive  heart  failure,  hypertension,  age  ≥ 75 years,  diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack.  
Given  the  extent  of  changes  to  the  product  information  related  to  this  new  indication  and  the 
corresponding  strengths  assessed  in  parallel  in  the  procedure  EMEA/H/C/000944/X10,  for  detailed 
information, please refer to the PI in annex of this report.  
1.5.  Benefit-risk assessment 
Background 
Atrial  fibrillation  (AF)  is  the  most  common  cardiac  arrhythmia  of  clinical  significance  and  is  an 
important independent risk factor for stroke. It is estimated to currently affect over 6 million patients 
in Europe. The prevalence of AF increases with age, being less than 1% among people under 60 years 
of age with estimates of more than 6% among those over 80 years of age. 
Atrial fibrillation predisposes patients to a greater risk of stroke as a result of cardiogenic embolism. In 
the  absence  of  treatment,  patients  with  non-valvular  AF  have  a  2-  to  7-fold  higher  incidence  of 
ischemic stroke than age-matched controls without AF. 
There  is  general  international  agreement  that  recommend  VKA  therapy  for  patients  with  AF  with  any 
high  risk  factor  and  for  those  with  more  than  1  moderate  risk  factor.  High  risk  factors  are  previous 
stroke,  transient  ischemic  attack  (TIA)  or  embolism,  mitral  stenosis,  and  prosthetic  heart  valve. 
Moderate  risk  factors  are  age  ≥75  years,  hypertension,  heart  failure  and/or  left  ventricular  ejection 
fraction ≤35% and diabetes mellitus.  
The  management  of  warfarin  therapy  can  be  challenging.  Dietary  changes,  concomitant  medications, 
herbal products, concomitant illness and other factors may influence a patient’s response to warfarin. 
Therefore,  maintaining  INR  within  the  target  therapeutic  range  may  be  difficult  in  some  patients, 
requiring frequent laboratory or point of care monitoring and dose adaptations.  
Thus,  there  is  an  unmet  medical  need  for  alternative  oral  anticoagulants  that  can  be  given  at  fixed 
doses without the need for laboratory monitoring, that are as effective as warfarin in reducing the risk 
of stroke and systemic embolism, and that have an acceptable risk of bleeding as well as overall safety 
profile. 
Beneficial effects 
This  application  is  primarily  supported  by  one  large  pivotal  study,  which  was  an  adequately  designed 
double  blind  non-inferiority/superiority  study  with  appropriate  inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  and  an 
appropriate comparator of VKA treatment. The study population is judged to be representative for the 
European  target  population.  The  primary  efficacy endpoint  was the  composite  of  stroke  and  non-CNS 
systemic  embolism.  There  were  188  of  6958  subjects  in  the  rivaroxaban  group  and  241  of  7004 
subjects in the warfarin group who experienced an endpoint event corresponding in the primary non-
inferiority analysis to a HR of 0.79 (95%CI 0.66, 0.96, p<0.001. Superiority was primarily claimed for 
rivaroxaban  for  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  (HR 0.79,  95%  CI  0.65,  0.95,  p<0.015),  however,  this 
was based on an analysis of patients on treatment. An appropriate superiority analysis should be based 
on  the  ITT  population  and  in  these  analyses  superiority  was  not  demonstrated.  Thus,  claims  for 
superior efficacy as compared with VKA treatment should not be accepted. This conclusion is supported 
by  the  overall  somewhat  low  TTR  values  which  probably  were  due  to  the  inclusion  of  some 
investigational centers with less experience in VKA treatment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 50/53
 
 
 
 
 
The outcome of the secondary end-points supports the primary analysis. For the two major secondary 
efficacy endpoints tested hierarchically according to the prospectively defined analysis plan (composite 
of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic  embolism,  vascular  death  and  composite  of  stroke,  non-CNS  systemic 
embolism,  vascular  death  and  MI)  superiority  was  shown  for  rivaroxaban  in  an  analysis  based  on 
patients on treatment. Superiority was not demonstrated in a conventional superiority analysis based 
on the ITT population.  
For  the  third  predefined  secondary  efficacy  analysis,  all  cause  mortality,  a  rather  strong  numerical 
trend in favour of rivaroxaban with 208/7061 vs 250/7082 events corresponding to a HR of 0.85 (95% 
CI; 0.70, 1.02, p=0.073). 
The performed sensitivity analyses supported the primary analysis. 
There  was  a  clear  numerical  difference  with  regard  to  haemorrhagic  strokes  and  fatal  haemorrhagic 
strokes in favour of rivaroxaban.  
The  overall  efficacy  results  were  essentially  consistent  in  important  subgroups,  such  as  different  age 
categories,  different  CHADS2  scores,  subgroups  with  different  degrees  of  renal  impairment  and 
concomitant  diseases.  The  results  in  centers  with  different  mean  time  in  therapeutic  range  for  VKA 
treatment was consistent with the overall results. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
An  important  source  of  uncertainty  is  derived  from  the  imbalance  in  stroke  rates  during  the  one 
month’s follow-up period as it demonstrates the importance for appropriate recommendations for how 
to switch to VKA treatment. Such improved recommendations have now been implemented in the SPC. 
The  compiled  data  do  not  support  the  possibility  of  a  rebound  phenomenon,  however,  some 
uncertainty on this remains for the time being.  
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
The size of the safety database should be sufficient for a reasonable assessment of the safety profile of 
the product. Overall mortality rates were numerically lower in the rivaroxaban group (4.9% vs. 5.7%) 
The  incidences  of  major  and  clinically  relevant  bleedings  were  approximately  similar  between  the 
treatment groups (5.4% in both groups) for major bleedings, but rates of critical organ bleedings and 
death  related  to  bleedings  were  lower  in  the  rivaroxaban  group.  The  difference  in  the  incidences  of 
intracranial bleedings is of potential interest with the well-known bad prognosis in these patients when 
on  warfarin  (55/7111  vs.  84/7125  in  the  rivaroxaban  and  warfarin  groups,  from  study  11630 
respectively).  
However,  haemoglobin/hematocrit  drop  and  transfusions  were  more  common  as  was  discontinuation 
due  to  bleeding  in  the  rivaroxaban  group.  This,  together  with  the  reported  higher  incidences  of 
mucosal  bleedings  among  rivaroxaban  treated  patients  (GI  bleeding,  haematuria,  epistaxis,  gingival 
bleeding) indicate a probable difference in bleeding pattern between the two anticoagulants. This has 
been acknowledged and discussed by the MAH. This important point  was adequately described in the 
SPC, 
A higher incidence of major and clinically relevant bleedings was seen among the rivaroxaban treated 
elderly patients as compared to the warfarin treated (26 vs. 23%, respectively). This was shown to be 
due  to  mucosal  bleedings  to  a  large  extent  and  these  observation  underlines  the  importance  of  close 
clinical surveillance.  
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 51/53
 
 
 
 
It is also of concern that in centers with better INR control major and clinically relevant bleedings were 
significantly  more  common  in  the  rivaroxaban  group.  The  bleeding  pattern  in  these  centers  does  not 
differ  from  the  overall  pattern.  Males  treated  with  rivaroxaban  had  somewhat  more  bleedings  than 
those  treated  with  warfarin  while  the  opposite  trend  was  observed  for  women.  There  is  no  obvious 
explanation for this and the differences may have been due to chance. 
Hepatic adverse events were intensively monitored in the phase III studies. There are no indications in 
the  provided  data  that  rivaroxaban  treatment  would  be  associated  with  an  increased  risk  for  hepatic 
adverse events. 
Unexpectedly,  the  incidence  of  cholelithiasis  was  higher  in  the  rivaroxaban  group.  However  in  the 
compiled  clinical  documentation  there  is  no  clear  indication  for  such  an  increased  risk  and  the 
imbalance observe in the pivotal study may have been due to chance. 
An imbalance in hypoglycaemic events disfavouring rivaroxaban (79 vs. 48) was reported. There are, 
however,  no  indications  that  rivaroxaban  would  exert  a  direct  hypoglycaemic  effect.  The  observation 
may partly be associated with a higher incidence of anaemia in the rivaroxaban group. 
The incidence of other non-bleeding adverse events was similar in the 2 treatment groups. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Low  haemoglobin/haematocrit  levels  were  more  commonly  reported  among  the  rivaroxaban  treated 
patients. Haemoglobin values < 0.8 x baseline value were 604 in the rivaroxaban group as compared 
to  399  among  the  warfarin  treated.  Recommendations  for  clinical  and  laboratory  monitoring  for 
detection of occult bleedings should be implemented in the SPC. 
Preliminary top-line results of the large “Magellan trial” for prevention of VTE in patients with an acute 
medical  illness,  population  overlapping  with  the  target  SPAF  population,  has  recently  been  submitted 
showing  a  disturbingly  high  bleeding  incidence  in  the  rivaroxaban  arm.  However,  if  the  imbalance  in 
bleeding observed in the heterogeneous population in the Magellan trial would reflect a true difference 
in  bleeding  tendency  similar  imbalances  would  have  been  expected  in  the  large  studies  in  other 
applications. Thus the differences seen in the Magellan trial may at least partially have been a chance 
finding. 
Few  premenopausal  women  were  included  in  the  AF  studies.  Genital  bleeding  was  clearly  more 
common  among  rivaroxaban  treated  women  as  compared  to  warfarin  treated  in  the  DVT  studies. 
Appropriate precautionary measures were recommended in the SPC. 
The lack of an antidote to recommend in case of severe bleeding events is a disadvantage as compared 
to the situation for warfarin. The MAH has provided updated information on their efforts to develop a 
specific antidote and a scientific advice is currently sought on the programme at the European level. 
Balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Currently, the only available treatment for prevention of systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation is VKA 
treatment from which long-standing experience exists. VKA treatment requires continuous monitoring 
and  careful  consideration  of  numerous  possibilities  for  interaction  with  other  drugs  and  food.  The 
quality  of  VKA  treatment  is  varying  between  centers  and  lower  quality  is  associated  with  increased 
risks  for  bleeding  and  treatment  failure.  A  simpler  and  more  predictable  alternative  for  oral  use  that 
would  not  need  such  intense  monitoring  would  therefore  be  a  potentially  very  valuable  alternative, 
especially  for  patients  where  VKA  treatment  is  not  functioning  well.  This  together  with  the 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 52/53
 
 
 
 
demonstrated  reduction  in  systemic  embolism  may  represent  important  advantages  for  rivaroxaban 
treatment in atrial fibrillation. 
A  lower  incidence  in  bleedings  into  critical  organs,  intracerebral  bleedings,  and  fatal  bleedings  as 
compared to warfarin are also potential important advantages supported by  a rather strong trend for 
overall  lower  mortality  rates  in  the  rivaroxaban  group.  However,  treatment  discontinuation  due  to 
bleeding,  GI  bleedings  and  bleedings  from  other  mucosal  sites  were  more  common  among  the 
rivaroxaban treated patients. Thus, the bleeding pattern observed during rivaroxaban treated patients 
seems  to  differ  from  that  observed  during  warfarin  treatment.  If  patients  are  adequately  monitored 
such bleedings may be clinically manageable and then less important in comparison with bleedings into 
critical organs and fatal bleedings. 
Another potential advantage with rivaroxaban over warfarin is the lower potential for drug interactions.  
1.6.  Conclusions 
The overall Benefit Risk of Xarelto was considered by the CHMP positive for the indication 
 “Prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in adult patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation with 
one  or  more  risk  factors,  such  as  congestive  heart  failure,  hypertension,  age  ≥ 75 years,  diabetes 
mellitus, prior stroke or transient ischaemic attack”.  
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/95/2010 on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP), including a waiver. 
At  the  time  of  submission  of  the  application,  the  PIP  was  not  yet  completed  as  some  measures  were 
deferred. 
2.  Conclusion 
On 22 September 2011, the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II,  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet. 
Assessment report  
EMA/42547/2012  
Page 53/53
 
 
 
 
 
