15 September 2022 
EMA/940159/2022  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): rivaroxaban 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSR/S/0027 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report for the non-interventional imposed PASS final study 
report for the medicinal product(s) mentioned above, the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The PRAC considered it appropriate to summarise the key results from this imposed PASS program, 
which had been conducted in 3 EU countries and the UK, and which comprised more than 40,000 
patients in the VTE-T indication and 162,000 patients in the NVAF indication, and reflect those in the 
SmPC, section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties of the product information.  
Furthermore, by finalisation of this category 1 study program, removal of the additional monitoring 
statement and the black triangle from the product information is warranted. Annex II of the product 
information should also be updated to remove this condition.  
Therefore, in view of available data regarding the PASS final study report, the PRAC considered that 
changes to the product information and changes to the conditions of the marketing authorisation were 
warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for the results of the study for the medicinal product(s) 
mentioned above, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of these medicinal 
product(s) is unchanged, subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP is of the opinion that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) of the medicinal product(s) 
mentioned above should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/940159/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
