26 April 2018 
EMA/497511/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): rivaroxaban 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00002653/201709 
Period covered by the PSUR: 16 September 2016 to 15 September 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for rivaroxaban, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Severe Cutaneous Adverse Reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Toxic Epidermal 
Necrolysis are already labelled in the Xarelto Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) sections 4.4 
and 4.8. Based on the data submitted in this PSUR, the PRAC concluded that DRESS syndrome should 
be added to sections 4.4 and 4.8 (frequency “very rare”).  Two literature cases provided evidence of a 
causal association between rivaroxaban and DRESS, considering a temporal association (time to onset 
within 10 days and 6 weeks respectively), and positive dechallenge. The established causal relationship 
between rivaroxaban and DRESS syndrome is considered sufficient for amending the SmPC.  
Five post-marketing cases reported anaphylaxis with various degrees of severity. The present 
information in the SmPC needs to be amended to include “Anaphylactic reactions, including anaphylactic 
shock” in section 4.8 of the SmPC (frequency “very rare”). 
The interaction with fluconazole and with macrolide antibiotics (erythromycin and clarithromycin) is 
likely clinically insignificant in the absolute majority of patients but can potentially be significant in high 
risk patients. Since there have been reported cases with bleedings temporally associated with initiation 
of fluconazole and macrolide therapy in rivaroxaban treated patients, as a precautionary measure SmPC 
section 4.5 is slightly modified to express this uncertainty: “This increase is not considered clinically 
relevant” is requested to be changed to “The interaction with fluconazole/erythromycin/clarithromycin is 
likely not clinically relevant in most patients but can be potentially significant in high-risk patients”.  
The MAH committed within LEG 0.39.3 to amend the SmPC during the ongoing PSUR procedure and to 
move the hepatic reactions included in the SOC Investigations to the SOC Hepatobiliary disorders in the 
tabulated list of ADRs in section 4.8. Moreover, the MAH agreed to move “Cholestasis, Hepatitis (incl. 
hepatocellular injury)” under the heading “Post-marketing observation” to the tabulated list of ADRs.  
In accordance to the SmPC Guideline, all other information on adverse reactions under the heading 
“Post-marketing observation” (“angioedema and allergic oedema”, “thrombocytopenia” and “SJS/ TEN”) 
are also moved to the tabulated list of adverse reactions in section 4.8.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for rivaroxaban the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing rivaroxaban is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/497511/2018 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
