SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) afflicts an estimated 6% of the adult population in Western society. 
Three  key  defects  underlie  the  pathogenesis  of  the  disease:  insulin  resistance,  reduced  insulin 
secretion,  and  hepatic  glucose  overproduction.  Limitations  of  current  therapies  include  a  range  of 
safety and tolerability issues, limited extent and/or durability of efficacy, and inconvenience in dosing.  
The  most  common  adverse  events  associated  with  current  agents  are  hypoglycaemia  (with 
sulfonylureas,  meglitinides, 
insulin, 
thiazolidinediones  [TZDs]),  and  gastrointestinal  intolerance  (with  metformin,  alpha-glucosidase 
inhibitors).  Thus,  the  sitagliptin  development  program  was  based  upon  the  need  for  new  medical 
therapies  that  have  distinct  mechanisms  of  action  and  that  offer  an  improved  safety  and  tolerability 
profile with good efficacy and durability.  
insulin),  weight  gain  (with  sulfonylureas,  meglitinides, 
This is a complete stand-alone application. 
in  combination  with  metformin  or  a  PPARγ  agonist 
The  originally  proposed  indication  was  “For  treatment  of  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  to 
improve  glycaemic  control 
(e.g. 
thiazolidinedione)  when  diet  and  exercise,  plus  the  single  agent  do  not  provide  adequate  glycaemic 
control”. The approved indication is “Xelevia is indicated in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus to 
improve glycaemic control in combination with metformin when diet and exercise plus metformin do 
not provide adequate glycaemic control. For patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus in whom use of a 
PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) is appropriate, Xelevia is indicated in combination with the 
PPARγ  agonist  when  diet  and  exercise  plus  the  PPARγ  agonist  alone  do  not  provide  adequate 
glycaemic  control.”  The  dose  is  100 mg  sitagliptin  once  daily.  The  dosage  of  metformin  or  PPARγ 
agonist should be maintained, and Xelevia administered concomitantly. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Januvia  is  presented  as  film-coated  tablets  containing  25  mg,  50  mg  and  100  mg  of  Sitagliptin  (as 
monohydrate Phosphate salt) as active substance. The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, 
dibasic  calcium  phosphate,  croscamellose  sodium,  magnesium  stearate  and  sodium  stearyl  fumarate. 
The  film  coat  consists  of  polyvinyl  alcohol,  titanium  dioxide,  macrogol,  talc,  purified  water  and 
colorants. 
The  film-coated  tablets  are  marketed  in  PVDC/PE/PVC-foil,  which  are  heat-seal  lacquered  to  an 
aluminium foil. 
Active Substance  
The active substance is sitagliptin as monohydrate phosphate salt and its chemical name is 7-[(3R)-3-
amino-1-oxo-4-(2,4,5-trifluorophenyl)butyl]-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-[3-(trifluoromethyl)-1,2,4-
triazolo[4,3-a]pyrazine phosphate (1:1) monohydrate according to the IUPAC nomenclature. 
Sitagliptin is a white to off-powder and exhibits pH dependent aqueous solubility. It is soluble in water 
and  N,N-dimethyl  formamide,  slightly  soluble  in  methanol,  soluble  in  ethanol,  acetone  and 
acetonotrile and insoluble in isopropanol and isopropyl acetate. The above-mentioned active substance 
contains a chiral centre and is used as a single enantiomer (R).  
•  Manufacture 
Sitagliptin is synthesised in two reactions steps, and purified by crystallisation. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   1/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  adequately  described.  Critical  parameters  have  been  identified 
and adequate in-process controls included.  
Specifications for starting materials, reagents, and solvents have been provided. Adequate control of 
critical steps and intermediates has been presented. 
Structure  elucidation  has  been  performed  by  ultraviolet  spectroscopy, 
infrared  absorption 
spectroscopy, 1H-NMR spectroscopy, 13C-NMR spectroscopy and the molecular weight as determined 
by mass spectroscopy is in agreement with the expected molecular weight.  The results of the X-ray 
crystallography are consistent with the proposed molecular structure.  
•  Specification 
The active substance specifications include tests for colour (white to off-white powder), identification 
(IR), assay (HPLC), Impurities (HPLC), residue on ignition and water content (Karl Fisher). 
The  specifications  reflect  all  relevant  quality  attributes  of  the  active  substance.  The  analytical 
methods,  which  were  used  in  the  routine  controls,  were  described  and  their  validations  are  in 
accordance with the ICH Guidelines.   
Impurities  have  been  described,  classified  as  process  related  impurities  and  possible  degradation 
products,  and  qualified.  Residual  solvents  were  satisfactorily  controlled  in  the  active  substance.  All 
limits  are  in  accordance  with  ICH  requirements.  Certificates  of  analyses  for  the  active  substances 
issued by the finished product manufacturer were provided and all batch analysis results comply with 
the specifications and show a good uniformity from batch to batch.  
•  Stability 
The stability results from long-term accelerated and stress studies were completed according to ICH 
guidelines  demonstrated  adequate  stability  of  the  active  substance.  The  active  substance  is  not 
susceptible  to  degradation  under  the  influence  of  light.  The  results  of  the  long-term  and  accelerated 
studies support the retest period.  
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
All  information  regarding  the  choice  of  the  active  substance  and  the  excipients  are  sufficiently 
justified.  
Sitagliptin tablets were developed in four tablet strengths (25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg and 200 mg).  
The  main  aim  of  the  applicant  was  to  develop  a  formulation  that  would  rapidly  release  the  active 
substance, that would behave as much as possible as an oral solution upon dosing and would provide a 
consistent  bioavailability.  In  this  context,  the  excipients  have  been  chosen  not  only  to  achieve  these 
aims  but  also  to  ensure  the  chemical  stability.  A  direct  compression  manufacturing  process  was 
selected  based  on  its  inherent  simplicity  and  demonstrated  ability  to  produce  high  quality  tablets 
reproducibly. 
Results  of  formulation  and  process  development  studies  demonstrate  that  the  tablet  formulation  and 
the manufacturing process are robust and under control. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  proposed  commercial  manufacturing  process  involves  standard  technology  using  standard 
manufacturing  processes  such  as  blending,  lubrication,  direct  compression  and  film-coating  unit 
operations. Furthermore, the equipment used is commonly available in the pharmaceutical industry. It 
was demonstrated that there are no critical steps in the manufacturing process. 
The  batch  analysis  results  show  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  manufactured  reproducibly 
according the agreed finished product specifications. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   2/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Product Specification 
The medicinal product specifications were established according the ICH guidelines and include the 
following tests: appearance, identification (NIR), assay, impurities/degradants (HPLC), uniformity of 
dosage units, disintegration, microbial limits (Ph Eur). 
All  analytical  procedures  that  were  used  for  testing  the  medicinal  product  were  properly  described. 
Moreover, all relevant methods were satisfactorily validated in accordance with the CHMP and ICH 
guidelines.  
Batch analysis data on five commercial scale batches confirm satisfactory uniformity of the product at 
release 
•  Stability of the Product 
The stability studies were conducted according to the relevant ICH guideline. Three production scale 
batches  of  each  strength  have  been  stored  at  long  term  and  accelerated  conditions  in  the  proposed 
market packaging.  
One production batch per strength was stored under photostability stress testing under ICH conditions.  
The photostability results show that the tablets are not sensitive to light. 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture,  control  of  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner and justified in accordance with relevant guidelines. The 
results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  the  finished  product. 
Therefore, this medicinal product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
At the time of the CHMP opinion, there were two minor unresolved quality issues, which do not have 
any  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  the  medicinal  product.  The  applicant  gave  a  letter  of 
undertaking and committed to resolve these as follow up measures after the opinion, within an agreed 
timeframe.  
3. 
Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
To  support  the  clinical  evaluation  of  sitagliptin  an  extensive  number  of  non-clinical  toxicity  studies 
were conducted prior to and in parallel with the clinical program. These studies included a battery of 
both  in  vitro and  in  vivo genotoxicity  studies,  safety pharmacology  studies,  acute  and  repeated  dose 
oral studies, rodent carcinogenicity studies, developmental and reproductive toxicity studies 
All  pivotal  non-clinical  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  consistent  with  ICH  Non-clinical  Testing 
Guidelines and in compliance with the Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) Regulations. In addition, also 
non-GLP  studies  were  conducted  (in-vitro  and  early  in-vivo  pharmacodynamics,  and  early  dose-
finding studies). These non-GLP studies were not considered to compromise the scientific integrity or 
affect the experimental results. 
Scientific advice concerning non-clinical studies was not sought. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The primary glucose-lowering property and effects on glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) plasma levels 
of  dipeptidyl  peptidase-4  (DPP-4)  inhibition  by  sitagliptin  (as  the  main  basis  for  its  efficacy  for  the 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   3/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
indication  T2DM)  have  been  shown.  In  order  to  see  the  effects  on  the  plasma  levels  of  glucose- 
dependent  insulinotropic  peptide  (GIP),  insulin  and  glucagon  the  Applicant  described  the  effects  of 
des-fluoro-sitagliptin, a closely related analogue (comparable in vitro potency, selectivity and in vivo 
efficacy),  showing  improved  glucose  tolerance  and  increased  plasma  GLP-1  levels  in  animals.  In 
addition,  the  analogue  also  increased  plasma  insulin  levels,  accompanied  by  decreased  plasma 
glucagon levels (in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice); however, no preclinical data was included 
on plasma GIP levels. Though not considered outstanding, a proper assessment of this issue was not 
possible due to the lack of relevant pharmacological data on this analogue.  
DPP-4 tissue distribution (RNA expression) was mainly high in blood T lymphocyte, kidney, salivary 
glands,  prostate,  placenta  and  intestinal  tissue;  the  latter  is  consistent  with  its  regulation  of  incretin 
hormone action. In rhesus monkeys and mice, DPP-4 RNA expression was high in intestinal tissues. 
Tissue distributions of DPP-8/9 were very broad. Therefore tissue distribution of DPP-4 appears to be 
quite specific and high in the intestinal tissues in humans and animals. 
With respect to the pharmacology of the metabolites of sitagliptin, M1, M2, and M5 were shown to be 
~300-, 1000-, and 1000-fold less active, respectively, than sitagliptin as DPP-4 inhibitors (IC50 values 
of ~5, >20, and >20 µM, respectively, versus 18 nM for sitagliptin). The DPP-4 activity of M3, M4, 
and M6 was not determined. Sitagliptin is a very selective DPP-4 substrate over DPP-8/9 (main targets 
causing severe toxicity if inhibited). Synthetic M5 metabolite has a low binding affinity (IC50 >100 
µM) for DPP8/9. The human plasma levels of metabolite M6 are low (< 5% in plasma and bile) and 
will, therefore, not meaningful impact on the pharmacodynamic (PD) actions of sitagliptin. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Although  inhibition  of  DPP-4  activity  enhances  incretin  action  in  diabetic  patients,  DPP-4  exhibits 
catalytic activity against a broad number of peptide substrates. In general, most cell surface peptidases 
such as DPP-4 cleave a number of substrates in vitro; their endogenous substrate specificity, however, 
is harder to establish. In order to evaluate the potential secondary pharmacological effects of DPP-4 
inhibition  by  sitagliptin,  the  Applicant  discussed  the  biological  importance  of  in  vivo  DPP-4 
substrates, based on the following two criteria:   
1 
2 
Elevated substrate levels are observed in vivo after DPP-4 inhibition or in DPP-deficient mice 
(simply establishing that the peptide or protein is a substrate in rodents) and 
Substrate  stabilization  must  have  biological  effects  (cleavage  results  in  activation  or 
inactivation). 
Based on these criteria, the only DPP-4 substrates are GLP-1 and GIP.  
Other  peptides  that  are  cleaved  in  vitro  by  DPP-4  are  glucagon  family  peptides  (GHRH,  IGF-1  and 
GLP-2), neuropeptides (substance P/bradykinin: no effects) and chemokines (e.g., SDF-1α: cleavage 
after in vitro DPP-4 inhibition). It should be noted that in vitro cleavage of given peptide by DPP-4 
does not always translate to in vivo regulation to its bioactivity by the enzyme. Conclusive studies to 
determine whether these in vitro substrates are regulated by DPP-4 in vivo have not occurred largely 
owing to the lack of suitable assays for measurement of endogenous levels of these proteins/peptides 
and their putative products. Therefore, even though in vitro experiments show a wide variety of DPP-4 
substrates, the biological relevance in vivo remains uncertain. 
As  part  of  its  secondary  pharmacology,  the  selectivity  of  sitagliptin  was  assessed  in  a  number  of 
assays,  including  several  proline-specific  enzymes,  proteases,  ion  channels  and  5-HT2  receptors. 
Sitagliptin appeared to have little affinity for these biomolecules (generally >100 µM). Only a weak 
affinity tosome ion channels and 5-HT2 receptors was demonstrated. Considering safety pharmacology 
data,  together  with  the  safe  clinical  use  of  5-HT2  receptor  antagonists,  these  observations  are  not 
considered  to  be  a  major  concern  for  sitagliptin  in  T2DM.  However,  in  order  to  elucidate  whether 
other receptors have (high) affinity for sitagliptin the Applicant provided an overview of the potential 
binding of sitagliptin to an extensive battery of molecular targets. Based on its low potency (IC50 value 
>10 µM) it has been shown that sitagliptin does not interact with receptors other than certain 5-HT2 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   4/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
receptors, as specified earlier. Due to the high Cmax value that was achieved in safety pharmacology 
studies (~50 µM) it is not possible to ascertain that the observed minor cardiovascular effects are not 
due to activities at one or more of these receptors.  
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
DPP-4 activity: Except for some minor cardiovascular effects (blood pressure and heart rate), major 
effects were not observed with sitagliptin in other important systems. The observed sitagliptin-induced 
hypotension may be explained by its affinity/potency to other biomolecules (e.g., receptors).  
It was described that a selective DPP-4 inhibitor had no effect on lymphocyte proliferation (immune 
system), and would not produce meaningful delayed gastric emptying in humans; while no data was 
available to suggest that altered DPP-4 activity in vivo would have any effect on tumour formation and 
metastasis.  
DPP-8/9  activity:  No  endogenous substrates have been identified, and thus the specific functions of 
these enzymes are unknown. Highly selective inhibitor of DPP8/9 attenuates T cell activation in vitro, 
and  produce  profound 
thrombocytopenia,  anemia, 
splenomegaly,  and  mortality  in  rats,  gastrointestinal  toxicity  in  dogs,  and  edema  of  the  skin  in  non-
human primates. As sitagliptin has an IC50 of ~ 50 µM or greater for DPP-8 and DPP-9, no inhibition 
of these enzymes is anticipated at exposures required for glucose lowering in humans. 
in  preclinical  species, 
including 
toxicity 
Fibroblast  activation  protein  (FAP)  and  Prolyl  endopeptidase  (PEP,  prolyl  oligopeptidase,  POP) 
activity: As sitagliptin has an IC50 of > 100 µM or greater for FAP and PEP, no inhibition of these 
enzymes is anticipated at exposures required for glucose lowering in humans. 
DPP-6/10 activity: DPP6 and DPP10 are homologues of DPP-4 that lack a catalytic serine residue and 
are therefore inactive as peptidases. Both proteins appear to modulate cellular trafficking, membrane 
targeting, and functional properties of neuronal Kv4-mediated A-type potassium channels. Though is 
not known whether sitagliptin can bind to the hydrolase domain of DPP-6/10, such binding even if it 
occurred would not be expected to influence potassium channel function. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No experiments were performed. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Single  dose  studies  were  carried  out  with  a  solution of  the  phosphate  salt  of  sitagliptin in  saline  for 
both intravenous (IV) and oral (gavage) administration. For the placental transfer and milk excretion 
studies,  the  phosphate  salt  was  formulated  in  0.5%  aqueous  methylcellulose  containing  5  mM  HCl. 
Most metabolism, excretion, and tissue distribution studies were carried out with [14C]sitagliptin. 
Plasma concentrations of sitagliptin (molecular weight of free base = 407.32) were determined by a 
validated  LC-MS/MS  assay  that  had  a  lower  limit  of  quantification  of  1.0  and  5.0  ng/mL  (2.46  and 
12.3  nM)  in  rat  and  dog  plasma,  respectively.  The  validated  assay  demonstrated  good  linearity  and 
reproducibility for sitagliptin in the concentration range of 1.0 to 10,000 ng/mL in rat plasma, and 5.0 
to 20,000 ng/mL in dog plasma. The within and between run assay precision were 11% or less for both 
rat  and  dog  quality  control  (QC)  samples,  except  at  the  limit  of  quantification  where  precision  was 
better than 14%. Total radioactivity in tissues, blood, plasma, urine, bile, and feces was determined by 
liquid  scintillation  counting,  with  or  without  prior  combustion.  Metabolite  identification  was 
accomplished  by  LC-MS  and  by  comparison  with  authentic  synthetic  standards  (M1,  N-sulfate 
conjugate only). Two of the metabolites (M2 and M5) were purified from dog urine and identified by 
NMR analysis and hydrogen-deuterium exchange. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   5/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  of  the  non-clinical  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  (ADME)  studies 
indicated  that  sitagliptin  was  rapidly  absorbed  and  was  a  moderate  to  high  clearance  drug,  with  a 
relatively short plasma half-life. 
Absorption: In rats, following single IV administration of sitagliptin at doses of 0.5, 2, and 5 mg/kg in 
males  and  2  mg/kg  in  females,  plasma  concentrations  of  parent  drug  declined  in  a  time  dependent 
manner, with the pharmacokinetic parameters adequately described by non-compartmental analysis of 
the  sitagliptin  plasma  concentration  versus  time  data.  The  mean  sitagliptin  plasma  clearance  (CLp) 
was ~40 to 48 mL/min/kg at the three doses in males and 67 mL/min/kg in females; blood clearance 
was  estimated  to  be  approximately  the  same  as  plasma  clearance  (blood-to-plasma  ratio  was 
approximately unity). The mean values for the steady-state volume of distribution (Vdss) and terminal 
half-life  (t1/2)  were  ~7  to  9  L/kg  and  ~2  hr,  respectively,  in  both  males  and  females.  The  renal 
clearance  of  unbound drug  was  calculated  to  be  ~34 mL/min/kg,  by  dividing  the  mean  total  plasma 
clearance (~45 mL/min/kg) by the fraction unbound in plasma (0.67), and multiplying by the fraction 
of dose excreted unchanged into urine (~0.5). This value exceeded the glomerular filtration rate (~5 
mL/min/kg in rats), implying that sitagliptin was subject to active renal elimination in rats. 
The  dose  dependence  of  the  oral  pharmacokinetics  of  sitagliptin  was  evaluated  after  single 
administration of four dose levels in male rats (2, 20, 60, and 180 mg/kg) and 2 dose levels in female 
rats (2 and 180 mg/kg). The data indicated that over the dose range studied, absorption of sitagliptin 
was  not  saturable,  while  elimination  may  have  decreased  somewhat  with  dose,  as  indicated  by  the 
~181- and 159-fold increase in the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) observed in 
male and female rats, respectively, between 2 and 180 mg/kg. Oral bioavailability at 2 mg/kg was 59% 
and 82% in male and female rats, respectively. 
Sitagliptin plasma concentration-time data was collected in the dog following IV administration at 0.5 
and 1.5 mg/kg. Mean CLp, Vdss, and t1/2 values were ~9 mL/min/kg, 3 L/kg, and 4 hr, respectively. 
Blood  clearance  was  estimated  to  be  approximately  the  same  as  plasma  clearance  (blood-to-plasma 
ratio was approximately unity).  
Dose-dependent  oral  pharmacokinetics  was  evaluated  after  single  administration  at  four  dose  levels 
(0.4,  1.6,  10,  and  30  mg/kg).  Plasma  AUC  increased  proportionately  with  dose,  indicating  that 
absorption  and  elimination  of  sitagliptin  were  not  saturable  over  the  dose  range  studied.  The  oral 
bioavailability was 89% at 0.4 mg/kg and 97% at 1.6 mg/kg. 
Distribution: Sitagliptin was orally bioavailable, and exhibited fairly linear oral pharmacokinetics in 
rat and dog.  
In rats, [14C]sitagliptin-related radioactivity was distributed widely throughout the body following IV 
administration,  but  was  cleared  efficiently  from  all  tissues.  However,  cecum,  intestine,  liver  and 
kidneys  contained  relatively  high  concentrations  of  sitagliptin  related  material  even  after  24hr. 
Enterohepatic circulation can therefore not be ruled out.  
Sitagliptin was seen to cross the rat and rabbit placenta readily. 
Sitagliptin was shown to be a substrate of the mouse and human P-glycoprotein (Pgp), and the human 
renal  organic  anion  transporter  hOAT3.  In  the  in  vitro  interaction  studies  via  Pgp  transport  (studies 
PK012  and  PK017),  cyclosporine  A  (potent  inhibitor  of  Pgp)  was  used  as  a  positive  control.  A 
concentration of 10 µM cyclosporine A strongly inhibited basolateral to apical transport of sitagliptin 
in LLC-MDR1 cells. This suggested that drug interactions via Pgp were possible.  
The  potential  of  sitagliptin  to  cause  drug  interactions  with  hOAT1  and  hOAT3  substrates  was 
evaluated in vitro. At concentrations of 0.1 to 500 µM, sitagliptin had no inhibitory effect on hOAT1- 
mediated  uptake  of  cidofovir,  while  probenecid,  a  known  inhibitor  of  organic  anion  transporters, 
showed potent inhibition with an IC50 of 3.9 ± 0.9 µM. Sitagliptin was a weak inhibitor of hOAT3-
mediated  cimetidine  uptake  with  an  IC50  value  of  160  ±  17  µM,  whereas  probenecid  significantly 
inhibited  hOAT3-mediated  transport  of  cimetidine  with  an  IC50  of  3.1  ±  1.2  µM.  Since  the  IC50 
values of sitagliptin for hOAT1 (>500 µM) and hOAT3 (160 µM) are so much higher than its plasma 
concentrations,  Cmax  ~1  µM  at  100  mg,  it  is  unlikely  that  it  will  cause  clinically  meaningful 
interactions with substrates of these transporters. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   6/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  effect  of  various  commonly  prescribed  drugs  (cimetidine,  enalapril,  enalaprilat,  fenofibrate, 
fenofibric acid, furosemide, gabapentin, ibuprofen, indapamide, probenecid and quinapril) on hOAT3-
mediated  uptake  of  sitagliptin  (2  µM)  was  evaluated  in  vitro  using  cell  lines  over-expressing  this 
transporter. The concentration of sitagliptin in these experiments was much lower than its Km value of 
162 µM in order to maximize the inhibitory effects. The Applicant stated that with the exception of 
probenecid,  the  IC50  values  of  all  drugs  tested  were  much  higher  than  their  maximum  total  or 
unbound concentration in plasma. However, besides probenecid also fenofibric acid, furosemide and 
ibuprofen had plasma Cmax concentrations of free and bound fraction above the observed IC50 levels.  
Sitagliptin  is  eliminated  by  renal  and  non-renal  mechanisms.  Assuming  that  tubular  reabsorption  of 
sitagliptin is minimal, approximately 50% of the total plasma clearance of sitagliptin is due to active 
renal  secretion.  Therefore,  even  in  the  unlikely  event  that  active  renal  secretion  is  completely 
inhibited; the change in plasma exposure of sitagliptin would be only approximately 2-fold. Given the 
apparently wide therapeutic index of sitagliptin, clinically relevant increases in plasma concentrations 
would  not  be  expected  in  the  presence  of  OAT3  inhibitors.  Concomitant  administration  of  OAT3 
inhibitors has not been evaluated in vivo. 
Metabolism:  In  vitro  assays  indicated  that  at  clinically  relevant  concentrations,  sitagliptin  did  not 
inhibit  cytochrome  P450s  or  Pgp,  nor  did  it  induce  human  CYP3A4.  The  sitagliptin  metabolites, 
which  were  present  at  low  to  trace  levels  in  plasma,  were  formed  by  N-sulfation,  N-carbamoyl 
glucuronidation,  hydroxylation  of  the  triazolopiperazine  ring,  and  by  oxidative  desaturation  of  the 
piperazine ring followed by cyclization via the primary amine. All the metabolites detected in human 
plasma were observed in rat and dog, however, not all observed metabolites were present in the same 
matrix as observed in humans. Due to the minor metabolism of this compound, consequences of the 
differences  in  metabolism  between  human,  rat  and  dog  on  the  observed  pharmacokinetics  are  not 
expected.  The  observed  in  vitro  metabolism  was  in  agreement  with  the  in  vivo  metabolism.  Only 
metabolite M1 was not observed in vitro.  
Excretion: In vitro plasma protein binding was low in mouse, rat, rabbit, dog, and human. Sitagliptin 
was excreted primarily unchanged in human, rat and dog. In dogs and humans, sitagliptin was cleared 
primarily  by  renal  excretion  of  parent  drug,  while  in  rats  it  was  cleared  by  both  renal  and  biliary 
excretion. Approximately 5 to 16% of a radiolabeled dose was recovered as phase I and II metabolites 
in  the  excreta.  Furthermore,  sitagliptin  observed  in  bile  from  dogs  was  significantly  lower  than  in 
human faeces and rat bile. Sitagliptin was secreted into rat milk; this is mentioned in section 5.3 of the 
SPC. As it is unknown if sitagliptin is excreted into human breast milk, it should not be used during 
breast-feeding (see section 4.6. of SPC). 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single dose studies with sitagliptin were performed  in mice and rats. The highest non-lethal dose in 
mice was 1000mg/kg (122 times the human exposure based on AUC). In rats the highest non-lethal 
dose was 2000mg/kg for females and 3000 mg/kg for males (271 and 182 times the human exposure 
based on AUC respectively). 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose toxicity studies were performed in mice (up to 93 days), rats (up to 184 days) and dogs 
(up to 365 days). The maximum non-lethal dose was 750 mg/kg/day for mice (approximately 80 times 
the human exposure based on AUC), 500 mg/kg/day for rats (48 times the human exposure based on 
AUC), and ≥ 50 mg/kg/day for dogs (≥ 22 times the human exposure based on AUC). In rats mortality 
was higher in males than females, while in mice it was higher in females. 
In  both  mice  and  rats  renal  toxicity  was  observed  at  systemic  exposure  values  above  58  times  the 
human exposure levels, while the no-effect level was found at 19 times the human exposure level. In 
mice it consisted of dilatation of the renal pelvis (associated with variable loss of papillary, medullary, 
and cortical tissue) and increases in relative kidney weights.  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   7/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  rats,  renal  toxicity  consisted  of  renal  tubular  necrosis  (accompanied  by  tubular  degeneration  and 
dilatation) and treatment related urinary changes (consistent with renal tubular necrosis). The mortality 
seen in rats was due to renal tubular necrosis.  
The  molecular  mechanism  of  the  renal  toxicity  is  very  likely  related  to  the  extremely  high  urinary 
concentrations  resulting  from  rapid  renal  elimination  of  the  drug  in  rodents.  Since  sitagliptin  is 
virtually completely absorbed following an oral dose in rodents, the initial body burden of the drug is 
likely to be more directly related to the dosage on a mg/kg body weight basis than on a plasma AUC 
basis. This would result in more than 2 orders of magnitude greater exposure in these animal studies 
compared to humans based on dosage (500 versus 2 mg/kg/day). Given the very high renal elimination 
rate  of  the  drug,  in  part  due  to  its  active  transport  into  the  kidney,  the  resulting  renal  exposures  in 
rodents  compared  to  humans  is  also  correspondingly  greater  than  predicted  based  on  plasma  AUC 
margins. The histological changes indicate a relatively non-specific cytotoxicity associated with these 
very high exposures. The specificity of the renal toxicity for rodents exposed to very high doses is also 
supported by the lack of any renal toxicity in dogs and rhesus monkeys (though no toxicology studies 
with rhesus monkeys were present in the Original Marketing Application, thus a safety margin for this 
species cannot be determined) treated within exposure margins of 26- to 28-fold compared to patients. 
In view of the much lower clinical exposures and body burden of the drug in humans at the clinical 
dose and the lack of any biochemical changes indicative of renal toxicity in patients, these high dose 
findings in rodents are not considered clinically relevant.  
Liver  toxicity  was  seen  in  both  mice  and  rats  and  consisted  of  liver  weight  increases,  centrilobular 
hepatocellular hypertrophy, inflammation, degeneration, and necrosis (at higher doses) in the 14-week 
range-finding  study  at  doses  ≥500  mg/kg/day;  and  cystic  degeneration  and  focal  hepatocellular 
alteration in the 106-week carcinogenicity study at 500 mg/kg/day. This was observed in male mice, 
and  in  male  and  female  rats.  Even  though  the  mechanism  for  sitagliptin-induced  renal  and  liver 
toxicity is not completely clear, the safety margins for these effects are sufficient. 
In addition, no hepatotoxicity was found in dogs treated with maximum-tolerated doses of sitagliptin 
for up to 1 year and no signal for hepatotoxicity has been found in clinical trials conducted at twice the 
maximum-recommended clinical dose.  
In rats sitagliptin caused upper incisor teeth abnormalities (broken and grossly thickened incisor teeth 
due to ameloblast and odontoblast degeneration), with a NOAEL of < 20 mg/kg/day. At 20mg/kg/day, 
exposure in rat is similar to the human exposure, based on AUC. Therefore no safety margin exists for 
teeth  abnormalities.  These  effects  were  only  observed  on  the  continuously  growing  teeth.  After 
revision  of  this  data  it  was  concluded  that  the  broken  teeth  in  the  low-dose  rat  study  were  not 
treatment-related. This implies that the NOEL for broken or missing teeth is 500 mg/kg/day for long-
term treatment, which corresponds to an acceptable safety margin. No NOEL can be established for 
discoloured  incisor  teeth  after  long-term  treatment.  However,  discoloration  was  only  observed  in 
incisor teeth of rats, and no discoloration was observed in mice (2-year, max 500mg/kg, safety margin 
of  57),  and  dogs  (1-year,  50mg/kg,  safety  margin  25)  after  long-term  treatment.  The  intended 
indication of the current application is T2DM or adult onset diabetes, thereby excluding patients with 
ongoing  tooth  development.  Therefore  it  is  agreed  that  the  discoloured  incisor  teeth  in  rats  can  be 
considered of little relevance for the intended patient population. 
Other  treatment-related  findings  in  the  rat  were  myocardial  degeneration,  mammary  gland  necrosis, 
uterine  atrophy,  tremors,  lymphoid  and  some  haematological  changes,  alopecia,  increased  organ 
weights  (thyroid  (F),  adrenal,  prostate)  and  decreased  organ  weights  (pituitary  gland  (F)  and  spleen 
(M)). These findings were observed at doses equal to or above the LOAEL for liver and renal toxicity. 
The safety margins for these effects are sufficient. 
Intermittent  tremors  of  a  transient  nature  were  observed  in  rats  receiving  high  doses  of  sitagliptin 
(≥1500  mg/kg/day).  The  NOEL  for  neurological  signs  in  dogs  was  10  mg/kg.  Examples  of  these 
neurological  signs  were  open-mouth  breathing,  salivation,  white  foamy  emesis,  ataxia,  trembling, 
decreased  activity,  and/or  hunched  posture.  The  occurrence  of  these  signs  may  be  concentration 
dependent  rather  than  exposure  dependent.  In  dogs,  the  safety  margin  for  these  effects  is 
approximately 6 (based on AUC as well as on Cmax). This is rather low, however no signs of neural 
toxicity were observed in the clinical trials with sitagliptin at doses sufficiently above the maximum 
recommended clinical dose. The neurological findings in rats and dogs are not considered relevant for 
humans  receiving  therapeutic  doses  of  sitagliptin.  However,  as  a  precautionary  measure  potential 
neurotoxicity is addressed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP).  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   8/39
 
 
 
The clinical relevance of the muscle fibre degeneration found in dogs is limited. This is based on the 
severity of muscle degeneration found in dogs, the relative low incidence of muscle degeneration in 
the  two  studies  (2/8  and  1/8  dogs  for  14-week  and  27-week  study,  respectively),  and  the  lack  of 
adverse muscle findings in the phase 3 trials. However, in view of a safety margin of ≥6, this finding 
will be monitored in the Risk Management Plan. 
In all species and at most doses tested, sitagliptin caused salivation. This effect was transient, started 
shortly after dosing, and lasted for several hours. This observation was not considered relevant for the 
human situation. 
Of the preclinical program on necrotic skin lesions in monkeys, the 14-week repeated dose study with 
the selective DPP-8/9 inhibitor L-000233357 has not been finished yet. The Applicant committed that 
the report of this study will be provided as soon as it is completed. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Sitagliptin  showed  no  genotoxic  effects  in  in  vitro  or  in  vivo  assays  on  mutagenicity  (Ames  test), 
direct DNA damage (in vitro test in primary rat hepatocytes), or clastogenicity (in vitro chromosome 
aberration test in Chinese hamster ovary cells, in vivo mouse micronucleus test). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
The  carcinogenic  potential  of  sitagliptin  was  determined  in  mice  and  rats.  In  the  two-year  mouse 
carcinogenicity study, there were no treatment-related increases in tumor incidence in any organ at all 
tested  doses  (50,  125,  250,  500  mg/kg/day).  Treatment-related  non-neoplastic  changes  were  seen  in 
both  sexes  and 
included  centrilobular  hepatocellular  hypertrophy  at  500  mg/kg/day  and 
hydronephrosis at ≥250 mg/kg/day. At 500 mg/kg/day, there was a slight, but not significant decrease 
in survival due to an increased incidence of hydronephrosis. Based on these findings, the NOEL for 
induction of neoplasia was >500 mg/kg/day and the NOEL for non-neoplastic changes 125 mg/kg/day 
in male and female mice. 
In  the  two-year  rat  carcinogenicity  study,  there  was  a  treatment-related  increase  in  hepatic  tumors 
(adenomas  and  carcinomas)  at  systemic  exposure  levels  58-times  the  human  exposure  levels.  There 
were  no  other  treatment-related  or  statistically  significant  increases  in  tumor  incidence  in  any  other 
organ.  Since  hepatotoxicity  (cystic  degeneration,  basophily  and  eosinophily  in  absence  of  necrosis) 
has  been  shown  to  correlate  with  induction  of  hepatic  neoplasia  in  rats,  this  increased  incidence  of 
hepatic tumors in rats was likely secondary to chronic hepatic toxicity at this high dose. Because of the 
high  safety  margin  (19-fold  at  this  no-effect  level),  these  neoplastic  changes  are  not  considered 
relevant  for  the  situation  in  humans.  The  historical controls  in  which  0.5%  (w/v)  methylcellulose  in 
deionized  water  was  used  as  vehicle  indicated  that  in  males  the  occurrence  of  hepatic  carcinomas 
tended to be higher (3.2%) than in females (0.7%). The two control groups of the rat carcinogenicity 
study showed hepatic carcinomas in about 0-2% of females and in 2-6% of the males. Thereby these 
controls fell within the same range as the historical controls 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Sitagliptin did not affect male or female fertility in rats at the limit dose of 1000 mg/kg/day. In the F0 
females,  a  reduction  in  body  weight  and  food  consumption  was  seen  at  ≥  250  mg/kg/day.  No 
treatment-related  effects  on  placental  morphology  were  observed  up  to  the  highest  dose  of  1000 
mg/kg/day. Sitagliptin was shown to cross the placental barrier with fetal exposure values 45 to 80% 
those in the dam and was also concentrated in milk about 4-fold compared to plasma. In the F1 pups, 
there were no external or visceral abnormalities and no fetal or postnatal developmental effects at ≤ 
250  mg/kg/day;  a  reduction  in  body  weight  was  seen  at  500  mg/kg/day  and  a  slight  increase  in  the 
incidence of rib anomalies (absent, hypoplastic, and wavy ribs) relative to control was found at 1000 
mg/kg/day.  From  these  findings  it  is  concluded  that  in  rats  the  NOEL  for  maternal  toxicity  is  125 
mg/kg/day and the NOEL for developmental toxicity 250 mg/kg/day. The safety margin at the NOEL 
for developmental toxicity is approximately 29, based on AUC values relative to the AUC in patients 
at the MRD. This margin is large enough to ensure the safety of sitagliptin for human reproduction. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   9/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rabbits, maternal toxicity was seen at 500 mg/kg/day (decreased food consumption, no faeces). This 
resulted  in  early  termination  of  this  group,  precluding  fetal  examination.  There  were  no  treatment-
related  effects  on  placental  morphology  and  no  developmental  toxicity  was  found  at  the  maximum 
evaluable dose of 125 mg/kg/day. At this dose, the AUC0-24 h was 189 µM•hr, resulting in a safety 
margin of about 22-fold relative to the AUC in patients at the MRD. It was concluded that this margin 
was large enough to ensure the safety of sitagliptin for human reproduction. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerability  of  sitagliptin  was  assessed  as  part  of  the  oral  toxicity  studies  described  in  the 
repeated-dose toxicity studies. Sitagliptin was not considered a dermal sensitizer based on an in vivo 
study  in  mice  (local  lymph  node  assay)  or  a  dermal  irritant  based  on  two  in  vivo  dermal  irritation 
studies in rabbits, and on an in vitro study with human epidermal cells. 
Immunotoxicity 
Inhibition  DPP-4  by  sitagliptin  does  not  seems  to  play  a  major  role  in  T  cell  dependent  immune 
responses. Animal data on the role of DPP-4 in T cell immune response showed no consistent changes 
after  inhibition/knock  out  of  DPP-4.  In  vitro  studies  showed  that  the  concentrations  of  sitagliptin 
needed  to  evoke  noticeable  effects  on  T  cells  are  sufficiently  far  above  the  maximal  plasma 
concentration,  which  is  reached  after  a  therapeutic  dose  of  100  mg  in  humans.  In  the  repeated-dose 
toxicity studies, there was no suggestion of an immunosuppressive effect of sitagliptin and there was 
no evidence of allergenicity in the local lymph node assay in mice (section on local tolerance). 
Phototoxicity 
Since  sitagliptin  has  only  a  single  absorption  peak  at  268  nM  with  no  detectable  absorption  in  the 
sunlight region of the electromagnetic energy spectrum (290 to 700 nM), no phototoxicity testing was 
performed with this drug. 
Impurities 
The specifications for the S-enantiomer of sitagliptin (regarded as an impurity since the synthesis is 
highly stereo-selective) are higher (≤0.5%) than the content in the batches used for the toxicity studies. 
Therefore  the  S-enantiomer  may  not  be  regarded  as  fully  qualified  (see  also  quality  part  of  this 
Assessment  report).  However,  it  should  be  noted  that  the  exposure  towards  both  enantiomers  of 
sitagliptin in the toxicology studies was much higher than under human therapeutic conditions even if 
the relative concentration of the S-enantiomer in the toxicologically tested batches was lower than in 
later batches. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Neither an assessment of the terrestrial compartment nor an assessment of bioaccumulation is needed. 
Sitagliptin  phosphate  is  not  a  vPvB  substance,  meaning  it  is  not  very  persistent  and  very 
bioaccumulative,  nor  PBT  (persistent  and  bioaccumulative  and  toxic),  since  the  criterion  for 
bioaccumulation is not fulfilled. 
An  acute  ecotoxicity  dataset  on  sitagliptin  phosphate  was  reported.  Given  the  therapeutic  class  of 
sitagliptin phosphate, acute tests on lethal endpoints (mortality, immobility) are considered irrelevant. 
The  21-day  Daphnia  reproduction  study  (OECD  211)  and  33-day  fish  early  life  stage  study  (OECD 
210)  indicated  a  no-observable-effect  concentration  (NOEC)  of  9.8  mg/L  for  Daphnia  magna  and  a 
NOEC of 9.2 mg/L for Pimephales promelas in the fish early life stage study. 
The risk of the use of sitagliptin to the aquatic environment is acceptable. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   10/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical  efficacy  was  studied  in  4  Phase  II  and  5  Phase  III  studies.  Overall,  3884  patients  were 
randomised  into  the  sitagliptin  Phase  II  (1477  patients)  and  Phase  III  studies  (2407  patients)  In  the 
Phase II studies, 1116 patients were treated with sitagliptin (5mg to 100 mg per day); in the Phase III 
studies, 1538 patients were treated with sitagliptin (100 mg q.d. or 200 mg q.d) and an additional 65 
patients  with  T2DM  and  chronic  renal  insufficiency  were  treated  with  doses  adjusted  for  decreased 
renal function. 
The applicant modified the initially proposed indication to: “Xelevia is indicated in patients with type 
2  diabetes  mellitus  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  metformin  when  diet  and 
exercise plus metformin do not provide adequate glycaemic control. For patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus in whom use of a PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) is appropriate, Xelevia is indicated 
in combination with the PPARγ agonist when diet and exercise plus the PPARγ agonist alone do not 
provide  adequate  glycaemic  control.”  which  was  granted  by  the  CHMP.  The  dose  of  Xelevia  is 
100 mg once daily. The dosage of metformin or PPARγ agonist should be maintained, and sitagliptin 
administered concomitantly.  
Both  in  January  2004  and  June  2004  the  Applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  on  the  clinical 
development  programme  intended  to  provide  data  to  support  the  originally  proposed  indication,  on 
study  design  issues,  on  dosing  in  patients  with  chronic  renal  insufficiency  and  on  toxico-
pharmacological and clinical development. The company followed this scientific advice. 
Sitagliptin was studied in patients with renal insufficiency. However in the case of moderate or severe 
renal  insufficiency  (creatinine  clearance  < 50  ml/min)  the  clinical  experience  was  considered  too 
limited and therefore, the use of the product in these patients is currently not recommended. 
Sitagliptin  was  also  studied  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  insufficiency  in  which  dose 
adjustment is not necessary; but not in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency.  
Limited  safety  data  was  available  in  patients  ≥ 75 years  of  age  and  care  should  be  exercised  when 
treating these patients. 
No studies with sitagliptin were performed in the paediatric population, therefore the use of sitagliptin 
is not recommended in children below 18 years of age; this is addressed as a post authorisation follow 
up measure.  
An overview of the relevant clinical studies contributing to efficacy profile of sitagliptin can be found 
in the Clinical Efficacy Section (see Table 1). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the Applicant. 
The  Applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
Twenty-seven studies including four studies in T2DM were conducted in the Clinical Pharmacology 
program to characterize the pharmacokinetic characteristics of sitagliptin.  
Absorption  Following  oral  administration  of  a  100  mg  dose,  maximal  plasma  concentrations  of 
sitagliptin were reached within 1 to 4 hours. The absolute bioavailability of sitagliptin is high i.e. 87%. 
A  high-fat  meal  had  no  effect  on  the  rate  or  extent  of  absorption;  therefore,  sitagliptin  can  be 
administered with or without food.  
Distribution Following 100 mg IV dose, the steady state volume of distribution was estimated to be 
approximately 198 liters, indicating that sitagliptin distributes to the tissues. Plasma protein binding is 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   11/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
low  (38%  bound)  thus  the  potential  for  clinically  relevant  drug-drug  interactions  by  plasma  protein 
binding  displacement  is  low.  The  equilibrium  blood-to-plasma  concentration  ratio  of  sitagliptin  is 
1.21. 
Metabolism Generally, metabolism is a minor pathway of elimination. Following a [14C]-labeled oral 
dose, approximately 16% of the radiolabeled sitagliptin was recovered as metabolites. In vitro studies 
suggested  that  the  primary  enzymes  responsible  for  the  metabolism  were  CYP3A4  and,  to  a  lesser 
extent CYP2C8. Since the metabolites were present at low concentrations in plasma relative to parent 
compound,  sitagliptin,  and  not  its  metabolites,  was  considered  mainly  responsible  for  DPP-4 
inhibitory activity. 
Elimination  Plasma  clearance  following  100  mg  IV  dose  was  417  ml/min.  Renal  clearance  and 
plasma elimination half-life were similar after IV and oral dosing. The apparent terminal plasma half-
life is approximately 10-12 hours. Renal excretion of unchanged sitagliptin is the primary mechanism 
of elimination. In patients and subjects with normal renal function (CrCl >80 mL/min), approximately 
75 to 80 % of an oral dose is excreted unchanged in urine with a renal clearance of approximately 350 
mL/min. Since renal clearance exceeds the typical glomerular filtration rate in humans, it appears to 
involve active tubular secretion mechanisms. The results of in vitro studies indicted that sitagliptin is a 
substrate for the human organic anion transporter-3 (hOAT3) and Pgp, but not a substrate of human 
organic  cation  transporter-2  (hOCT2),  or  hOAT1.  As  cyclosporine  A  did  not  affect  the  renal 
elimination of sitagliptin, Pgp appears not to be involved in the renal excretion. The role of hOAT3 
and/or other transporters in the active renal secretion is unknown. 
Dose  and  time  dependency  Following  oral  (5-600  mg)  and  IV  (25-100  mg)  doses,  the  AUC  of 
sitagliptin  increased  dose-proportionally,  indicating  that  the  plasma  clearance  and  the bioavailability 
are  independent  of  the  dose  administered.  Cmax  increased  in  a  modestly  greater  way  than  dose-
proportional. This may be due to saturation of Pgp in the enterocytes at high sitagliptin concentrations 
resulting in faster absorption and higher Cmax. Sitagliptin did not accumulate with once daily doses; the 
AUC0-24hr accumulation ratio for 100-mg daily oral doses was estimated to be approximately 1.10.  
Type 2 Diabetes Patients with T2DM had similar pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin compared to healthy 
subjects. 
Special  populations Effect of gender, weight, age (elderly), race, renal and hepatic insufficiency on 
pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin were investigated adequately in phase I studies.  
Gender. Phase I composite analysis showed a slightly higher exposure in females compared to males: 
the geometric mean ratios (female N=79, male N=193) and corresponding 90% were 1.11 (1.07, 1.15) 
for  sitagliptin  AUC0-∞  and  1.34  (1.26,  1.42)  for  Cmax.  These  slight  differences  were  not  clinically 
meaningful. 
Weight. In a phase I study, sitagliptin AUC0-∞ was modestly lower, while Cmax was similar for young 
male  obese  subjects  as  compared  to  the  young  male  non-obese  subjects.  The  AUC0-∞  and  Cmax 
geometric mean ratio (GMR) values (obese male/non-obese male) with corresponding 90% confidence 
intervals (CIs) were 0.77 (0.69, 0.86) and 0.91 (0.73, 1.14), respectively. No dose adjustment based on 
weight is necessary.  
Age.  Elderly  subjects  (65-75  years)  had  higher  plasma  sitagliptin  concentrations  as  compared  to  the 
young (<45 years). Pooled across genders, the AUC0-∞ and Cmax GMR values (Elderly/ Young) with 
corresponding 90% CIs were 1.31 (1.19, 1.43) and 1.23 (1.04, 1.46), respectively. This was probably 
due  to  lower  renal  excretion  associated  with  a  lower  creatinine  clearance  in  the  elderly  patients. 
Pharmacokinetics  of  sitagliptin  has  not  been  evaluated  in  patients  >  75  years  of  age.  No  dose 
adjustment other than based on creatinine clearance is necessary in elderly patients.  
Race.  In  a  composite  analysis  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters  obtained  in  Phase  I  studies  136 
Caucasians,  15  Blacks,  79  Hispanics  and  42  Asians  were 
included.  The  GMRs  (Non-
Caucasian/Caucasian) and corresponding 90% CIs from the composite analysis for AUC0-∞ were not 
different for Black 0.92 (0.86, 0.99), for Hispanic 0.95 (0.91, 0.99) and for Asian subjects 1.02 (0.97, 
1.06). 
Hepatic insufficiency.  Ten patients with moderate hepatic insufficiency (score of 7 to 9 on the Child-
Pugh’s scale) and ten healthy matched control subjects were enrolled in a hepatic impairment study. 
AUC was increased by 21% (90% CI 1% , 46%) and Cmax by 13% (-9%, 42%). No dose adjustment is 
needed.  Pharmacokinetics  in  subjects  with  severe  hepatic  insufficiency  was  not  studied.  This  is 
adequately described in the SPC. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   12/39
 
 
 
Renal  Insufficiency.  Sitagliptin  plasma  concentrations  increased  approximately  1.6-fold  in  patients 
with  mild  renal  insufficiency  as  compared  to  subjects  with  normal  renal  function.  Patients  with 
moderate and severe renal insufficiency had approximately 2.3- and 3.8-fold, respectively, increased 
plasma drug exposure and patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) requiring haemodialysis had 
an approximately 4.5-fold higher plasma drug exposure. Steady-state is expected to be reached later in 
patients  with  renal  impairment.  Based  on  this  single  dose  study,  no  dose  adjustment  is  required  for 
mild renal impairment, however as experience still remains limited in patients with moderate to severe 
renal insufficiency, these should not be treated with sitagliptin. This is reflected in the SPC. Treatment 
in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  renal  insufficiency  will  be  addressed  as  part  of  the  post-
authorisation follow up measures, and in the RMP.  
The Applicant was requested to discuss the impact of non-renal clearance on the pharmacokinetics of 
sitagliptin  in  renally  impaired  subjects  and  to  discuss  potential  interactions  with  drugs  that  affect 
CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 mediated metabolism. Study P008 that assessed metabolites suggested that the 
rate of metabolite formation is largely independent of renal function and that substantial accumulation 
of metabolites is not expected.  
Results  from  this  study  also  showed  that  effects  of  moderate  CYP3A4  inhibition  on  sitagliptin 
pharmacokinetics are expected to be modest. However, the effects of potent metabolism inhibitors on 
sitagliptin exposure are anticipated to be strongly dependent on renal function (increase of <2-fold in 
moderate renal insufficiency and ≤5-fold increase with severe renal insufficiency) and have not been 
assessed in a clinical study. Therefore, there remains a concern that potent CYP3A4 inhibitors such as 
ketoconazole,    itraconazole,  ritonavir  and  clarithromycin  may  increase  sitagliptin  exposure  to  a 
clinically relevant extent in patients with severe renal insufficiency or ESRD. This concern is reflected 
in section 4.5 of the SPC. 
interaction  studies  were  conducted:  sitagliptin  did  not  alter 
Interactions  In  vitro  studies  indicated  that  sitagliptin  did  not  inhibit  CYPs  or  induce  CYP3A4  at 
physiological concentrations. As it is mainly excreted unchanged in the urine, it has low potential for 
cytochrome P450 mediated drug-drug interactions in vivo. The Applicant discussed that induction of 
sitagliptin  metabolism  and  Pgp  are  unlikely  to  result  in  clinically  relevant  effects  and  showed  that 
sitagliptin was not an inducer of CYP1A2 and CYP2C9. 
the 
Eight  clinical  drug-drug 
pharmacokinetics  of  metformin,  glyburide,  simvastatin,  rosiglitazone,  warfarin  or  oral 
contraceptives to a clinically relevant extent.  
Sitagliptin  at  100  and  200  mg  doses  slightly  increased  the  digoxin  Cmax  plasma  concentrations  with 
18% and 24% respectively. No digoxin dose adjustment is needed, and only patients at risk of digoxin 
toxicity need to be monitored.  
Co-administration of metformin 1000mg bid had no effect on pharmacokinetics of sitagliptin 50 mg 
bid.  
Cyclosporine  A  (600  mg  qd)  increased  the  Cmax  of  sitagliptin  (100  mg  qd)  1.7-fold  (68%)  and  the 
AUC  1.3-fold  (29%)  but  had  no  significant  effect  on  its  renal  clearance.  The  observed  effects  with 
cyclosporine  A,  a  potent  Pgp  inhibitor,  suggest  that  sitagliptin  is  a  Pgp  substrate  in  vivo  but  Pgp 
appears  not  to  be  involved  in  its  renal  excretion.  The  effects  of  high  dose  of  cyclosporine  A  were 
modest  probably  due  to  the  high  absolute  bioavailability  of  sitagliptin  and  are  considered  to  be 
clinically insignificant. Therefore, no meaningful interactions are expected with other Pgp inhibitors. 
(see Non-Clinical section). 
As stated previously in the Non-Clinical section, in vitro studies indicated that an hOAT3 transporter 
may  be  involved  in  the  renal  excretion  of  sitagliptin.  Data  indicate  that  sitagliptin  is  a  substrate  for 
OAT3, but is unlikely to perpetrate or be susceptible to clinically meaningful drug-drug interactions 
with  other  OAT3  substrates.  As  noted  above,  drug-drug  interaction  data  with  other  OAT  or  OCT 
substrates  suggest  that  the  magnitude  of  change  in  plasma  concentrations  resulting  from  these 
interactions  is  modest.  Sitagliptin  is  also  eliminated  by  non-renal  mechanisms.  Taken  together, 
sitagliptin  is  not  expected  to  be  a  perpetrator  or  victim  of  drug-drug  interactions  in  a  clinically 
meaningful way. 
Pharmacodynamics 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   13/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacodynamics was studied in 9 trials, including 252 healthy volunteers and 58 T2DM patients. In 
these studies the effects of sitagliptin were investigated on DPP-4 activity, incretins, and on glucose, 
insulin, C-peptide and glucagon levels. 
Since theoretically a DPP-4 inhibitor might stabilize potentially vasoactive peptides such as substance 
P, an ambulatory blood pressure study was conducted in 18 hypertensive patients, stably treated with 
one or more antihypertensive agents.  
•  Mechanism of action 
Sitagliptin is the first of a novel class of antihyperglycaemic agents, dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors. 
Although several actions potentially contribute to the glucose-lowering effect of DPP-4 inhibitors, the 
most  likely  mechanism  is  through  elevated  incretin  concentrations  that  lead  to  enhancement  of 
glucose-dependent  insulin  secretion  and  a  reduction  in  glucagon  release.  Increases  in  incretin 
concentrations  occur  because  DPP-4  inhibition  reduces  the  cleavage  and  inactivation  of  the  active 
(intact) form of the incretin hormones, including GLP-1 and GIP. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary pharmacology 
Single dose pharmacodynamics were studied in P001, P001C1, P003 and P013, including a total of 
90  healthy  male  volunteers,  healthy  elderly  male  and  female  subjects,  young  female  subjects,  obese 
males and 18 Japanese subjects. Multiple dose pharmacodynamics were investigated in P004,  P007, 
RC715A111  and  RC431A112 including a total of 162 healthy male volunteers, middle-aged, obese 
male  and  female  subjects,  and  60  healthy  young  male  Japanese  subjects.  Single  dose 
pharmacodynamics  in  T2DM  patients  were  investigated  in  P005,  including  58  drug  naïve  patients 
with mild to moderate T2DM.  
Proximal  biomarkers  were  DPP-4  activity  and  incretins  (GLP-1  and  GIP-levels,  active  and  total). 
Distal biomarkers included glucose, insulin, C-peptide and glucagon levels. 
In both normoglycaemic healthy subjects and patients with T2DM, sitagliptin inhibited plasma DPP-4 
activity in a dose and concentration-dependent manner. Results of study P001 are shown in Figure 1.  
Figure 1: Mean Percent Inhibition (%) of DPP-4 Activity From Baseline Versus Time (Hours) Post-dose 
After Single Oral Doses of MK-0431 in Healthy Young Male Subjects (N=6) (P001, P001C1) (Mean ± SE). 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   14/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results from other studies were similar. Race, gender and age did not have meaningful effects on the 
relationship between sitagliptin plasma concentrations and DPP-4 activity. 
Sitagliptin  increased  post-meal  (in  healthy  subjects  and  T2DM  patients)  and  post-oral  glucose 
tolerance  test  (OGTT)  (in  T2DM  patients)  active  GLP-1  levels  by  approximately  2-3-fold,  as 
compared to placebo. Active GIP levels were similarly increased following an OGTT in patients with 
T2DM. Sitagliptin did not increase total GLP-1 or GIP plasma levels. 
In normoglycaemic healthy subjects, sitagliptin had no consistent, treatment-related effect on fasting 
or  post-meal  levels  of  glucose,  C-peptide,  insulin  or  glucagon  levels.  In  middle-aged  obese 
individuals, sitagliptin reduced post-OGTT glucose excursion. In T2DM patients single oral doses of 
sitagliptin  reduced  post-OGTT  glucose  excursion,  increased  insulin/C-peptide  levels  and  decreased 
glucagon levels. 
Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic analyses from the single dose study P005 in T2DM patients 
suggested  that  near-maximal  reduction  of  post-challenge  glucose  excursion  was  associated  with 
sitagliptin plasma concentrations of approximately 100 nM or higher, plasma DPP-4 inhibition of 80% 
or higher and augmentation of post-challenge active GLP-1 levels of 2-fold or higher. It was reasoned 
that for optimal chronic glucose lowering in T2DM patients, plasma DPP-4 inhibition should be 80% 
or  greater  at  trough.  These  data  served  as  the  basis  for  selecting  doses  in  the  Phase  II  dose  range 
finding studies P010 and P014. 
As GLP-1 has been demonstrated to slow gastric emptying, it was thought that this effect might also 
be seen with sitagliptin. No Phase II study investigating gastric emptying was performed. This issue 
was examined in the larger Phase III studies; selected gastrointestinal adverse events (AEs) (including 
nausea,  vomiting,  abdominal  pain,  and  diarrhoea)  were  subjected  to  additional  statistical  analysis  to 
define increases in their occurrence, and all gastrointestinal AEs were carefully reviewed. 
Further information on gastric emptying will be submitted as part of the post authorisation follow-up 
measures. 
Secondary pharmacology 
Study P011 was performed in 18 patients with mild-to-moderate hypertension on stable treatment with 
one  or  more  antihypertensive  agents  to  evaluate  the  influence  of  sitagliptin  on  ambulatory  blood 
pressure  as  well  as  safety  and  tolerability.  Small  but  statistically  significant  or  nearly  significant 
decreases in mean 24-hour blood pressure between both 100 mg b.i.d. and 50mg compared to placebo 
were  observed  for  systolic  blood  pressure  (SBP),  diastolic  blood  pressure  (DBP)  and  mean  arterial 
pressure (MAP). 
To fulfil recent draft regulatory guidance (ICH E14) study P032 was performed in 86 (79 available for 
final QTc analysis) healthy subjects to assess the potential effect of therapeutic and supratherapeutic 
doses of sitagliptin on SBP and QTc interval prolongation. Following a dose of 800 mg, QTc interval 
was  slightly  increased,  but  not  to  a  clinically  significant  extent.  However,  considering  the  data 
separately by gender, a borderline effect was seen in females at the high dose (800mg) (mean value 
5.85 msec with an upper limit of the 95% CI of 9.96 (~10) msec, which is the threshold according to 
ICH guideline E14). However, sitagliptin was shown to inhibit HERG current at concentrations (IC50 
117 µM, worst case scenario) that were far beyond therapeutic free plasma levels. The safety margin 
calculated  from  non-clinical  studies  was  38,  which  was  considered  sufficient,  even  if  women  were 
slightly  more  sensitive  to  an  effect  of  sitagliptin  on  QTc.  No  change  in  QTc  interval  was  measured 
after a single dose of 100 mg. 
Clinical efficacy  
Clinical efficacy was studied in 4 phase II and 5 phase III studies. Table 1. gives an overview of the 
Phase II/III studies contributing to the efficacy profile of sitagliptin.  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   15/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Overview of phase II and phase III studies contributing to efficacy profile of sitagliptin 
Study ID 
Primary Endpoint 
Design 
Phase II Monotherapy 
P010 
Treatment arms (n patients/arm) 
12 weeks 
Duration 
HbA1c 
DB, R, PC, AC, 
Dose finding 
P014 
DB, R, PC, 
Dose finding 
P015 
DB, R, PC, CO 
RC431A201 
DB, PC, 
Japan 
Phase II extension studies 
P010X1 
Extension of 
P010 
P014X1 
Extension of 
P014 
• Placebo (125) 
• Sitagliptin 5 mg b.i.d. (125) 
• Sitagliptin 12.5 mg b.i.d. (123) 
• Sitagliptin 25 mg b.i.d. (123) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. (124) 
• Glipizide 5-20 mg (elective titration) 
(123) 
• Placebo (111) 
• Sitagliptin 25 mg q.d. (111) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg q.d. (112) 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (110) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. (111) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d./placebo (15) 
• Placebo/MK-0431 50 mg b.i.d (13) 
• Placebo (76) 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (75) 
• Sitagliptin 5 mg b.i.d. (85) 
• Sitagliptin 12.5 mg b.i.d. (82) 
• Sitagliptin 25 mg b.i.d. q.d. (92) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. (91) 
• Placebo/ Sitagliptin q.d. (80) 
• Glipizide 5-20 mg (continuing base 
study titrated dose) (79) 
‡All pat's switched to 100 mg q.d. 
• Sitagliptin 25 mg q.d. (70) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg q.d. (69) 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (65) 
• Sitagliptin 50 mg b.i.d. (71) 
• Placebo/Metformin 850 mg b.i.d. (63) 
‡ All pat's switched to 100 mg q.d. 
Phase III studies, monotherapy 
P021V1† 
DB, R, PC, AC 
P023V1† 
DB, R, PC, AC 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (238) 
• Sitagliptin 200 mg q.d. (250) 
• Placebo (253) 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (205) 
• Sitagliptin 200 mg q.d. (206) 
• Placebo (110) 
Phase III studies, combination with Metformin 
P020V1† 
DB, R, PC, AC 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (464) 
• Placebo (237) 
P024V1 
DB, R, AC 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (588) 
• Glipizide (584) 
Phase III study, combination with Pioglitazone 
P019 
DB, R, PC 
• Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (175) 
• Placebo (178) 
Phase III study - renal insufficiency 
P028V1† 
DB, R, PC 
• Placebo (26) 
• Sitagliptin 25 – 50 mg (considered as 
one sitagliptin treatment group -- 
patients are stratified according to 
severity of renal insufficiency) (65) 
12 weeks 
HbA1c 
2 x 4 
weeks 
12 weeks 
24-hour weighted mean 
glucose (WMG) 
HbA1c 
40 weeks 
No prim. endpoint. 
Sec: HbA1c, FPG, mean daily 
SBGM data (7-point 
fingerstick glucose average), 
and body weight 
40 weeks 
No prim. endpoint. 
Sec: HbA1c, FPG, mean daily 
SBGM data (7-point 
fingerstick glucose average), 
and body weight 
HbA1c 
HbA1c 
24 weeks 
PC, 
80 weeks 
AC 
18 weeks 
PC, 
36 weeks 
AC 
HbA1c 
24 weeks 
PC, 
80 weeks 
AC 
104 weeks  HbA1c 
24 weeks 
HbA1c 
12 weeks 
PC, 42 
weeks AC 
No prim or sec efficacy 
endpoint. 
Other: HbA1c, FPG. 
† P020V1, P021V1, P023V1, P028V1 studies include 2 phases of the double-blind treatment period. For each study, data from Phase A only 
are included herein. 
‡ Once results from the Phase II dose-range finding studies were available, an amendment to the extension study protocol provided for 
patients not on sitagliptin 100 mg to be switched to this dose for the remainder of the extension study. For this reason, patients on sitagliptin 
were switched at different time-points during the extension studies to sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. 
b.i.d. = Twice daily; q.d.= once daily; FPG= fasting plasma glucose; HbA1c = hemoglobin A1c; MTT= meal tolerance test; PMG= post-
meal glucose; SBGM=self-blood glucose monitoring; WMG= weighted mean glucose. 
DB = double-blind; R = randomised; PC = placebo controlled; AC = active controlled; CO = cross-over 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   16/39
 
 
 
•  Dose response studies 
Results  of  P010  and  P014  (dose  finding)  showed  that  sitagliptin  provided  improvements  in  glucose 
control,  as  reflected  by  reductions  across  glycaemic  endpoints  examined  (e.g.  HbA1c,  FPG,  and 
fructosamine). A total daily dose of 100 mg per day, given either as 100 mg once daily (q.d.) (P014) or 
50  mg  twice  daily  (b.i.d.)  (P010)  provided  maximum  glucose  lowering;  there  was  no  meaningful 
difference  in  efficacy  between  these  dosing  regimens.  Thus,  these  studies  supported  selection  of  the 
sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. for further development. The dose-response relationship was very flat for all 
efficacy endpoints studied. Therefore, it was difficult to conclude superiority of a 100 mg compared to 
a 50 mg daily dose. On the other hand, since the safety profile of sitagliptin did not appear to be dose-
dependent, the choice of the 100 mg daily dose was acceptable. Since no clear plateau between 50 and 
100 mg per day was established however, doses above 100 mg per day were considered to have the 
potential  of  providing  additional  glycaemic  benefit.  For  this  reason,  a  dose  of  200  mg  per  day  was 
included in selected Phase III studies. 
•  Main studies  
The pivotal studies were two monotherapy trials (P021V1, P023V1), two combination trials (P020V1, 
P019) and active comparator trial P024V1. Study P028V1 and P015 were considered supplementary 
trials. Study P024V1 was submitted as part of the answers to the D120 LoQ. 
METHODS 
Monotherapy studies 
P021V:  A  multicenter  randomised,  double-blind,  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of 
sitagliptin  monotherapy  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  who  have  inadequate  glycaemic 
control. 
P023V1: A multicenter, randomised, double blind study of sitagliptin in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control. 
Combination studies 
P019:  A  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the 
addition of sitagliptin to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control 
on pioglitazone therapy. 
P020V1:  A  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the 
addition of sitagliptin to patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus who have inadequate glycaemic control 
on metformin therapy. 
Active comparative trial 
P024V1:  A  multicenter,  double-blind,  randomised  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  the 
addition  of  sitagliptin  compared  with  sulfonylurea  therapy  in  patients  with  type  2  diabetes  with 
inadequate glycaemic control on metformin monotherapy. 
Study Participants  
Male and female patients, ages 18 to 78 years, who were either not on an antihyperglycaemic agent 
(AHA),  on  an  AHA  monotherapy  or  low  dose  combination  therapy  at  ≤50%  of  maximum  dose  of 
either  agent,  were  eligible  to  participate  in  the  monotherapy  studies.  Patients  who  met  enrolment 
criteria entered an up to 13-week diet/exercise and, for patients on an AHA, a wash-off run-in period.  
A wide range of T2DM patients were eligible to be screened for the combination studies and active 
comparator study, including patients not currently on an AHA, patients on monotherapy, and patients 
on  dual  oral  combination  therapies.  Patients  entered  a  run-in  period  in  which  their  AHAs  were 
discontinued,  and  treatment  with  the  single  agent  was  initiated,  titrated  as  necessary,  and  then 
maintained at a stable dose.  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   17/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatments 
In the monotherapy studies, patients who had HbA1c within ≥7 to ≤10% after the run-in period were 
randomised,  after  completion  of  a  2-week  single-blind  placebo  treatment  period,  to  placebo  or 
sitagliptin  100  or  200  mg  q.d.  (1:1:1  ratio  for  P021V1  and  1:2:2  ratio  for  P023V1).  There  was  no 
stratification in either study.  
P021V1 had a 24-week double-blind treatment period (Phase A). At week 24 patients on placebo were 
switched  to  glipizide  (Phase  B),  a  36-week  active  treatment  period.  The  second-year  of  Phase  B  is 
currently ongoing. 
P023  had  an  18-week  double-blind  treatment  period  (Phase  A),  and  also  a  longer-term  (Phase  B) 
treatment period.  
An  additional  feature  of  both  studies  was  rescue  therapy  with  metformin  in  patients  with  poor 
glycaemic control. This rescue treatment was used as add-on therapy and was provided so as to allow 
patients  to  benefit  from  continued  participation  in  the  study  and  to  support  collection  of  a  larger 
database of safety and tolerability information while avoiding prolonged exposure to poorer control.  
In  the  combination  studies  P019  (+PIO)  and  P020V1  (+MET),  patients  who  had  inadequate 
glycaemic  control  (HbA1c  ≥7  and  ≤10%)  after  the  dose-stable  run-in  period  were  eligible  to  be 
randomised after completing a 2-week, single-blind, placebo run-in period. Patients were randomised 
to either placebo or to sitagliptin 100 mg q.d. (1:1 ratio for P019 and 1:2 ratio for P020V1).  Rescue 
therapy was also included in both trials. 
The  percentage  of  patients  with  rescue  therapy  seen  in  studies  P020V1  (monotherapy)  and  P021V1 
(+MET) reached substantial figures (4-7% in treatment groups, 12-18% in placebo groups). To avoid 
the confounding influence of rescue therapy on efficacy comparisons in Phase A, the efficacy analyses 
treated data as missing after the initiation of rescue therapy. The primary approach to handling missing 
data was the last observation carried forward (LOCF) method. These patients had high HbA1c values 
just  before  rescue  therapy.  If  the  actual  values  for  HbA1c  had  been  used,  the  rescue  patients  would 
have had on average lower values for HbA1c after initiation of rescue therapy. Therefore, the decrease 
in HbA1c within groups would have been larger with the actual values for HbA1c compared to using 
the  LOCF  values  for  HbA1c  after  initiation  in  rescue  patients.  The  difference  in  mean  change  in 
HbA1c between the groups was larger with the LOCF values substituted in rescue patients compared 
to using the actual HbA1c values. As a consequence, the difference in change from baseline between 
the treatment and placebo was larger in the All-Patients-Treated (APT) analysis than in the completers 
analysis.  The  Applicant  was  requested  to  submit  the  mean  change  HbA1c  within  groups  and  mean 
difference between groups with the actual values for HbA1c in rescue patients in order to assess the 
sensitivity on the outcome for various analysis methods. Once submitted, this data did not change the 
overall conclusions.  
In P024V1 (active comparator) patients who were already on metformin at a stable dose (for at least 10 
weeks)  of  ≥1500  mg/day with inadequate glycaemic control  (i.e., HbA1c  ≥6.5%  but  ≤10%)  entered  a 2-
week,  single-blind  placebo  run-in  period,  and  after  completion  were  eligible  to  be  randomised.  Patients 
currently on other AHA(s) had these discontinued and were started on metformin monotherapy, as were 
patients  not  currently  on  AHA(s).  Patients  already  on  metformin  continued  on  metformin  monotherapy. 
The  dose  of  metformin  was  titrated  to  at  least  1500  mg  per  day  within  6  weeks,  and  after  up-titration, 
patients entered a metformin dose-stable period of variable length, depending on patient characteristics, of 
at least 6 to 10 weeks in duration. 
Patients  on  metformin  ≥1500  mg/day  were  randomised  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  sitagliptin  100  mg  q.d.  or 
glipizide, which was initiated at a dose of 5 mg/day for a 104-week double-blind treatment period. Up-
titration of glipizide was performed over 18 weeks to a maximum dose of 20 mg. After 18 weeks no 
increase in glipizide dose was permitted, as a result of which the full potential of this drug may have 
been prevented. 
Objectives 
The primary objectives of the monotherapy studies were: 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   18/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P021V: (1) After 24 weeks, to assess the effect of treatment with sitagliptin compared with placebo on 
HbA1c. (2) To assess the safety and tolerability of sitagliptin. 
P023V1:  (1)  After  18  weeks,  treatment  with  sitagliptin  compared  with  placebo  will  provide  greater 
reduction in HbA1c; (2) sitagliptin will be well tolerated. 
The primary objectives of the combination and active comparator studies were: 
P019: (1) After 24 weeks, to assess the effect of the addition of treatment with sitagliptin compared 
with placebo on HbA1c. (2) To assess the safety and tolerability of sitagliptin. 
P020V1: (1) After 24 weeks, to assess the effect of the addition of treatment with sitagliptin compared 
with placebo on HbA1c; (2) To assess the safety and the tolerability of sitagliptin 
P024V1: (1) After 52 weeks, to assess the effect of the addition of sitagliptin compared with glipizide 
on HbA1c (2) To assess the safety and the tolerability of sitagliptin compared with glipizide. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  for  the  5  Phase  III  studies  was  the  change  from  baseline  in  HbA1c; 
fasting plasma glucose was a key secondary endpoint in all studies.  
Sample size 
In  P021V1,  P023V1,  P020V1  and  P019,  sample  sizes  were  calculated  to  detect  a  true  difference  of 
0.5% in mean change from baseline in HbA1c between sitagliptin 100 mg and placebo for a two-tailed 
test at α=0.05 with a power of 99%. 
In P024V1 it was calculated that a sample size of 375 patients per group had greater than 96% power 
to declare non-inferiority for a margin of δ = 0.3% assuming that the true mean difference in HbA1c 
between sitagliptin and glipizide was 0%. The power calculation was based upon a two-tailed test at = 
0.05. 
Blinding 
Blinding  was  accomplished  by  random,  masked  assignment  of  allocation  numbers  to  the  treatment 
groups and by ensuring the drug supplies administered in the treatment groups appeared identical. 
Statistical methods 
In all pivotal studies an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model was used to compare the treatment 
groups  in  the  continuous  efficacy  parameters,  focusing  on  HbA1c change  from  baseline  (Week  0)  at 
study  endpoint.  Analyses  are  adjusted  for  baseline  values  and  presence  or  absence  of  AHA 
medication.  
The  primary  hypothesis  in  studies  P021V1,  P023V1,  P020V1  and  P019,  regarding  superiority  of 
sitagliptin to placebo in decreasing HbA1c was assessed using a closed testing procedure.  
The  primary  approach  to  handling  missing  data  was  the  last  observation  carried  forward  (LOCF) 
method. 
A maximum likelihood approach for repeated measurements was used as the secondary approach for 
handling missing data and a completers analysis. 
The  similarity  hypothesis  in  P024V1  (active  comparator  trial)  was  assessed  as  a  non-inferiority 
hypothesis,  that  is,  that  sitagliptin  was  not  clinically  inferior  to  (or  no  worse  than)  glipizide  in 
lowering HbA1c by more than a defined amount, δ=0.3%, the non-inferiority margin. 
The primary population for efficacy analysis was the “per-protocol” (PP) population. The ANCOVA 
model  included  terms  for  treatment,  prior  diabetes  pharmacotherapy,  and  baseline  HbA1c  as  a 
covariate. If the upper boundary of the two-sided 95% CI for the mean difference between sitagliptin 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   19/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  glipizide  was  less  than  the  margin,  =0.3%,  then  sitagliptin  could  be  declared  as  non-inferior  to 
glipizide in terms of HbA1c. 
Safety and tolerability were assessed by a review of safety parameters including adverse events (AEs), 
laboratory  safety  parameters,  body  weight,  vital  signs,  and  ECG.  The  analysis  of  safety  parameters 
followed a multi-tiered approach. For tier 1 clinical AEs (hypoglycaemia and selected gastrointestinal 
adverse  events)  and  body  weight,  inferential  testing  provided  statistical  significance  levels  for 
between-group  comparisons.  For  other  AEs  (not  in  tier  1)  and  predefined  limits  of  change  in 
laboratory  and  ECG  variables,  95%  CIs  for  between-group  differences  were  obtained  when  the 
incidence was at least 2% in one or more treatment groups. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Table 2: Patient disposition in pivotal trials P021V1, P023V1, P020V1 and P019 
Study 
Screened (N) 
Excluded 
(N) 
Randomised 
(N) 
Discontinued 
Clinical 
AE 
Laboratory 
AE 
Lack of 
efficacy 
Lost to 
follow up 
Other 
reason 
Pat moved 
Pat 
withdrew 
consent 
Protocol 
deviation 
Completed 
Phase A 
Did not enter 
Phase B 
Clinical 
AE 
Laboratory 
AE 
Lack of 
efficacy 
Other 
reason 
Pat moved 
Pat 
withdrew 
consent 
Protocol 
deviation 
Entered 
Phase B 
P021V1 
1807 
1066 
741 
Sitagliptin 
100mg  200mg 
238 
29 
5 
250 
36 
4 
Pla 
253 
37 
4 
3 
5 
2 
3 
10 
5 
4 
3 
1 
17 
1 
9 
2 
5 
1 
11 
1 
2 
4 
P023V1 
1387 
866 
521 
Sitagliptin 
100mg  200mg 
205 
17 
1 
206 
22 
110 
19 
4 
2 
4 
3 
1 
1 
7 
4 
6 
2 
1 
3 
3 
3 
1 
1 
6 
5 
P020V1 
1464 
763 
701 
P019 
928 
575 
353 
Total 
5586 
3270 
2316 
Pla  Sitagliptin  Pla  Sitagliptin  Pla 
100mg 
464 
48  
11 
6  
7 
4 
6 
2 
10 
237 
45 
5 
4 
13 
5 
4 
3 
10 
2 
1 
100mg 
175 
26 
11 
178 
20 
2 
0 
3 
4 
1 
5 
2 
2 
1 
5 
1 
6 
3 
Sitagliptin 
100mg  200mg 
1082 
120 
28 
456 
58 
4 
Pla 
778 
121 
15 
6 
10 
15 
13 
7 
31 
2 
9 
7 
4 
2 
24 
5 
30 
10 
14 
6 
30 
10 
6 
11 
209 
214 
216 
188 
184 
91 
416 
192 
149 
158 
962 
398 
657 
19 
16 
49 
3 
16 
1 
8 
10 
38 
1 
2 
2 
1 
2 
6 
3 
1 
2 
1 
1 
0 
23 
1 
1 
2 
18 
1 
28 
1 
2 
24 
1 
48 
17 
77 
4 
1 
5 
35 
3 
1 
1 
1 
10 
1 
2 
2 
10 
62 
1 
3 
190 
198 
167 
182 
183 
91 
393 
164 
765 
381 
422 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   20/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Patient disposition in pivotal trial P024V1  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   21/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Baseline demographic and disease specific data for the pivotal studies are presented in Table 4 and 
Table 5.  
In the monotherapy trials, although mean baseline HbA1c was similar across treatment groups, there 
were  differences  in  its  distribution  at  baseline.  In  the  placebo  groups  more  patients  had  HbA1c  <8% 
[P021V1: placebo 132 (52.2) vs 200mg 129 (51.6); P023V1: placebo 63 (57.8) vs 200mg 99 (48.3)], 
while in the 200mg groups more patients had HbA1c ≥9% [P021V1: placebo 36 (14.2) vs 200mg 52 
(20.8); P023V1: placebo 20 (18.3) vs 200mg 44 (21.5)].  
In  the  combination  studies,  baseline  characteristics  were  similar  across  treatment  groups.  Study 
population  of  P020V1  was  considered  as  representative  for  the  claimed  indication  add-on  with 
metformin, as patients were inadequately controlled by metformin ≥1500 mg daily. In study P019, a 
wider range of patients was included than permitted for pioglitazone monotherapy. However, patients 
who are intolerant for metformin have not been reported to be distinct in other characteristics from the 
general population of T2DM patients. Metformin is contraindicated in patients with renal insufficiency 
or  congestive  heart  failure  requiring  pharmacologic  therapy.  Pioglitazone  is  also  contraindicated  in 
patients  with  congestive  heart  failure;  therefore  such  patients  were  not  included  into  the  trial.  A 
separate  study  was  performed  in  patients  with  renal  insufficiency  (P028);  however  in  that  study 
monotherapy  or  combination  therapy  with  insulin  was  used.  Although  the  study population  in  study 
P019  included  a  wide  range  of  diabetic  patients  (beyond  the  current  label  for  pioglitazone),  it  is 
believed that these subjects adequately represented the subset of patients for which pioglitazone can be 
prescribed.  
Table 4: Baseline Demographic and Anthropometric Characteristics by Treatment Group Phase III 
Monotherapy Studies 
Age (Years)  
N (%)  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Body Mass Index (kg/m2)  
-N (%)  
Mean (SD) 
Range  
Baseline HbA1c (%)  
N  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Distribution of HbA1c at Baseline, N(%)  
N  
<8%  
≥8% to <9%  
≥9%  
Baseline Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dL)  
N  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Duration of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (Years)  
N  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Use of Anti-Hyperglycaemic  Medication at Screening, N (%)  
Present  
Absent† 
Total 
 P021V1  
All  
741  
54.2 (9.9)  
18.0-75.0  
 739  
 30.5 (5.3) 
19.1 to 44.7  
 739  
 8.0 (0.9)  
6.3-10.9  
739  
396 (53.6)  
216 (29.2)  
127 (17.2)  
P023V1 
All  
521  
 55.1 (9.7)  
27.0-76.0  
520 
32.0 (5.3) 
18.9 to 43.6 
 516  
8.1 (0.9)  
6.2-10.5  
516  
265 (51.4)  
158 (30.6)  
93 (18.0)  
732  
173.7 (43.7)  
73.0 to 427.0  
 521  
 182.2 (44.8)  
92.0 to 335.0  
740  
4.4 (4.8)  
0.0 to 38.0  
363 (49.0)  
378 (51.0) 
741 
519  
 4.5 (4.3)  
0.0 to 30.0  
308 (59.1)  
213 (40.9) 
521 
N=Randomised number per treatment group; SD=standard deviation.† Off Medication for ≥8 weeks. ‡ Using the definition of the National 
Cholesterol Education Program, Adult Treatment Panel III  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   22/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Baseline Demographic and Anthropometric Characteristics by Treatment Group Phase III 
Combination therapy studies 
Age (Years)  
N (%)  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Body Mass Index (kg/m2)  
N (%)  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Baseline HbA1c (%)  
N  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Distribution of HbA1c at Baseline, N(%)  
N  
<8%  
≥8% to <9%  
≥9%  
Baseline Fasting Plasma Glucose (mg/dL)  
N  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Duration of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus (Years)  
N  
Mean (SD)  
Range  
Use of Anti-Hyperglycaemic  Medication at Screening  
Metformin /PPARγ-based 
Combination Therapy N (%)  
Monotherapy N (%)  
Absence N (%)  
Total  
Prior PPARγ Status at Visit 1 
On PPARγ N (%) 
Not on PPARγ N (%) 
Total 
P020V1 
All  
701  
54.5 (10.2)  
19.0-78.0  
701  
 31.1 (5.2)  
19.6 to 43.9  
698  
8.0 (0.8)  
6.4 to 11.0  
698  
381 (54.6)  
217 (31.1)  
100 (14.3)  
700  
171.5 (41.3)  
86.0 to 312.0  
699  
6.2 (5.2)  
0.1 to 34.0  
229 (32.7)  
431 (61.5)  
41 (5.8)  
701  
- 
- 
- 
P019 
All  
353  
56.2 (10.8)  
24.0 to 87.0  
353  
31.5 (5.1)  
20.1 to 44.2  
352  
8.0 (0.8)  
6.4 to 10.4  
352  
185 (52.6)  
109 (31.0)  
58 (16.5)  
352  
166.8 (39.3)  
94.0 to 315.0  
353  
6.1 (5.6)  
0 to 38.0  
106 (30.1) 
212 (60.2) 
34 (9.7) 
352 
173 (49.0) 
180 (51.0) 
353 
N=Randomised  number  per  treatment  group;  SD=standard  deviation;  †  Off  Medication  for  ≥8  weeks;  ‡  Using  the  definition  of  the 
National Cholesterol Education Program, Adult Treatment Panel III 
In  active  comparator  trial,  P024V1,  demographic,  anthropometric  and  baseline  disease 
characteristics were generally balanced across the treatment groups and were similar between the PP 
cohort and the all randomised cohort. The PP cohort exhibited a better baseline glycaemic control, a 
slightly  shorter  mean  duration of  diabetes,  and  a  slightly  smaller  fraction  of previously  combination 
therapy treated patients relative to the APT cohort. The baseline HbA1c values in both the PP and the 
APT  cohort  reflected  a  relatively  mild  degree  of  baseline  hyperglycaemia.  In  the  PP  cohort  73%  of 
patients had baseline HbA1c values <8%, and 7% of patients had baseline HbA1c values >9%; in the 
APT cohort these values were 65% and 10% respectively. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   23/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Tables, 6, 7, 8 show the number of patients included in each analysis for each of the pivotal trials.  
Table 6: Patient accounting in the analysis of HbA1c at week 24 (study P021V1) or week 18 (study P023V1) 
P021V1 
Number (%) 
Sitagliptin 
100 mg 
Sitagliptin 
200 mg 
238 
250 
229 (96.2) 
238 (95.2) 
189 (79.4) 
198 (79.2) 
Placebo 
Total 
253 
244 
(96.4) 
176 
(69.6) 
741 
711 
(96.0) 
563 
(76.0) 
P023V1 
Sitagliptin 
100 mg 
Sitagliptin 200 
mg 
205 
206 
193 (94.1) 
199 (96.6) 
168 (82.0) 
161 (78.2) 
74 (67.3) 
9 (3.8) 
2 (0.8) 
12 (4.8) 
9 (3.6) 
30 (4.0) 
12 (5.9) 
0 (0.0) 
0 (0.0) 
2 (0.3) 
3 (1.5) 
7 (3.4) 
1 (0.5) 
6 (2.9) 
38 (18.4) 
9 (4.4) 
38 (18.4) 
7 (2.9) 
40 (16.8) 
12 (4.8) 
40 (16.0) 
9 (3.6) 
68 (26.9) 
17 (7.1) 
10 (4.0) 
45 (17.8) 
23 (9.7) 
30 (12.0) 
23 (9.1) 
28 (3.8) 
148 
(20.0) 
72 (9.7) 
76 
(10.3) 
13 (6.3) 
17 (8.3) 
15 (13.6) 
12 (5.9) 
21 (10.2) 
14 (12.7) 
47 (9.0) 
Placebo 
Total 
210 
103 
(93.6) 
521 
495 
(95.0) 
403 
(77.4) 
7 (6.4) 
26 (5.0) 
1 (0.9) 
5 (1.0) 
6 (5.5) 
29 (26.4) 
21 (4.0) 
92 
(17.7) 
45 (8.6) 
Total Randomised  
Included in the APT† Analysis  
Included in the Completers 
Analysis  
Excluded from the APT† 
Analysis  
No Baseline Data  
No On-treatment Data  
Excluded from the Completers 
Analysis‡  
Rescued Prior to Week 
24/18§ 
No Data at Week 24/18|| 
† APT: All-Patients-Treated. 
‡ The completers population is a subset of the APT population including all patients with Week 24 data. 
§ Efficacy data obtained on a patient after initiation of rescue therapy are treated as missing. 
|| For patients not on rescue medication. 
Table 7: Patient accounting in the analysis of HbA1c at week 24, study P020V1 and P019 
Total Randomised  
Included in the APT† Analysis  
Included in the Completers Analysis  
Excluded from the APT† Analysis  
No Baseline Data  
No On-treatment Data  
Excluded from the Completers Analysis‡  
Rescued Prior to Week 24§ 
No Data at Week 24|| 
P020V1 
Number (%) 
P019 
Sitagliptin 
100 mg 
464  
453 (97.6)  
399 (86.0)  
11 (2.4) 
1 (0.2)  
10 (2.2)  
54 (11.6)  
18 (3.9) 
36 (7.8) 
Placebo 
Total 
237  
224 (94.5)  
171 (72.2)  
13 (5.5) 
2 (0.8)  
11 (4.6)  
53 (22.4)  
28 (11.8) 
25 (10.5) 
701 
677 (96.6) 
570 (81.3) 
24 (3.4) 
3 (0.4) 
21 (3.0) 
107 (15.3) 
46 (6.6) 
61 (8.7) 
Sitagliptin 
100 mg 
175 
163 (93.1) 
131 (74.9) 
12 (6.9) 
1 (0.6) 
11 (6.3) 
32 (18.3) 
11 (6.3) 
21 (12.0) 
Placebo 
Total 
178 
174 (97.8) 
136 (76.4) 
4 (2.2) 
0 (0.0) 
4 (2.2) 
38 (21.3) 
23 (12.9) 
15 (8.4) 
353 
337 (95.5) 
267 (75.6) 
16 (4.5) 
1 (0.3) 
15 (4.2) 
70 (19.8) 
34 (9.6) 
36 (10.2) 
† APT: All-Patients-Treated. 
‡ The completers population is a subset of the APT population including all patients with Week 24 data. 
§ Efficacy data obtained on a patient after initiation of rescue therapy are treated as missing. 
|| For patients not on rescue medication. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   24/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: Patients accounting in the analysis of HbA1c at Week 52, P024V1 
Number (%) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg 
Glipizide 
Total 
TOTAL RANDOMISED 
INCLUDED IN PP† ANALYSIS 
INCLUDED IN APT‡ ANALYSIS 
EXCLUDED FROM PP ANALYSIS 
No Baseline Data 
No Treatment Data at Week 52 
Major Protocol Violators 
Drug Compliance <75% 
Used of Prohibited AHA§ 
Used of Corticosteroid
Change in Metformin Dose¶ 
Incorrect Doubled-Blind Study Medication¶ 
# 
EXCLUDED FROM APT ANALYSIS  
No Baseline Data  
No On-Treatment Data 
588 
382 (65.0) 
576 (98.0) 
206 (35.0) 
2 (0.3) 
197 (33.5) 
18 (3.1) 
3 
3 
1 
10 
1 
12 (2.0) 
2 (0.3) 
10 (1.7) 
584 
411 (70.4) 
559 (95.7) 
173 (29.6) 
2 (0.3) 
167 (28.6) 
7 (1.2) 
1 
1 
0 
4 
1 
25 (4.3) 
2 (0.3) 
23 (3.9) 
1172 
793 (67.7) 
1135 (96.8) 
379 (32.3) 
4 (0.3) 
364 (31.1) 
25 (2.1) 
4 
4 
1 
14 
2 
37 (3.2) 
4 (0.3) 
33 (2.8) 
† PP: Per Protocol. 
‡ APT: All-Patients-Treated. 
§ Patients taking any prohibited antihyperglycaemic medications after randomisation (Visit 4) for a total of ≥14 days or ≥7 consecutive days. 
# Patients taking corticosteroid for ≥14 days during the last 90 days of Week 52. 
¶ Change in metformin dose or incorrect double-blind study medication for ≥12 consecutive weeks during the study period of interest, or for 
a total of ≥14 days during the last 90 days of Week 52. 
Outcomes and estimation 
All  four  superiority  trials  suggested  that  sitagliptin  at  the  recommended  dose  of  100  mg  per  day 
effectively reduced HbA1c in patients with T2DM. The primary analysis performed was appropriate. 
The results clearly showed that sitagliptin reduced baseline HbA1c in the treatment group in a period of 
18-24  weeks.  The  p-values  for  testing  the  difference  in  mean  change  in  the  treatment  and  placebo 
group  were  <0.001.  Although  there  were  a  number  of  treatment  subgroup  interactions,  treatment 
effects in subgroups were generally consistent. 
Results on HbA1c in the monotherapy Phase III trials are shown in Table 9.  
For the APT population, sitagliptin appeared to be superior to placebo in lowering HbA1c at both the 
100 and 200 mg dose [least square (LS) mean difference form placebo (95% CI) –0.74, -0.49 and –
0.88,  -0.64  respectively].  The  analyses  conducted  on  the  completers  populations  supported  these 
results.  The  sitagliptin  treatment  groups  showed  larger  within-group  decreases  from  baseline  in  the 
completers  analysis  than  in  the  APT  analysis;  however,  the  placebo-adjusted  treatment  effects  were 
smaller in the completers analysis (-0.65 and –0.75% for MK-0431 100 mg vs. placebo and MK-0431 
200 mg vs. placebo, respectively), than in the APT analysis (-0.79 and –0.94% for sitagliptin 100 mg 
vs.  placebo  and  sitagliptin  200  mg  vs.  placebo,  respectively).  This  attenuation  of  the  placebo-
subtracted  decrease  in  HbA1c  was  due  to  the  removal  of  a  larger  number  of  rescued/discontinued 
patients from the placebo group than from the sitagliptin groups in the completers population, relative 
to the APT population. Rescued/discontinued patients generally had poorer HbA1c responses compared 
with patients who completed without rescue therapy, and thus the completers placebo group showed a 
greater  reduction  from  baseline  when  the  imputed  week  24/18  values  for  the  rescued/discontinued 
subset were removed. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   25/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Change from Baseline in HbA1c (%) at Study Endpoint All-Patients-Treated Population P021V1, 
P023V1 Phase III Monotherapy Studies 
Mean (SD) 
Change From Baseline 
Treatment  
N  
Baseline 
P021V1 (Study Endpoint=Week 24) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d.  
Sitagliptin 200 mg q.d. 
Placebo 
229   8.01 (0.88)  
8.08 (0.94) 
238 
8.03 (0.82) 
244 
Study  
Endpoint  
Mean 
(SE) 
LS Mean (SE) 
95% CI 
for LS Mean 
LS Mean Difference 
From Placebo (95% CI) 
7.39 (1.15)  
7.31 (1.14) 
8.20 (1.37) 
-0.62 (0.07) 
-0.78 (0.06) 
0.17 (0.07) 
-0.61† (0.06) 
-0.76† (0.06) 
0.18‡ (0.06) 
(-0.74, -0.49) 
(-0.88, -0.64) 
(0.06, 0.30) 
-0.79† (-0.96, -0.62) 
-0.94† (-1.11, -0.77) 
- 
P023V1 (Study Endpoint=Week 18) 
Sitagliptin 100 mg q.d.  
Sitagliptin 200 mg q.d. 
Placebo 
† p<0.001, ‡ p<0.05. 
CI=Confidence Interval; LS=Least Squares; SD=Standard Deviation; SE=Standard Error. 
193   8.04 (0.82) 
8.14 (0.91) 
199 
8.05 (0.90) 
103 
-0.46 (0.06) 
-0.34 (0.07) 
0.16 (0.09) 
7.58 (1.15)  
7.81 (1.31) 
8.21 (1.35) 
-0.48† (0.07) 
-0.36† (0.06) 
0.12 (0.09) 
(-0.61, -0.35) 
(-0.48, -0.23) 
(-0.05, 0.30) 
-0.60† (-0.82, -0.39) 
-0.48† (-0.70, -0.26) 
- 
Results on fasting plasma glucose (FPG) and Post-meal glucose confirm the effect of sitagliptin. 
Both in the monotherapy studies and in the combination studies, treatment with sitagliptin resulted in a 
reduction in FPG at study endpoint. Furthermore, in study P021V1 and P020 (+MET), sitagliptin was 
superior to placebo in lowering glucose 2 hours after administration of a standard meal challenge. 
Results on HbA1c for the Combination studies are shown in Table 10.  
In both studies a decrease in HbA1c was measured in the APT-Population at week 24. The difference 
with placebo was –0.65 (95% CI -0.77, -0.53) and –0.70 (95% CI -0.85, -0.54) respectively and was 
statistically significant. 
In  study  P020V1  (+MET),  approximately  61%  (428/701)  of  the  randomised  patients  were  on 
metformin doses ≥2000 mg per day. Results from the analyses of change from baseline in HbA1c at 
week 24 in this subset of patients were similar to the overall population. 
In study P019 (+PIO), approximately 85% (286/334) of the patients were pioglitazone “responders”. 
These included patients not on AHA therapy who were started  on pioglitazone during the screening 
period and had at least a 20 mg/dL (1.1mmol/L) decrease in FPG by the start of the 2-week placebo-
blind  run-in  period;  or  patients  who  were  switched  directly  to  pioglitazone  from  another  AHA 
monotherapy,  and  showed  no  meaningful  deterioration  in  HbA1c  (≤0.2%  increase  in  HbA1c);  or 
patients  who  were  washed-off  of  their  prior  AHA  therapy,  and  then  had  at  least  a  20  mg/dL  (1.1 
mmol/L)  reduction  during  the  run-in  pioglitazone  treatment  period.  Patients  entering  the  study  on 
PPARγ medication (either alone or in combination) were also considered to be responders. Results of 
an  analysis of  change  from  baseline  in  HbA1c  at  week  24  in pioglitazone  responders  showed  results 
that were similar to results based on the overall study population. 
Both combination studies suggested that sitagliptin was more effective than placebo in reducing HbA1c 
at 24 weeks. In the pioglitazone combination study a small reduction in HbA1c was also seen in the 
placebo  group,  which  suggested  that  the  optimal  effect  of  pioglitazone  had  not  yet  been  reached  at 
study randomisation. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   26/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 10: Analysis of change in HbA1c (%) at week 24; All-Patients-Treated Population; Study P020V1 
(+MET) and P019 (+Pio) 
Mean (SD) 
Change from Baseline 
Study P020V1 
Treatment 
MK-0431 100 mg  
Placebo 
 N  
453  
224 
Baseline 
7.96 (0.81) 
8.03 (0.82) 
Week 24 
7.26 (0.97) 
7.95 (1.10) 
Mean (SE) 
-0.70 (0.03) 
-0.08 (0.06) 
LS Mean (SE) 
95% CI for LS Mean 
-0.67 (0.05) 
-0.02 (0.06) 
(-0.77, -0.57) 
(-0.15, 0.10) 
p-Value 
<0.001 
0.700 
Between Treatment Difference  
MK-0431 100 mg vs. Placebo  
Difference in LS Means (95% CI)  
-0.65 (-0.77, -0.53)  
p-Value  
<0.001  
p-Value for ANCOVA Effects  
Baseline Value  
Treatment  
Prior Anti-hyperglycaemic  Medication  
Root Mean Square Error of Change =0.76  
<0.001  
<0.001  
<0.001  
Study P019 
Mean (SD) 
Change From Baseline 
Treatment  
MK-0431 100 mg  
Placebo 
N 
163 
174 
Baseline 
Week 24 
Mean (SE) 
LS Mean (SE) 
95% CI for LS Mean 
p-Value 
8.05 (0.81) 
8.00 (0.83) 
7.17 (0.91) 
7.82 (1.10) 
-0.88 (0.05) 
-0.18 (0.06) 
-0.85 (0.07) 
-0.15 (0.06) 
(-0.98, -0.72) 
(-0.28, -0.03) 
<0.001 
0.017 
Between Treatment Difference  
MK-0431 100 mg vs. Placebo  
Difference in LS Means (95% CI)  
-0.70 (-0.85, -0.54)  
p-Value  
<0.001  
p-Value for ANCOVA Effects  
Baseline Value  
Treatment  
Prior Anti-hyperglycaemic  Medication  
Root Mean Square Error of Change =0.73  
<0.001  
<0.001  
0.026  
CI=Confidence Interval; LS=Least Squares; SD=Standard Deviation; SE=Standard Error 
Results from the active  comparator  trial on HbA1c are shown in Figure 2 for the PP population. In 
both  analyses  (i.e.  PP  and  APT)  glipizide  provided  greater  initial  lowering  of  HbA1c,  with  the 
maximum between-group difference observed at week 24. In the secondary (APT) analysis, using the 
LOCF method for imputing missing data, the difference was greater than in the PP analysis. In both 
analyses, there was a rise in mean HbA1c in both treatment groups after Week 24. The rate of rise from 
nadir in the glipizide group was greater than the rate of rise in the sitagliptin group, such that by week 
52  very  similar  reductions  from  baseline  in  the  two  treatment  groups  were  seen  in  both  the  PP  and 
APT populations.  
The  additional  analysis  performed  on  week  30  and  week  24  data  gave  similar  results  as  those  from 
week 52. 
More  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  group  discontinued  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  as  compared  to  glipizide 
treated patients (86 [15%] vs 58 [10%]). Sitagliptin users discontinued primarily at the beginning of 
the  study,  while  glipizide  patients  discontinued  at  the  end.  If  the  glipizide  dose  could  have  been 
increased  beyond  the  initial  titration  phase,  better  results  might  have  been  obtained  with  glipizide. 
There was a difference between the APT and PP results, but the difference was not substantial. 
Results  concerning  FPG  showed  that  similar  changes  were  observed  after  52  weeks  of  treatment  in 
both groups. In the PP analysis the LS Means were –10.0 mg/dL (-0.56 mmol/L) and –7.5 mg/dL (-
0.42 mmol/L) for the sitagliptin and glipizide treatment groups, respectively. 
Profiles  over  time  showed  that  both  treatment  groups  achieved  the  maximal  FPG  effect  at  week  24 
with subsequent attenuation of FPG-lowering efficacy. The course of the FPG change from baseline in 
the two treatment groups was similar. Both PP and APT analyses showed similar trends.  
At Week 52, a modest, statistically significant (p<0.001), decrease from baseline in body weight of 1.5 
kg was observed in the sitagliptin treatment group, while the glipizide treatment group had a modest, 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   27/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
statistically  significant  (p<0.001),  increase  of  1.1  kg  from  baseline  in  body  weight,  resulting  in  a 
significant between-group difference of -2.5 kg (p<0.001). 
It  is  concluded  that  sitagliptin  at  the  recommended  dose  of  100  mg  per  day  was  shown  to  have  a 
significant and clinically relevant effect on glycaemic control, and that efficacy is considered similar 
to  glipizide  in  this  patient  population  with  predominantly  mild  to  moderate  hyperglycaemia  on 
monotherapy with metformin as described in the SPC, section 5.1, but non-inferior efficacy compared 
to  sulfonylureas  was  not  unequivocally  proven.  The  latter  conclusion  was  based  on  the  restrictions 
regarding dose titration of glipizide possibly preventing assessment of the full potential of this drug. 
Furthermore, although not designed and powered to compare efficacy, in study P010 (dose finding), 
glipizide  performed  statistically  better  and  in  study  P020V1  (+MET)  numerically  better  than 
sitagliptin. To address the point of non-inferiority, a description of study P024V1, including the dose 
titration of glipizide has been described in the SPC, section 5.1.  
Figure 2: LS Mean Change From Baseline in HbA1c (%) Over Time (LS Mean ± SE) by 
Treatment Group Per-Protocol Population 
e
n
i
l
e
s
a
B
m
o
r
f
e
g
n
a
h
C
n
a
e
M
S
L
0 .0
-0 .3
-0 .6
-0 .9
-1 .2
-1 .5
0
6
1 2
1 8
2 4
3 0
3 8
4 6
5 2
S ita g lip tin  1 0 0  m g
G lip iz id e
 W e e k  
Ancillary analyses 
In  Phase  III  studies,  several  endpoints  were  included  to  assess  changes  in  β-cell  function  with 
sitagliptin  therapy  including  HOMA-β,  measurement  of  fasting  insulin  secretion,  and  proinsulin  to 
insulin ratio, intended to assess improvement in beta-cell function. 
In P021V1 (monotherapy), there was a significant reduction in the proinsulin to insulin ratio relative 
to placebo in all treatment groups. In P023V1 (monotherapy), there was a significant reduction in this 
ratio relative to placebo for the 100 mg dose (p<0.05); this was also seen for the 200 mg dose but it 
did not reach statistical significance. In these studies showed a significant increase in HOMA-β at both 
doses. 
In study P020V1 (+MET), significant treatment group differences for sitagliptin compared to placebo 
(p<0.05)  were  observed  for  change  from  baseline  in  the  proinsulin  to  insulin  ratio;  similarly,  the 
results  presented  for  HOMA-β  also  show  a  statistically  significant  increase  with  sitagliptin  100  mg 
q.d.  relative  to  placebo  (p<0.001).  In  study  P019  (+PIO),  a  significant  decrease  in  the  fasting 
proinsulin  to  insulin  ratio  with  sitagliptin  was  seen.  Sitagliptin  provided  a  statistically  significant 
increase (p<0.001) from baseline in HOMA-β. A more modest increase in HOMA-β was observed in 
the  placebo  treatment  group  that  was  statistically  significant  (p=0.027).  However,  with  the  small 
increase observed in the placebo group, the between-treatment group difference was not statistically 
significant (p=0.080). 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   28/39
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
Study  P028V1  was  designed  to  examine  the  safety  of  dose-adjusted  sitagliptin  monotherapy  or 
combination  therapy  with  insulin  in  T2DM  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  chronic  renal 
insufficiency, including those with ESRD on dialysis, who had inadequate glycaemic control on diet 
and exercise, or inadequate glycaemic control on insulin monotherapy. 
After  12  weeks,  an  improvement  was  seen  in  glycaemic  control  in  sitagliptin  treated  patients. 
However,  efficacy  was  not  a  primary  endpoint  in  this  study  and  only  descriptive  statistics  were 
provided for glycaemic variables (HbA1c, FPG, and fructosamine). 
Results on efficacy are therefore not further described here. See Safety section for further information 
on the results of this study. 
Clinical safety 
Potential  safety  issues  considered  in  the  development  program  of  sitagliptin,  which  impacted  the 
design  of  the  clinical  studies,  were  based  upon  (1)  issues  arising  from  the  results  of  preclinical 
toxicology studies and (2) potential issues that are based upon the mechanism of action of sitagliptin. 
Issues from preclinical toxicology studies were skeletal muscle degeneration and neurological toxicity.  
Furthermore, skin necrosis was seen in monkeys treated with other DPP-4 inhibitors. No skin findings 
have been seen in clinical studies with sitagliptin.  
Issues based on the mechanism of action were: 
1.  Gastrointestinal AEs related to increased active GLP-1 levels with DPP-4 inhibition.  
2.  Effects related to the fact that DPP-4 is present on immune cells.  
3.  Effects of inhibition of DPP-4 on other DPP-4 peptide substrates.  
Therefore  the  list  of  potential  safety  issues  which  was  followed  closely  during  the  clinical 
development  was:  based  on  the  preclinical  findings,  slight  muscle  degeneration  and  neurological 
toxicity;  and  based  upon  theoretical  concerns,  allergic  phenomena/angioedema,  hypoglycaemia, 
hypotension, gastrointestinal AEs, and infections/immune phenomena. 
Initially, safety assessment of sitagliptin was hampered by the fact that no overall data was presented 
and  data  from  ongoing  studies  at  that  moment  was  not  submitted.  Concerns  on  missing  data  were 
addressed in the responses to the D120 LoQ, when comparisons of safety data were submitted. These 
were: 
Comparison  1:  Sitagliptin  vs  Placebo  as  Add  on  to  Metformin  (based  upon  P020V1  [Placebo-
controlled Study of Sitagliptin as Add on to Metformin]). This clinical study report for this study was 
submitted as part of the marketing application. 
Comparison 2: Sitagliptin vs Glipizide as Add-on to Metformin (based upon the recently completed 
52 week period of P024V1, the Active- Comparator [Glipizide] Controlled Study of Sitagliptin as Add 
on to Metformin). 
Comparison  3:  Sitagliptin  vs  Placebo  as  Add  on  to  PPARγ  Agonist  (based  upon  P019  [Placebo-
controlled Study of Sitagliptin as Add on to PPARγ Agonist]. This clinical study report for this study 
was submitted as part of the marketing application. 
Comparison 4: Sitagliptin vs Placebo in Monotherapy (from Pooled Monotherapy Studies). 
Comparison  5:  Sitagliptin  Exposed  vs  Non-Exposed  based  upon  a  new  Pooled  Phase  II/III 
Population. 
Comparison  5  included  results  from  Phase  II  studies  (P010  and  P014  base  and  extension  periods), 
results from Phase III studies that were in the original marketing application (P019, P020V1, P021V1, 
P023V1),  additional  results  through  1-year  from  two  of  these  studies  (P020V1  and  P023V1),  and 
results from three studies that were completed after the filing of the marketing application: P024V1, 
P035 and P036. Therefore this was the comparison that included nearly all submitted data. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   29/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Patient exposure 
Phase I studies 
The total number of patients exposed to sitagliptin in the Phase I studies was 561, with doses ranging 
from ≤25 mg to 800 mg.  
Phase II/III studies 
A total of 3832 patients were randomised to receive sitagliptin in the pooled phase II/III studies: 590 
to doses of sitagliptin <100mg/day, 2786 to sitagliptin 100mg/day, and 456 to sitagliptin 200mg/day. 
The non-exposed group comprised 2355 patients. Since sitagliptin 100mg was the most common dose 
across the Phase II/III studies, this dose group is the largest and hence most robust.  
•  Adverse events  
Phase I studies 
The most common clinical AEs (occurring in >1% of any sitagliptin subjects) that were of numerically 
slightly  higher  incidence  than  placebo  included  dizziness  (4.9%  vs.  2.2%),  headache  (21.0%  vs. 
15.4%), and somnolence (4.1% vs. 2.2%) though these adverse experiences were infrequent and the 
differences were small. In the rising single-dose and multiple-dose studies, during which single doses 
of 800 mg and multiple doses up to 600 mg were administered, there were no clear differences in the 
incidence of any AE from placebo (including those noted above) and no increase in the incidence of 
AEs  (overall  or  specific)  with  increasing  dose.  AEs  related  to  theoretical  concerns  or  preclinical 
to  placebo  (i.e.  allergic,  musculoskeletal,  and 
toxicities  showed  a  similar 
gastrointestinal phenomenon, hypotension, hypoglycemia, and infections). A slightly higher incidence 
of AEs related to neurological events following treatment with sitagliptin was seen versus placebo. 
Two serious AEs occurred in Phase I studies; these were acute myocardial infarction  (healthy subject) 
and  primary  atypical  pneumonia  (T2DM  subject).  Both  subjects  recovered  and  both  events  were 
determined to be ‘probably not’ related to study drug by the investigators. 
There were no apparent treatment or dose-dependent clinically meaningful effects on laboratory safety 
parameters. In addition, there was no evidence for dose-dependent, meaningful effects on the growth 
hormone  axis.  No  dose-dependent,  treatment-related,  clinically  relevant  effects  were  seen  on  vital 
signs. Sitagliptin did appear to modestly reduce blood pressure in patients with hypertension. 
incidence  rate 
Phase II/III studies 
"SITAGLIPTIN EXPOSED VS NON-EXPOSED" 
Clinical  AEs  were  reported  for  1788  (64.2%)  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  exposed  100  mg  group  and 
1484 (63.0%) patients in the non-exposed group (patients receiving placebo or other oral antidiabetic 
drug(s)), who received at least one dose of double-blind study medication. The incidences of deaths, 
patients  discontinued  due  to  serious  or  non-serious  AEs,  serious  drug-related  AEs,  and  patients 
discontinued  due  to  serious  drug-related  AEs  were  similar  in  both  groups.  The  incidences  of  drug-
related  AEs  and  patients  discontinuing  due  to  drug-related  AEs  were  higher  in  the  non-exposed 
treatment group.  
The  comparison  of  sitagliptin  “Exposed  vs  Non-Exposed”  based  upon  the  new  Pooled  Phase  II/III 
Population, seen in Table 11, showed that in general treatment with sitagliptin 100 mg was associated 
with an increased incidence (≥1% in one or more treatment groups) or event rate in AEs in the SOCs 
of:  
•  Gastrointestinal Disorders (18.6% in sitagliptin exposed vs 16.4% in non-exposed),  
• 
Infections and Infestations (33.8% in sitagliptin exposed vs 29.9% in non-exposed),  
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   30/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Musculoskeletal  and  Connective  Tissue  Disorders (16.4% in sitagliptin exposed vs 14.3% in 
non-exposed), and 
Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders (6.6% in sitagliptin exposed vs 5.6% in non-exposed) 
• 
The incidences of AEs grouped by SOC for Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders, Infection and 
Infestations,  Gastrointestinal  Disorders  and  Musculoskeletal  and  Connective  Tissue  Disorders 
SOCs were higher in the exposed group, with 95%-CI's not including "0". 
When  event  rates  were  grouped  by  SOC  (i.e.,  for  each  treatment  group,  total  number  of  events 
occurring  within  a  SOC  divided  by  mean  duration  of  exposure  for  the  group)  the  between-group 
differences for the Infection and Infestation, Gastrointestinal Disorders, and Musculoskeletal and 
Connective Tissue Disorders SOCs were smaller (Infection and Infestations: 76 and 74.8 events per 
100  patient-years  in  sitagliptin  exposed  vs  non-exposed;  Gastrointestinal  Disorders:  41.8  and  39.1 
events per 100 patient-years in sitagliptin exposed vs non-exposed; Musculoskeletal and Connective 
Tissue Disorders: 32.6 and 31.5 events per 100 patient-years in sitagliptin exposed vs non-exposed. 
The difference in SOC for Blood and Lymphatic System Disorders (incidence 0.9 vs 0.3%; number of 
events per patient-year were 1.5 vs 0.6 for sitagliptin 100mg and non-exposed group) was mainly due 
to anaemia and iron deficiency in the sitagliptin 100mg group.  
Similarly,  in  study  P024V1  (comparison  with  glipizide  as  add-on  to  metformin)  difference  was 
observed  in  change  from  baseline  in  haemoglobin  in  the  sitagliptin  100mg  relative  to  glipizide 
treatment group (difference –0.07 g/dL). It is unlikely that these differences have clinical importance. 
Table 11: Specific Clinical Adverse Events by System Organ Class; Pooled Phase II/III Population; 
(Incidence ≥1.0% in One or More Treatment Groups); Number (%) of Patients by Treatment Group; 
Excluding Data After Initiation of Glycaemic Therapy 
MK-0431 100 mg 
(N = 2786) 
MK-0431 Non-Exposed 
(N = 2355) 
Patients With One Or More Adverse Events  
Patients With No Adverse Event  
Cardiac Disorders  
Ear And Labyrinth Disorders  
 Vertigo  
Eye Disorders  
Gastrointestinal Disorders  
 Abdominal Pain  
 Abdominal Pain Upper  
 Constipation  
 Diarrhoea  
 Dyspepsia  
 Gastrooesophageal Reflux Disease  
 Nausea  
 Toothache  
 Vomiting  
General Disorders And Administration Site Conditions  
 Fatigue  
 Oedema Peripheral  
Hepatobiliary Disorders  
Infections And Infestations  
 Bronchitis  
Cellulitis  
 Gastroenteritis  
 Influenza  
 Nasopharyngitis  
 Pharyngitis  
Sinusitis  
 Upper Respiratory Tract Infection  
 Urinary Tract Infection  
Injury, Poisoning And Procedural Complications  
Investigations  
 Blood Glucose Decreased  
 Blood Glucose Increased  
Metabolism And Nutrition Disorders  
 Hyperglycaemia  
 Hypoglycaemia  
Musculoskeletal And Connective Tissue Disorders  
 Arthralgia  
Back Pain  
Muscle Spasms  
n 
1788 
998 
93 
41 
22 
90 
517 
28 
44 
70 
125 
51 
27 
70 
25 
38 
198 
48 
49 
30 
942 
79 
22 
48 
116 
183 
36 
63 
214 
81 
210 
106 
10 
31 
169 
28 
94 
458 
95 
106 
30 
(%) 
(64.2) 
(35.8) 
(3.3) 
(1.5) 
(0.8) 
(3.2) 
(18.6) 
(1.0) 
(1.6) 
(2.5) 
(4.5) 
(1.8) 
(1.0) 
(2.5) 
(0.9) 
(1.4) 
(7.1) 
(1.7) 
(1.8) 
(1.1) 
(33.8) 
(2.8) 
(0.8) 
(1.7) 
(4.2) 
(6.6) 
(1.3) 
(2.3) 
(7.7) 
(2.9) 
(7.5) 
(3.8) 
(0.4) 
(1.1) 
(6.1) 
(1.0) 
(3.4) 
(16.4) 
(3.4) 
(3.8) 
(1.1) 
n 
1484 
871 
73 
45 
23 
85 
386 
29 
22 
44 
114 
27 
12 
52 
24 
22 
163 
44 
38 
22 
705 
44 
23 
32 
101 
118 
21 
39 
179 
64 
152 
102 
23 
31 
323 
31 
261 
336 
69 
83 
28 
(%) 
(63.0) 
(37.0) 
(3.1) 
(1.9) 
(1.0) 
(3.6) 
(16.4) 
(1.2) 
(0.9) 
(1.9) 
(4.8) 
(1.1) 
(0.5) 
(2.2) 
(1.0) 
(0.9) 
(6.9) 
(1.9) 
(1.6) 
(0.9) 
(29.9) 
(1.9) 
(1.0) 
(1.4) 
(4.3) 
(5.0) 
(0.9) 
(1.7) 
(7.6) 
(2.7) 
(6.5) 
(4.3) 
(1.0) 
(1.3) 
(13.7) 
(1.3) 
(11.1) 
(14.3) 
(2.9) 
(3.5) 
(1.2) 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   31/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Myalgia  
 Osteoarthritis  
 Pain In Extremity  
 Shoulder Pain  
Neoplasms Benign, Malignant And Unspecified (Incl Cysts And 
Polyps)  
Nervous System Disorders  
 Dizziness  
Headache  
Psychiatric Disorders  
 Anxiety  
 Depression  
 Insomnia  
Renal And Urinary Disorders  
Reproductive System And Breast Disorders  
Respiratory, Thoracic And Mediastinal Disorders  
 Cough  
 Pharyngolaryngeal Pain  
Skin And Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders  
 Rash  
Vascular Disorders  
 Hypertension  
27 
40 
68 
33 
51 
344 
68 
143 
109 
27 
30 
30 
67 
62 
204 
63 
34 
183 
28 
120 
74 
(1.0) 
(1.4) 
(2.4) 
(1.2) 
(1.8) 
(12.3) 
(2.4) 
(5.1) 
(3.9) 
(1.0) 
(1.1) 
(1.1) 
(2.4) 
(2.2) 
(7.3) 
(2.3) 
(1.2) 
(6.6) 
(1.0) 
(4.3) 
(2.7) 
20 
16 
41 
28 
31 
272 
51 
105 
90 
18 
21 
28 
53 
63 
155 
56 
23 
132 
17 
103 
63 
(0.8) 
(0.7) 
(1.7) 
(1.2) 
(1.3) 
(11.5) 
(2.2) 
(4.5) 
(3.8) 
(0.8) 
(0.9) 
(1.2) 
(2.3) 
(2.7) 
(6.6) 
(2.4) 
(1.0) 
(5.6) 
(0.7) 
(4.4) 
(2.7) 
The most frequent AEs reported, regardless of causal relationship to medication, and occurring in at 
least  5%  and  more  commonly  in  patients  treated  with  sitagliptin,  included  upper  respiratory  tract 
infection (7.7%) and nasopharyngitis (6.6%).  
In study P024V1 (comparison with glipizide as add-on to metformin) the main AEs were in the same 
SOCs,  with  an  additional  SOC  of  Nervous  System  Disorders.  Furthermore,  compared  to  placebo, 
most frequently reported AEs were in these SOCs too. 
The following specific clinical adverse events occurred at a higher incidence (i.e., confidence interval 
around  the  between-group  difference  did  not  include  "0")  in  the  primary  safety  analysis  in  the 
sitagliptin 100 mg group compared to the non-exposed group: abdominal pain upper, dyspepsia, chills, 
bronchitis,  nasopharyngitis,  tooth  abscess,  meniscus  lesion,  osteoarthritis,  nasal  congestion,  and 
contact dermatitis. Although psychiatric disorders occurred at similar frequencies, the higher incidence 
of  suicide  ideation/completed  suicide  in  sitagliptin  exposed  vs.  non-exposed  individuals  (4  vs.  1, 
respectively) was considered disturbing; as CNS effects of sitagliptin cannot be excluded, these events 
will be monitored post-marketing. 
The  incidence  of  drug-related  clinical  AEs  overall  was  lower  for  the  sitagliptin  100  mg  group 
compared to the non-exposed treatment group (13.1% vs. 18.0%). 
Across  clinical  studies,  a  small  increase  in  white  blood  cell  count  (approximately  200 cells/microl 
difference in  WBC vs placebo; mean baseline WBC  approximately 6600 cells/microl) was  observed 
due to an increase in neutrophils. This observation was seen in most but not all studies. This change in 
laboratory parameters is not considered to be clinically relevant. 
Overall,  it  was  concluded  that  sitagliptin  treatment  was  associated  with  an  increased  incidence  in 
infections  and  infestations,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  musculoskeletal  disorders,  and  nervous 
system AEs. Event rate was increased for skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders. These AEs have 
been included in the SPC, and in the RMP. 
COMBINATION WITH METFORMIN 
In  study  P020V1,  a  24-week  study  of  sitagliptin  100 mg  in  combination  with  metformin,  the 
incidence of AEs considered as drug-related in patients treated with sitagliptin/metformin compared to 
treatment with placebo/metformin was 9.3 % and 10.1 %, respectively. 
The most frequent ADRs reported in patients treated with sitagliptin occurring in excess (> 0.2 % and 
difference > 1 patient) of that in patients treated with placebo can be seen in table 12.  
Nausea  was  the  only  drug-related  AE  that  occurred  at  an  incidence  of  ≥1%,  occurring  in  5  patients 
(1.1%) in the sitagliptin treatment group compared to 1 patient (0.4%) in the placebo group. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   32/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: Drug-Related Clinical Adverse Events (%) of Patients by Treatment Group Excluding Data 
After Initiation of Glycaemic Rescue Therapy 
SOC and Specific AE 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Nausea 
Abdominal Pain Upper 
Diarrhoea 
Nervous System Disorders 
Somnolence 
Investigations 
Blood Glucose Decreased 
Sitagliptin 100 mg (N=464) 
n (%) 
14 (3.0) 
5 (1.1) 
4 (0.9) 
3 (0.6) 
7 (1.5) 
2 (0.4) 
4 (0.9) 
2 (0.4) 
Placebo (N=237) 
n (%) 
4 (1.7) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0  (0.0) 
2 (0.8) 
0 (0.0) 
5 (2.1) 
0 (0.0) 
SAEs were reported with a generally similar frequency between treatment groups for 13 (2.8%) and 7 
(3.0%)  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  and  the  placebo  treatment  groups,  respectively.  None  of  the  SAEs 
was considered to be drug-related. 
In  study  P024V1,  1-year  study  of  sitagliptin  100 mg  in  combination  with  metformin  compared  to 
sulfonylurea/metformin,  clinical  AEs  were  reported  by  419  (71.3%)  patients  in  the  sitagliptin 
treatment group and 444 (76.0%) patients in the glipizide treatment group, who received at least one 
dose  of  double-blind  study  medication.  There  was  a  slightly  higher  incidence  of  overall  AEs  in  the 
glipizide  treatment  group,  and  a  moderately  higher  incidence  of  drug-related  AEs  reported  in  the 
glipizide  treatment  group  (30.3%)  compared  to  the  sitagliptin  treatment  group  (14.5%).  The 
differences  in  overall  and  drug-related  AEs  were  primarily  due  to  the  higher  incidence  of 
hypoglycemia reported in the glipizide treatment group (32%) compared to the sitagliptin group (5%). 
No meaningful differences were observed for the sitagliptin treatment group compared to the glipizide 
treatment group in incidence of SAEs, serious or non-serious AEs leading to discontinuation, or other 
summary measures of clinical AEs analyzed. For all of these summary measures, the 95% CI for the 
between-group differences included "0". 
In  pooled  studies  of  up  to  1  year  in  duration  comparing  sitagliptin/metformin  to  a  sulfonylurea 
agent/metformin (P020V1 and P024V1), the incidence of drug-related AEs was notably lower in the 
sitagliptin  treatment  group  than  in the glipizide  treatment  group due  to  the higher  incidence  of  drug 
related hypoglycemia in the glipizide treatment group. The drug-related AEs of hypoglycemia and of 
weight gain occurred at a notably higher rate in the glipizide treatment group. The adverse reactions 
considered  as  drug-related  reported  in  patients  treated  with  sitagliptin  100 mg  occurring  in  excess 
(> 0.2 % and difference > 1 patient) of that in patients receiving the sulfonylurea agent were from the 
following SOCs:  
Investigations: weight decreased (4 patients [0.4%] and 0, respectively)  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders: anorexia (4 patients [0.4%] and 1 patient [0.1%], respectively). 
COMBINATION WITH A PPARγ AGENT (PIOGLITAZONE) 
Study  P019  (+PIO),  had  a  duration  of  24  weeks  and  was  considered  a  priori  too  short  for  an 
appropriate  safety  assessment,  especially  in  terms  of  cardiovascular  safety.    The  incidence  of 
peripheral  oedema  in  this  study  was  somewhat  increased  (4.0%  vs  2.8%,  7  vs.  5  patients)  when 
sitagliptin  was  added  to  pioglitazone  compared  to  the  addition  of  placebo.  Though not  considered  a 
strong signal the data were also not considered reassuring. The Applicant agreed to follow up on the 
cardiovascular  safety  of  this  patient  population  in  the  approved  indications  as  a  post-authorisation 
commitment.  
The  incidence  of  AEs  considered  as  drug-related  in  patients  treated  with  sitagliptin/pioglitazone 
compared  to  patients  treated  with  placebo/pioglitazone  was  9.1 %  and  9.0 %,  respectively.  Adverse 
reactions  considered  as  drug-related  reported  in  patients  treated  with  sitagliptin  occurring  in  excess 
(> 0.2 % and difference > 1 patient) of that in patients receiving placebo were as follows: 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   33/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: Drug-Related Clinical Adverse Events (%) of Patients by Treatment Group Excluding Data 
After Initiation of Glycaemic  Rescue Therapy 
SOC and Specific AE 
Gastrointestinal Disorders 
Flatulence 
Metabolism and Nutrition Disorders 
Hypoglycaemia 
MK-0431 100 mg (N=175) 
n (%) 
3 (1.7) 
2 (1.1) 
3 (1.7) 
2 (1.1) 
Placebo (N=178) 
n (%) 
3 (1.7) 
0 (0.0) 
1 (0.6) 
0 (0.0) 
MONOTHERAPY 
Results from comparison 4, showed that in the monotherapy studies of up to 24 weeks duration, AEs 
considered  as  drug-related  reported  in  patients  treated  with  sitagliptin  in  excess  (> 0.2 %  and 
difference  > 1  patient)  of  that  in  patients  receiving  placebo  were  headache  (1.3 %),  hypoglycaemia 
(1.1 %), constipation (0.7 %), and dizziness (0.6 %). These results were obtained excluding data after 
initiation of glycaemic rescue therapy. 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Information  on  all  deaths  with  a  cut-off  date  of  7-July-2006,  including  results  from  completed  and 
ongoing studies, regardless of occurrence prior to or after initiation of rescue glycaemic therapy was 
submitted.  30  deaths  were  reported  in  the  development  program  for  sitagliptin:  23  deaths  were 
reported  in  the  Phase  II/III  studies  in  patients  with  T2DM  (excluding  P028),  and  7  deaths  were 
reported in P028. No deaths were considered related to study drug. 
Of the 23 deaths reported in the Phase II/III studies, 4 were reported prior to randomisation (all during 
the  run-in  period  in  Phase  III  studies)  and  19  after  randomisation.  Among  the  19  patients  who  died 
after randomisation, 5 occurred in Phase II studies (P010 and P014 base period or study extensions) 
and 14 occurred in Phase III studies. Of the 5 post-randomisation deaths in Phase II studies, 3 occurred 
in patients in a sitagliptin group and 2 occurred in patients on glipizide. 
Of the 14 post-randomisation deaths in Phase III studies, 7 occurred in a sitagliptin treatment group, 
and  7  occurred  in  a  non-  exposed  group.  Since  this  information  includes  deaths  that  occurred  in 
ongoing studies as well as completed studies, the exact exposure in the sitagliptin and the non-exposed 
treatment  groups  was  not  available.  However,  in  the  Phase  II  and  III  studies,  3832  patients  were 
randomised  to  a  sitagliptin  treatment  group,  and  2355  patients  were  randomised  to  a  non-exposed 
group. Since patients in the placebo group in studies P010 (dose finding) and P021V1 (monotherapy) 
were switched to a sitagliptin treatment group, the actual number of patients exposed to sitagliptin was 
larger  than  that  indicated  by  the  original  randomised  patient  numbers.  However,  based  upon  the 
number  of  patients  randomised  to  a  sitagliptin  or  to  a  non-exposed  group  in  the  Phase  II  and  III 
studies,  0.26%  of  patients  randomised  to  sitagliptin  died  and  0.38%  patients  randomised  to  a  non-
exposed group died. 
In  study  P028,  65  patients  were  randomised  to  sitagliptin  and  26  patients  were  randomised  to 
treatment with placebo (switched at week 12 to glipizide). Of the 7 deaths reported, one was reported 
prior  to  randomisation,  5  deaths  were  reported  in  patients  randomised  to  sitagliptin  and  one  was 
reported in a patient randomised to glipizide treatment. One additional patient, who had severe renal 
insufficiency and who had been allocated to the placebo/glipizide group, died of bowel ischemia in the 
post-study  period.  Looking  at  the  randomisation  ratio  the  difference  is  higher  than  expected.  In  the 
sitagliptin group, 4 of the 5 patients died due to cardiac AEs, while there was no cardiac death in the 
glipizide  group.  .  It  was  observed,  however,  that  in  addition  to  the  larger  size  of  the  sitagliptin 
treatment  group  (65  vs  26  patients),  the  proportion  of  patients  in  the  sitagliptin  group  with  prior 
cardiac disease at baseline was also higher than in the placebo Although, study P028 was very small, 
precluding  an  appropriate  safety  assessment,  this  finding  was  of  some  concern.  The  data  was 
considered  in  general  too  limited  to  confirm  the  safe  use  of  sitagliptin  in  patients  with  moderate  to 
severe renal insufficiency, therefore sitagliptin is not recommended in this patient population and this 
has been reflected as such in the SPC. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   34/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of serious non-fatal clinical AEs was similar in the sitagliptin 100 mg (5.9%), 200 mg 
(5.0%) and the non-exposed (5.5%) treatment groups, and slightly higher in the sitagliptin <100 mg 
(7.8%).  There  was  no  apparent  pattern  of  specific  serious  non-fatal  clinical  AEs  observed  in  the 
sitagliptin 100 mg treatment group. 
In the whole Pooled Phase II/III Population there were 2 patients with a serious laboratory AE. One 
patient in the sitagliptin 100 mg group had increased lipase; one patient in the sitagliptin 200 mg group 
experienced decreased blood potassium and blood sodium. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Laboratory AEs were reported for 271 (9.8%) patients in the sitagliptin 100 mg group and 221 (9.5%) 
patient in the non-exposed group who received at least one dose of double-blind study medication and 
had  at  least  one  laboratory  test  performed  post-baseline.  The  incidences  of  laboratory  AEs,  drug-
related laboratory AEs and patients discontinued due to a laboratory AE were generally similar in the 
sitagliptin 100 mg group compared to the non-exposed group although all incidences were low. For all 
of these summary measures, the 95% CI for between group differences included “0”. 
There  were  no  meaningful  differences  between  the  treatment  groups  in  the  incidence  of  specific 
laboratory AEs, or all specific laboratory AEs, the CIs around the between group differences included 
"0".  The  incidence  of  specific  drug-related  laboratory  AEs  was  generally  similar  in  the  sitagliptin 
100mg and the non-exposed groups. 
•  Safety in special populations 
Safety  data  of  elderly  patients  was  presented  for  the  Pooled  Phase  II/III  Population.  No  meaningful 
differences  were  observed  in  younger  compared  to  older  patients  in  the  overall  incidence  of  either 
clinical or laboratory AEs by SOC, or any specific AEs. Older patients had a higher overall incidence 
of serious clinical AEs, as might be expected; however, there was no meaningful difference observed 
in the sitagliptin treatment groups relative to the non-exposed group. A slightly greater proportion of 
older patients discontinued due to SAEs in the sitagliptin 100 mg group compared to the non-exposed 
group, but this was not observed in the sitagliptin 200 mg group. Review of the specific SAEs leading 
to  discontinuation  did  not  show  any  discernable  pattern  in  the  types  of  SAEs  observed  in  the 
sitagliptin groups relative to non-exposed group. 
Review of safety results from older and younger patients showed that the incidence of AEs by SOC or 
of  specific  AEs  in  the  sitagliptin  treated  relative  to  the  non-sitagliptin  treated  patients  was  not 
meaningfully  different.  No  particular  AEs  appeared  to  occur  with  sitagliptin  treatment  at  a 
meaningfully higher incidence in older patients relative to younger patients. 
Overall,  safety  and  tolerability  of  sitagliptin  are  considered  acceptable.  However,  patients  with 
moderate  to  severe  renal  insufficiency  should  not  use  sitagliptin,  as  safety  in  these  patients  has  not 
been demonstrated sufficiently, as is mentioned in several sections of the SPC. Additionally, further 
data on cardiovascular safety in the patient population to be treated with sitagliptin will be addressed 
as part of the post-authorisation follow-up measures. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   35/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Proposed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
Important Identified Safety Issues 
Gastrointestinal disorders, 
including nausea, constipation, 
diarrhoea, upper abdominal 
pain, flatulence and related 
terms (dyspepsia, gastritis, and 
abdominal pain)  
Infections, including 
nasopharyngitis, upper 
respiratory tract and related 
terms (bronchitis/acute 
bronchitis, pharyngitis, 
sinusitis, and rhinitis) 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Labelling - SPC Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Labelling - SPC Section 4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Important Potential Safety Issues 
Neurotoxicity, including 
tremor, ataxia, and  
balance disorders 
Suicidal ideation/suicide, 
including depression 
Muscle disorders, including 
myalgia, 
myopathy, and 
muscle weakness 
Skin reactions, including 
urticaria, 
and other clinically important 
and serious skin reactions 
Drug-drug interactions in  
renal insufficiency patients 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Missing or Limited Information 
Exposure in patients 
<18 years of age 
Exposure during pregnancy 
Monitoring of exposure in children (<18 
years of age) by monitoring 
misuse/overdose 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Adverse events in renal 
insufficiency patients 
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Enhanced safety surveillance  
Analysis of ongoing and planned clinical 
safety data† 
Labelling - SPC 4.2: Not 
recommended for use in children 
below 18 years of age 
Labelling - SPC 4.6: Not to be 
used during pregnancy due to lack 
of human data    
Labelling - SPC 4.2 Posology and 
method of administration 
“Patients with renal insufficiency” 
†  Ongoing clinical trials include:  P020 Phase B, P021 Phase B, P024, P035, P036, P036-10, P040, P047, P052, P801, P053, P055, P056, 
P057, and P058.  Planned clinical trials include:  P051, P054, P060, P063, and P064.  See General Investigational Plan of Completed, 
Ongoing, and Planned Clinical Trials Yielding Safety Information for MK-0431. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   36/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  is  of  the  opinion  no  additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information.  
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
There are no unresolved quality issues, which may affect the Benefit/Risk balance.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  primary  glucose-lowering  property  and  effects  on  GLP-1  plasma  levels  of  DPP-4  inhibition  by 
sitagliptin  have  been  shown.  Except  for  some  minor  cardiovascular  safety  effects  through  DPP-4 
inhibition, inhibition of other enzymes such as DPP-8/9 are not anticipated at exposures required for 
glucose lowering in humans. 
Sitagliptin was rapidly absorbed, was bioavailable, and exhibited fairly linear oral pharmacokinetics. It 
is a moderate to high clearance drug, with a relatively short plasma half-life. Metabolism of the drug is 
minor, being excreted primarily unchanged in human, rat and dog 
In  vitro  assays  indicated  that  the  risk  for  clinically  meaningful  interactions  is  low.  At  clinically 
relevant concentrations, sitagliptin did not inhibit cytochrome P450s or Pgp, nor did it induce human 
CYP3A4.  However  interactions  could  be  of  greater  importance  in  patients  with  severe  renal 
insufficiency or ESRD. This has not been assessed in clinical studies.  
Skin  necrosis  was  seen  in  monkeys  treated  with  other  DPP-4  inhibitors;  this  was  considered  in  the 
development program of sitagliptin, and studies are still ongoing to this respect. No skin findings were 
seen in clinical studies with sitagliptin 
Renal  and  liver  toxicity  were  observed  in  rodents  at  systemic  exposure  values  58 times  the  human 
exposure  level.  The  relevance  of  these  findings  for  humans  is  unknown.  Transient  treatment-related 
physical  signs,  some  of  which  suggest  neural  toxicity  were  observed  in  dogs  at  exposure  levels 
approximately  23 times  the  clinical  exposure  level.  In  addition,  very  slight-to-slight  skeletal  muscle 
degeneration  was  also  observed  histologically  at  doses  resulting  in  systemic  exposure  levels  of 
approximately 23 times the human exposure level.  
Sitagliptin  has  not  been  demonstrated  to  be  genotoxic  in  preclinical  studies.  Sitagliptin  was  not 
carcinogenic in mice. In rats, there was an increased incidence of hepatic adenomas and carcinomas; 
however, these neoplastic changes are not considered relevant for the situation in humans. 
No adverse effects upon fertility were observed in male and female rats given sitagliptin prior to and 
throughout  mating.  Reproductive  toxicity  studies  showed  a  slight  treatment-related  increased 
incidence  of  fetal  rib  malformations  in  the  offspring  of  rats  at  systemic  exposure  levels  more  than 
29 times the human exposure levels. Maternal toxicity was seen in rabbits at more than 29 times the 
human  exposure  levels.  These  findings  do  not  suggest  a  relevant  risk  for  human  reproduction. 
Sitagliptin is secreted in considerable amounts into the milk of lactating rats (milk/plasma ratio: 4:1), 
and was seen to cross the rat and rabbit placenta readily. Based on this pre-clinical data, and the lack 
of human studies, sitagliptin should not be used during pregnancy or breast-feeding. 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   37/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy 
to  placebo 
Sitagliptin  100mg  or  200mg  qd  was  compared 
trials 
(P021V1/P023V1). The duration of these studies was of 18 and 24 weeks, both presenting extension 
phases. These studies showed that sitagliptin at the recommended 100mg dose clearly and clinically 
relevantly reduced baseline HbA1c for the duration of the studies. 
In the combination studies sitagliptin was added to metformin (P020V1) or pioglitazone (P019), and 
compared to the effect of addition of placebo. These studies had 24-week durations, with an extension 
to  104  weeks  in  the  metformin  combination  study.  The  results  of  these  combination  studies  also 
showed  that  sitagliptin  100mg  effectively  reduced  HbA1c  in  patients  with  diabetes  mellitus  for  the 
duration of the studies.  
two  monotherapy 
in 
In  the  active  comparator  study  P024V1  (Sitagliptin+Metformin  compared  to  Metformin+Glipizide), 
sitagliptin 100 mg per day was shown to have a significant and clinically relevant effect on glycaemic 
control.  Sitagliptin  was  similar  to  glipizide  in  reducing  HbA1c  in  this  patient  population  with 
predominantly  mild  to  moderate  hyperglycaemia  on  monotherapy  with  metformin,  but  non-inferior 
efficacy  compared  to  sulfonylureas  has  not  unequivocally  been  proven.  The  latter  conclusion  was 
based on the restrictions regarding dose titration of glipizide possibly preventing assessment of the full 
potential of this drug. Furthermore, although not designed and powered to compare efficacy, in study 
P010,  phase  II  dose  finding  study  in  monotherapy,  glipizide  performed  statistically  better  than 
sitagliptin; and in study P020V1 numerically better than sitagliptin.  
Studies  P021V1,  P020V1  and  P024V1  provided  long-term  efficacy  data.  The  results  from  the 
monotherapy and combination studies showed that sitagliptin treatment resulted in an improvement in 
HbA1c with a nadir observed at week 30, followed by a rise but still maintenance of HbA1c lowering at 
week 54. Glipizide treatment in Phase B of study P020V1 as add-on to metformin resulted in a greater 
reduction in HbA1c values, but the difference was small. In P024V1, there was a rise in mean HbA1c in 
both  treatment  groups  after  Week  24.  The  rate  of  rise  from  nadir  in  the  glipizide  group  was  greater 
than the rate of rise in the sitagliptin group, such that by week 52 very similar reductions from baseline 
in the two treatment groups were seen. More patients in the sitagliptin group discontinued due to lack 
of efficacy as compared to glipizide treated patients. 
Safety 
Overall,  it  can  be  concluded  that  sitagliptin  treatment  was  associated  with  an increased  incidence  in 
infections,  gastrointestinal  disorders,  musculoskeletal  disorders,  and  nervous  system.  These  adverse 
events  have  been  included  in  the  SPC.  Event  rate  was  increased  for  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue 
disorders.  These  adverse  events  are  seen  as  potential  risk  and  have  been  included  in  the  risk 
management plan. 
In  favour  of  sitagliptin,  studies  indicate  that  the  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  is  decreased  as  compared  to 
glipizide  treatment.  In  addition,  sitagliptin  was  shown  to  have  a  favourable  impact  on  body  weight 
compared to glipizide. 
Specific adverse drug reactions that were increased in the Xelevia group vs. placebo when sitagliptin 
was  combined  with  metformin  were:  somnolence,  nausea,  upper  abdominal  pain,  diarrhoea,  blood 
glucose decreased, anorexia and weight decreased.  
In  the  combination  with  pioglitazone,  specific  adverse  drug  reactions  that  were  increased  in  the 
Xelevia group vs. placebo when sitagliptin was combined with pioglitazone were: hypoglycaemia and 
flatulence. There was also a slight increase in the frequency of peripheral oedema as an adverse event. 
Safety data of elderly patients were presented for the Pooled Phase II/III Population. No meaningful 
differences  were  observed  in  younger  compared  to  older  patients  in  the  overall  incidence  of  either 
clinical or laboratory adverse events by SOC or of specific adverse events. 
In the study on renal insufficiency (P028), there were more cardiac adverse events and more patients 
died in the sitagliptin group compared to the placebo/glipizide group. Although, study P028 was very 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   38/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
small, precluding an appropriate safety assessment, this finding was of  some  concern. The data was 
considered  in  general  too  limited  to  confirm  the  safe  use  of  sitagliptin  in  patients  with  moderate  to 
severe renal insufficiency, therefore sitagliptin is not recommended in this patient population and this 
has been reflected as such in the SPC. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these.  
•  User consultation 
The  target  patient  groups  “user  consultation”  was  assessed  as  part  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the 
D120 List of Questions. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
In  conclusion,  the  benefit-risk  ratio  for  sitagliptin  is  considered  positive  in  the  treatment  of  patients 
with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  metformin  or  a 
PPARγ  agonist  (e.g.  thiazolidinedione)  when  diet  and  exercise  plus  the  single  agent  do  not  provide 
glycaemic  control.  However,  more  safety  data  are  needed  in  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  renal 
insufficiency before the use of sitagliptin can be recommended in this patient population.  
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion  that  Pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were 
needed to investigate further some of the safety concerns  
Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by majority 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Xelevia  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  type  2  diabetes 
mellitus  to  improve  glycaemic  control  in  combination  with  metformin  when  diet  and  exercise,  plus 
metformin  do  not  provide  adequate  glycaemic  control,  and  also  for  patients  with  type  2  diabetes 
mellitus in whom use of a PPARγ agonist (i.e. a thiazolidinedione) is appropriate, in combination with 
the  PPARγ  agonist  when  diet  and  exercise  plus  the  PPARγ  agonist  alone  do  not  provide  adequate 
glycaemic  control  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation . 
                                                                                         ©EMEA 2007                                                                                   39/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
