EMA/525445/2012  
EMEA/H/C/000762 
EPAR summary for the public 
Xelevia 
sitagliptin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Xelevia. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Xelevia. 
What is Xelevia? 
Xelevia is a medicine that contains the active substance sitagliptin. It is available as tablets (25, 50 
and 100 mg). 
What is Xelevia used for? 
Xelevia is used in patients with type 2 diabetes to improve the control of blood glucose (sugar) levels. 
It is used in addition to diet and exercise in the following ways: 
 
on its own, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on diet and exercise and in whom 
metformin (an antidiabetes medicine) is not suitable; 
 
in combination with metformin or a PPAR-gamma agonist (a type of antidiabetes medicine) such as 
a thiazolidinedione, in patients who are not satisfactorily controlled on metformin or the 
PPAR-gamma agonist used on its own; 
 
in combination with a sulphonylurea (another type of antidiabetes medicine) in patients who are 
not satisfactorily controlled with a sulphonylurea used on its own and in whom metformin is not 
suitable; 
 
in combination with both metformin, and a sulphonylurea or a PPAR-gamma agonist, in patients 
who are not satisfactorily controlled on the two medicines; 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in combination with insulin, with or without metformin, in patients who are not satisfactorily 
controlled on a stable dose of insulin. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Xelevia used? 
Xelevia is taken at a dose of 100 mg once a day. If Xelevia is taken with a sulphonylurea or insulin, the 
dose of the sulphonylurea or insulin may need to be lowered to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia (low 
blood sugar levels). 
In patients with moderately or severely reduced kidney function the dose of Xelevia should be reduced. 
How does Xelevia work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of 
glucose in the blood or when the body is unable to use insulin effectively. The active substance in 
Xelevia, sitagliptin, is a dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor. It works by blocking the breakdown of 
‘incretin’ hormones in the body. These hormones are released after a meal and stimulate the pancreas 
to produce insulin. By increasing levels of incretin hormones in the blood, sitagliptin stimulates the 
pancreas to produce more insulin when blood glucose levels are high. Sitagliptin does not work when 
the blood glucose is low. Sitagliptin also reduces the amount of glucose made by the liver, by 
increasing insulin levels and decreasing the levels of the hormone glucagon. Together, these processes 
reduce blood glucose levels and help to control type 2 diabetes. 
How has Xelevia been studied? 
Xelevia was studied in nine studies, involving almost 6,000 patients with type 2 diabetes whose blood 
glucose levels were not adequately controlled: 
 
four of the studies compared Xelevia with placebo (a dummy treatment): Xelevia or placebo were 
used on their own in two studies involving 1,262 patients, as an add-on to metformin in one study 
involving 701 patients, and as an add-on to pioglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in one study 
involving 353 patients; 
 
two studies compared Xelevia with other antidiabetes medicines. One study compared Xelevia with 
glipizide (a sulphonylurea), when they were used as an add-on to metformin in 1,172 patients. The 
other study compared Xelevia with metformin, used on their own, in 1,058 patients; 
 
three additional studies compared Xelevia with placebo when they were added to other 
antidiabetes medicines: glimepiride (another sulphonylurea), with or without metformin, in 441 
patients; the combination of metformin and rosiglitazone (a PPAR-gamma agonist) in 278 patients; 
and a stable dose of insulin, with or without metformin, in 641 patients. 
In all of the studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the change in the level of a substance in 
the blood called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well the blood 
glucose is controlled. 
What benefit has Xelevia shown during the studies? 
Xelevia was more effective than placebo when it was taken alone or in combination with other 
antidiabetes medicines. In patients taking Xelevia on its own, HbA1c levels fell from around 8.0% at 
the start of the studies by 0.48% after 18 weeks and 0.61% after 24 weeks. In contrast, they rose by 
0.12% and 0.18%, respectively, in the patients taking placebo. Adding Xelevia to metformin reduced 
Xelevia  
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
HbA1c levels by 0.67% after 24 weeks, compared with a fall of 0.02% in the patients adding placebo. 
When added to pioglitazone, Xelevia reduced HbA1c levels by 0.85% after 24 weeks, compared with a 
fall of 0.15% in the patients adding placebo. 
In the studies comparing Xelevia with other medicines, the effectiveness of adding Xelevia to 
metformin was similar to that of adding glipizide. When taken on their own, Xelevia and metformin 
produced similar reductions in HbA1c levels, but the effectiveness of Xelevia seemed to be slightly 
lower than that of metformin. 
In the additional studies, adding Xelevia to glimepiride (with or without metformin) led to a reduction 
in HbA1c levels of 0.45% after 24 weeks, compared with an increase of 0.28% in those adding 
placebo. HbA1c levels were reduced by 1.03% after 18 weeks in patients adding Xelevia to metformin 
and rosiglitazone, compared with a fall of 0.31% in those adding placebo. Finally, they were reduced 
by 0.59% in patients adding Xelevia to insulin (with or without metformin), compared with a fall of 
0.03% in those adding placebo. 
What is the risk associated with Xelevia? 
Serious side effects reported with Xelevia (generally seen in more than 5% of patients) include 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) and hypersensitivity (allergic reactions). Hypoglycaemia 
has been reported in combination with a sulphonylurea in 4.7-13.8% of patients and with insulin in 
9.6% of patients. For the full list of all side effects reported with Xelevia, see the package leaflet. 
Xelevia must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to sitagliptin or any of the other 
ingredients. 
Why has Xelevia been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Xelevia’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Xelevia 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Xelevia on 21 March 2007.  
The full EPAR for Xelevia can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Xelevia, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2012. 
Xelevia  
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
