Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
Janus Kinase inhibitors (JAKi) 
Xeljanz (tofacitinib) EMEA/H-A20/1517/C/004214/0048 
Cibinqo (abrocitinib) EMEA/H-A20/1517/C/005452/0003 
Olumiant (baricitinib) EMEA/H-A20/1517/C/004085/0032 
Rinvoq (upadacitinib) EMEA/H-A20/1517/C/004760/0017 
Jyseleca (filgotinib) EMEA/H-A20/1517/C/005113/0014  
Divergent statement 
The below named CHMP Members consider that a restriction of indications of above mentioned 
products is necessary to maintain their positive Benefit/Risk balance, taking into account the 
availability of authorized alternatives, based on the following grounds: 
•  ORAL is a Phase 3b/4 randomized study specifically designed to evaluate safety of tofacitinib at 
two doses (5 mg and 10 mg BID) vs TNFi and methodologically represents the strongest 
possible base for conclusion. Results of this study showed higher incidence on MACE, 
malignancies, VTEs, serious infections, and most importantly mortality in patients aged ≥50 
years with moderate to severe RA and at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor treated 
with tofacitinib vs TNFi.  
• 
Preliminary results of I4V-MC-B023 (B023) observational study, including data from several 
healthcare databases of RA patients, showed an increased rate of MACE and VTE with 
baricitinib vs TNFi in RA patients.  
• 
• 
Safety concerns under review are identified ADRs class effect for JAKi and are therefore 
expected in both patients with and without risk factors.  
In patients without risk factors, absolute risk of serious safety outcomes is expected to be low 
but is not negligible. In patients without risk factors (e.g. children, adolescents), the serious 
safety outcomes of JAKis under review are of great concern, especially in the view of the 
expected long-term treatment. 
•  Restriction of indication in the updated AR and below is needed to ensure positive benefit/risk 
balance also in patients without risk factors in view of potentially fatal ADRs under review, in 
addition to the risk minimisation measures for patients with risk factors.  
•  Restriction of indications is considered the most effective measure in affecting factual 
prescription behaviour. 
• 
There may be long-term unintended consequences of implementing a warning only for patients 
with risks factors without restriction of indications. The use of the JAK inhibitors may be 
channeled to indications where patients have less risk factors for MACE and malignancy, 
however higher doses may be used. These populations include children and adolescents and 
 
 
 
 
that is of concern particularly due to risk of malignancy with this treatment (including 
lymphoma) in these populations.  
Based on the presented evidence in their totality, we are of the following opinion: 
To ensure a positive B/R balance for the concerned products, next to the warning for patients 65 years 
of age or older and patients with risk factors for MACE and malignancy, the indications should be 
restricted to patients who: 
• 
• 
• 
responded inadequately or are intolerant to TNFi or for whom TNFi is inappropriate (RA, PsA, 
UC, AS, JIA indications) 
responded inadequately or are intolerant to at least one prior systemic therapy or for whom 
alternative systemic therapies are inappropriate (AD indication) 
responded inadequately or are intolerant to alternative treatment options or for whom 
alternative treatment options are inappropriate (AA indication).  
CHMP Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
•  Margareta Bego (Croatia) 
•  Armando Genazzani (Italy) 
•  Blanka Hirschlerová (Co-opted member for Quality (non-biologicals) and Pharmacokinetics) 
• 
Johann Lodewijk Hillege (Netherlands) 
•  Ondřej Slanař (Czechia) 
•  Alexandre Moreau (France) 
 
 
