ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains tofacitinib citrate, equivalent to 5 mg tofacitinib.
Excipient with known effect
Each film-coated tablet contains 59.44 mg of lactose.
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
Each film-coated tablet contains tofacitinib citrate, equivalent to 10 mg tofacitinib.
Excipient with known effect
Each film-coated tablet contains 118.88 mg of lactose.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Film-coated tablet (tablet)
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
White, round tablet of 7.9 mm diameter, debossed “Pfizer” on one side and “JKI 5” on the other.
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
Blue, round tablet of 9.5 mm diameter, debossed “Pfizer” on one side and “JKI 10” on the other.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indication
Rheumatoid arthritis
Tofacitinib in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who 
are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (see section 5.1). 
Tofacitinib can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or when treatment with MTX
is inappropriate (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Psoriatic arthritis
Tofacitinib in combination with MTX is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy (see section 5.1).
2
Ankylosing spondylitis
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS) who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy.
Ulcerative colitis
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active ulcerative 
colitis (UC) who have had an inadequate response, lost response, or were intolerant to either 
conventional therapy or a biologic agent (see section 5.1). 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
(rheumatoid factor positive [RF+] or negative [RF-] polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis), and 
juvenile psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately 
to previous therapy with DMARDs.
Tofacitinib can be given in combination with methotrexate (MTX) or as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate.
4.2 Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of conditions for which tofacitinib is indicated.
Posology
Rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis
The recommended dose is 5 mg film-coated tablets administered twice daily, which should not be 
exceeded.
No dose adjustment is required when used in combination with MTX.
For information on switching between tofacitinib film-coated tablets and tofacitinib prolonged-release 
tablets see Table 1.
Table 1: Switching between tofacitinib film-coated tablets and tofacitinib prolonged-release tablets
Treatment with tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily and 
tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once daily may be switched 
between each other on the day following the last dose of either tablet.
Switching between tofacitinib 
5 mg film-coated tablets and 
tofacitinib 11 mg 
prolonged-release tableta
a See section 5.2 for comparison of pharmacokinetics of prolonged-release and film-coated formulations.
Ankylosing spondylitis
The recommended dose of tofacitinib is 5 mg administered twice daily.
Ulcerative colitis
Induction treatment
The recommended dose is 10 mg given orally twice daily for induction for 8 weeks. 
3
For patients who do not achieve adequate therapeutic benefit by week 8, the induction dose of 10 mg 
twice daily can be extended for an additional 8 weeks (16 weeks total), followed by 5 mg twice daily 
for maintenance. Tofacitinib induction therapy should be discontinued in any patient who shows no 
evidence of therapeutic benefit by week 16.
Maintenance treatment
The recommended dose for maintenance treatment is tofacitinib 5 mg given orally twice daily.
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily for maintenance treatment is not recommended in patients with UC who 
have known venous thromboembolism (VTE), major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and 
malignancy risk factors, unless there is no suitable alternative treatment available (see section 4.4 and 
4.8).
For patients with UC who are not at increased risk for VTE, MACE and malignancy (see section 4.4), 
tofacitinib 10 mg orally twice daily may be considered if the patient experiences a decrease in 
response on tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and failed to respond to alternative treatment options for 
ulcerative colitis such as tumour necrosis factor inhibitor (TNF inhibitor) treatment. Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily for maintenance treatment should be used for the shortest duration possible. The lowest 
effective dose needed to maintain response should be used.
In patients who have responded to treatment with tofacitinib, corticosteroids may be reduced and/or 
discontinued in accordance with standard of care.
Retreatment in UC
If therapy is interrupted, restarting treatment with tofacitinib can be considered. If there has been a loss 
of response, reinduction with tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily may be considered. The treatment 
interruption period in clinical studies extended up to 1 year. Efficacy may be regained by 8 weeks of 
10 mg twice daily therapy (see section 5.1).
Polyarticular JIA and juvenile PsA (children between 2 and 18 years of age)
Tofacitinib may be used as monotherapy or in combination with MTX.
The recommended dose in patients 2 years of age and older is based upon the following weight 
categories:
Table 2: Tofacitinib dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
juvenile PsA two years of age and older
Body weight (kg)
10 - < 20
20 - < 40
≥ 40
Dose regimen
3.2 mg (3.2 mL of oral solution) twice daily
4 mg (4 mL of oral solution) twice daily
5 mg (5 mL of oral solution or 5 mg film-coated tablet) twice daily
Patients  40 kg treated with tofacitinib 5 mL oral solution twice daily may be switched to tofacitinib 
5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily. Patients < 40 kg cannot be switched from tofacitinib oral 
solution.
Dose interruption and discontinuation in adults and paediatric patients
Tofacitinib treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection 
is controlled.
Interruption of dosing may be needed for management of dose-related laboratory abnormalities 
including lymphopenia, neutropenia, and anaemia. As described in Tables 3, 4 and 5 below, 
recommendations for temporary dose interruption or permanent discontinuation of treatment are made 
according to the severity of laboratory abnormalities (see section 4.4).
4
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in patients with an absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) less than 
750 cells/mm3.
Table 3: Low absolute lymphocyte count
Low absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) (see section 4.4)
Laboratory value
(cells/mm3)
ALC greater than or equal 
to 750
ALC 500-750
ALC less than 500
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
For persistent (2 sequential values in this range on routine testing) 
decrease in this range, dosing should be reduced or interrupted. 
For patients receiving tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, dosing should be 
reduced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
For patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, dosing should be 
interrupted.
When ALC is greater than 750, treatment should be resumed as 
clinically appropriate.
If laboratory value confirmed by repeat testing within 7 days, dosing 
should be discontinued.
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in adult patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less 
than 1,000 cells/mm3. It is recommended not to initiate dosing in paediatric patients with an absolute 
neutrophil count (ANC) less than 1,200 cells/mm3.
Table 4: Low absolute neutrophil count
Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) (see section 4.4)
Laboratory Value
(cells/mm3)
ANC greater than 1,000
ANC 500-1,000
ANC less than 500
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
For persistent (2 sequential values in this range on routine testing) 
decreases in this range, dosing should be reduced or interrupted.
For patients receiving tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, dosing should be 
reduced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
For patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, dosing should be 
interrupted.
When ANC is greater than 1,000, treatment should be resumed as 
clinically appropriate.
If laboratory value confirmed by repeat testing within 7 days, dosing 
should be discontinued. 
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in adult patients with haemoglobin less than 9 g/dL. It is 
recommended not to initiate dosing in paediatric patients with haemoglobin less than 10 g/dL.
5
Table 5: Low haemoglobin value
Low haemoglobin value (see section 4.4)
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
Dosing should be interrupted until haemoglobin values have 
normalised.
Laboratory value
(g/dL)
Less than or equal to 
2 g/dL decrease and greater 
than or equal to 9.0 g/dL
Greater than 2 g/dL 
decrease or less than 
8.0 g/dL
(confirmed by repeat 
testing)
Interactions
Tofacitinib total daily dose should be reduced by half in patients receiving potent inhibitors of 
cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) and in patients receiving 1 or more concomitant 
medicinal products that result in both moderate inhibition of CYP3A4 as well as potent inhibition of 
CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole) (see section 4.5) as follows:


Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg once daily in patients receiving 5 mg twice 
daily (adult and paediatric patients).
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg twice daily in patients receiving 10 mg twice 
daily (adult patients). 
Only in paediatric patients: available data suggest that clinical improvement is observed within 18 
weeks of initiation of treatment with tofacitinib. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in 
a patient exhibiting no clinical improvement within this timeframe.
Dose discontinuation in AS 
Available data suggest that clinical improvement in AS is observed within 16 weeks of initiation of 
treatment with tofacitinib. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient exhibiting 
no clinical improvement within this timeframe.
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required in patients 65 years of age and older. There are limited data in patients 
aged 75 years and older. See section 4.4 for Use in patients 65 years of age and older.
Hepatic impairment
Table 6:  Dose adjustment for hepatic impairment 
Classification
Hepatic 
impairment 
category
Mild
Moderate
Child Pugh A
Child Pugh B
Severe
Child Pugh C
Dose adjustment in hepatic impairment for different 
strength tablets
No dose adjustment required.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg once daily when the 
indicated dose in the presence of normal hepatic 
function is 5 mg twice daily.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg twice daily when the 
indicated dose in the presence of normal hepatic 
function is 10 mg twice daily (see section 5.2).
Tofacitinib should not be used in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3).
6
Renal impairment
Renal 
impairment 
category
Mild
Moderate
Severe (including 
patients 
undergoing 
haemodialysis)
Table 7:  Dose adjustment for renal impairment 
Creatinine 
clearance
Dose adjustment in renal impairment for different 
strength tablets
50-80 mL/min
30-49 mL/min
< 30 mL/min
No dose adjustment required.
No dose adjustment required.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg once daily when the 
indicated dose in the presence of normal renal function 
is 5 mg twice daily.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg twice daily when the 
indicated dose in the presence of normal renal function 
is 10 mg twice daily. 
Patients with severe renal impairment should remain on 
a reduced dose even after haemodialysis (see 
section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of tofacitinib in children less than 2 years of age with polyarticular JIA and 
juvenile PsA has not been established. No data are available.
The safety and efficacy of tofacitinib in children less than 18 years of age with other indications (e.g., 
ulcerative colitis) has not been established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Oral use.
Tofacitinib is given orally with or without food.
For patients who have difficulties swallowing, tofacitinib tablets may be crushed and taken with 
water.
4.3 Contraindications




Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Active tuberculosis (TB), serious infections such as sepsis, or opportunistic infections (see 
section 4.4).
Severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2).
Pregnancy and lactation (see section 4.6).
7
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available in patients:
-65 years of age and older;
-patients with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors 
(such as current or past long-time smokers);
-patients with malignancy risk factors (e.g. current malignancy or history of malignancy)
Use in patients 65 years of age and older
Considering the increased risk of serious infections, myocardial infarction, malignancies and all cause 
mortality with tofacitinib in patients 65 years of age and older, tofacitinib should only be used in these 
patients if no suitable treatment alternatives are available (see further details below in section 4.4 and 
section 5.1).
Combination with other therapies
Tofacitinib has not been studied and its use should be avoided in combination with biologics such as 
TNF antagonists, interleukin (IL)-1R antagonists, IL-6R antagonists, anti-CD20 monoclonal 
antibodies, IL-17 antagonists, IL-12/IL-23 antagonists, anti-integrins, selective co-stimulation 
modulators and potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, ciclosporin and 
tacrolimus because of the possibility of increased immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
There was a higher incidence of adverse events for the combination of tofacitinib with MTX versus 
tofacitinib as monotherapy in RA clinical studies.
The use of tofacitinib in combination with phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors has not been studied in 
tofacitinib clinical studies.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
Serious VTE events including pulmonary embolism (PE), some of which were fatal, and deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT), have been observed in patients taking tofacitinib. In a randomised 
post-authorisation safety study in patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose dependent increased risk for VTE was 
observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
In a post hoc exploratory analysis within this study, in patients with known VTE risk factors, 
occurrences of subsequent VTEs were observed more frequently in tofacitinib-treated patients that, at 
12 months treatment, had D-dimer level ≥2× ULN versus those with D-dimer level <2× ULN; this was 
not evident in TNF inhibitor-treated patients. Interpretation is limited by the low number of VTE 
events and restricted D-dimer test availability (only assessed at Baseline, Month 12, and at the end of 
the study). In patients who did not have a VTE during the study, mean D-dimer levels were 
significantly reduced at Month 12 relative to Baseline across all treatment arms. However, D-dimer 
levels ≥2× ULN at Month 12 were observed in approximately 30% of patients without subsequent 
VTE events, indicating limited specificity of D-Dimer testing in this study.
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily for maintenance treatment is not recommended in patients with UC who 
have known VTE, MACE and malignancy risk factors, unless there is no suitable alternative treatment 
available (see section 4.2). 
In patients with cardiovascular or malignancy risk factors (see also section 4.4 “Major adverse 
cardiovascular events (MACE)” and “Malignancy”) tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable 
treatment alternatives are available.
In patients with VTE risk factors other than MACE or malignancy risk factors, tofacitinib should be 
used with caution. VTE risk factors other than MACE or malignancy risk factors include previous 
8
VTE, patients undergoing major surgery, immobilisation, use of combined hormonal contraceptives or 
hormone replacement therapy, inherited coagulation disorder. Patients should be re-evaluated 
periodically during tofacitinib treatment to assess for changes in VTE risk.
For patients with RA with known risk factors for VTE, consider testing D-dimer levels 
after approximately 12 months of treatment. If D-dimer test result is ≥ 2× ULN, confirm that clinical 
benefits outweigh risks prior to a decision on treatment continuation with tofacitinib.
Promptly evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of VTE and discontinue tofacitinib in patients 
with suspected VTE, regardless of dose or indication.
Retinal venous thrombosis
Retinal venous thrombosis (RVT) has been reported in patients treated with tofacitinib (see section 
4.8). The patients should be advised to promptly seek medical care in case they experience symptoms 
suggestive of RVT.
Serious infections
Serious and sometimes fatal infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, or other 
opportunistic pathogens have been reported in patients receiving tofacitinib (see section 4.8). The risk 
of opportunistic infections is higher in Asian geographic regions (see section 4.8). Rheumatoid 
arthritis patients taking corticosteroids may be predisposed to infection.
Tofacitinib should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including localised infections.
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating tofacitinib in patients:




with recurrent infections,
with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection,
who have resided or travelled in areas of endemic mycoses, 
who have underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection.
Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during 
and after treatment with tofacitinib. Treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious 
infection, an opportunistic infection, or sepsis. A patient who develops a new infection during 
treatment with tofacitinib should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an 
immunocompromised patient, appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated, and the patient 
should be closely monitored.
As there is a higher incidence of infections in the elderly and in the diabetic populations in general, 
caution should be used when treating the elderly and patients with diabetes (see section 4.8). In 
patients 65 years of age and older, tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives 
are available (see section 5.1).
Risk of infection may be higher with increasing degrees of lymphopenia and consideration should be 
given to lymphocyte counts when assessing individual patient risk of infection. Discontinuation and 
monitoring criteria for lymphopenia are discussed in section 4.2.
Tuberculosis
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating tofacitinib in patients:


who have been exposed to TB,
who have resided or travelled in areas of endemic TB.
9
Patients should be evaluated and tested for latent or active infection prior to and per applicable 
guidelines during administration of tofacitinib.
Patients with latent TB, who test positive, should be treated with standard antimycobacterial therapy 
before administering tofacitinib.
Antituberculosis therapy should also be considered prior to administration of tofacitinib in patients 
who test negative for TB but who have a past history of latent or active TB and where an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed; or those who test negative but who have risk factors for TB 
infection. Consultation with a healthcare professional with expertise in the treatment of TB is 
recommended to aid in the decision about whether initiating antituberculosis therapy is appropriate for 
an individual patient. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms 
of TB, including patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to initiating therapy.
Viral reactivation
Viral reactivation and cases of herpes virus reactivation (e.g., herpes zoster) have been observed in 
patients receiving tofacitinib (see section 4.8).
In patients treated with tofacitinib, the incidence of herpes zoster appears to be increased in: 




Japanese or Korean patients. 
Patients with an ALC less than 1,000 cells/mm3 (see section 4.2).
Patients with long standing RA who have previously received two or more biological 
disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
Patients treated with 10 mg twice daily.
The impact of tofacitinib on chronic viral hepatitis reactivation is unknown. Patients screened positive 
for hepatitis B or C were excluded from clinical studies. Screening for viral hepatitis should be 
performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting therapy with tofacitinib.
Major adverse cardiovascular events (including myocardial infarction)
Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) have been observed in patients taking tofacitinib.
In a randomised post authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increased incidence of myocardial infarctions 
was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). In patients 
65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients with 
history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors, tofacitinib should 
only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available (see section 5.1).
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorder
Tofacitinib may affect host defences against malignancies.
In a randomised post authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increased incidence of malignancies, 
particularly NMSC, lung cancer and lymphoma, was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF 
inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
NMSC lung cancers and lymphoma in patients treated with tofacitinib have also been observed in 
other clinical studies and in the post marketing setting.
Other malignancies in patients treated with tofacitinib were observed in clinical studies and the 
post-marketing setting, including, but not limited to, breast cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, and 
pancreatic cancer.
10
In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients 
with other malignancy risk factors (e.g. current malignancy or history of malignancy other than a 
successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer) tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable 
treatment alternatives are available (see section 5.1). Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those who are at increased risk for skin cancer (see Table 8 in section 4.8).
Interstitial lung disease 
Caution is also recommended in patients with a history of chronic lung disease as they may be more 
prone to infections. Events of interstitial lung disease (some of which had a fatal outcome) have been 
reported in patients treated with tofacitinib in RA clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting 
although the role of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibition in these events is not known. Asian RA patients are 
known to be at higher risk of interstitial lung disease, thus caution should be exercised in treating these 
patients.
Gastrointestinal perforations
Events of gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in clinical studies although the role of JAK 
inhibition in these events is not known. Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients who may 
be at increased risk for gastrointestinal perforation (e.g., patients with a history of diverticulitis, 
patients with concomitant use of corticosteroids and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Patients 
presenting with new onset abdominal signs and symptoms should be evaluated promptly for early 
identification of gastrointestinal perforation.
Fractures 
Fractures have been observed in patients treated with tofacitinib.
Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients with known risk factors for fractures such as 
elderly patients, female patients and patients with corticosteroid use, regardless of indication and 
dosage. 
Liver enzymes
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of liver enzyme elevation in 
some patients (see section 4.8 liver enzyme tests). Caution should be exercised when considering 
initiation of tofacitinib treatment in patients with elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), particularly when initiated in combination with potentially hepatotoxic 
medicinal products such as MTX. Following initiation, routine monitoring of liver tests and prompt 
investigation of the causes of any observed liver enzyme elevations are recommended to identify 
potential cases of drug-induced liver injury. If drug-induced liver injury is suspected, the 
administration of tofacitinib should be interrupted until this diagnosis has been excluded.
Hypersensitivity
In post-marketing experience, cases of hypersensitivity associated with tofacitinib administration have 
been reported. Allergic reactions included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. 
If any serious allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, tofacitinib should be discontinued immediately.
Laboratory parameters
Lymphocytes
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of lymphopenia compared to 
placebo. Lymphocyte counts less than 750 cells/mm3 were associated with an increased incidence of 
serious infections. It is not recommended to initiate or continue tofacitinib treatment in patients with a 
confirmed lymphocyte count less than 750 cells/mm3. Lymphocytes should be monitored at baseline 
11
and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on lymphocyte counts, see 
section 4.2.
Neutrophils
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of neutropenia (less than 
2,000 cells/mm3) compared to placebo. It is not recommended to initiate tofacitinib treatment in adult 
patients with an ANC less than 1,000 cells/mm3 and in paediatric patients with an ANC less than 
1,200 cells/mm3. ANC should be monitored at baseline and after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment and every 
3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on ANC, see section 4.2.
Haemoglobin
Treatment with tofacitinib has been associated with decreases in haemoglobin levels. It is not 
recommended to initiate tofacitinib treatment in adult patients with a haemoglobin value less than 
9 g/dL and in paediatric patients with a haemoglobin value less than 10 g/dL. Haemoglobin should be 
monitored at baseline and after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment and every 3 months thereafter. For 
recommended modifications based on haemoglobin level, see section 4.2.
Lipid monitoring
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with increases in lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Maximum 
effects were generally observed within 6 weeks. Assessment of lipid parameters should be performed 
after 8 weeks following initiation of tofacitinib therapy. Patients should be managed according to 
clinical guidelines for the management of hyperlipidaemia. Increases in total and LDL cholesterol 
associated with tofacitinib may be decreased to pretreatment levels with statin therapy.
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of tofacitinib in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes. Dose adjustment of anti-diabetic medication may be necessary in the event 
that hypoglycaemia occurs.
Vaccinations
Prior to initiating tofacitinib, it is recommended that all patients, particularly pJIA and jPsA patients, 
be brought up to date with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines. It is 
recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with tofacitinib. The decision to use live 
vaccines prior to tofacitinib treatment should take into account the pre-existing immunosuppression in 
a given patient.
Prophylactic zoster vaccination should be considered in accordance with vaccination guidelines. 
Particular consideration should be given to patients with longstanding RA who have previously 
received two or more biological DMARDs. If live zoster vaccine is administered; it should only be 
administered to patients with a known history of chickenpox or those that are seropositive for varicella 
zoster virus (VZV). If the history of chickenpox is considered doubtful or unreliable it is 
recommended to test for antibodies against VZV.
Vaccination with live vaccines should occur at least 2 weeks but preferably 4 weeks prior to initiation 
of tofacitinib or in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunomodulatory 
medicinal products. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines 
to patients receiving tofacitinib.
12
Excipients contents
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product.
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Potential for other medicinal products to influence the pharmacokinetics (PK) of tofacitinib
Since tofacitinib is metabolised by CYP3A4, interaction with medicinal products that inhibit or induce 
CYP3A4 is likely. Tofacitinib exposure is increased when coadministered with potent inhibitors of 
CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) or when administration of one or more concomitant medicinal products 
results in both moderate inhibition of CYP3A4 and potent inhibition of CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole)
(see section 4.2).
Tofacitinib exposure is decreased when coadministered with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin). 
Inhibitors of CYP2C19 alone or P-glycoprotein are unlikely to significantly alter the PK of tofacitinib.
Coadministration with ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor), fluconazole (moderate CYP3A4 and 
potent CYP2C19 inhibitor), tacrolimus (mild CYP3A4 inhibitor) and ciclosporin (moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitor) increased tofacitinib AUC, while rifampicin (potent CYP inducer) decreased tofacitinib
AUC. Coadministration of tofacitinib with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin) may result in a loss 
of or reduced clinical response (see Figure 1). Coadministration of potent inducers of CYP3A4 with 
tofacitinib is not recommended. Coadministration with ketoconazole and fluconazole increased 
tofacitinib Cmax, while tacrolimus, ciclosporin and rifampicin decreased tofacitinib Cmax. Concomitant 
administration with MTX 15-25 mg once weekly had no effect on the PK of tofacitinib in RA patients 
(see Figure 1).
13
Figure 1. Impact of other medicinal products on PK of tofacitinib
Coadministered
Medicinal Product
CYP3A Inhibitor
Ketoconazole
CYP3A & CYP2C19 Inhibitor
Fluconazole
CYP Inducer
Rifampicin
Methotrexate
Tacrolimus
Ciclosporin
PK
Ratio and 90% CI
Recommendation
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced a
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced a
Efficacy may be decreased
No dose adjustment
Combined use of tofacitinib with 
tacrolimus should be avoided
Combined use of tofacitinib with 
ciclosporin should be avoided
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Ratio relative to reference
Note: Reference group is administration of tofacitinib alone.
a Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg twice daily in patients receiving 10 mg twice daily. Tofacitinib dose should be 
reduced to 5 mg once daily in patients receiving 5 mg twice daily (see section 4.2).
Potential for tofacitinib to influence the PK of other medicinal products
Coadministration of tofacitinib did not have an effect on the PK of oral contraceptives, levonorgestrel 
and ethinyl estradiol, in healthy female volunteers.
In RA patients, coadministration of tofacitinib with MTX 15-25 mg once weekly decreased the AUC 
and Cmax of MTX by 10% and 13%, respectively. The extent of decrease in MTX exposure does not 
warrant modifications to the individualised dosing of MTX.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of tofacitinib in pregnant women. 
Tofacitinib has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits, and to affect parturition and 
peri/postnatal development (see section 5.3).
As a precautionary measure, the use of tofacitinib during pregnancy is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
with tofacitinib and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose.
14
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether tofacitinib is secreted in human milk. A risk to the breast-fed child cannot be 
excluded. Tofacitinib was secreted in the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). As a precautionary 
measure, the use of tofacitinib during breast-feeding is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Fertility
Formal studies of the potential effect on human fertility have not been conducted. Tofacitinib impaired 
female fertility but not male fertility in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Tofacitinib has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Rheumatoid arthritis
The most common serious adverse reactions were serious infections (see section 4.4). In the long-term 
safety all exposure population, the most common serious infections reported with tofacitinib were 
pneumonia (1.7%), herpes zoster (0.6%), urinary tract infection (0.4%), cellulitis (0.4%), diverticulitis
(0.3%), and appendicitis (0.2%). Among opportunistic infections, TB and other mycobacterial 
infections, cryptococcus, histoplasmosis, oesophageal candidiasis, multidermatomal herpes zoster, 
cytomegalovirus infection, BK virus infections and listeriosis were reported with tofacitinib. Some 
patients have presented with disseminated rather than localised disease. Other serious infections that 
were not reported in clinical studies may also occur (e.g., coccidioidomycosis).
The most commonly reported adverse reactions during the first 3 months of the double-blind, placebo 
or MTX controlled clinical studies were headache (3.9%), upper respiratory tract infections (3.8%), 
viral upper respiratory tract infection (3.3%), diarrhoea (2.9%), nausea (2.7%), and hypertension 
(2.2%).
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions during first 3 months 
of the double-blind, placebo or MTX controlled studies was 3.8% for patients taking tofacitinib. The 
most common infections resulting in discontinuation of therapy during the first 3 months in controlled 
clinical studies were herpes zoster (0.19%) and pneumonia (0.15%).
Psoriatic arthritis
Overall, the safety profile observed in patients with active PsA treated with tofacitinib was consistent 
with the safety profile observed in patients with RA treated with tofacitinib.
Ankylosing spondylitis
Overall, the safety profile observed in patients with active AS treated with tofacitinib was consistent 
with the safety profile observed in patients with RA treated with tofacitinib.
Ulcerative colitis
The most commonly reported adverse reactions in patients receiving tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily in 
the induction studies were headache, nasopharyngitis, nausea, and arthralgia.
In the induction and maintenance studies, across tofacitinib and placebo treatment groups, the most 
common categories of serious adverse reactions were gastrointestinal disorders and infections, and the 
most common serious adverse reaction was worsening of UC.
15
Overall, the safety profile observed in patients with UC treated with tofacitinib was consistent with the 
safety profile of tofacitinib in the RA indication.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The adverse reactions listed in the table below are from clinical studies in patients with RA, PsA, AS,
and UC and are presented by System Organ Class (SOC) and frequency categories, defined using the 
following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order 
of decreasing seriousness.
Table 8: Adverse reactions
Common
≥1/100 to <1/10
System organ 
class
Uncommon
≥1/1,000 to
<1/100
Rare
≥1/10,000 to
<1/1,000
Very rare
<1/10,000
Not known 
(cannot be 
estimated from 
the available 
data)
Infections and 
infestations
Pneumonia
Influenza
Herpes zoster
Urinary tract 
infection
Sinusitis
Bronchitis
Nasopharyngitis
Pharyngitis
Tuberculosis 
Diverticulitis
Pyelonephritis
Cellulitis
Herpes simplex
Gastroenteritis viral
Viral infection 
Sepsis
Urosepsis
Disseminated 
TB
Bacteraemia
Pneumocystis 
jirovecii
pneumonia
Pneumonia 
pneumococcal
Pneumonia 
bacterial
Cytomegalovir
us infection
Arthritis 
bacterial
Tuberculosis 
of central 
nervous 
system
Meningitis 
cryptococcal
Necrotizing 
fasciitis
Encephalitis
Staphylococc
al 
bacteraemia
Mycobacteriu
m avium
complex 
infection
Atypical 
mycobacteria
l infection
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (incl 
cysts and polyps)
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Metabolism and
nutrition 
disorders
Psychiatric 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Lung cancer
Non-melanoma skin 
cancers
Lymphoma
Lymphopenia
Anaemia
Leukopenia
Neutropenia
Dyslipidaemia
Hyperlipidaemia
Dehydration
Insomnia
Headache
Paraesthesia
Hypertension
Cough
Myocardial 
infarction
Venous 
thromboembolism**
Dyspnoea
Sinus congestion
16
Hypersensitivity
*
Angioedema*
Urticaria*
System organ 
class
Common
≥1/100 to <1/10
Uncommon
≥1/1,000 to
<1/100
Rare
≥1/10,000 to
<1/1,000
Very rare
<1/10,000
Not known 
(cannot be 
estimated from 
the available 
data)
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Abdominal pain
Vomiting
Diarrhoea
Nausea
Gastritis
Dyspepsia
Liver function 
test abnormal
Hepatic steatosis
Hepatic enzyme 
increased
Transaminases 
increased
Gamma glutamyl-
transferase increased
Erythema
Pruritus
Joint swelling
Tendonitis
Musculoskelet
al pain
Rash
Acne
Arthralgia
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications
Oedema 
peripheral
Pyrexia
Fatigue
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased
Blood creatinine 
increased
Blood cholesterol 
increased
Low density 
lipoprotein increased
Weight increased
Ligament sprain
Muscle strain
*Spontaneous reporting data
**Venous thromboembolism includes PE, DVT, and Retinal Venous Thrombosis
Description of selected adverse reactions
Venous thromboembolism
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362), randomised post-authorisation safety study of rheumatoid arthritis patients who 
were 50 years of age and older and had at least one additional cardiovascular (CV) risk factor, VTE 
was observed at an increased and dose-dependent incidence in patients treated with tofacitinib 
compared to TNF inhibitors (see section 5.1). The majority of these events were serious and some 
resulted in death. The incidence rates (95% CI) for PE for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 
10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.17 (0.08-0.33), 0.50 (0.32-0.74), and 0.06 (0.01-0.17) 
patients with events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Compared with TNF inhibitors, the hazard 
ratio (HR) for PE was 2.93 (0.79-10.83) and 8.26 (2.49, 27.43) for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, respectively (see section 5.1). In tofacitinib-treated patients where PE 
was observed, the majority (97%) had VTE risk factors.
Ankylosing spondylitis
In the combined Phase 2 and Phase 3 randomised controlled clinical studies, there were no VTE 
events in 420 patients (233 patient-years of observation) receiving tofacitinib up to 48 weeks.
17
Ulcerative colitis (UC)
In the UC ongoing extension trial, cases of PE and DVT have been observed in patients using 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and with underlying VTE risk factor(s).
Overall infections
Rheumatoid arthritis
In controlled phase 3 clinical studies, the rates of infections over 0-3 months in the 5 mg twice daily 
(total 616 patients) and 10 mg twice daily (total 642 patients) tofacitinib monotherapy groups were 
16.2% (100 patients) and 17.9% (115 patients), respectively, compared to 18.9% (23 patients) in the 
placebo group (total 122 patients). In controlled phase 3 clinical studies with background DMARDs, 
the rates of infections over 0-3 months in the 5 mg twice daily (total 973 patients) and 10 mg twice 
daily (total 969 patients) tofacitinib plus DMARD group were 21.3% (207 patients) and 
21.8% (211 patients), respectively, compared to 18.4% (103 patients) in the placebo plus DMARD 
group (total 559 patients).
The most commonly reported infections were upper respiratory tract infections and nasopharyngitis 
(3.7% and 3.2%, respectively).
The overall incidence rate of infections with tofacitinib in the long-term safety all exposure population 
(total 4,867 patients) was 46.1 patients with events per 100 patient-years (43.8 and 47.2 patients with 
events for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively). For patients (total 1,750) on monotherapy, the 
rates were 48.9 and 41.9 patients with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively. For patients (total 3,117) on background DMARDs, the rates were 41.0 and 50.3 patients 
with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
Ankylosing spondylitis
In the combined Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies, during the placebo-controlled period of up to 
16 weeks, the frequency of infections in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily group (185 patients) was 
27.6% and the frequency in the placebo group (187 patients) was 23.0%. In the combined Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 clinical studies, among the 316 patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily for up to 
48 weeks, the frequency of infections was 35.1%.
Ulcerative colitis
In the randomised 8-week Phase 2/3 induction studies, the proportions of patients with infections were 
21.1% (198 patients) in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily group compared to 15.2% (43 patients) in the 
placebo group. In the randomised 52-week phase 3 maintenance study, the proportion of patients with 
infections were 35.9% (71 patients) in the 5 mg twice daily and 39.8% (78 patients) in the 10 mg twice 
daily tofacitinib groups, compared to 24.2% (48 patients) in the placebo group. 
In the entire treatment experience with tofacitinib, the most commonly reported infection was 
nasopharyngitis, occurring in 18.2% of patients (211 patients).
In the entire treatment experience with tofacitinib, the overall incidence rate of infections was 
60.3 events per 100 patient-years (involving 49.4% of patients; total 572 patients).
Serious infections
Rheumatoid arthritis
In the 6-month and 24-month, controlled clinical studies, the rate of serious infections in the 5 mg 
twice daily tofacitinib monotherapy group was 1.7 patients with events per 100 patient-years. In the 
10 mg twice daily tofacitinib monotherapy group the rate was 1.6 patients with events per 
100 patient-years, the rate was 0 events per 100 patient-years for the placebo group, and the rate was 
1.9 patients with events per 100 patient-years for the MTX group.
In studies of 6-, 12-, or 24-month duration, the rates of serious infections in the 5 mg twice daily and 
10 mg twice daily tofacitinib plus DMARD groups were 3.6 and 3.4 patients with events per 
18
100 patient-years, respectively, compared to 1.7 patients with events per 100 patient-years in the 
placebo plus DMARD group.
In the long-term safety all exposure population, the overall rates of serious infections were 2.4 and 
3.0 patients with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily tofacitinib groups, 
respectively. The most common serious infections included pneumonia, herpes zoster, urinary tract 
infection, cellulitis, gastroenteritis and diverticulitis. Cases of opportunistic infections have been 
reported (see section 4.4).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose-dependent increase in 
serious infections was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see section 4.4).
The incidence rates (95% CI) for serious infections for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily, and TNF inhibitors were 2.86 (2.41, 3.37), 3.64 (3.11, 4.23), and 2.44 (2.02, 2.92) patients 
with events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Compared with TNF inhibitors, the hazard ratio (HR) 
for serious infections was 1.17 (0.92, 1.50) and 1.48 (1.17, 1.87) for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, respectively.
Ankylosing spondylitis
In the combined Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical studies, among the 316 patients treated with tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily for up to 48 weeks, there was one serious infection (aseptic meningitis) yielding a 
rate of 0.43 patients with events per 100 patient-years.
Ulcerative colitis
The incidence rates and types of serious infections in the UC clinical studies were generally similar to 
those reported in RA clinical studies with tofacitinib monotherapy treatment groups.
Serious infections in the elderly
Of the 4,271 patients who enrolled in RA studies I-VI (see section 5.1), a total of 608 RA patients 
were 65 years of age and older, including 85 patients 75 years and older. The frequency of serious 
infection among tofacitinib-treated patients 65 years of age and older was higher than those under the 
age of 65 (4.8 per 100 patient-years versus 2.4 per 100 patient-years, respectively).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increase in serious 
infections was observed in patients 65 years of age and older for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
compared to TNF inhibitors and to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily (see section 4.4). The incidence rates 
(95% CI) for serious infections in patients ≥65 years were 4.03 (3.02, 5.27), 5.85 (4.64, 7.30), and 3.73 
(2.81, 4.85) patients with events per 100 patient-years for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 
mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors, respectively.
Compared with TNF inhibitors, the hazard ratio (HR) for serious infections in patients ≥65 years of 
age was 1.08 (0.74, 1.58) and 1.55 (1.10, 2.19) for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily, respectively.
Serious infections from non-interventional post approval safety study
Data from a non-interventional post approval safety study that evaluated tofacitinib in RA patients 
from a registry (US Corrona) showed that a numerically higher incidence rate of serious infection was 
observed for the 11 mg prolonged-release tablet administered once daily than the 5 mg film-coated 
tablet administered twice daily. Crude incidence rates (95% CI) (i.e., not adjusted for age or sex) from 
availability of each formulation at 12 months following initiation of treatment were 3.45 (1.93, 5.69) 
and 2.78 (1.74, 4.21) and at 36 months were 4.71 (3.08, 6.91) and 2.79 (2.01, 3.77) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years in the 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once daily and 5 mg film-coated 
tablet twice daily groups, respectively. The unadjusted hazard ratio was 1.30 (95% CI: 0.67, 2.50) at 
12 months and 1.93 (95% CI: 1.15, 3.24) at 36 months for the 11 mg prolonged-release once daily 
19
dose compared to the 5 mg film-coated twice daily dose. Data is based on a small number of patients 
with events observed with relatively large confidence intervals and limited follow up time.
Viral reactivation
Patients treated with tofacitinib who are Japanese or Korean, or patients with long standing RA who
have previously received two or more biological DMARDs, or patients with an ALC less 
than 1,000 cells/mm3, or patients treated with 10 mg twice daily may have an increased risk of herpes 
zoster (see section 4.4).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increase in herpes zoster 
events was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. The incidence 
rates (95% CI) for herpes zoster for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and 
TNF inhibitors were 3.75 (3.22, 4.34), 3.94 (3.38, 4.57), and 1.18 (0.90, 1.52) patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively.
Laboratory tests
Lymphocytes
In the controlled RA clinical studies, confirmed decreases in ALC below 500 cells/mm3 occurred in 
0.3% of patients and for ALC between 500 and 750 cells/mm3 in 1.9% of patients for the 5 mg twice 
daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined.
In the RA long-term safety population, confirmed decreases in ALC below 500 cells/mm3 occurred in 
1.3% of patients and for ALC between 500 and 750 cells/mm3 in 8.4% of patients for the 5 mg twice 
daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined.
Confirmed ALC less than 750 cells/mm3 were associated with an increased incidence of serious 
infections (see section 4.4).
In the clinical studies in UC, changes in ALC observed with tofacitinib treatment were similar to the 
changes observed in clinical studies in RA.
Neutrophils
In the controlled RA clinical studies, confirmed decreases in ANC below 1,000 cells/mm3 occurred in 
0.08% of patients for the 5 mg twice daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined. There were no 
confirmed decreases in ANC below 500 cells/mm3 observed in any treatment group. There was no 
clear relationship between neutropenia and the occurrence of serious infections.
In the RA long-term safety population, the pattern and incidence of confirmed decreases in ANC 
remained consistent with what was seen in the controlled clinical studies (see section 4.4).
In the clinical studies in UC, changes in ANC observed with tofacitinib treatment were similar to the 
changes observed in clinical studies in RA.
Platelets
Patients in the Phase 3 controlled clinical studies (RA, PsA, AS, UC) were required to have a platelet 
count ≥ 100,000 cells/mm3 to be eligible for enrolment, therefore, there is no information available for 
patients with a platelet count < 100,000 cells/mm3 before starting treatment with tofacitinib.
Liver enzyme tests
Confirmed increases in liver enzymes greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (3x ULN) were 
uncommonly observed in RA patients. In those patients experiencing liver enzyme elevation, 
modification of treatment regimen, such as reduction in the dose of concomitant DMARD, 
20
interruption of tofacitinib, or reduction in tofacitinib dose, resulted in decrease or normalisation of 
liver enzymes.
In the controlled portion of the RA phase 3 monotherapy study (0-3 months) (study I, see section 5.1), 
ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 1.65%, 0.41%, and 0% of patients receiving 
placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In this study, AST elevations greater 
than 3x ULN were observed in 1.65%, 0.41% and 0% of patients receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg 
and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
In the RA phase 3 monotherapy study (0-24 months) (study VI, see section 5.1), ALT elevations 
greater than 3x ULN were observed in 7.1%, 3.0%, and 3.0% of patients receiving MTX, tofacitinib 
5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In this study, AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were 
observed in 3.3%, 1.6% and 1.5% of patients receiving MTX, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively.
In the controlled portion of the RA phase 3 studies on background DMARDs (0-3 months) 
(studies II-V, see section 5.1), ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 0.9%, 1.24% 
and 1.14% of patients receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In these 
studies, AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 0.72%, 0.5% and 0.31% of patients 
receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
In the RA long-term extension studies, on monotherapy, ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were 
observed in 1.1% and 1.4% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. 
AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in < 1.0% in both the tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg 
twice daily groups.
In the RA long-term extension studies, on background DMARDs, ALT elevations greater than 
3x ULN were observed in 1.8% and 1.6% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively. AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in < 1.0% in both the tofacitinib
5 mg and 10 mg twice daily groups. 
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, ALT elevations greater than or 
equal to 3x ULN were observed in 6.01%, 6.54% and 3.77% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors respectively. AST elevations greater 
than or equal to 3x ULN were observed in 3.21%, 4.57% and 2.38% of patients receiving tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors respectively.
In the clinical studies in UC, changes in liver enzyme tests observed with tofacitinib treatment were 
similar to the changes observed in clinical studies in RA. 
Lipids
Elevations in lipid parameters (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides) 
were first assessed at 1 month following initiation of tofacitinib in the controlled double-blind clinical 
studies of RA. Increases were observed at this time point and remained stable thereafter.
Changes in lipid parameters from baseline through the end of the study (6-24 months) in the controlled 
clinical studies in RA are summarised below:
 Mean LDL cholesterol increased by 15% in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 20% 
in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 12, and increased by 16% in the 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 19% in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at 
month 24.
 Mean HDL cholesterol increased by 17% in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 18% 
in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 12, and increased by 19% in the 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 20% in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at 
month 24.
21
Upon withdrawal of tofacitinib treatment, lipid levels returned to baseline.
Mean LDL cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratios and Apolipoprotein B (ApoB)/ApoA1 ratios were 
essentially unchanged in tofacitinib-treated patients.
In an RA controlled clinical study, elevations in LDL cholesterol and ApoB decreased to pretreatment 
levels in response to statin therapy.
In the RA long-term safety populations, elevations in the lipid parameters remained consistent with 
what was seen in the controlled clinical studies.
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, changes in lipid parameters 
from baseline through 24 months are summarised below:
 Mean LDL cholesterol increased by 13.80%, 17.04%, and 5.50% in patients receiving tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitor, respectively, at month 12. At 
month 24, the increase was 12.71%, 18.14%, and 3.64%, respectively,
 Mean HDL cholesterol increased by 11.71%, 13.63%, and 2.82% in patients receiving tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitor, respectively, at month 12. At 
month 24, the increase was 11.58%, 13.54%, and 1.42%, respectively.
In the clinical studies in UC, changes in lipids observed with tofacitinib treatment were similar to the 
changes observed in clinical studies in RA.
Myocardial infarction
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years of age or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, the incidence rates 
(95% CI) for non-fatal myocardial infarction for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.37 (0.22, 0.57), 0.33 (0.19, 0.53), and 0.16 (0.07, 0.31) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Few fatal myocardial infarctions were reported with rates 
similar in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). The 
study required at least 1500 patients to be followed for 3 years.
Malignancies excluding NMSC
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years of age or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, the incidence rates 
(95% CI) for lung cancer for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF 
inhibitors were 0.23 (0.12, 0.40), 0.32 (0.18, 0.51), and 0.13 (0.05, 0.26) patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). The study required at least 1500 patients to 
be followed for 3 years.
The incidence rates (95% CI) for lymphoma for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.07 (0.02, 0.18), 0.11 (0.04, 0.24), and 0.02 (0.00, 0.10) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
Paediatric population 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile PsA 
The adverse reactions in JIA patients in the clinical development program were consistent in type and 
frequency with those seen in adult RA patients, with the exception of some infections (influenza, 
pharyngitis, sinusitis, viral infection) and gastrointestinal or general disorders (abdominal pain, 
22
nausea, vomiting, pyrexia, headache, cough), which were more common in JIA paediatric population.
MTX was the most frequent concomitant csDMARD used (on Day 1, 156 of 157 patients on 
csDMARDs took MTX). There are insufficient data regarding the safety profile of tofacitinib used 
concomitantly with any other csDMARDs.
Infections
In the double-blind portion of the pivotal Phase 3 trial (Study JIA-I), infection was the most 
commonly reported adverse reaction (44.3%). The infections were generally mild to moderate in 
severity. 
In the integrated safety population, 7 patients had serious infections during treatment with tofacitinib 
within the reporting period (up to 28 days after the last dose of study medication), representing an 
incidence rate of 1.92 patients with events per 100 patient-years: pneumonia, epidural empyema (with 
sinusitis and subperiosteal abscess), pilonidal cyst, appendicitis, escherichia pyelonephritis, abscess 
limb, and UTI.
In the integrated safety population, 3 patients had non-serious events of herpes zoster within the 
reporting window representing an incidence rate of 0.82 patients with events per 100 patient-years. 
One (1) additional patient had an event of serious HZ outside the reporting window.
Hepatic events
Patients in the JIA pivotal study were required to have AST and ALT levels less than 1.5 times the 
upper limit of normal to be eligible for enrolment. In the integrated safety population, there were 
2 patients with ALT elevations ≥ 3 times the ULN at 2 consecutive visits. Neither event met Hy’s Law 
criteria. Both patients were on background MTX therapy and each event resolved after discontinuation 
of MTX and permanent discontinuation of tofacitinib.
Laboratory tests
Changes in laboratory tests in JIA patients in the clinical development program were consistent with 
those seen in adult RA patients. Patients in the JIA pivotal study were required to have a platelet count 
≥ 100,000 cells/mm3 to be eligible for enrolment, therefore, there is no information available for JIA 
patients with a platelet count <100,000 cells/mm3 before starting treatment with tofacitinib.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In case of an overdose, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
adverse reactions. There is no specific antidote for overdose with tofacitinib. Treatment should be 
symptomatic and supportive.
Pharmacokinetic data up to and including a single dose of 100 mg in healthy volunteers indicate that 
more than 95% of the administered dose is expected to be eliminated within 24 hours.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
23
Pharmacotherapeutic groups: Immunosuppressants, Selective Immunosuppressants; ATC 
code: L04AA29
Mechanism of action
Tofacitinib is a potent, selective inhibitor of the JAK family. In enzymatic assays, tofacitinib inhibits 
JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, and to a lesser extent TyK2. In contrast, tofacitinib has a high degree of 
selectivity against other kinases in the human genome. In human cells, tofacitinib preferentially 
inhibits signalling by heterodimeric cytokine receptors that associate with JAK3 and/or JAK1 with 
functional selectivity over cytokine receptors that signal via pairs of JAK2. Inhibition of JAK1 and 
JAK3 by tofacitinib attenuates signalling of interleukins (IL-2, -4, -6, -7, -9, -15, -21) and type I and 
type II interferons, which will result in modulation of the immune and inflammatory response.
Pharmacodynamic effects
In patients with RA, treatment up to 6 months with tofacitinib was associated with dose-dependent 
reductions of circulating CD16/56+ natural killer (NK) cells, with estimated maximum reductions 
occurring at approximately 8-10 weeks after initiation of therapy. These changes generally resolved 
within 2-6 weeks after discontinuation of treatment. Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with 
dose-dependent increases in B cell counts. Changes in circulating T-lymphocyte counts and 
T-lymphocyte subsets (CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+) were small and inconsistent.
Following long-term treatment (median duration of tofacitinib treatment of approximately 5 years), 
CD4+ and CD8+ counts showed median reductions of 28% and 27%, respectively, from baseline. In 
contrast to the observed decrease after short-term dosing, CD16/56+ natural killer cell counts showed 
a median increase of 73% from baseline. CD19+ B cell counts showed no further increases after 
long-term tofacitinib treatment. All these lymphocyte subset changes returned toward baseline after 
temporary discontinuation of treatment. There was no evidence of a relationship between serious or 
opportunistic infections or herpes zoster and lymphocyte subset counts (see section 4.2 for absolute 
lymphocyte count monitoring).
Changes in total serum IgG, IgM, and IgA levels over 6-month tofacitinib dosing in patients with RA 
were small, not dose-dependent and similar to those seen on placebo, indicating a lack of systemic 
humoral suppression.
After treatment with tofacitinib in RA patients, rapid decreases in serum C-reactive protein (CRP) 
were observed and maintained throughout dosing. Changes in CRP observed with tofacitinib treatment 
do not reverse fully within 2 weeks after discontinuation, indicating a longer duration of 
pharmacodynamic activity compared to the half-life.
Vaccine studies
In a controlled clinical study of patients with RA initiating tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily or placebo, 
the number of responders to influenza vaccine was similar in both groups: tofacitinib (57%) and 
placebo (62%). For pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine the number of responders was as follows: 
32% in patients receiving both tofacitinib and MTX; 62% for tofacitinib monotherapy; 62% for MTX 
monotherapy; and 77% for placebo. The clinical significance of this is unknown, however, similar 
results were obtained in a separate vaccine study with influenza and pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccines in patients receiving long-term tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
A controlled study was conducted in patients with RA on background MTX immunised with a live 
attenuated herpes virus vaccine 2 to 3 weeks before initiating a 12-week treatment with tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily or placebo. Evidence of humoral and cell-mediated responses to VZV was observed 
in both tofacitinib and placebo-treated patients at 6 weeks. These responses were similar to those 
observed in healthy volunteers aged 50 years and older. A patient with no previous history of varicella 
infection and no anti-varicella antibodies at baseline experienced dissemination of the vaccine strain 
of varicella 16 days after vaccination. Tofacitinib was discontinued and the patient recovered after 
24
treatment with standard doses of antiviral medicinal product. This patient subsequently made a robust, 
though delayed, humoral and cellular response to the vaccine (see section 4.4).
Clinical efficacy and safety
Rheumatoid arthritis
The efficacy and safety of tofacitinib film-coated tablets were assessed in 6 randomised, double-blind, 
controlled multicentre studies in patients greater than 18 years of age with active RA diagnosed 
according to American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria. Table 9 provides information 
regarding the pertinent study design and population characteristics.
Table 9: Phase 3 clinical studies of tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily doses in patients with 
RA
Studies
Population
Study I
(ORAL
Solo)
Study II
(ORAL
Sync)
DMARD-IR DMARD-
Study III
(ORAL
Standard)
MTX-IR
Study IV
(ORAL
Scan)
MTX-IR
Study V
(ORAL
Step)
TNFi-IR
Study VI
(ORAL
Start)
Study VII
(ORAL
Strategy)
MTX-naïvea MTX-IR
Control
Placebo
IR
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
MTX
Background 
treatment
Noneb
csDMARDs MTX
MTX
MTX
Noneb
MTX,
ADA
3 Parallel arms:
 Tofacitinib 
monotherapy
 Tofacitinib+MTX
 ADA+MTX
Tofacitinib with and 
without MTX in 
comparison to ADA 
with MTX
1,146
Monotherapy, 
Active 
comparator 
(MTX), 
X-Ray
956
Key features Monotherapy Various 
csDMARDs
Active 
control 
(ADA)
X-Ray
TNFi-IR
610
792
717
797
399
Number of 
patients 
treated
Total study 
duration
Co-primary 
efficacy 
endpointsc
6 months
1 year
1 year
2 years
6 months
2 years
1 year
Month 3:
ACR20
HAQ-DI
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 6:
ACR20
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 3:
HAQ-DI
Month 6:
ACR20
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 3:
HAQ-DI
Month 6:
mTSS
ACR70
Month 3:
ACR20
HAQ-DI
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 6:
ACR20
mTSS
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 3:
HAQ-DI
Month 6:
ACR50
Month 3
Month 3
Month 6 (placebo subjects with < 20% 
improvement in swollen and tender joint 
counts advanced to tofacitinib at 
month 3)
Time of 
mandatory 
placebo 
rescue to 
tofacitinib 5 
or 10 mg 
twice daily
a. ≤3 weekly doses (MTX-naïve).
b.Antimalarials were allowed.
c. Co-primary endpoints as follows: mean change from baseline in mTSS; percent of subjects achieving ACR20 or ACR70 
responses; mean change from baseline in HAQ-DI; percent of subjects achieving a DAS28-4(ESR) <2.6 (remission).
NA
NA
mTSS=modified Total Sharp Score, ACR20(70)=American College of Rheumatology ≥20% (≥70%) improvement, 
DAS28=Disease Activity Score 28 joints, ESR=Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate, HAQ-DI=Health Assessment 
Questionnaire Disability Index, DMARD=disease-modifying antirheumatic drug, IR=inadequate responder, 
csDMARD=conventional synthetic DMARD, TNFi=tumour necrosis factor inhibitor, NA=not applicable, 
ADA=adalimumab, MTX=methotrexate.
Clinical response
ACR response
The percentages of tofacitinib-treated patients achieving ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 responses in 
studies ORAL Solo, ORAL Sync, ORAL Standard, ORAL Scan, ORAL Step, ORAL Start, and 
ORAL Strategy are shown in Table 10. In all studies, patients treated with either 5 mg or 10 mg twice 
25
daily tofacitinib had statistically significant ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response rates at month 3 
and month 6 versus placebo (or versus MTX in ORAL Start) treated patients.
Over the course of ORAL Strategy, responses with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily + MTX were 
numerically similar compared to adalimumab 40 mg + MTX and both were numerically higher than 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
The treatment effect was similar in patients independent of rheumatoid factor status, age, gender, race, 
or disease status. Time to onset was rapid (as early as week 2 in studies ORAL Solo, ORAL Sync, and 
ORAL Step) and the magnitude of response continued to improve with duration of treatment. As with 
the overall ACR response in patients treated with 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily tofacitinib, each of the 
components of the ACR response was consistently improved from baseline including: tender and 
swollen joint counts; patient and physician global assessment; disability index scores; pain assessment 
and CRP compared to patients receiving placebo plus MTX or other DMARDs in all studies.
Table 10:  Proportion (%) of patients with an ACR response 
Endpoint
Time
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
Placebo
N=122
ORAL Solo: DMARD inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily 
monotherapy 
N=241
60***
69
31***
42
15*
22
26
NA
12
NA
6
NA
ORAL Sync: DMARD inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
Placebo +
DMARD(s)
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
N=158
27
31
NA
9
13
NA
2
3
NA
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily + 
DMARD(s)
N=312
56***
53***
51
27***
34***
33
8**
13***
19
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
monotherapy
N=243
65***
71
37***
47
20***
29
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily + 
DMARD(s)
N=315
63***
57***
56
33***
36***
42
14***
16***
25
ORAL Standard: MTX inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
Placebo
Tofacitinib twice 
daily + MTX
Adalimumab 40 mg 
QOW
+ MTX
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
5 mg
N=198
59***
51***
48
33***
36***
36
12**
19***
22
10 mg
N=197
57***
51***
49
27***
34***
36
15***
21***
23
N=105
26
28
NA
7
12
NA
2
2
NA
26
N=199
56***
46**
48
24***
27**
33
9*
9*
17
Endpoint
Time
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Placebo + MTX
N=156
ORAL Scan: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=316
55***
50***
47
40
28***
32***
32
28
10**
14***
18
17
27
25
NA
NA
8
8
NA
NA
3
1
NA
NA
ORAL Step: TNF Inhibitor inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
Placebo + MTX
N=132
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=133
41*
24
51
NA
26***
8
37
NA
14***
2
NA
16
ORAL Start: MTX-naïve
Endpoint
Time
MTX
N=184
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Endpoint
Time
ACR20
ACR50
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
monotherapy
N=370
69***
71***
67**
63***
40***
46***
49**
48***
20***
25***
28**
34***
52
51
51
42
20
27
33
28
5
12
15
15
ORAL Strategy: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=376
70.48ǂ
73.14ǂ
70.21ǂ
40.96ǂ
46.01ǂ
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
N=384
62.50
62.84
61.72
31.51
38.28
27
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=309
66***
62***
55
50
36***
44***
39
40
17***
22***
27
26
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=134
48***
54
28***
30
10*
16
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
monotherapy
N=394
77***
75***
71***
64***
49***
56***
55***
49***
26***
37***
38***
37***
Adalimumab
+ MTX
N=386
69.17
70.98
67.62
37.31
43.78
ACR70
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
39.31
13.54
18.23
21.09
47.61ǂ
19.41ǂ
25.00ǂ
28.99ǂ
45.85
14.51
20.73
25.91
*p<0.05
**p<0.001
***p<0.0001 verses placebo (versus MTX for ORAL Start)
ǂp<0.05 – tofacitinib 5 mg + MTX versus tofacitinib 5 mg for ORAL Strategy (normal p-values without multiple 
comparison adjustment)
QOW=every other week, N=number of subjects analysed, ACR20/50/70=American College of Rheumatology ≥20, 50, 
70% improvement, NA=not applicable, MTX=methotrexate.
DAS28-4(ESR) response
Patients in the phase 3 studies had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28-4[ESR]) of 6.1-6.7 at 
baseline. Significant reductions in DAS28-4(ESR) from baseline (mean improvement) of 1.8-2.0 and 
1.9-2.2 were observed in patients treated with 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily doses, respectively, 
compared to placebo-treated patients (0.7-1.1) at month 3. The proportion of patients achieving a 
DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28-4(ESR) < 2.6) in ORAL Step, ORAL Sync, and ORAL Standard is 
shown in Table 11.
Table 11:Number (%) of subjects achieving DAS28-4(ESR) < 2.6 remission at months 3 and 6 
ORAL Step: TNF Inhibitor inadequate responders
Time Point
N
Tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily + MTX
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily + MTX
Placebo + MTX
Month 3
Month 3
Month 3
ORAL Sync: DMARD inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily
Placebo
Month 6
Month 6
Month 6
ORAL Standard: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily + MTX
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily + MTX
Adalimumab 40 mg SC QOW + MTX
Placebo + MTX
Month 6
Month 6
Month 6
Month 6
133
134
132
312
315
158
198
197
199
105
%
6
8*
2
8*
11***
3
6*
11***
6*
1
*p <0.05, ***p<0.0001 versus placebo, SC=subcutaneous, QOW=every other week, N=number of subjects analysed, 
DAS28=Disease Activity Scale 28 joints, ESR=Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate.
Radiographic response
In ORAL Scan and ORAL Start, inhibition of progression of structural joint damage was assessed 
radiographically and expressed as mean change from baseline in mTSS and its components, the 
erosion score and joint space narrowing (JSN) score, at months 6 and 12. 
In ORAL Scan, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily plus background MTX resulted in significantly greater 
inhibition of the progression of structural damage compared to placebo plus MTX at months 6 and 12. 
When given at a dose of 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib plus MTX exhibited similar effects on mean 
progression of structural damage (not statistically significant). Analysis of erosion and JSN scores 
were consistent with overall results. 
In the placebo plus MTX group, 78% of patients experienced no radiographic progression (mTSS 
change less than or equal to 0.5) at month 6 compared to 89% and 87% of patients treated with 
tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg (plus MTX) twice daily respectively, (both significant versus placebo plus 
MTX).
In ORAL Start, tofacitinib monotherapy resulted in significantly greater inhibition of the progression 
of structural damage compared to MTX at months 6 and 12 as shown in Table 12, which was also 
maintained at month 24. Analyses of erosion and JSN scores were consistent with overall results.
28
In the MTX group, 70% of patients experienced no radiographic progression at month 6 compared to 
83% and 90% of patients treated with tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg twice daily respectively, both significant 
versus MTX.
Table 12: Radiographic changes at months 6 and 12
Placebo + 
MTX
N=139
Mean 
(SD)a
33 (42)
0.5 (2.0)
1.0 (3.9)
MTX
N=168
Mean 
(SD)a
16 (29)
0.9 (2.7)
1.3 (3.7)
mTSSc
Baseline
Month 6
Month 12
mTSSc
Baseline
Month 6
Month 12
ORAL Scan: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily + 
MTX
N=290
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily + MTX
Mean difference 
from placebob (CI)
Tofacitinib 
5 mg
twice daily + 
MTX
N=277
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily + 
MTX
Mean difference 
from placebob
(CI)
31 (48)
0.1 (1.7)
0.3 (3.0)
-
-0.3 (-0.7, 0.0)
-0.6 (-1.3, 0.0)
37 (54)
0.1 (2.0)
0.1 (2.9)
-
-0.4 (-0.8, 0.0)
-0.9 (-1.5, -0.2)
ORAL Start: MTX-naïve
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily
N=344
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily 
Mean difference 
from MTXd (CI)
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily 
N=368
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily 
Mean difference 
from MTXd (CI)
20 (41) 
0.2 (2.3)
0.4 (3.0)
-
-0.7 (-1.0, -0.3)
-0.9 (-1.4, -0.4)
19 (39)
0.0 (1.2)
0.0 (1.5)
-
-0.8 (-1.2, -0.4)
-1.3 (-1.8, -0.8)
a SD = Standard Deviation
b Difference between least squares means tofacitinib minus placebo (95% CI = 95% confidence interval)
c Month 6 and month 12 data are mean change from baseline
d Difference between least squares means tofacitinib minus MTX (95% CI = 95% confidence interval)
Physical function response and health-related outcomes
Tofacitinib, alone or in combination with MTX, has shown improvements in physical function, as 
measured by the HAQ-DI. Patients receiving tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg twice daily demonstrated 
significantly greater improvement from baseline in physical functioning compared to placebo at 
month 3 (studies ORAL Solo, ORAL Sync, ORAL Standard, and ORAL Step) and month 6 (studies 
ORAL Sync and ORAL Standard). Tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg twice daily-treated patients demonstrated 
significantly greater improvement in physical functioning compared to placebo as early as week 2 in 
ORAL Solo and ORAL Sync. Changes from baseline in HAQ-DI in studies ORAL Standard, ORAL 
Step and ORAL Sync are shown in Table 13.
29
Table 13: LS mean change from baseline in HAQ-DI at month 3
Placebo + 
MTX
Tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily
+ MTX
Tofacitinib
10 mg twice 
daily
+ MTX
ORAL Standard: MTX inadequate responders
N=183
-0.61***
N=185
-0.54***
N=96
-0.24
ORAL Step: TNF inhibitor inadequate responders
N=118
-0.18
Placebo + DMARD(s)
N=117
-0.43***
Tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily + 
DMARD(s)
N=125
-0.46***
Tofacitinib
10 mg twice 
daily
+ DMARD(s)
Adalimumab
40 mg QOW
+ MTX
N=188
-0.50***
NA
NA
N=292
-0.46***
*** p<0.0001, tofacitinib versus placebo + MTX, LS = least squares, N = number of patients, QOW = every other 
week, NA = not applicable, HAQ-DI = Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index
ORAL Sync: DMARD inadequate responders
N=292
-0.56***
N=147
-0.21
NA
NA
Health-related quality of life was assessed by the Short Form Health Survey (SF-36). Patients 
receiving either 5 or 10 mg tofacitinib twice daily experienced significantly greater improvement from 
baseline compared to placebo in all 8 domains as well as the Physical Component Summary and 
Mental Component Summary scores at month 3 in ORAL Solo, ORAL Scan and ORAL Step. In 
ORAL Scan, mean SF-36 improvements were maintained to 12 months in tofacitinib-treated patients.
Improvement in fatigue was evaluated by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness 
Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) scale at month 3 in all studies. Patients receiving tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg 
twice daily demonstrated significantly greater improvement from baseline in fatigue compared to 
placebo in all 5 studies. In ORAL Standard and ORAL Scan, mean FACIT-F improvements were 
maintained to 12 months in tofacitinib-treated patients.
Improvement in sleep was assessed using the Sleep Problems Index I and II summary scales of the 
Medical Outcomes Study Sleep (MOS-Sleep) measure at month 3 in all studies. Patients receiving 
tofacitinib 5 or 10 mg twice daily demonstrated significantly greater improvement from baseline in 
both scales compared to placebo in ORAL Sync, ORAL Standard and ORAL Scan. In ORAL 
Standard and ORAL Scan, mean improvements in both scales were maintained to 12 months in 
tofacitinib-treated patients.
Durability of clinical responses
Durability of effect was assessed by ACR20, ACR50, ACR70 response rates in studies of duration of 
up to two years. Changes in mean HAQ-DI and DAS28-4(ESR) were maintained in both tofacitinib 
treatment groups through to the end of the studies.
Evidence of persistence of efficacy with tofacitinib treatment for up to 5 years is also provided from 
data in a randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or 
older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, as well as in completed open-label, 
long-term follow-up studies up to 8 years.
Long-term controlled safety data
Study ORAL Surveillance (A3921133) was a large (N=4362), randomised active-controlled 
post-authorisation safety surveillance study of rheumatoid arthritis patients who were 50 years of age 
and older and had at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor (CV risk factors defined as: current
cigarette smoker, diagnosis of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, family history of premature coronary 
30
heart disease, history of coronary artery disease including a history of revascularization procedure, 
coronary artery bypass grafting, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, unstable angina, acute coronary 
syndrome, and presence of extra-articular disease associated with RA, e.g. nodules, Sjögren’s 
syndrome, anaemia of chronic disease, pulmonary manifestations). The majority (more than 90%) of
tofacitinib patients who were current or past smokers had a smoking duration of more than 10 years 
and a median of 35.0 and 39.0 smoking years, respectively. Patients were required to be on a stable 
dose of methotrexate at study entry; dose adjustment was permitted during the study.
Patients were randomised to open-label tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, or a 
TNF inhibitor (TNF inhibitor was either etanercept 50 mg once weekly or adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week) in a 1:1:1 ratio. The co-primary endpoints were adjudicated malignancies excluding 
NMSC and adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE); cumulative incidence and 
statistical assessment of endpoints were blinded. The study was an event-powered study that also 
required at least 1500 patients to be followed for 3 years. The study treatment of tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily was stopped and patients were switched to 5 mg twice daily because of a dose-dependent 
signal of venous thromboembolic events (VTE). For patients in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
treatment arm, the data collected before and after the dose switch were analysed in their originally 
randomised treatment group.
The study did not meet the non-inferiority criterion for the primary comparison of the combined 
tofacitinib doses to TNF inhibitor since the upper limit of the 95% CI for HR exceeded the 
pre-specified non-inferiority criterion of 1.8 for adjudicated MACE and adjudicated malignancies 
excluding NMSC.
The results for adjudicated MACE, adjudicated malignancies excluding NMSC, and selected other 
events are provided below.
MACE (including myocardial infarction) and venous thromboembolism (VTE)
An increase in non-fatal myocardial infarction was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib 
compared to TNF inhibitor. A dose-dependent increase in VTE events was observed in patients treated 
with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitor (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).
Table 14: Incidence rate and hazard ratio for MACE, myocardial infarction and venous 
thromboembolism
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailya
All Tofacitinibb
TNF inhibitor 
(TNFi) 
0.91 (0.67, 1.21) 
0.00 (0.00, 0.07) 
MACEc 
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.24 (0.81, 1.91) 
Fatal MIc
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  0.00 (0.00, Inf) 
Non-fatal MIc
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  2.32 (1.02, 5.30) 
VTEd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
PEd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
0.37 (0.22, 0.57) 
0.17 (0.08, 0.33)
0.33 (0.19, 0.53)
1.66 (0.76, 3.63)
2.93 (0.79, 10.83)
1.05 (0.78, 1.38) 
0.98 (0.79, 1.19) 
0.73 (0.52, 1.01) 
1.43 (0.94, 2.18) 
1.33 (0.91, 1.94) 
0.06 (0.01, 0.18) 
0.03 (0.01, 0.09) 
0.06 (0.01, 0.17) 
1.03 (0.21, 5.11) 
0.50 (0.10, 2.49) 
0.33 (0.19, 0.53) 
0.35 (0.24, 0.48) 
0.16 (0.07, 0.31) 
2.08 (0.89, 4.86) 
2.20 (1.02, 4.75) 
0.70 (0.49, 0.99)
0.51 (0.38, 0.67)
0.20 (0.10, 0.37)
3.52 (1.74, 7.12)
2.56 (1.30, 5.05)
0.50 (0.32, 0.74)
0.33 (0.23, 0.46)
0.06 (0.01, 0.17)
8.26 (2.49, 27.43)
5.53 (1.70, 18.02)
31
DVTd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
a The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
0.14 (0.06, 0.29)
0.21 (0.11, 0.38)
1.54 (0.60, 3.97)
2.21 (0.90, 5.43)
1.87 (0.81, 4.30)
0.26 (0.17, 0.38)
0.31 (0.17, 0.51)
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification. 
b Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily. 
c Based on events occurring on treatment or within 60 days of treatment discontinuation. 
d Based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment discontinuation.
Abbreviations: MACE = major adverse cardiovascular events, MI = myocardial infarction, VTE = venous thromboembolism, PE = 
pulmonary embolism, DVT = deep vein thrombosis, TNF = tumour necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = 
confidence interval, PY = patient years, Inf = infinity
The following predictive factors for development of MI (fatal and non-fatal) were identified using a 
multivariate Cox model with backward selection: age ≥65 years, male, current or past smoking, 
history of diabetes, and history of coronary artery disease (which includes myocardial infarction, 
coronary heart disease, stable angina pectoris, or coronary artery procedures) (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8).
Malignancies
An increase in malignancies excluding NMSC, particularly lung cancer, lymphoma and an increase in 
NMSC was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitor.
Table 15: Incidence rate and hazard ratio for malignanciesa
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailyb
All Tofacitinibc
TNF inhibitor 
(TNFi) 
0.32 (0.18, 0.51)
1.13 (0.86, 1.45)
1.48 (1.04, 2.09)
1.48 (1.00, 2.19)
1.13 (0.94, 1.35)
1.13 (0.87, 1.45)
0.23 (0.12, 0.40)
0.77 (0.55, 1.04)
0.28 (0.19, 0.39)
Malignancies excluding NMSC
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.47 (1.00, 2.18)
Lung cancer
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.84 (0.74, 4.62)
Lymphoma
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  3.99 (0.45, 35.70)
NMSC
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
a For malignancies excluding NMSC, lung cancer, and lymphoma, based on events occurring on treatment or after treatment 
discontinuation up to the end of the study. For NMSC based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment 
discontinuation.
b The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
5.09 (0.65, 39.78)
6.24 (0.75, 51.86)
0.32 (0.18, 0.52)
0.13 (0.05, 0.26)
0.02 (0.00, 0.10)
0.07 (0.02, 0.18)
0.61 (0.41, 0.86)
1.90 (1.04, 3.47)
2.17 (0.95, 4.93)
0.11 (0.04, 0.24)
2.16 (1.19, 3.92)
0.09 (0.04, 0.17)
2.50 (1.04, 6.02)
2.02 (1.17, 3.50)
0.69 (0.47, 0.96)
0.64 (0.50, 0.82)
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification. 
c Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily. 
Abbreviations: NMSC = non melanoma skin cancer, TNF = tumour necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = 
confidence interval, PY = patient years
The following predictive factors for development of malignancies excluding NMSC were identified 
using a Multivariate Cox model with backward selection: age ≥65 years and current or past smoking 
(see sections 4.4 and 4.8).
Mortality
Increased mortality was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. 
Mortality was mainly due to cardiovascular events, infections and malignancies.
32
Table 16:
Incidence rate and hazard ratio for mortalitya
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailyb
All Tofacitinibc
TNF inhibitor
(TNFi)
0.34 (0.20, 0.54)
0.50 (0.33, 0.74)
1.49 (0.81, 2.74)
0.80 (0.57, 1.09)
2.37 (1.34, 4.18)
0.65 (0.50, 0.82)
1.91 (1.12, 3.27)
0.08 (0.02, 0.20)
1.30 (0.29, 5.79)
0.18 (0.08, 0.35)
3.10 (0.84, 11.45)
0.13 (0.07, 0.22)
2.17 (0.62, 7.62)
0.06 (0.01, 0.17)
0.25 (0.13, 0.43)
1.26 (0.55, 2.88)
0.41 (0.25, 0.63)
2.05 (0.96, 4.39)
0.33 (0.23, 0.46)
1.65 (0.81, 3.34)
0.20 (0.10, 0.36)
Mortality (all cause)
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal infections
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal CV events
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal Malignancies
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
0.10 (0.03, 0.23)
4.88 (0.57, 41.74)
a Based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment discontinuation.
b The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg 
0.05 (0.02, 0.12)
2.53 (0.30, 21.64)
0.00 (0.00, 0.08)
0 (0.00, Inf)
0.02 (0.00, 0.11)
twice daily to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification.
c Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
Abbreviations: TNF = tumor necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = confidence interval, PY = patient 
years, CV = cardiovascular, Inf = infinity
Psoriatic arthritis
The efficacy and safety of tofacitinib film-coated tablets were assessed in 2 randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies in adult patients with active PsA (≥ 3 swollen and ≥ 3 tender 
joints). Patients were required to have active plaque psoriasis at the screening visit. For both studies, 
the primary endpoints were ACR20 response rate and change from baseline in HAQ-DI at month 3.
Study PsA-I (OPAL BROADEN) evaluated 422 patients who had a previous inadequate response (due 
to lack of efficacy or intolerance) to a csDMARD (MTX for 92.7% of patients); 32.7% of the patients 
in this study had a previous inadequate response to > 1 csDMARD or 1 csDMARD and a targeted 
synthetic DMARD (tsDMARD). In OPAL BROADEN, previous treatment with TNF inhibitor was 
not allowed. All patients were required to have 1 concomitant csDMARD; 83.9% of patients received 
concomitant MTX, 9.5% of patients received concomitant sulfasalazine, and 5.7% of patients received 
concomitant leflunomide. The median PsA disease duration was 3.8 years. At baseline, 79.9% and 
56.2% of patients had enthesitis and dactylitis, respectively. Patients randomised to tofacitinib 
received 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily for 12 months. Patients randomised to 
placebo were advanced in a blinded manner at month 3 to either tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and received treatment until month 12. Patients randomised to 
adalimumab (active-control arm) received 40 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks for 12 months.
Study PsA-II (OPAL BEYOND) evaluated 394 patients who had discontinued a TNF inhibitor due to 
lack of efficacy or intolerance; 36.0% had a previous inadequate response to > 1 biological DMARD. 
All patients were required to have 1 concomitant csDMARD; 71.6% of patients received concomitant 
MTX, 15.7% of patients received concomitant sulfasalazine, and 8.6% of patients received 
concomitant leflunomide. The median PsA disease duration was 7.5 years. At baseline, 80.7% and 
49.2% of patients had enthesitis and dactylitis, respectively. Patients randomised to tofacitinib 
received 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily for 6 months. Patients randomised to 
placebo were advanced in a blinded manner at month 3 to either tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and received treatment until month 6. 
Signs and symptoms
Treatment with tofacitinib resulted in significant improvements in some signs and symptoms of PsA, 
as assessed by the ACR20 response criteria compared to placebo at month 3. The efficacy results for 
important endpoints assessed are shown in Table 17.
33
Table 17: Proportion (%) of PsA patients who achieved clinical response and mean change 
from baseline in OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND studies
Conventional synthetic DMARD 
inadequate respondersa (TNFi-Naïve)
OPAL BROADEN
TNFi 
inadequate respondersb
OPAL BEYONDc
131
105
Placebo
Placebo
5%
NA
NA
-0.4
NA
NA
-0.8
-1.3
-1.7
10%
NA
-
17%
21%
-
33%
NA
NA
24%
NA
-
10%
NA
NA
15%
NA
-
19%*
30%
29%
52%*
64%
60%
17%e,*
18%
23%
30%e,*
38%
-
50%d,*
59%
68%
33%***
42%
41%
28%e,**
38%
45%
50%d,***
60%
-
Tofacitinib 5 
mg twice daily
131
Tofacitinib 5 
mg twice daily
107
Adalimumab 40 mg 
SC q2W
106
Treatment 
group
N
ACR20
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
ACR50
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
∆LEIf
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
∆DSSf
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
PASI75g
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
* Nominal p≤0.05; ** Nominal p<0.001; *** Nominal p<0.0001 for active treatment versus placebo at 
month 3.
Abbreviations: BSA=body surface area; ∆LEI=change from baseline in Leeds Enthesitis Index; 
∆DSS=change from baseline in Dactylitis Severity Score; ACR20/50/70=American College of 
Rheumatology ≥ 20%, 50%, 70% improvement; csDMARD=conventional synthetic disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drug; N=number of randomised and treated patients; NA=Not applicable, as data for placebo 
treatment is not available beyond month 3 due to placebo advanced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily; SC q2w=subcutaneously once every 2 weeks; TNFi=tumour necrosis factor 
inhibitor; PASI=Psoriasis Area and Severity index; PASI75=≥ 75% improvement in PASI.
a Inadequate response to at least 1 csDMARD due to lack of efficacy and/or intolerability.
b Inadequate response to a least 1 TNFi due to lack of efficacy and/or intolerability.
c OPAL BEYOND had a duration of 6 months.
d  Achieved statistical significance globally at p≤ 0.05 per the pre-specified step-down testing procedure.
e  Achieved statistical significance within the ACR family (ACR50 and ACR70) at p≤ 0.05 per the 
43%d,***
46%
56%
39%**
55%
56%
-1.1*
-1.3
-1.6
-5.2*
-6.0
-
-1.3*
-1.5
-
14%
NA
-
21%
34%
-
15%
NA
NA
-3.5
-5.2
-7.4
-0.5
NA
-
-2.0
NA
NA
-1.9
NA
-
-4.0
-5.4
-6.1
pre-specified step-down testing procedure.
f For patients with Baseline score > 0.
g For patients with Baseline BSA ≥ 3% and PASI > 0.
Both TNF inhibitor naïve and TNF inhibitor inadequate responder tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily -treated 
patients had significantly higher ACR20 response rates compared to placebo at month 3. Examination 
of age, sex, race, baseline disease activity and PsA subtype did not identify differences in response to 
tofacitinib. The number of patients with arthritis mutilans or axial involvement was too small to allow 
meaningful assessment. Statistically significant ACR20 response rates were observed with tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily in both studies as early as week 2 (first post-baseline assessment) in comparison to 
placebo.
34
In OPAL BROADEN, Minimal Disease Activity (MDA) response was achieved by 26.2%, 25.5% and 
6.7% of tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, adalimumab and placebo treated patients, respectively 
(tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily treatment difference from placebo 19.5% [95% CI: 9.9, 29.1]) at month 
3. In OPAL BEYOND, MDA was achieved by 22.9% and 14.5% of tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and 
placebo treated patients, respectively, however tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily did not achieve nominal 
statistical significance (treatment difference from placebo 8.4% [95% CI: -1.0, 17.8] at month 3).
Radiographic response 
In study OPAL BROADEN, the progression of structural joint damage was assessed radiographically 
utilising the van der Heijde modified Total Sharp Score (mTSS) and the proportion of patients with 
radiographic progression (mTSS increase from baseline greater than 0.5) was assessed at month 12. At 
month 12, 96% and 98% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, and adalimumab 40 mg 
subcutaneously every 2 weeks, respectively, did not have radiographic progression (mTSS increase 
from baseline less than or equal to 0.5).
Physical function and health-related quality of life
Improvement in physical functioning was measured by the HAQ-DI. Patients receiving tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily demonstrated greater improvement (p≤ 0.05) from baseline in physical functioning 
compared to placebo at month 3 (see Table 18). 
Table 18: Change from baseline in HAQ-DI in PsA studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL 
BEYOND
Least squares mean change from baseline in HAQ-DI
Conventional synthetic DMARD
inadequate respondersa (TNFi-naïve)
OPAL BROADEN
TNFi
inadequate respondersb
OPAL BEYOND
Placebo Tofacitinib 5 mg 
104
-0.18
NA
NA
Placebo Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Treatment 
group
131
N
-0.14
Month 3
NA
Month 6
Month 12
NA
* Nominal p≤0.05; *** Nominal p<0.0001 for active treatment versus placebo at month 3.
Abbreviations: DMARD=disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HAQ-DI=Health Assessment Questionnaire 
Disability Index; N=total number of patients in the statistical analysis; SC q2w=subcutaneously once every 
2 weeks; TNFi=tumour necrosis factor inhibitor.
a  Inadequate response to at least one conventional synthetic DMARD (csDMARD) due to lack of efficacy 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
SC q2W
106
-0.38*
-0.43
-0.45
twice daily
129
-0.39c,***
-0.44
NA
twice daily
107
-0.35c,*
-0.45
-0.54
and/or intolerability.
b  Inadequate response to a least one TNF inhibitor (TNFi) due to lack of efficacy and/or intolerability.
c Achieved statistical significance globally at p≤ 0.05 per the pre-specified step-down testing procedure.
The HAQ-DI responder rate (response defined as having decrease from baseline of ≥ 0.35) at month 3 
in studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND was 53% and 50%, respectively in patients 
receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, 31% and 28%, respectively in patients receiving placebo, and 
53% in patients receiving adalimumab 40 mg subcutaneously once every 2 weeks (OPAL BROADEN 
only).
Health-related quality of life was assessed by SF-36v2, fatigue was assessed by the FACIT-F. Patients 
receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily demonstrated greater improvement from baseline compared to 
placebo in the SF-36v2 physical functioning domain, the SF-36v2 physical component summary 
score, and FACIT-F scores at month 3 in studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND (nominal 
p≤ 0.05). Improvements from baseline in SF-36v2 and FACIT-F were maintained through month 6 
(OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND) and month 12 (OPAL BROADEN).
Patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily demonstrated a greater improvement in arthritis pain (as 
measured on a 0-100 visual analogue scale) from baseline at week 2 (first post-baseline assessment) 
35
through month 3 compared to placebo in studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND (nominal 
p≤ 0.05).
Ankylosing spondylitis
The tofacitinib clinical development program to assess the efficacy and safety included one 
placebo-controlled confirmatory trial (Study AS-I). Study AS-I was a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 48-week treatment clinical study in 269 adult patients who had an inadequate 
response (inadequate clinical response or intolerance) to at least 2 NSAIDs. Patients were randomised 
and treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or placebo for 16 weeks of blinded treatment and then all 
were advanced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily for an additional 32 weeks. Patients had active disease 
as defined by both Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) and back pain 
score (BASDAI question 2) of greater or equal to 4 despite non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
(NSAID), corticosteroid or DMARD therapy.
Approximately 7% and 21% of patients used concomitant methotrexate or sulfasalazine, respectively, 
from baseline to Week 16. Patients were allowed to receive a stable low dose of oral corticosteroids 
(8.6% received) and/or NSAIDs (81.8% received) from baseline to Week 48. Twenty-two percent of 
patients had an inadequate response to 1 or 2 TNF blockers. The primary endpoint was to evaluate the 
proportion of patients who achieved an ASAS20 response at Week 16.
Clinical response
Patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily achieved greater improvements in ASAS20 and 
ASAS40 responses compared to placebo at Week 16 (Table 19). The responses were maintained from 
Week 16 through to Week 48 in patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
Table 19: ASAS20 and ASAS40 Responses at Week 16, Study AS-I 
Placebo
(N=136)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=133)
56
41
Difference from Placebo 
(95% CI) 
27 (16, 38)**
28 (18, 38)**
ASAS20 response*, %
ASAS40 response*, %
* type I error-controlled.
** p < 0.0001.
29
13
The efficacy of tofacitinib was demonstrated in bDMARD naïve and TNF-inadequate responders 
(IR)/bDMARD experienced (non-IR) patients (Table 20).
Table 20. ASAS20 and ASAS40 Responses (%) by Treatment History at Week 16, Study AS-I
Prior Treatment 
History
Placebo
N
bDMARD-Naïve
105
ASAS20
Tofacitinib 
5 mg 
Twice 
Daily
N
102
Efficacy Endpoint
Difference 
from Placebo
(95% CI)
Placebo
N
105
28
(15, 41)
23
(1, 44)
ASAS40
Tofacitini
b 5 mg 
Twice 
Daily
N
102
Difference 
from Placebo
(95% CI)
31
(19, 43)
19
(2, 37)
31
31
TNFi-IR or 
bDMARD Use 
(Non-IR)
ASAS20 = An improvement from Baseline ≥ 20% and ≥ 1 unit increase in at least 3 domains on a scale of 0 to 10, and no 
worsening of ≥ 20% and ≥ 1 unit in the remaining domain; ASAS40 = An improvement from Baseline ≥ 40% and 
≥ 2 units in at least 3 domains on a scale of 0 to 10 and no worsening at all in the remaining domain; bDMARD = biologic 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug; CI = confidence interval; Non-IR = non-inadequate response; TNFi-IR = tumour 
necrosis factor inhibitor inadequate response.
31
31
The improvements in the components of the ASAS response and other measures of disease activity 
were higher in tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily compared to placebo at Week 16 as shown in Table 21. 
36
The improvements were maintained from Week 16 through to Week 48 in patients receiving 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
Table 21: ASAS Components and Other Measures of Disease Activity at Week 16, Study AS-I
Placebo
(N=136)
Tofacitinib 5 mg Twice Daily
(N=133)
Baseline 
(mean)
Week 16
(LSM change 
from 
Baseline)
Baseline 
(mean)
Week 16
(LSM change 
from 
Baseline)
Difference 
from Placebo
(95% CI)

ASAS Components 
Patient Global 
Assessment of 
Disease Activity 
(0-10)a,*
Total spinal pain 
(0-10)a,* 

 BASFI 
(0-10)b,*
Inflammation 
(0-10)c,* 
BASDAI Scored

BASMIe,* 
hsCRPf,* (mg/dL) 
ASDAScrpg,*
7.0
6.9
5.9
6.8
6.5
4.4
1.8
3.9
-0.9
-1.0
-0.8
-1.0
-1.1
-0.1
-0.1
-0.4
6.9
6.9
5.8
6.6
6.4
4.5
1.6
3.8
-2.5
-2.6
-2.0
-2.7
-2.6
-0.6
-1.1
-1.4
-1.6 
(-2.07, -1.05)**
-1.6 
(-2.10, -1.14)**
-1.2 
(-1.66, -0.80)**
-1.7 
(-2.18, -1.25)**
-1.4 
(-1.88, -1.00)**
-0.5 
(-0.67, -0.37)**
-1.0 
(-1.20, -0.72)**
-1.0 
(-1.16, -0.79)**
* type I error-controlled.
** p < 0.0001.
a Measured on a numerical rating scale with 0 = not active or no pain, 10 = very active or most severe pain. 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index measured on a numerical rating scale with 0 = easy and 10 = impossible. 
c Inflammation is the mean of two patient-reported stiffness self-assessments in BASDAI. 
d Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index total score. 
e Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Metrology Index. 
f High sensitivity C-reactive protein. 
g Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score with C-reactive protein.
LSM = least squares mean
Other health-related outcomes
Patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily achieved greater improvements from baseline in 
Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life (ASQoL) (-4.0 vs -2.0) and Functional Assessment of Chronic 
Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F) Total score (6.5 vs 3.1) compared to placebo-treated patients at 
Week 16 (p<0.001). Patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily achieved consistently greater 
improvements from baseline in the Short Form health survey version 2 (SF-36v2), Physical 
Component Summary (PCS) domain compared to placebo-treated patients at Week 16.
Ulcerative colitis
The efficacy and safety of tofacitinib film-coated tablets for the treatment of adult patients with 
moderately to severely active UC (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore ≥ 2 and rectal 
bleeding subscore ≥ 1) were assessed in 3 multicentre, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled 
studies: 2 identical induction studies (OCTAVE Induction 1 and OCTAVE Induction 2) followed by 
1 maintenance study (OCTAVE Sustain). Enrolled patients had failed at least 1 conventional therapy, 
including corticosteroids, immunomodulators, and/or a TNF inhibitor. Concomitant stable doses of 
oral aminosalicylates and corticosteroids (prednisone or equivalent daily dose up to 25 mg) were 
permitted with taper of corticosteroids to discontinuation mandated within 15 weeks of entering the 
37
maintenance study. Tofacitinib was administered as monotherapy (i.e., without concomitant use of 
biologics and immunosuppressants) for UC. 
Table 22 provides additional information regarding pertinent study design and population 
characteristics. 
Table 22: Phase 3 clinical studies of tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily doses in patients with 
UC
Treatment groups
(randomisation 
ratio) 
Number of patients 
enrolled
Study duration
Primary efficacy 
endpoint
Key secondary 
efficacy endpoints
OCTAVE Induction 1 OCTAVE Induction 2
Tofacitinib 10 mg
twice daily
placebo
(4:1)
Tofacitinib 10 mg
twice daily
placebo
(4:1)
598
8 weeks
Remission
541
8 weeks
Remission
OCTAVE Sustain
Tofacitinib 5 mg
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg
twice daily
placebo
(1:1:1)
593
52 weeks
Remission
Improvement of 
endoscopic appearance 
of the mucosa
Improvement of 
endoscopic appearance 
of the mucosa
Improvement of endoscopic 
appearance of the mucosa
52.1%
71.3%
51.3%
74.9%
Prior TNFi failure
Prior corticosteroid 
failure
Prior 
immunosuppressant 
failure
Baseline 
corticosteroid use
Abbreviations: TNFi=tumour necrosis factor inhibitor; UC=ulcerative colitis.
45.5%
74.1%
46.8%
69.5%
Sustained corticosteroid-
free remission among 
patients in remission at 
baseline
44.7%
75.0%
69.6%
50.3%
In addition, safety and efficacy of tofacitinib were assessed in an open-label long-term extension study 
(OCTAVE Open). Patients who completed 1 of the induction studies (OCTAVE Induction 1 or 
OCTAVE Induction 2) but did not achieve clinical response or patients who completed or withdrew 
early due to treatment failure in the maintenance study (OCTAVE Sustain) were eligible for OCTAVE 
Open. Patients from OCTAVE Induction 1 or OCTAVE Induction 2 who did not achieve clinical 
response after 8 weeks in OCTAVE Open were to be discontinued from OCTAVE Open. 
Corticosteroid tapering was also required upon entrance into OCTAVE Open. 
Induction efficacy data (OCTAVE Induction 1 and OCTAVE Induction 2) 
The primary endpoint of OCTAVE Induction 1 and OCTAVE Induction 2 was the proportion of 
patients in remission at week 8, and the key secondary endpoint was the proportion of patients with 
improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa at week 8. Remission was defined as clinical 
remission (a total Mayo score ≤ 2 with no individual subscore > 1) and rectal bleeding subscore of 0. 
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as endoscopy subscore of 0 or 1. 
A significantly greater proportion of patients treated with tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily achieved 
remission, improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa, and clinical response at week 8 
compared to placebo in both studies, as shown in Table 23. 
38
The efficacy results based on the endoscopic readings at the study sites were consistent with the results 
based on the central endoscopy readings.
Table 23: Proportion of patients meeting efficacy endpoints at week 8 (OCTAVE induction 
study 1 and OCTAVE induction study 2)
OCTAVE induction study 1
Central endoscopy read
Placebo
Local endoscopy read
Placebo
Endpoint
Remissiona
Improvement of endoscopic 
appearance of the mucosab
Normalisation of endoscopic 
appearance of the mucosac
Clinical responsed
Endpoint
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=476
18.5%‡
31.3%†
6.7%‡
59.9%*
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=429
16.6%†
28.4%†
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=476
24.8%‡
42.4%*
10.9%‡
60.7%*
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=429
20.7%†
36.4%*
N=122
11.5%
23.0%
2.5%
34.4%
N=112
5.4%
15.2%
OCTAVE induction study 2
Central endoscopy read
Placebo
Local endoscopy read
Placebo
N=122
8.2%
15.6%
1.6%
32.8%
N=112
3.6%
11.6%
Remissiona
Improvement of endoscopic 
appearance of the mucosab
Normalisation of endoscopic 
appearance of the mucosac
Clinical responsed
* p<0.0001; † p<0.001; ‡ p<0.05.
N=number of patients in the analysis set.
a. Primary endpoint: Remission was defined as clinical remission (a Mayo score ≤ 2 with no individual subscore > 1) and 
55.0%*
58.0%*
29.5%
28.6%
9.1%‡
7.0%‡
0.0%
1.8%
rectal bleeding subscore of 0. 
b. Key secondary endpoint: Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as Mayo endoscopy 
subscore of 0 (normal or inactive disease) or 1 (erythema, decreased vascular pattern).
c. Normalisation of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as a Mayo endoscopic subscore of 0.
d. Clinical response was defined as a decrease from baseline in Mayo score of ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30%, with an 
accompanying decrease in the subscore for rectal bleeding of ≥ 1 point or absolute subscore for rectal bleeding of 0 or 1.
In both subgroups of patients with or without prior TNF inhibitor failure, a greater proportion of 
patients treated with tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily achieved remission and improvement of endoscopic 
appearance of the mucosa at week 8 as compared to placebo. This treatment difference was consistent 
between the 2 subgroups (Table 24).
39
Table 24.  Proportion of patients meeting primary and key secondary efficacy endpoints at 
week 8 by TNF inhibitor therapy subgroups (OCTAVE induction study 1 and 
OCTAVE induction study 2, central endoscopy read)
Endpoint
OCTAVE induction study 1
Placebo
N=122
Tofacitinib 10 mg
twice daily
N=476
Remissiona
   With prior TNF inhibitor failure
   Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosac
    With prior TNF inhibitor failure
    Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
1.6%
(1/64)
15.5%
(9/58)
6.3%
(4/64)
25.9%
(15/58)
11.1%
(27/243)
26.2%
(61/233)
22.6%
(55/243)
40.3%
(94/233)
Endpoint
OCTAVE induction study 2
Placebo
N=112
Tofacitinib 10 mg
twice daily
N=429
Remissiona
   With prior TNF inhibitor failure
   Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosac
    With prior TNF inhibitor failure
    Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
0.0%
(0/60)
7.7%
(4/52)
6.7%
(4/60)
17.3%
(9/52)
11.7%
(26/222)
21.7%
(45/207)
21.6%
(48/222)
35.7%
(74/207)
TNF=tumour necrosis factor; N=number of patients in the analysis set.
a. Remission was defined as clinical remission (a Mayo score ≤ 2 with no individual subscore > 1) and rectal bleeding 
b.
c.
subscore of 0.
Included TNF Inhibitor naïve patients 
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as Mayo endoscopy subscore of 0 (normal or 
inactive disease) or 1 (erythema, decreased vascular pattern).
As early as week 2, the earliest scheduled study visit, and at each visit thereafter, significant 
differences were observed between tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and placebo in the change from 
baseline in rectal bleeding and stool frequency, and partial Mayo score.
Maintenance (OCTAVE Sustain)
Patients who completed 8 weeks in 1 of the induction studies and achieved clinical response were 
re-randomised into OCTAVE Sustain; 179 out of 593 (30.2%) patients were in remission at baseline 
of OCTAVE Sustain. 
The primary endpoint in OCTAVE Sustain was the proportion of patients in remission at week 52. 
The 2 key secondary endpoints were the proportion of patients with improvement of endoscopic 
appearance at week 52, and the proportion of patients with sustained corticosteroid-free remission at 
both week 24 and week 52 among patients in remission at baseline of OCTAVE Sustain. 
A significantly greater proportion of patients in both the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 
10 mg twice daily treatment groups achieved the following endpoints at week 52 as compared to 
placebo: remission, improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa, normalisation of 
endoscopic appearance of the mucosa, maintenance of clinical response, remission among patients in 
remission at baseline, and sustained corticosteroid-free remission at both week 24 and week 52 among 
patients in remission at baseline, as shown in Table 25. 
40
Table 25: Proportion of patients meeting efficacy endpoints at week 52 (OCTAVE sustain)
Endpoint
Placebo
N=198
Central endoscopy read
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily
N=198
34.3%*
37.4%*
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=197
40.6%*
45.7%*
Placebo
N=198
Local endoscopy read
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily
N=198
39.4%*
44.9%*
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=197
47.7%*
53.8%*
29.4%*
4.0%
5.6%
10.2%
20.2%
20.7%
22.2%*
61.9%*
16.8%*
46.2%*
51.0%*
51.5%*
14.6%**
11.1%
13.1%
13.1%
15.7%
Remissiona
Improvement of 
endoscopic 
appearance of the 
mucosab
Normalisation of 
endoscopic 
appearance of the 
mucosac
Maintenance of 
clinical responsed
Remission among 
patients in remission 
at baselinea,f
Sustained 
corticosteroid-free 
remission at both 
week 24 and 
week 52 among 
patients in remission 
at baselinee,f
Corticosteroid-free 
remission among 
patients taking 
corticosteroids at 
baselinea,g
* p<0.0001; **p<0.001; †p<0.05 for tofacitinib versus placebo.
N=number of patients in the analysis set. 
a. Remission was defined as clinical remission (a Mayo score ≤ 2 with no individual subscore > 1) and rectal bleeding 
27.7%†
27.6%†
32.7%†
35.4%*
47.3%*
47.7%*
50.8%*
56.4%*
11.9%
11.9%
13.9%
10.9%
5.1%
61.4%*
65.5%*
31.0%†
58.2%*
b.
subscore of 0. 
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as Mayo endoscopy subscore of 0 (normal or 
inactive disease) or 1 (erythema, decreased vascular pattern).
c. Normalisation of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as a Mayo endoscopic subscore of 0.
d. Maintenance of clinical response was defined by a decrease from the induction study (OCTAVE Induction 1, OCTAVE 
Induction 2) baseline Mayo score of ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30%, with an accompanying decrease in the rectal bleeding 
subscore of ≥ 1 point or rectal bleeding subscore of 0 or 1. Patients were to be in clinical response at baseline of the 
maintenance study OCTAVE Sustain.
e. Sustained corticosteroid-free remission was defined as being in remission and not taking corticosteroids for at least 
4 weeks prior to the visit at both week 24 and week 52. 
f. N=59 for placebo, N=65 for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, N=55 for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
g. N=101 for placebo, N=101 for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, N=87 for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
In both subgroups of patients with or without prior TNF inhibitor failure, a greater proportion of 
patients treated with either tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily achieved the 
following endpoints at week 52 of OCTAVE Sustain as compared to placebo: remission, improvement 
of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa, or sustained corticosteroid-free remission at both week 24 
and week 52 among patients in remission at baseline (Table 26). This treatment difference from 
placebo was similar between tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily in the 
subgroup of patients without prior TNF inhibitor failure. In the subgroup of patients with prior TNF 
inhibitor failure, the observed treatment difference from placebo was numerically greater for 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily than tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily by 9.7 to 16.7 percentage points across 
the primary and key secondary endpoints. 
41
Table 26: Proportion of patients meeting primary and key secondary efficacy endpoints at 
week 52 by TNF inhibitor therapy subgroup (OCTAVE sustain, central endoscopy 
read)
Endpoint
Remissiona
Placebo
N=198
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily
N=198
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily
N=197
With prior TNF inhibitor failure
Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
10/89
(11.2%)
12/109
(11.0%)
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosac
11/89
(12.4%)
15/109
(13.8%)
Sustained corticosteroid-free remission at both week 24 and week 52 among patients in remission at 
baselined
Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
25/83
(30.1%)
49/115
(42.6%)
37/93
(39.8%)
53/104
(51.0%)
34/93
(36.6%)
46/104
(44.2%)
20/83
(24.1%)
48/115
(41.7%)
With prior TNF inhibitor failure
With prior TNF inhibitor failure
Without prior TNF inhibitor failureb
1/21
(4.8%)
2/38
(5.3%)
4/18
(22.2%)
19/47
(40.4%)
7/18
(38.9%)
19/37
(51.4%)
TNF=tumour necrosis factor; N=number of patients in the analysis set. 
a. Remission was defined as clinical remission (a Mayo score ≤ 2 with no individual subscore > 1) and rectal bleeding 
b.
c.
subscore of 0. 
Included TNF Inhibitor naïve patients.
Improvement of endoscopic appearance of the mucosa was defined as Mayo endoscopy subscore of 0 (normal or 
inactive disease) or 1 (erythema, decreased vascular pattern).
d. Sustained corticosteroid-free remission was defined as being in remission and not taking corticosteroids for at least 
4 weeks prior to the visit at both week 24 and week 52.
The proportion of patients in both tofacitinib groups who had treatment failure was lower compared to 
placebo at each time point as early as week 8, the first time point where treatment failure was assessed, 
as shown in Figure 2. 
42
Figure 2. Time to treatment failure in maintenance study OCTAVE sustain (Kaplan-Meier 
Curves) 
p<0.0001 for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily versus placebo.
p<0.0001 for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily versus placebo.
BID=twice daily.
Treatment failure was defined as an increase in Mayo score of ≥ 3 points from maintenance study baseline, accompanied by 
an increase in rectal bleeding subscore by ≥ 1 point, and an increase of endoscopic subscore of ≥ 1 point yielding an absolute 
endoscopic subscore of ≥ 2 after a minimum treatment of 8 weeks in the study. 
Health-related and quality of life outcomes
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily demonstrated greater improvement from baseline compared to placebo 
in physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS) scores, and in all 
8 domains of the SF-36 in the induction studies (OCTAVE Induction 1, OCTAVE Induction 2). In the 
maintenance study (OCTAVE Sustain), tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
demonstrated greater maintenance of improvement compared to placebo in PCS and MCS scores, and 
in all 8 domains of the SF-36 at week 24 and week 52.
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily demonstrated greater improvement from baseline compared to placebo 
at week 8 in the total and all 4 domain scores of the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire 
(IBDQ) (bowel symptoms, systemic function, emotional function, and social function) in the induction 
studies (OCTAVE Induction 1, OCTAVE Induction 2). In the maintenance study (OCTAVE Sustain), 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily demonstrated greater maintenance of 
improvement compared to placebo in the total and all 4 domain scores of the IBDQ at week 24 and 
week 52.
Improvements were also observed in the EuroQoL 5-Dimension (EQ-5D) and various domains of the 
Work Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI-UC) questionnaire in both induction and 
maintenance studies compared to placebo.
Open-label extension study (OCTAVE Open)
Patients who did not achieve clinical response in one of the induction studies (OCTAVE Induction 1 
or OCTAVE Induction 2) after 8 weeks of tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily were allowed to enter an 
open-label extension study (OCTAVE Open). After an additional 8 weeks of tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily in OCTAVE Open, 53% (154/293) patients achieved clinical response and 14% (42/293) patients 
achieved remission. 
43
Patients who achieved clinical response in 1 of the induction studies (OCTAVE Induction 1 or 
OCTAVE Induction 2) with tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily but experienced treatment failure after their 
dose was reduced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or following treatment interruption in OCTAVE 
Sustain (i.e., were randomised to placebo), had their dose increased to tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily in 
OCTAVE Open. After 8 weeks on tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily in OCTAVE Open, remission was 
achieved in 35% (20/58) patients who received tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily in OCTAVE Sustain and 
40% (40/99) patients with dose interruption in OCTAVE Sustain. At month 12 in OCTAVE Open, 
52% (25/48) and 45% (37/83) of these patients achieved remission, respectively.
Furthermore, at month 12 of study OCTAVE Open, 74% (48/65) of patients who achieved remission 
at the end of study OCTAVE Sustain on either tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice
daily remained in remission while receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit results of studies with 
tofacitinib in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in other rarer types of juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis and in ulcerative colitis (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile PsA
The tofacitinib Phase 3 program for JIA consisted of one completed Phase 3 trial (Study JIA-I 
[A3921104]) and one ongoing long-term extension (LTE) (A3921145) trial. In these studies the 
following JIA subgroups were included: patients with either RF+ or RF- polyarthritis, extended 
oligoarthritis, systemic JIA with active arthritis and no current systemic symptoms (referred as pJIA 
dataset) and two separate subgroups of patients with juvenile PsA and enthesitis-related arthritis 
(ERA). However, the pJIA efficacy population only includes the subgroups with either RF+ or RF-
polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis; inconclusive results have been seen in the subgroup of patients 
with systemic JIA with active arthritis and no current systemic symptoms. Patients with juvenile PsA 
are included as separate efficacy subgroup. ERA patients are not included in the efficacy analysis.
All eligible patients in Study JIA-I received open-label tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily 
or tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice daily for 18 weeks (run-in phase); patients 
who achieved at least a JIA ACR30 response at the end of the open-label phase were randomised (1:1) 
to either active tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets or tofacitinib oral solution, or placebo in the 
26-week double-blind, placebo-controlled phase. Patients who did not achieve a JIA ACR30 response 
at the end of the open-label run-in phase or experienced a single episode of disease flare at any time 
were discontinued from the study. A total of 225 patients were enrolled in the open-label run-in phase. 
Of these, 173 (76.9%) patients were eligible to be randomised into the double-blind phase to either 
active tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets or tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice 
daily (n=88) or placebo (n=85). There were 58 (65.9%) patients in the tofacitinib group and 
58 (68.2%) patients in the placebo group taking MTX during the double-blind phase, which was 
permitted but not required per the protocol.
There were 133 patients with pJIA [RF+ or RF- polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis] and 15 with 
juvenile PsA randomised into the double-blind phase of the study and included in the efficacy analyses 
presented below.
Signs and symptoms
A significantly smaller proportion of patients with pJIA in Study JIA-I treated with tofacitinib 5 mg 
film-coated tablets twice daily or tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice daily flared at 
Week 44 compared with patients treated with placebo. A significantly greater proportion of patients 
with pJIA treated with tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets or tofacitinib oral solution achieved JIA 
ACR30, 50, and 70 responses compared to patients treated with placebo at Week 44 (Table 27).
44
The occurrence of disease flare and JIA ACR30/50/70 results were favourable to tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily in comparison to placebo across the RF+ polyarthritis, RF- polyarthritis, extended 
oligoarthritis, and jPsA JIA subtypes and were consistent with those for the overall study population.
The occurrence of disease flare and JIA ACR30/50/70 results were favourable to tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily in comparison to placebo for pJIA patients who received tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily with 
concomitant MTX use on Day 1 [n=101 (76%)] and those who were on tofacitinib monotherapy [n=32 
(24%)]. In addition, the occurrence of disease flare and JIA ACR30/50/70 results were also favourable 
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily compared to placebo for pJIA patients who had prior bDMARD 
experience [n=39 (29%)] and those who were bDMARD naïve [n=94 (71%)].  
In Study JIA-I at Week 2 of the open-label run-in phase, the JIA ACR30 response in patients with 
pJIA was 45.03%. 
Table 27:Primary and secondary efficacy endpoints in patients with pJIA at Week 44* in Study 
JIA-I (all p-values<0.05)
Primary endpoint
(Type I error controlled) Treatment group Occurrence rate
Occurrence of disease flare  Tofacitinib 5 mg 
28%
Difference (%) from 
placebo (95% CI)
-24.7 (-40.8, -8.5)
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo
(N=66)
Secondary endpoints
JIA ACR50
(Type I error controlled) Treatment group
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
JIA ACR30
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo
(N=66)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo
(N=66)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo 
(N=66)
JIA ACR70
Secondary endpoint 
53%
Response
rate
72%
47%
67%
47%
55%
38%
(Type I error controlled) Treatment group LS mean (SEM)
Change from Double-Blind 
Baseline in CHAQ 
Disability Index 
-0.11 (0.04)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67; n=46)
Placebo
(N=66; n=31)
0.00 (0.04)
Difference (%) from 
placebo (95% CI)
24.7 (8.50, 40.8)
20.2 (3.72, 36.7)
17.4 (0.65, 34.0)
Difference from placebo 
(95% CI)
-0.11 (-0.22, -0.01)
ACR = American College of Rheumatology; CHAQ = childhood health assessment questionnaire; CI = confidence 
interval; LS = least squares; n = number of patients with observations at the visit; N = total number of patients; JIA = 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis; SEM = standard error of the mean
* The 26-week double-blind phase is from Week 18 through Week 44 on and after randomisation day.
The Type-I error-controlled endpoints are tested in this order: Disease Flare, JIA ACR50, JIA ACR30, JIA ACR70, 
CHAQ Disability Index.
In the double-blind phase, each of the components of the JIA ACR response showed greater 
improvement from the open-label baseline (Day 1) at Week 24, and Week 44 for patients with pJIA 
treated with tofacitinib oral solution dosed as 5 mg twice daily or weight-based equivalent twice daily 
compared with those receiving placebo in Study JIA-I.
45
Physical function and health-related quality of life
Changes in physical function in Study JIA-I were measured by the CHAQ Disability Index. The mean 
change from the double-blind baseline in CHAQ-Disability Index in patients with pJIA was 
significantly lower in the tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily or tofacitinib oral solution 
weight-based equivalent twice daily compared to placebo at Week 44 (Table 27). The mean change 
from the double-blind baseline in CHAQ Disability Index results were favourable to tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily in comparison to placebo across the RF+ polyarthritis, RF- polyarthritis, extended 
oligoarthritis, and jPsA JIA subtypes and were consistent with those for the overall study population.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The PK profile of tofacitinib is characterised by rapid absorption (peak plasma concentrations are 
reached within 0.5-1 hour), rapid elimination (half-life of ~3 hours) and dose-proportional increases in 
systemic exposure. Steady state concentrations are achieved in 24-48 hours with negligible 
accumulation after twice daily administration.
Absorption and distribution
Tofacitinib is well-absorbed, with an oral bioavailability of 74%. Coadministration of tofacitinib with 
a high-fat meal resulted in no changes in AUC while Cmax was reduced by 32%. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was administered without regard to meal.
After intravenous administration, the volume of distribution is 87 L. Approximately 40% of 
circulating tofacitinib is bound to plasma proteins. Tofacitinib binds predominantly to albumin and 
does not appear to bind to 1-acid glycoprotein. Tofacitinib distributes equally between red blood 
cells and plasma.
Biotransformation and elimination
Clearance mechanisms for tofacitinib are approximately 70% hepatic metabolism and 30% renal 
excretion of the parent drug. The metabolism of tofacitinib is primarily mediated by CYP3A4 with 
minor contribution from CYP2C19. In a human radiolabelled study, more than 65% of the total 
circulating radioactivity was accounted for by unchanged active substance, with the remaining 35% 
attributed to 8 metabolites, each accounting for less than 8% of total radioactivity. All metabolites 
have been observed in animal species and are predicted to have less than 10-fold potency than 
tofacitinib for JAK1/3 inhibition. No evidence of stereo conversion in human samples was detected. 
The pharmacologic activity of tofacitinib is attributed to the parent molecule. In vitro, tofacitinib is a 
substrate for MDR1, but not for breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), OATP1B1/1B3, or OCT1/2.
Pharmacokinetics in patients
The enzymatic activity of CYP enzymes is reduced in RA patients due to chronic inflammation. In RA 
patients, the oral clearance of tofacitinib does not vary with time, indicating that treatment with 
tofacitinib does not normalise CYP enzyme activity.
Population PK analysis in RA patients indicated that systemic exposure (AUC) of tofacitinib in the 
extremes of body weight (40 kg, 140 kg) were similar (within 5%) to that of a 70 kg patient. Elderly 
patients 80 years of age were estimated to have less than 5% higher AUC relative to the mean age of 
55 years. Women were estimated to have 7% lower AUC compared to men. The available data have 
also shown that there are no major differences in tofacitinib AUC between White, Black and Asian 
patients. An approximate linear relationship between body weight and volume of distribution was 
observed, resulting in higher peak (Cmax) and lower trough (Cmin) concentrations in lighter patients. 
However, this difference is not considered to be clinically relevant. The between-subject variability 
(percentage coefficient of variation) in AUC of tofacitinib is estimated to be approximately 27%.
46
Results from population PK analysis in patients with active PsA, moderate to severe UC or AS were 
consistent with those in patients with RA.
Renal impairment
Subjects with mild (creatinine clearance 50-80 mL/min), moderate (creatinine clearance 
30-49 mL/min), and severe (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) renal impairment had 37%, 43% and 
123% higher AUC, respectively, compared to subjects with normal renal function (see section 4.2). In 
subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), contribution of dialysis to the total clearance of 
tofacitinib was relatively small. Following a single dose of 10 mg, mean AUC in subjects with ESRD 
based on concentrations measured on a non-dialysis day was approximately 40% (90% confidence 
intervals: 1.5-95%) higher compared to subjects with normal renal function. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was not evaluated in patients with baseline creatinine clearance values (estimated by 
Cockcroft-Gault equation) less than 40 mL/min (see section 4.2).
Hepatic impairment
Subjects with mild (Child Pugh A) and moderate (Child Pugh B) hepatic impairment had 3%, and 
65% higher AUC, respectively, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was not evaluated in subjects with severe (Child Pugh C) hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4), or in patients screened positive for hepatitis B or C.
Interactions
Tofacitinib is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYPs (CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) and is not an inhibitor of UGTs (UGT1A1, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, 
and UGT2B7). Tofacitinib is not an inhibitor of MDR1, OATP1B1/1B3, OCT2, OAT1/3, or MRP at 
clinically meaningful concentrations.
Comparison of PK of prolonged-release and film-coated tablet formulations
Tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablets once daily have demonstrated PK equivalence (AUC and 
Cmax) to tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily.
Paediatric population
Pharmacokinetics in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Population PK analysis based on results from both tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily and 
tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice daily indicated that tofacitinib clearance and 
volume of distribution both decreased with decreasing body weight in JIA patients. The available data 
indicated that there were no clinically relevant differences in tofacitinib exposure (AUC), based on 
age, race, gender, patient type or baseline disease severity. The between-subject variability 
(% coefficient of variation) in (AUC) was estimated to be approximately 24%.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In non-clinical studies, effects were observed on the immune and haematopoietic systems that were 
attributed to the pharmacological properties (JAK inhibition) of tofacitinib. Secondary effects from 
immunosuppression, such as bacterial and viral infections and lymphoma were observed at clinically 
relevant doses. Lymphoma was observed in 3 of 8 adult monkeys at 6 or 3 times the clinical tofacitinib 
exposure level (unbound AUC in humans at a dose of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily), and 0 of 14 juvenile 
monkeys at 5 or 2.5 times the clinical exposure level of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Exposure in 
monkeys at the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for the lymphomas was approximately 1 or 
0.5 times the clinical exposure level of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Other findings at doses exceeding 
human exposures included effects on the hepatic and gastrointestinal systems.
47
Tofacitinib is not mutagenic or genotoxic based on the results of a series of in vitro and in vivo tests 
for gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations.
The carcinogenic potential of tofacitinib was assessed in 6-month rasH2 transgenic mouse 
carcinogenicity and 2-year rat carcinogenicity studies. Tofacitinib was not carcinogenic in mice at 
exposures up to 38 or 19 times the clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Benign 
testicular interstitial (Leydig) cell tumours were observed in rats: benign Leydig cell tumours in rats 
are not associated with a risk of Leydig cell tumours in humans. Hibernomas (malignancy of brown 
adipose tissue) were observed in female rats at exposures greater than or equal to 83 or 41 times the 
clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Benign thymomas were observed in female rats 
at 187 or 94 times the clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily.
Tofacitinib was shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits, and have effects in rats on female fertility 
(decreased pregnancy rate; decreases in the numbers of corpora lutea, implantation sites, and viable 
foetuses; and an increase in early resorptions), parturition, and peri/postnatal development. Tofacitinib 
had no effects on male fertility, sperm motility or sperm concentration. Tofacitinib was secreted in 
milk of lactating rats at concentrations approximately 2-fold those in serum from 1 to 8 hours 
postdose. In studies conducted in juvenile rats and monkeys, there were no tofacitinib-related effects 
on bone development in males or females, at exposures similar to those achieved at approved doses in 
humans.
No tofacitinib-related findings were observed in juvenile animal studies that indicate a higher 
sensitivity of paediatric populations compared with adults. In the juvenile rat fertility study, there was 
no evidence of developmental toxicity, no effects on sexual maturation, and no evidence of
reproductive toxicity (mating and fertility) was noted after sexual maturity. In 1-month juvenile rat 
and 39-week juvenile monkey studies tofacitinib-related effects on immune and haematology 
parameters consistent with JAK1/3 and JAK2 inhibition were observed. These effects were reversible 
and consistent with those also observed in adult animals at similar exposures.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
microcrystalline cellulose
lactose monohydrate
croscarmellose sodium
magnesium stearate
Film coat
hypromellose 6cP (E464)
titanium dioxide (E171)
lactose monohydrate
macrogol 3350
triacetin
FD&C Blue #2/Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake (E132) (10 mg strength only) 
FD&C Blue #1/Brilliant Blue FCF Aluminum Lake (E133) (10 mg strength only)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
48
6.3
Shelf life
4 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
HDPE bottles with silica gel desiccant and child-resistant polypropylene closure containing 60 or 
180 film-coated tablets.
Aluminium foil/PVC backed aluminium foil blisters containing 14 film-coated tablets. Each pack 
contains 56, 112, or 182 film-coated tablets.
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
HDPE bottles with silica gel desiccant and child-resistant polypropylene closure containing 60 or 
180 film-coated tablets.
Aluminium foil/PVC backed aluminium foil blisters containing 14 film-coated tablets. Each pack 
contains 56, 112, or 182 film-coated tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
49
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1178/001
EU/1/17/1178/002
EU/1/17/1178/003
EU/1/17/1178/004
EU/1/17/1178/005
EU/1/17/1178/006
EU/1/17/1178/007
EU/1/17/1178/008
EU/1/17/1178/009
EU/1/17/1178/014
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 22 March 2017
Date of renewal of the authorisation: 04 March 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
50
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each prolonged-release tablet contains tofacitinib citrate, equivalent to 11 mg tofacitinib.
Excipient with known effect
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 152.23 mg of sorbitol.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Prolonged-release tablet
Pink, oval tablet of approximate average dimension of 10.8 mm × 5.5 mm × 4.4 mm (length by width 
by thickness) with a drilled hole at one end of the tablet band and “JKI 11” printed on one side of the 
tablet.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indication
Rheumatoid arthritis
Tofacitinib in combination with methotrexate (MTX) is indicated for the treatment of moderate to 
severe active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in adult patients who have responded inadequately to, or who 
are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) (see section 5.1).
Tofacitinib can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to MTX or when treatment with MTX
is inappropriate (see sections 4.4 and 4.5).
Psoriatic arthritis
Tofacitinib in combination with MTX is indicated for the treatment of active psoriatic arthritis (PsA) 
in adult patients who have had an inadequate response or who have been intolerant to a prior 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy (see section 5.1).
Ankylosing spondylitis
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS) who 
have responded inadequately to conventional therapy.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of conditions for which tofacitinib is indicated.
51
Posology
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis
The recommended dose is one 11 mg prolonged-release tablet administered once daily, which should 
not be exceeded.
No dose adjustment is required when used in combination with MTX.
For information on switching between tofacitinib film-coated tablets and tofacitinib prolonged-release 
tablets see Table 1.
Table 1: Switching between tofacitinib film-coated tablets and tofacitinib prolonged-release tablets 
Treatment with tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily and 
tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once daily may be switched 
between each other on the day following the last dose of either tablet.
Switching between tofacitinib 
5 mg film-coated tablets and 
tofacitinib 11 mg 
prolonged-release tableta
a See section 5.2 for comparison of pharmacokinetics of prolonged-release and film-coated formulations.
Dose interruption and discontinuation
Tofacitinib treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection 
is controlled.
Interruption of dosing may be needed for management of dose-related laboratory abnormalities 
including lymphopenia, neutropenia, and anaemia. As described in Tables 2, 3 and 4 below, 
recommendations for temporary dose interruption or permanent discontinuation of treatment are made 
according to the severity of laboratory abnormalities (see section 4.4).
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in patients with an absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) less than 
750 cells/mm3.
Table 2: Low absolute lymphocyte count
Low absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) (see section 4.4)
Laboratory value
(cells/mm3)
ALC greater than or equal 
to 750
ALC 500-750
ALC less than 500
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
For persistent (2 sequential values in this range on routine testing) 
decrease in this range, tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release dosing 
should be interrupted. 
When ALC is greater than 750, treatment should be resumed as 
clinically appropriate.
If laboratory value confirmed by repeat testing within 7 days, dosing 
should be discontinued.
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less than 
1,000 cells/mm3.
52
Table 3: Low absolute neutrophil count
Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) (see section 4.4)
Laboratory Value
(cells/mm3)
ANC greater than 1,000
ANC 500-1,000
ANC less than 500
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
For persistent (2 sequential values in this range on routine testing) 
decreases in this range, tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release dosing 
should be interrupted.
When ANC is greater than 1,000, treatment should be resumed as 
clinically appropriate.
If laboratory value confirmed by repeat testing within 7 days, dosing 
should be discontinued. 
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in patients with haemoglobin less than 9 g/dL.
Table 4: Low haemoglobin value
Low haemoglobin value (Section 4.4)
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
Dosing should be interrupted until haemoglobin values have 
normalised.
Laboratory Value
(g/dL)
Less than or equal to 
2 g/dL decrease and greater 
than or equal to 9.0 g/dL
Greater than 2 g/dL 
decrease or less than 
8.0 g/dL
(confirmed by repeat 
testing)
Interactions
Tofacitinib total daily dose should be reduced by half in patients receiving potent inhibitors of 
cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) and in patients receiving 1 or more concomitant 
medicinal products that result in both moderate inhibition of CYP3A4 as well as potent inhibition of 
CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole) (see section 4.5) as follows:

Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg film-coated tablet once daily in patients 
receiving 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once daily.
Dose discontinuation in AS 
Available data suggest that clinical improvement in AS is observed within 16 weeks of initiation of 
treatment with tofacitinib. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient exhibiting 
no clinical improvement within this timeframe.
Special populations
Elderly
No dose adjustment is required in patients 65 years of age and older. There are limited data in patients 
aged 75 years and older. See section 4.4 for Use in patients 65 years of age and older.
53
Hepatic impairment
Table 5:  Dose adjustment for hepatic impairment 
Classification
Hepatic 
impairment
category
Mild
Moderate
Child Pugh A
Child Pugh B
Dose adjustment in hepatic impairment for different 
strength tablets
No dose adjustment required.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg film-coated tablet once 
daily when the indicated dose in the presence of normal 
hepatic function is 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once 
daily (see section 5.2).
Tofacitinib should not be used in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3).
Table 6:  Dose adjustment for renal impairment 
Creatinine 
clearance
Dose adjustment in renal impairment for different 
strength tablets
Severe
Child Pugh C
Renal impairment
Renal 
impairment
Category
Mild
Moderate
Severe (including 
patients 
undergoing 
haemodialysis)
50-80 mL/min
30-49 mL/min
< 30 mL/min
No dose adjustment required.
No dose adjustment required.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg film-coated tablet once 
daily when the indicated dose in the presence of normal 
renal function is 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once 
daily (see section 5.2).
Patients with severe renal impairment should remain on 
a reduced dose even after haemodialysis (see 
section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of tofacitinib prolonged-release formulation in children aged 0 to less than 
18 years have not been established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Oral use.
Tofacitinib is given orally with or without food.
Tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablets must be taken whole in order to ensure the entire dose is 
delivered correctly. They must not be crushed, split or chewed.
4.3 Contraindications




Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Active tuberculosis (TB), serious infections such as sepsis, or opportunistic infections 
(see section 4.4).
Severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2).
Pregnancy and lactation (see section 4.6).
54
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available in patients:
-65 years of age and older;
-patients with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors 
(such as current or past long-time smokers);
-patients with malignancy risk factors (e.g. current malignancy or history of malignancy)
Use in patients 65 years of age and older
Considering the increased risk of serious infections, myocardial infarction, malignancies and all cause 
mortality with tofacitinib in patients 65 years of age and older , tofacitinib should only be used in these 
patients if no suitable treatment alternatives are available (see further details below in section 4.4 and 
section 5.1).
Combination with other therapies
Tofacitinib has not been studied and its use should be avoided in combination with biologics such as 
TNF antagonists, interleukin (IL)-1R antagonists, IL-6R antagonists, anti-CD20 monoclonal 
antibodies, IL-17 antagonists, IL-12/IL-23 antagonists, anti-integrins, selective co-stimulation 
modulators and potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, ciclosporin and 
tacrolimus because of the possibility of increased immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
There was a higher incidence of adverse events for the combination of tofacitinib with MTX versus 
tofacitinib as monotherapy in RA clinical studies.
The use of tofacitinib in combination with phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors has not been studied in 
tofacitinib clinical studies.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
Serious VTE events including pulmonary embolism (PE), some of which were fatal, and deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT), have been observed in patients taking tofacitinib. In a randomised 
post-authorisation safety study in patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose dependent increased risk for VTE was 
observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
In a post hoc exploratory analysis within this study, in patients with known VTE risk factors, 
occurrences of subsequent VTEs were observed more frequently in tofacitinib-treated patients that, at 
12 months treatment, had D-dimer level ≥2× ULN versus those with D-dimer level <2×ULN; this was 
not evident in TNF inhibitor-treated patients. Interpretation is limited by the low number of VTE 
events and restricted D-dimer test availability (only assessed at Baseline, Month 12, and at the end of 
the study). In patients who did not have a VTE during the study, mean D-dimer levels were 
significantly reduced at Month 12 relative to Baseline across all treatment arms. However, D-dimer 
levels ≥2× ULN at Month 12 were observed in approximately 30% of patients without subsequent 
VTE events, indicating limited specificity of D-Dimer testing in this study.
In patients with MACE or malignancy risk factors (see also section 4.4 “Major adverse cardiovascular 
events (MACE)” and “Malignancy”) tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment 
alternatives are available.
In patients with VTE risk factors other than MACE or malignancy risk factors, tofacitinib should be 
used with caution. VTE risk factors other than MACE or malignancy risk factors include previous 
VTE, patients undergoing major surgery, immobilisation, use of combined hormonal contraceptives or 
hormone replacement therapy, inherited coagulation disorder. Patients should be re-evaluated 
periodically during tofacitinib treatment to assess for changes in VTE risk.
55
For patients with RA with known risk factors for VTE, consider testing D-dimer levels 
after approximately 12 months of treatment. If D-dimer test result is ≥ 2× ULN, confirm that clinical 
benefits outweigh risks prior to a decision on treatment continuation with tofacitinib.
Promptly evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of VTE and discontinue tofacitinib in patients 
with suspected VTE, regardless of dose or indication.
Retinal venous thrombosis
Retinal venous thrombosis (RVT) has been reported in patients treated with tofacitinib (see section 
4.8). The patients should be advised to promptly seek medical care in case they experience symptoms 
suggestive of RVT.
Serious infections
Serious and sometimes fatal infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, or other 
opportunistic pathogens have been reported in patients receiving tofacitinib (see section 4.8). The risk 
of opportunistic infections is higher in Asian geographic regions (see section 4.8). Rheumatoid 
arthritis patients taking corticosteroids may be predisposed to infection.
Tofacitinib should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including localised infections.
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating tofacitinib in patients:




with recurrent infections,
with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection,
who have resided or travelled in areas of endemic mycoses, 
who have underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection.
Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during 
and after treatment with tofacitinib. Treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious 
infection, an opportunistic infection, or sepsis. A patient who develops a new infection during 
treatment with tofacitinib should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an 
immunocompromised patient, appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated, and the patient 
should be closely monitored.
As there is a higher incidence of infections in the elderly and in the diabetic populations in general, 
caution should be used when treating the elderly and patients with diabetes (see section 4.8). In 
patients 65 years of age and older, tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives 
are available (see section 5.1).
Risk of infection may be higher with increasing degrees of lymphopenia and consideration should be 
given to lymphocyte counts when assessing individual patient risk of infection. Discontinuation and 
monitoring criteria for lymphopenia are discussed in section 4.2.
Tuberculosis
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating tofacitinib in patients:


who have been exposed to TB,
who have resided or travelled in areas of endemic TB.
56
Patients should be evaluated and tested for latent or active infection prior to and per applicable 
guidelines during administration of tofacitinib.
Patients with latent TB, who test positive, should be treated with standard antimycobacterial therapy 
before administering tofacitinib.
Antituberculosis therapy should also be considered prior to administration of tofacitinib in patients 
who test negative for TB but who have a past history of latent or active TB and where an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed; or those who test negative but who have risk factors for TB 
infection. Consultation with a healthcare professional with expertise in the treatment of TB is 
recommended to aid in the decision about whether initiating antituberculosis therapy is appropriate for 
an individual patient. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms 
of TB, including patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to initiating therapy.
Viral reactivation
Viral reactivation and cases of herpes virus reactivation (e.g., herpes zoster) have been observed in 
patients receiving tofacitinib (see section 4.8).
In patients treated with tofacitinib, the incidence of herpes zoster appears to be increased in: 




Japanese or Korean patients. 
Patients with an ALC less than 1,000 cells/mm3 (see section 4.2).
Patients with long standing RA who have previously received two or more biological 
disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
Patients treated with 10 mg twice daily.
The impact of tofacitinib on chronic viral hepatitis reactivation is unknown. Patients screened positive 
for hepatitis B or C were excluded from clinical studies. Screening for viral hepatitis should be 
performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting therapy with tofacitinib.
Major adverse cardiovascular events (including myocardial infarction)
Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) have been observed in patients taking tofacitinib.
In a randomised post authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increased incidence of myocardial infarctions 
was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). In patients 
65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients with 
history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors, tofacitinib should 
only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available (see section 5.1).
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorder
Tofacitinib may affect host defences against malignancies.
In a randomised post authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increased incidence of malignancies 
particularly NMSC, lung cancer and lymphoma, was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF 
inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
NMSC lung cancers and lymphoma in patients treated with tofacitinib have also been observed in 
other clinical studies and in the post marketing setting.
Other malignancies in patients treated with tofacitinib were observed in clinical studies and the 
post-marketing setting, including, but not limited to, breast cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, and 
pancreatic cancer.
57
In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients 
with other malignancy risk factors (e.g. current malignancy or history of malignancy other than a 
successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer) tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable 
treatment alternatives are available (see section 5.1). Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those who are at increased risk for skin cancer (see Table 7 in section 4.8).
Interstitial lung disease 
Caution is also recommended in patients with a history of chronic lung disease as they may be more 
prone to infections. Events of interstitial lung disease (some of which had a fatal outcome) have been 
reported in patients treated with tofacitinib in RA clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting 
although the role of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibition in these events is not known. Asian RA patients are 
known to be at higher risk of interstitial lung disease, thus caution should be exercised in treating these 
patients.
Gastrointestinal perforations
Events of gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in clinical studies although the role of JAK 
inhibition in these events is not known. Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients who may 
be at increased risk for gastrointestinal perforation (e.g., patients with a history of diverticulitis, 
patients with concomitant use of corticosteroids and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Patients 
presenting with new onset abdominal signs and symptoms should be evaluated promptly for early 
identification of gastrointestinal perforation.
Fractures 
Fractures have been observed in patients treated with tofacitinib.
Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients with known risk factors for fractures such as 
elderly patients, female patients and patients with corticosteroid use, regardless of indication and 
dosage. 
Liver enzymes
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of liver enzyme elevation in 
some patients (see section 4.8 liver enzyme tests). Caution should be exercised when considering 
initiation of tofacitinib treatment in patients with elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), particularly when initiated in combination with potentially hepatotoxic 
medicinal products such as MTX. Following initiation, routine monitoring of liver tests and prompt 
investigation of the causes of any observed liver enzyme elevations are recommended to identify 
potential cases of drug-induced liver injury. If drug-induced liver injury is suspected, the 
administration of tofacitinib should be interrupted until this diagnosis has been excluded.
Hypersensitivity
In post-marketing experience, cases of hypersensitivity associated with tofacitinib administration have 
been reported. Allergic reactions included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. 
If any serious allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, tofacitinib should be discontinued immediately.
Laboratory parameters
Lymphocytes
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of lymphopenia compared to 
placebo. Lymphocyte counts less than 750 cells/mm3 were associated with an increased incidence of 
serious infections. It is not recommended to initiate or continue tofacitinib treatment in patients with a 
confirmed lymphocyte count less than 750 cells/mm3. Lymphocytes should be monitored at baseline 
58
and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on lymphocyte counts (see 
section 4.2).
Neutrophils
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of neutropenia (less than 
2,000 cells/mm3) compared to placebo. It is not recommended to initiate tofacitinib treatment in 
patients with an ANC less than 1,000 cells/mm3. ANC should be monitored at baseline and after 4 to 
8 weeks of treatment and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on ANC 
(see section 4.2).
Haemoglobin
Treatment with tofacitinib has been associated with decreases in haemoglobin levels. It is not 
recommended to initiate tofacitinib treatment in patients with a haemoglobin value less than 9 g/dL. 
Haemoglobin should be monitored at baseline and after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment and every 3 months 
thereafter. For recommended modifications based on haemoglobin level (see section 4.2).
Lipid monitoring
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with increases in lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Maximum 
effects were generally observed within 6 weeks. Assessment of lipid parameters should be performed 
after 8 weeks following initiation of tofacitinib therapy. Patients should be managed according to 
clinical guidelines for the management of hyperlipidaemia. Increases in total and LDL cholesterol 
associated with tofacitinib may be decreased to pretreatment levels with statin therapy.
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of tofacitinib in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes. Dose adjustment of anti-diabetic medication may be necessary in the event 
that hypoglycaemia occurs.
Vaccinations
Prior to initiating tofacitinib, it is recommended that all patients be brought up to date with all 
immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines. It is recommended that live 
vaccines not be given concurrently with tofacitinib. The decision to use live vaccines prior to 
tofacitinib treatment should take into account the pre-existing immunosuppression in a given patient.
Prophylactic zoster vaccination should be considered in accordance with vaccination guidelines. 
Particular consideration should be given to patients with longstanding RA who have previously 
received two or more biological DMARDs. If live zoster vaccine is administered; it should only be 
administered to patients with a known history of chickenpox or those that are seropositive for varicella 
zoster virus (VZV). If the history of chickenpox is considered doubtful or unreliable it is 
recommended to test for antibodies against VZV.
Vaccination with live vaccines should occur at least 2 weeks but preferably 4 weeks prior to initiation 
of tofacitinib or in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunomodulatory 
medicinal products. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines 
to patients receiving tofacitinib.
Gastrointestinal obstruction with a non-deformable prolonged-release formulation
Caution should be used when administering tofacitinib prolonged-release tablets to patients with pre-
existing severe gastrointestinal narrowing (pathologic or iatrogenic). There have been rare reports of 
obstructive symptoms in patients with known strictures in association with the ingestion of other 
medicinal products utilising a non-deformable prolonged-release formulation.
59
Excipients contents
Tofacitinib prolonged-release tablets contain sorbitol. The additive effect of concomitantly 
administered products containing sorbitol (or fructose) and dietary intake of sorbitol (or fructose) 
should be taken into account.
The content of sorbitol in medicinal products for oral use may affect the bioavailability of other 
medicinal products for oral use administered concomitantly.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Potential for other medicinal products to influence the pharmacokinetics (PK) of tofacitinib
Since tofacitinib is metabolised by CYP3A4, interaction with medicinal products that inhibit or induce 
CYP3A4 is likely. Tofacitinib exposure is increased when coadministered with potent inhibitors of 
CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) or when administration of one or more concomitant medicinal products 
results in both moderate inhibition of CYP3A4 and potent inhibition of CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole)
(see section 4.2).
Tofacitinib exposure is decreased when coadministered with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin). 
Inhibitors of CYP2C19 alone or P-glycoprotein are unlikely to significantly alter the PK of tofacitinib.
Coadministration with ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor), fluconazole (moderate CYP3A4 and 
potent CYP2C19 inhibitor), tacrolimus (mild CYP3A4 inhibitor) and ciclosporin (moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitor) increased tofacitinib AUC, while rifampicin (potent CYP inducer) decreased tofacitinib
AUC. Coadministration of tofacitinib with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin) may result in a loss 
of or reduced clinical response (see Figure 1). Coadministration of potent inducers of CYP3A4 with 
tofacitinib is not recommended. Coadministration with ketoconazole and fluconazole increased 
tofacitinib Cmax, while tacrolimus, ciclosporin and rifampicin decreased tofacitinib Cmax. Concomitant 
administration with MTX 15-25 mg once weekly had no effect on the PK of tofacitinib in RA patients 
(see Figure 1).
60
Figure 1.
Impact of other medicinal products on PK of tofacitinib
Coadministered
Medicinal Product
CYP3A Inhibitor
Ketoconazole
CYP3A & CYP2C19 Inhibitor
Fluconazole
CYP Inducer
Rifampicin
Methotrexate
Tacrolimus
Ciclosporin
PK
Ratio and 90% CI
Recommendation
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced a
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced a
Efficacy may be decreased
No dose adjustment
Combined use of tofacitinib with 
tacrolimus should be avoided
Combined use of tofacitinib with 
ciclosporin should be avoided
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Ratio relative to reference
Note: Reference group is administration of tofacitinib alone.
a Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg (as film-coated tablet) once daily in patients receiving 11 mg (as 
prolonged-release tablet) once daily (see section 4.2).
Potential for tofacitinib to influence the PK of other medicinal products
Coadministration of tofacitinib did not have an effect on the PK of oral contraceptives, levonorgestrel 
and ethinyl estradiol, in healthy female volunteers.
In RA patients, coadministration of tofacitinib with MTX 15-25 mg once weekly decreased the AUC 
and Cmax of MTX by 10% and 13%, respectively. The extent of decrease in MTX exposure does not 
warrant modifications to the individualised dosing of MTX.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of tofacitinib in pregnant women. 
Tofacitinib has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits, and to affect parturition and 
peri/postnatal development (see section 5.3).
As a precautionary measure, the use of tofacitinib during pregnancy is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
with tofacitinib and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose.
61
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether tofacitinib is secreted in human milk. A risk to the breast-fed child cannot be 
excluded. Tofacitinib was secreted in the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). As a precautionary 
measure, the use of tofacitinib during breast-feeding is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Fertility
Formal studies of the potential effect on human fertility have not been conducted. Tofacitinib impaired 
female fertility but not male fertility in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Tofacitinib has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Rheumatoid arthritis
The most common serious adverse reactions were serious infections (see section 4.4). In the long-term 
safety all exposure population, the most common serious infections reported with tofacitinib were 
pneumonia (1.7%), herpes zoster (0.6%), urinary tract infection (0.4%), cellulitis (0.4%), diverticulitis
(0.3%), and appendicitis (0.2%). Among opportunistic infections, TB and other mycobacterial 
infections, cryptococcus, histoplasmosis, oesophageal candidiasis, multidermatomal herpes zoster, 
cytomegalovirus infection, BK virus infections and listeriosis were reported with tofacitinib. Some 
patients have presented with disseminated rather than localised disease. Other serious infections that 
were not reported in clinical studies may also occur (e.g., coccidioidomycosis).
The most commonly reported adverse reactions during the first 3 months of the double-blind, placebo 
or MTX controlled clinical studies were headache (3.9%), upper respiratory tract infections (3.8%), 
viral upper respiratory tract infection (3.3%), diarrhoea (2.9%), nausea (2.7%), and hypertension 
(2.2%).
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions during first 3 months 
of the double-blind, placebo or MTX controlled studies was 3.8% for patients taking tofacitinib. The 
most common infections resulting in discontinuation of therapy during the first 3 months in controlled 
clinical studies were herpes zoster (0.19%) and pneumonia (0.15%).
Psoriatic arthritis
Overall, the safety profile observed in patients with active PsA treated with tofacitinib was consistent 
with the safety profile observed in patients with RA treated with tofacitinib.
Ankylosing spondylitis
Overall, the safety profile observed in patients with active AS treated with tofacitinib was consistent 
with the safety profile observed in patients with RA treated with tofacitinib.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The adverse reactions listed in the table below are from clinical studies in patients with RA, PsA, AS,
and UC and are presented by System Organ Class (SOC) and frequency categories, defined using the 
following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order 
of decreasing seriousness.
62
Table 7: Adverse reactions
Common
≥1/100 to <1/10
System organ 
class
Uncommon
≥1/1,000 to
<1/100
Rare
≥1/10,000 to
<1/1,000
Very rare
<1/10,000
Not known 
(cannot be 
estimated from 
the available 
data)
Infections and 
infestations
Pneumonia
Influenza
Herpes zoster
Urinary tract 
infection
Sinusitis
Bronchitis
Nasopharyngitis
Pharyngitis
Tuberculosis 
Diverticulitis
Pyelonephritis
Cellulitis
Herpes simplex
Gastroenteritis viral
Viral infection 
Sepsis
Urosepsis
Disseminated 
TB
Bacteraemia
Pneumocystis 
jirovecii 
pneumonia
Pneumonia 
pneumococcal
Pneumonia 
bacterial
Cytomegalovir
us infection
Arthritis 
bacterial
Tuberculosis 
of central 
nervous 
system
Meningitis 
cryptococcal
Necrotizing 
fasciitis
Encephalitis
Staphylococca
l bacteraemia
Mycobacteriu
m avium
complex 
infection
Atypical 
mycobacterial 
infection
Lung cancer
Non-melanoma skin 
cancers
Lymphoma
Lymphopenia
Anaemia
Leukopenia
Neutropenia
Dyslipidaemia
Hyperlipidaemia
Dehydration
Insomnia
Headache
Paraesthesia
Hypersensitivity
*
Angioedema*
Urticaria*
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (incl
cysts and polyps)
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Psychiatric 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Rash
Acne
Hypertension
Cough
Abdominal pain
Vomiting
Diarrhoea
Nausea
Gastritis
Dyspepsia
Myocardial 
infarction
Venous 
thromboembolism**
Dyspnoea
Sinus congestion
Hepatic steatosis
Hepatic enzyme 
increased
Transaminases 
increased
Gamma glutamyl-
transferase increased
Erythema
Pruritus
63
Liver function 
test abnormal
System organ 
class
Common
≥1/100 to <1/10
Uncommon
≥1/1,000 to
<1/100
Rare
≥1/10,000 to
<1/1,000
Very rare
<1/10,000
Not known 
(cannot be 
estimated from 
the available 
data)
Arthralgia
Joint swelling
Tendonitis
Musculoskelet
al pain
Oedema 
peripheral
Pyrexia
Fatigue
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased
Blood creatinine 
increased
Blood cholesterol 
increased
Low density 
lipoprotein increased
Weight increased
Ligament sprain
Muscle strain
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications
*Spontaneous reporting data
**Venous thromboembolism includes PE, DVT, and Retinal Venous Thrombosis
Description of selected adverse reactions
Venous thromboembolism
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362), randomised post-authorisation safety study of rheumatoid arthritis patients who 
were 50 years of age and older and had at least one additional cardiovascular (CV) risk factor, VTE 
was observed at an increased and dose-dependent incidence in patients treated with tofacitinib 
compared to TNF inhibitors (see section 5.1). The majority of these events were serious and some 
resulted in death. The incidence rates (95% CI) for PE for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 
10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.17 (0.08-0.33), 0.50 (0.32-0.74), and 0.06 
(0.01-0.17) patients with events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Compared with TNF inhibitors, 
the hazard ratio (HR) for PE was 2.93 (0.79-10.83) and 8.26 (2.49, 27.43) for tofacitinib 5 mg twice 
daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, respectively (see section 5.1). In tofacitinib-treated patients 
where PE was observed, the majority (97%) had VTE risk factors.
Ankylosing spondylitis
In the combined Phase 2 and Phase 3 randomised controlled clinical trials, there were no VTE events 
in 420 patients (233 patient-years of observation) receiving tofacitinib up to 48 weeks.
Overall infections
Rheumatoid arthritis
In controlled phase 3 clinical studies, the rates of infections over 0-3 months in the 5 mg film-coated 
tablets twice daily (total 616 patients) and 10 mg twice daily (total 642 patients) tofacitinib
monotherapy groups were 16.2% (100 patients) and 17.9% (115 patients), respectively, compared to 
18.9% (23 patients) in the placebo group (total 122 patients). In controlled phase 3 clinical studies 
with background DMARDs, the rates of infections over 0-3 months in the 5 mg twice daily (total 
973 patients) and 10 mg twice daily (total 969 patients) tofacitinib plus DMARD group were 21.3% 
(207 patients) and 21.8% (211 patients), respectively, compared to 18.4% (103 patients) in the placebo 
plus DMARD group (total 559 patients).
The most commonly reported infections were upper respiratory tract infections and nasopharyngitis 
(3.7% and 3.2%, respectively).
64
The overall incidence rate of infections with tofacitinib in the long-term safety all exposure population 
(total 4,867 patients) was 46.1 patients with events per 100 patient-years (43.8 and 47.2 patients with 
events for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively). For patients (total 1,750) on monotherapy, the 
rates were 48.9 and 41.9 patients with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively. For patients (total 3,117) on background DMARDs, the rates were 41.0 and 50.3 patients 
with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
Ankylosing spondylitis
In the combined Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials, during the placebo-controlled period of up to 
16 weeks, the frequency of infections in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily group (185 patients) was 
27.6% and the frequency in the placebo group (187 patients) was 23.0%. In the combined Phase 2 and 
Phase 3 clinical trials, among the 316 patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily for up to 
48 weeks, the frequency of infections was 35.1%.
Serious infections
Rheumatoid arthritis
In the 6-month and 24-month, controlled clinical studies, the rate of serious infections in the 5 mg 
twice daily tofacitinib monotherapy group was 1.7 patients with events per 100 patient-years. In the 
10 mg twice daily tofacitinib monotherapy group the rate was 1.6 patients with events per 
100 patient-years, the rate was 0 events per 100 patient-years for the placebo group, and the rate was 
1.9 patients with events per 100 patient-years for the MTX group.
In studies of 6-, 12-, or 24-month duration, the rates of serious infections in the 5 mg twice daily and 
10 mg twice daily tofacitinib plus DMARD groups were 3.6 and 3.4 patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively, compared to 1.7 patients with events per 100 patient-years in the 
placebo plus DMARD group.
In the long-term safety all exposure population, the overall rates of serious infections were 2.4 and 
3.0 patients with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily tofacitinib groups, 
respectively. The most common serious infections included pneumonia, herpes zoster, urinary tract 
infection, cellulitis, gastroenteritis and diverticulitis. Cases of opportunistic infections have been 
reported (see section 4.4).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose-dependent increase in 
serious infections was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see section 4.4).
The incidence rates (95% CI) for serious infections for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily, and TNF inhibitors were 2.86 (2.41, 3.37), 3.64 (3.11, 4.23), and 2.44 (2.02, 2.92) patients 
with events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Compared with TNF inhibitors, the hazard ratio (HR) 
for serious infections was 1.17 (0.92, 1.50) and 1.48 (1.17, 1.87) for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, respectively.
Ankylosing spondylitis
In the combined Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials, among the 316 patients treated with tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily for up to 48 weeks, there was one serious infection (aseptic meningitis) yielding a 
rate of 0.43 patients with events per 100 patient-years.
Serious infections in the elderly
Of the 4,271 patients who enrolled in RA studies I-VI (see section 5.1), a total of 608 RA patients 
were 65 years of age and older, including 85 patients 75 years and older. The frequency of serious 
infection among tofacitinib-treated patients 65 years of age and older was higher than those under the 
age of 65 (4.8 per 100 patient-years versus 2.4 per 100 patient-years, respectively).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increase in serious 
65
infections was observed in patients 65 years of age and older for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
compared to TNF inhibitors and to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily (see section 4.4). The incidence rates 
(95% CI) for serious infections in patients ≥65 years were 4.03 (3.02, 5.27), 5.85 (4.64, 7.30), and 3.73 
(2.81, 4.85) patients with events per 100 patient-years for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 
mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors, respectively.
Compared with TNF inhibitors, the hazard ratio (HR) for serious infections in patients ≥65 years of 
age was 1.08 (0.74, 1.58) and 1.55 (1.10, 2.19) for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily, respectively.
Serious infections from non-interventional post approval safety study
Data from a non-interventional post approval safety study that evaluated tofacitinib in RA patients 
from a registry (US Corrona) showed that a numerically higher incidence rate of serious infection was 
observed for the 11 mg prolonged-release tablet administered once daily than the 5 mg film-coated 
tablet administered twice daily. Crude incidence rates (95% CI) (i.e., not adjusted for age or sex) from 
availability of each formulation at 12 months following initiation of treatment were 3.45 (1.93, 5.69) 
and 2.78 (1.74, 4.21) and at 36 months were 4.71 (3.08, 6.91) and 2.79 (2.01, 3.77) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years in the 11 mg prolonged-release tablet once daily and 5 mg film-coated 
tablet twice daily groups, respectively. The unadjusted hazard ratio was 1.30 (95% CI: 0.67, 2.50) at 
12 months and 1.93 (95% CI: 1.15, 3.24) at 36 months for the 11 mg prolonged-release once daily 
dose compared to the 5 mg film-coated twice daily dose. Data is based on a small number of patients 
with events observed with relatively large confidence intervals and limited follow up time.
Viral reactivation
Patients treated with tofacitinib who are Japanese or Korean, or patients with long standing RA who
have previously received two or more biological DMARDs, or patients with an ALC less 
than 1,000 cells/mm3, or patients treated with 10 mg twice daily may have an increased risk of herpes 
zoster (see section 4.4).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increase in herpes zoster 
events was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. The incidence 
rates (95% CI) for herpes zoster for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and 
TNF inhibitors were 3.75 (3.22, 4.34), 3.94 (3.38, 4.57), and 1.18 (0.90, 1.52) patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively.
Laboratory tests
Lymphocytes
In the controlled RA clinical studies, confirmed decreases in ALC below 500 cells/mm3 occurred in 
0.3% of patients and for ALC between 500 and 750 cells/mm3 in 1.9% of patients for the 5 mg twice 
daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined.
In the RA long-term safety population, confirmed decreases in ALC below 500 cells/mm3 occurred in 
1.3% of patients and for ALC between 500 and 750 cells/mm3 in 8.4% of patients for the 5 mg twice 
daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined.
Confirmed ALC less than 750 cells/mm3 were associated with an increased incidence of serious 
infections (see section 4.4).
Neutrophils
In the controlled RA clinical studies, confirmed decreases in ANC below 1,000 cells/mm3 occurred in 
0.08% of patients for the 5 mg twice daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined. There were no 
confirmed decreases in ANC below 500 cells/mm3 observed in any treatment group. There was no 
clear relationship between neutropenia and the occurrence of serious infections.
66
In the RA long-term safety population, the pattern and incidence of confirmed decreases in ANC 
remained consistent with what was seen in the controlled clinical studies (see section 4.4).
Platelets
Patients in the Phase 3 controlled clinical studies (RA, PsA, AS) were required to have a platelet count 
≥ 100,000 cells/mm3 to be eligible for enrolment, therefore, there is no information available for 
patients with a platelet count < 100,000 cells/mm3 before starting treatment with tofacitinib.
Liver enzyme tests
Confirmed increases in liver enzymes greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (3x ULN) were 
uncommonly observed in RA patients. In those patients experiencing liver enzyme elevation, 
modification of treatment regimen, such as reduction in the dose of concomitant DMARD, 
interruption of tofacitinib, or reduction in tofacitinib dose, resulted in decrease or normalisation of 
liver enzymes.
In the controlled portion of the RA phase 3 monotherapy study (0-3 months) (study I, see section 5.1), 
ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 1.65%, 0.41%, and 0% of patients receiving 
placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In this study, AST elevations greater 
than 3x ULN were observed in 1.65%, 0.41% and 0% of patients receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg 
and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
In the RA phase 3 monotherapy study (0-24 months) (study VI, see section 5.1), ALT elevations 
greater than 3x ULN were observed in 7.1%, 3.0%, and 3.0% of patients receiving MTX, tofacitinib 
5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In this study, AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were
observed in 3.3%, 1.6% and 1.5% of patients receiving MTX, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively.
In the controlled portion of the RA phase 3 studies on background DMARDs (0-3 months) 
(studies II-V, see section 5.1), ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 0.9%, 1.24% 
and 1.14% of patients receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In these 
studies, AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 0.72%, 0.5% and 0.31% of patients 
receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
In the RA long-term extension studies, on monotherapy, ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were 
observed in 1.1% and 1.4% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. 
AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in < 1.0% in both the tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg 
twice daily groups.
In the RA long-term extension studies, on background DMARDs, ALT elevations greater than 
3x ULN were observed in 1.8% and 1.6% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively. AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in < 1.0% in both the tofacitinib
5 mg and 10 mg twice daily groups. 
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, ALT elevations greater than or 
equal to 3x ULN were observed in 6.01%, 6.54% and 3.77% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors respectively. AST elevations greater 
than or equal to 3x ULN were observed in 3.21%, 4.57% and 2.38% of patients receiving tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors respectively.
Lipids
Elevations in lipid parameters (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides) 
were first assessed at 1 month following initiation of tofacitinib in the controlled double-blind clinical 
studies of RA. Increases were observed at this time point and remained stable thereafter.
67
Changes in lipid parameters from baseline through the end of the study (6-24 months) in the controlled 
clinical studies in RA are summarised below:
 Mean LDL cholesterol increased by 15% in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 20% in 
the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 12, and increased by 16% in the tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily arm and 19% in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 24.
 Mean HDL cholesterol increased by 17% in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 18% in 
the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 12, and increased by 19% in the tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily arm and 20% in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 24.
Upon withdrawal of tofacitinib treatment, lipid levels returned to baseline.
Mean LDL cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratios and Apolipoprotein B (ApoB)/ApoA1 ratios were 
essentially unchanged in tofacitinib-treated patients.
In an RA controlled clinical study, elevations in LDL cholesterol and ApoB decreased to pretreatment 
levels in response to statin therapy.
In the RA long-term safety populations, elevations in the lipid parameters remained consistent with 
what was seen in the controlled clinical studies.
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, changes in lipid parameters 
from baseline through 24 months are summarised below:
 Mean LDL cholesterol increased by 13.80%, 17.04%, and 5.50% in patients receiving tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitor, respectively, at month 12. At 
month 24, the increase was 12.71%, 18.14%, and 3.64%, respectively,
 Mean HDL cholesterol increased by 11.71%, 13.63%, and 2.82% in patients receiving tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitor, respectively, at month 12. At 
month 24, the increase was 11.58%, 13.54%, and 1.42%, respectively.
Myocardial infarction
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years of age or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, the incidence rates 
(95% CI) for non-fatal myocardial infarction for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.37 (0.22, 0.57), 0.33 (0.19, 0.53), and 0.16 (0.07, 0.31) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Few fatal myocardial infarctions were reported with rates 
similar in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). The 
study required at least 1500 patients to be followed for 3 years.
Malignancies excluding NMSC
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years of age or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, the incidence rates 
(95% CI) for lung cancer for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF 
inhibitors were 0.23 (0.12, 0.40), 0.32 (0.18, 0.51), and 0.13 (0.05, 0.26) patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). The study required at least 1500 patients to 
be followed for 3 years.
The incidence rates (95% CI) for lymphoma for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.07 (0.02, 0.18), 0.11 (0.04, 0.24), and 0.02 (0.00, 0.10) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
68
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In case of an overdose, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
adverse reactions. There is no specific antidote for overdose with tofacitinib. Treatment should be 
symptomatic and supportive.
Pharmacokinetic data up to and including a single dose of 100 mg in healthy volunteers indicate that 
more than 95% of the administered dose is expected to be eliminated within 24 hours.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic groups: Immunosuppressants, Selective Immunosuppressants; ATC 
code: L04AA29
Mechanism of action
Tofacitinib is a potent, selective inhibitor of the JAK family. In enzymatic assays, tofacitinib inhibits 
JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, and to a lesser extent TyK2. In contrast, tofacitinib has a high degree of 
selectivity against other kinases in the human genome. In human cells, tofacitinib preferentially 
inhibits signalling by heterodimeric cytokine receptors that associate with JAK3 and/or JAK1 with 
functional selectivity over cytokine receptors that signal via pairs of JAK2. Inhibition of JAK1 and 
JAK3 by tofacitinib attenuates signalling of interleukins (IL-2, -4, -6, -7, -9, -15, -21) and type I and 
type II interferons, which will result in modulation of the immune and inflammatory response.
Pharmacodynamic effects
In patients with RA, treatment up to 6 months with tofacitinib was associated with dose-dependent 
reductions of circulating CD16/56+ natural killer (NK) cells, with estimated maximum reductions 
occurring at approximately 8-10 weeks after initiation of therapy. These changes generally resolved 
within 2-6 weeks after discontinuation of treatment. Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with 
dose-dependent increases in B cell counts. Changes in circulating T-lymphocyte counts and 
T-lymphocyte subsets (CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+) were small and inconsistent.
Following long-term treatment (median duration of tofacitinib treatment of approximately 5 years), 
CD4+ and CD8+ counts showed median reductions of 28% and 27%, respectively, from baseline. In 
contrast to the observed decrease after short-term dosing, CD16/56+ natural killer cell counts showed 
a median increase of 73% from baseline. CD19+ B cell counts showed no further increases after 
long-term tofacitinib treatment. All these lymphocyte subset changes returned toward baseline after 
temporary discontinuation of treatment. There was no evidence of a relationship between serious or 
opportunistic infections or herpes zoster and lymphocyte subset counts (see section 4.2 for absolute 
lymphocyte count monitoring).
Changes in total serum IgG, IgM, and IgA levels over 6-month tofacitinib dosing in patients with RA 
were small, not dose-dependent and similar to those seen on placebo, indicating a lack of systemic 
humoral suppression.
69
After treatment with tofacitinib in RA patients, rapid decreases in serum C-reactive protein (CRP) 
were observed and maintained throughout dosing. Changes in CRP observed with tofacitinib treatment 
do not reverse fully within 2 weeks after discontinuation, indicating a longer duration of 
pharmacodynamic activity compared to the half-life.
Vaccine studies
In a controlled clinical study of patients with RA initiating tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily or placebo, 
the number of responders to influenza vaccine was similar in both groups: tofacitinib (57%) and 
placebo (62%). For pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine the number of responders was as follows: 
32% in patients receiving both tofacitinib and MTX; 62% for tofacitinib monotherapy; 62% for MTX 
monotherapy; and 77% for placebo. The clinical significance of this is unknown, however, similar 
results were obtained in a separate vaccine study with influenza and pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccines in patients receiving long-term tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
A controlled study was conducted in patients with RA on background MTX immunised with a live 
attenuated herpes virus vaccine 2 to 3 weeks before initiating a 12-week treatment with tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily or placebo. Evidence of humoral and cell-mediated responses to VZV was observed 
in both tofacitinib and placebo-treated patients at 6 weeks. These responses were similar to those 
observed in healthy volunteers aged 50 years and older. A patient with no previous history of varicella 
infection and no anti-varicella antibodies at baseline experienced dissemination of the vaccine strain 
of varicella 16 days after vaccination. Tofacitinib was discontinued and the patient recovered after 
treatment with standard doses of antiviral medicinal product. This patient subsequently made a robust, 
though delayed, humoral and cellular response to the vaccine (see section 4.4).
Clinical efficacy and safety
Rheumatoid arthritis
The efficacy and safety of tofacitinib film-coated tablets were assessed in 6 randomised, double-blind, 
controlled multicentre studies in patients greater than 18 years of age with active RA diagnosed 
according to American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria. Table 8 provides information 
regarding the pertinent study design and population characteristics.
Table 8: Phase 3 clinical studies of tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily doses in patients with 
RA
Studies
Population
Study I
(ORAL
Solo)
Study II
(ORAL
Sync)
DMARD-IR DMARD-
Study III
(ORAL
Standard)
MTX-IR
Study IV
(ORAL
Scan)
MTX-IR
Study V
(ORAL
Step)
TNFi-IR
Study VI
(ORAL
Start)
Study VII
(ORAL
Strategy)
MTX-naïvea MTX-IR
Control
Placebo
IR
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
Placebo
MTX
Background 
treatment
Noneb
csDMARDs MTX
MTX
MTX
Noneb
MTX,
ADA
3 Parallel arms:
 Tofacitinib 
monotherapy
 Tofacitinib+MTX
 ADA+MTX
Tofacitinib with and 
without MTX in 
comparison to ADA 
with MTX
1,146
Monotherapy, 
Active 
comparator 
(MTX), 
X-Ray
956
Key features Monotherapy Various 
csDMARDs
Active 
control 
(ADA)
X-Ray
TNFi-IR
610
792
717
797
399
Number of 
patients 
treated
Total study 
duration
6 months
1 year
1 year
2 years
6 months
2 years
1 year
70
Studies
Co-primary 
efficacy 
endpointsc
Study I
(ORAL
Solo)
Month 3:
ACR20
HAQ-DI
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Study II
(ORAL
Sync)
Month 6:
ACR20
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 3:
HAQ-DI
Study III
(ORAL
Standard)
Month 6:
ACR20
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 3:
HAQ-DI
Study V
(ORAL
Step)
Month 3:
ACR20
HAQ-DI
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Study IV
(ORAL
Scan)
Month 6:
ACR20
mTSS
DAS28-
4(ESR)<2.6
Month 3:
HAQ-DI
Study VI
(ORAL
Start)
Month 6:
mTSS
ACR70
Study VII
(ORAL
Strategy)
Month 6:
ACR50
NA
Month 3
Month 3
Month 6 (placebo subjects with < 20% 
improvement in swollen and tender joint 
counts advanced to tofacitinib at 
month 3)
Time of 
mandatory 
placebo 
rescue to 
tofacitinib 
5 mg or 
10 mg twice 
daily
a. ≤3 weekly doses (MTX-naïve).
b.Antimalarials were allowed.
c. Co-primary endpoints as follows: mean change from baseline in mTSS; percent of subjects achieving ACR20 or ACR70 
responses; mean change from baseline in HAQ-DI; percent of subjects achieving a DAS28-4(ESR) <2.6 (remission).
NA
mTSS=modified Total Sharp Score, ACR20(70)=American College of Rheumatology ≥20% (≥70%) improvement, 
DAS28=Disease Activity Score 28 joints, ESR=Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate, HAQ-DI=Health Assessment 
Questionnaire Disability Index, DMARD=disease-modifying antirheumatic drug, IR=inadequate responder, 
csDMARD=conventional synthetic DMARD, TNFi=tumour necrosis factor inhibitor, NA=not applicable, 
ADA=adalimumab, MTX=methotrexate.
Clinical response
ACR response
The percentages of tofacitinib-treated patients achieving ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 responses in 
studies ORAL Solo, ORAL Sync, ORAL Standard, ORAL Scan, ORAL Step, ORAL Start, and 
ORAL Strategy are shown in Table 9. In all studies, patients treated with either 5 mg or 10 mg twice 
daily tofacitinib had statistically significant ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 response rates at month 3 
and month 6 versus placebo (or versus MTX in ORAL Start) treated patients.
Over the course of ORAL Strategy, responses with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily + MTX were 
numerically similar compared to adalimumab 40 mg + MTX and both were numerically higher than 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
The treatment effect was similar in patients independent of rheumatoid factor status, age, gender, race, 
or disease status. Time to onset was rapid (as early as week 2 in studies ORAL Solo, ORAL Sync, and 
ORAL Step) and the magnitude of response continued to improve with duration of treatment. As with 
the overall ACR response in patients treated with 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily tofacitinib, each of the 
components of the ACR response was consistently improved from baseline including: tender and 
swollen joint counts; patient and physician global assessment; disability index scores; pain assessment 
and CRP compared to patients receiving placebo plus MTX or other DMARDs in all studies.
Table 9:  Proportion (%) of patients with an ACR response 
Endpoint
Time
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
Placebo
N=122
ORAL Solo: DMARD inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily 
monotherapy 
N=241
60***
69
31***
42
15*
22
26
NA
12
NA
6
NA
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
monotherapy
N=243
65***
71
37***
47
20***
29
71
ORAL Sync: DMARD inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
Placebo + 
DMARD(s)
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
N=158
27
31
NA
9
13
NA
2
3
NA
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily + 
DMARD(s)
N=312
56***
53***
51
27***
34***
33
8**
13***
19
Tofacitinib 10 mg
twice daily + 
DMARD(s)
N=315
63***
57***
56
33***
36***
42
14***
16***
25
ORAL Standard: MTX inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
Placebo
Tofacitinib
twice daily + MTX
Adalimumab 40 mg 
QOW
+ MTX
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Endpoint
Time
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
5 mg
N=198
59***
51***
48
33***
36***
36
12**
19***
22
N=105
26
28
NA
7
12
NA
2
2
NA
10 mg
N=197
57***
51***
49
27***
34***
36
15***
21***
23
ORAL Scan: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=316
55***
50***
47
40
28***
32***
32
28
10**
14***
18
17
27
25
NA
NA
8
8
NA
NA
3
1
NA
NA
Placebo + MTX
N=156
ORAL Step: TNF inhibitor inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
Placebo + MTX
N=132
ACR20
ACR50
Month 3
Month 6
Month 3
Month 6
24
NA
8
NA
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=133
41*
51
26***
37
72
N=199
56***
46**
48
24***
27**
33
9*
9*
17
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=309
66***
62***
55
50
36***
44***
39
40
17***
22***
27
26
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=134
48***
54
28***
30
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
14***
2
16
NA
ORAL Start: MTX-naïve
Endpoint
Time
MTX
N=184
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 24
52
51
51
42
20
27
33
28
5
12
15
15
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
monotherapy
N=370
69***
71***
67**
63***
40***
46***
49**
48***
20***
25***
28**
34***
ORAL Strategy: MTX inadequate responders
Endpoint
Time
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
N=384
ACR20
ACR50
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
62.50
62.84
61.72
31.51
38.28
39.31
13.54
18.23
21.09
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
+ MTX
N=376
70.48ǂ
73.14ǂ
70.21ǂ
40.96ǂ
46.01ǂ
47.61ǂ
19.41ǂ
25.00ǂ
28.99ǂ
10*
16
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily
monotherapy
N=394
77***
75***
71***
64***
49***
56***
55***
49***
26***
37***
38***
37***
Adalimumab
+ MTX
N=386
69.17
70.98
67.62
37.31
43.78
45.85
14.51
20.73
25.91
*p<0.05
**p<0.001
***p<0.0001 verses placebo (versus MTX for ORAL Start)
ǂp<0.05 – tofacitinib 5 mg + MTX versus tofacitinib 5 mg for ORAL Strategy (normal p-values without multiple 
comparison adjustment)
QOW=every other week, N=number of subjects analysed, ACR20/50/70=American College of Rheumatology ≥20, 50, 
70% improvement, NA=not applicable, MTX=methotrexate.
DAS28-4(ESR) response
Patients in the phase 3 studies had a mean Disease Activity Score (DAS28-4[ESR]) of 6.1-6.7 at 
baseline. Significant reductions in DAS28-4(ESR) from baseline (mean improvement) of 1.8-2.0 and 
1.9-2.2 were observed in patients treated with 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily doses, respectively, 
compared to placebo-treated patients (0.7-1.1) at month 3. The proportion of patients achieving a 
DAS28 clinical remission (DAS28-4(ESR) < 2.6) in ORAL Step, ORAL Sync, and ORAL Standard is 
shown in Table 10.
Table 10:Number (%) of subjects achieving DAS28-4(ESR) < 2.6 remission at months 3 and 6 
ORAL Step: TNF inhibitor inadequate responders
Time point
N
Tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily + MTX
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily + MTX
Placebo + MTX
Month 3
Month 3
Month 3
Tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily
Month 6
ORAL Sync: DMARD inadequate responders
133
134
132
312
%
6
8*
2
8*
73
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily
Placebo
Month 6
Month 6
ORAL Standard: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily + MTX
Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily + MTX
Adalimumab 40 mg SC QOW + MTX
Placebo + MTX
Month 6
Month 6
Month 6
Month 6
315
158
198
197
199
105
11***
3
6*
11***
6*
1
*p <0.05, ***p<0.0001 versus placebo, SC=subcutaneous, QOW=every other week, N=number of subjects analysed, 
DAS28=Disease Activity Scale 28 joints, ESR=Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate.
Radiographic response
In ORAL Scan and ORAL Start, inhibition of progression of structural joint damage was assessed 
radiographically and expressed as mean change from baseline in mTSS and its components, the 
erosion score and joint space narrowing (JSN) score, at months 6 and 12. 
In ORAL Scan, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily plus background MTX resulted in significantly greater 
inhibition of the progression of structural damage compared to placebo plus MTX at months 6 and 12. 
When given at a dose of 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib plus MTX exhibited similar effects on mean 
progression of structural damage (not statistically significant). Analysis of erosion and JSN scores 
were consistent with overall results. 
In the placebo plus MTX group, 78% of patients experienced no radiographic progression (mTSS 
change less than or equal to 0.5) at month 6 compared to 89% and 87% of patients treated with 
tofacitinib 5 mg or 10 mg (plus MTX) twice daily respectively, (both significant versus placebo plus 
MTX).
In ORAL Start, tofacitinib monotherapy resulted in significantly greater inhibition of the progression 
of structural damage compared to MTX at months 6 and 12 as shown in Table 11, which was also 
maintained at month 24. Analyses of erosion and JSN scores were consistent with overall results.
In the MTX group, 70% of patients experienced no radiographic progression at month 6 compared to 
83% and 90% of patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily respectively, both 
significant versus MTX.
74
Table 11: Radiographic changes at months 6 and 12
Placebo + 
MTX
N=139
Mean 
(SD)a
33 (42)
0.5 (2.0)
1.0 (3.9)
MTX
N=168
Mean 
(SD)a
16 (29)
0.9 (2.7)
1.3 (3.7)
mTSSc
Baseline
Month 6
Month 12
mTSSc
Baseline
Month 6
Month 12
ORAL Scan: MTX inadequate responders
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily + 
MTX
N=290
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
5 mg 
twice daily + MTX
Mean difference 
from placebob (CI)
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily + 
MTX
N=277
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily + 
MTX
Mean difference 
from placebob
(CI)
31 (48)
0.1 (1.7)
0.3 (3.0)
-
-0.3 (-0.7, 0.0)
-0.6 (-1.3, 0.0)
37 (54)
0.1 (2.0)
0.1 (2.9)
-
-0.4 (-0.8, 0.0)
-0.9 (-1.5, -0.2)
ORAL Start: MTX-naïve
Tofacitinib
5 mg
twice daily
N=344
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
5 mg 
twice daily 
Mean difference 
from MTXd (CI)
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily 
N=368
Mean (SD)a
Tofacitinib
10 mg
twice daily 
Mean difference 
from MTXd (CI)
20 (41) 
0.2 (2.3)
0.4 (3.0)
-
-0.7 (-1.0, -0.3)
-0.9 (-1.4, -0.4)
19 (39)
0.0 (1.2)
0.0 (1.5)
-
-0.8 (-1.2, -0.4)
-1.3 (-1.8, -0.8)
a SD = Standard Deviation
b Difference between least squares means tofacitinib minus placebo (95% CI = 95% confidence interval)
c Month 6 and month 12 data are mean change from baseline
d Difference between least squares means tofacitinib minus MTX (95% CI = 95% confidence interval)
Physical function response and health-related outcomes
Tofacitinib, alone or in combination with MTX, has shown improvements in physical function, as 
measured by the HAQ-DI. Patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily demonstrated 
significantly greater improvement from baseline in physical functioning compared to placebo at 
month 3 (studies ORAL Solo, ORAL Sync, ORAL Standard, and ORAL Step) and month 6 (studies 
ORAL Sync and ORAL Standard). Tofacitinib 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily-treated patients 
demonstrated significantly greater improvement in physical functioning compared to placebo as early 
as week 2 in ORAL Solo and ORAL Sync. Changes from baseline in HAQ-DI in studies ORAL 
Standard, ORAL Step and ORAL Sync are shown in Table 12.
75
Table 12: LS Mean change from baseline in HAQ-DI at month 3
Placebo + 
MTX
Tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily
+ MTX
Tofacitinib
10 mg twice 
daily
+ MTX
ORAL Standard: MTX inadequate responders
N=183
-0.61***
N=185
-0.54***
N=96
-0.24
ORAL Step: TNF inhibitor inadequate responders
N=118
-0.18
Placebo + DMARD(s)
N=117
-0.43***
Tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily + 
DMARD(s)
N=125
-0.46***
Tofacitinib
10 mg twice 
daily
+ DMARD(s)
Adalimumab
40 mg QOW
+ MTX
N=188
-0.50***
NA
NA
N=292
-0.46***
*** p<0.0001, tofacitinib versus placebo + MTX, LS = least squares, N = number of patients, QOW = every other 
week, NA = not applicable, HAQ-DI = Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index
ORAL Sync: DMARD inadequate responders
N=292
-0.56***
N=147
-0.21
NA
NA
Health-related quality of life was assessed by the Short Form Health Survey (SF-36). Patients 
receiving either 5 mg or 10 mg tofacitinib twice daily experienced significantly greater improvement 
from baseline compared to placebo in all 8 domains as well as the Physical Component Summary and 
Mental Component Summary scores at month 3 in ORAL Solo, ORAL Scan and ORAL Step. In 
ORAL Scan, mean SF-36 improvements were maintained to 12 months in tofacitinib-treated patients.
Improvement in fatigue was evaluated by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness 
Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) scale at month 3 in all studies. Patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg or 
10 mg twice daily demonstrated significantly greater improvement from baseline in fatigue compared 
to placebo in all 5 studies. In ORAL Standard and ORAL Scan, mean FACIT-F improvements were 
maintained to 12 months in tofacitinib-treated patients.
Improvement in sleep was assessed using the Sleep Problems Index I and II summary scales of the 
Medical Outcomes Study Sleep (MOS-Sleep) measure at month 3 in all studies. Patients receiving 
tofacitinib 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily demonstrated significantly greater improvement from baseline in 
both scales compared to placebo in ORAL Sync, ORAL Standard and ORAL Scan. In ORAL 
Standard and ORAL Scan, mean improvements in both scales were maintained to 12 months in 
tofacitinib-treated patients.
Durability of clinical responses
Durability of effect was assessed by ACR20, ACR50, ACR70 response rates in studies of duration of 
up to two years. Changes in mean HAQ-DI and DAS28-4(ESR) were maintained in both tofacitinib 
treatment groups through to the end of the studies.
Evidence of persistence of efficacy with tofacitinib treatment for up to 5 years is also provided from 
data in a randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or 
older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, as well as in completed open-label, 
long-term follow-up studies up to 8 years.
Long-term controlled safety data
Study ORAL Surveillance (A3921133) was a large (N=4362), randomised active-controlled 
post-authorisation safety surveillance study of rheumatoid arthritis patients who were 50 years of age 
and older and had at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor (CV risk factors defined as: current 
cigarette smoker, diagnosis of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, family history of premature coronary 
76
heart disease, history of coronary artery disease including a history of revascularization procedure, 
coronary artery bypass grafting, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, unstable angina, acute coronary 
syndrome, and presence of extra-articular disease associated with RA, e.g. nodules, Sjögren’s 
syndrome, anaemia of chronic disease, pulmonary manifestations). The majority (more than 90%) of
tofacitinib patients who were current or past smokers had a smoking duration of more than 10 years 
and a median of 35.0 and 39.0 smoking years, respectively. Patients were required to be on a stable 
dose of methotrexate at study entry; dose adjustment was permitted during the study.
Patients were randomised to open-label tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, or a 
TNF inhibitor (TNF inhibitor was either etanercept 50 mg once weekly or adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week) in a 1:1:1 ratio. The co-primary endpoints were adjudicated malignancies excluding 
NMSC and adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE); cumulative incidence and 
statistical assessment of endpoints were blinded. The study was an event-powered study that also 
required at least 1500 patients to be followed for 3 years. The study treatment of tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily was stopped and patients were switched to 5 mg twice daily because of a dose-dependent 
signal of venous thromboembolic events (VTE). For patients in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
treatment arm, the data collected before and after the dose switch were analysed in their originally 
randomised treatment group.
The study did not meet the non-inferiority criterion for the primary comparison of the combined 
tofacitinib doses to TNF inhibitor since the upper limit of the 95% CI for HR exceeded the 
pre-specified non-inferiority criterion of 1.8 for adjudicated MACE and adjudicated malignancies 
excluding NMSC.
The results for adjudicated MACE, adjudicated malignancies excluding NMSC, and selected other 
events are provided below.
MACE (including myocardial infarction) and venous thromboembolism (VTE)
An increase in non-fatal myocardial infarction was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib 
compared to TNF inhibitor. A dose-dependent increase in VTE events was observed in patients treated 
with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitor (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).
Table 13: Incidence rate and hazard ratio for MACE, myocardial infarction and venous 
thromboembolism
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailya
All Tofacitinibb
TNF inhibitor 
(TNFi) 
0.00 (0.00, 0.07) 
0.91 (0.67, 1.21) 
MACEc 
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.24 (0.81, 1.91) 
Fatal MIc
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  0.00 (0.00, Inf) 
Non-fatal MIc
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  2.32 (1.02, 5.30) 
VTEd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
PEd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
0.37 (0.22, 0.57) 
0.17 (0.08, 0.33)
1.66 (0.76, 3.63)
0.33 (0.19, 0.53)
2.93 (0.79, 10.83)
1.05 (0.78, 1.38) 
0.98 (0.79, 1.19) 
0.73 (0.52, 1.01) 
1.43 (0.94, 2.18) 
1.33 (0.91, 1.94) 
0.06 (0.01, 0.18) 
0.03 (0.01, 0.09) 
0.06 (0.01, 0.17) 
1.03 (0.21, 5.11) 
0.50 (0.10, 2.49) 
0.33 (0.19, 0.53) 
0.35 (0.24, 0.48) 
0.16 (0.07, 0.31) 
2.08 (0.89, 4.86) 
2.20 (1.02, 4.75) 
0.70 (0.49, 0.99)
0.51 (0.38, 0.67)
0.20 (0.10, 0.37)
3.52 (1.74, 7.12)
2.56 (1.30, 5.05)
0.50 (0.32, 0.74)
0.33 (0.23, 0.46)
0.06 (0.01, 0.17)
8.26 (2.49, 27.43)
5.53 (1.70, 18.02)
77
DVTd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
a The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
0.14 (0.06, 0.29)
1.54 (0.60, 3.97)
0.21 (0.11, 0.38)
2.21 (0.90, 5.43)
1.87 (0.81, 4.30)
0.26 (0.17, 0.38)
0.31 (0.17, 0.51)
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification. 
b Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily. 
c Based on events occurring on treatment or within 60 days of treatment discontinuation. 
d Based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment discontinuation.
Abbreviations: MACE = major adverse cardiovascular events, MI = myocardial infarction, VTE = venous thromboembolism, PE = 
pulmonary embolism, DVT = deep vein thrombosis, TNF = tumour necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = 
confidence interval, PY = patient years, Inf = infinity
The following predictive factors for development of MI (fatal and non-fatal) were identified using a 
multivariate Cox model with backward selection: age ≥65 years, male, current or past smoking, 
history of diabetes, and history of coronary artery disease (which includes myocardial infarction, 
coronary heart disease, stable angina pectoris, or coronary artery procedures) (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8).
Malignancies
An increase in malignancies excluding NMSC, particularly lung cancer, lymphoma and an increase in 
NMSC was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitor.
Table 14: Incidence rate and hazard ratio for malignanciesa
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailyb
All Tofacitinibc
TNF inhibitor 
(TNFi) 
1.13 (0.86, 1.45)
1.48 (1.00, 2.19)
1.13 (0.94, 1.35)
1.48 (1.04, 2.09)
0.32 (0.18, 0.51)
1.13 (0.87, 1.45)
0.23 (0.12, 0.40)
0.77 (0.55, 1.04)
0.28 (0.19, 0.39)
Malignancies excluding NMSC
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.47 (1.00, 2.18)
Lung cancer
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.84 (0.74, 4.62)
Lymphoma
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  3.99 (0.45, 35.70)
NMSC
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
a For malignancies excluding NMSC, lung cancer, and lymphoma, based on events occurring on treatment or after treatment 
discontinuation up to the end of the study. For NMSC based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment 
discontinuation.
b The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
5.09 (0.65, 39.78)
6.24 (0.75, 51.86)
0.13 (0.05, 0.26)
0.02 (0.00, 0.10)
0.32 (0.18, 0.52)
1.90 (1.04, 3.47)
0.07 (0.02, 0.18)
0.61 (0.41, 0.86)
2.16 (1.19, 3.92)
0.69 (0.47, 0.96)
2.50 (1.04, 6.02)
0.11 (0.04, 0.24)
0.64 (0.50, 0.82)
2.02 (1.17, 3.50)
2.17 (0.95, 4.93)
0.09 (0.04, 0.17)
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification. 
c Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily. 
Abbreviations: NMSC = non melanoma skin cancer, TNF = tumour necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = 
confidence interval, PY = patient years
The following predictive factors for development of malignancies excluding NMSC were identified 
using a Multivariate Cox model with backward selection: age ≥65 years and current or past smoking 
(see section 4.4 and 4.8).
Mortality
Increased mortality was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. 
Mortality was mainly due to cardiovascular events, infections and malignancies. 
78
Table 15:
Incidence rate and hazard ratio for mortalitya
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailyb
All Tofacitinibc
TNF inhibitor
(TNFi)
0.34 (0.20, 0.54)
0.50 (0.33, 0.74)
1.49 (0.81, 2.74)
0.80 (0.57, 1.09)
2.37 (1.34, 4.18)
0.65 (0.50, 0.82)
1.91 (1.12, 3.27)
0.08 (0.02, 0.20)
1.30 (0.29, 5.79)
0.18 (0.08, 0.35)
3.10 (0.84, 11.45)
0.13 (0.07, 0.22)
2.17 (0.62, 7.62)
0.06 (0.01, 0.17)
0.25 (0.13, 0.43)
1.26 (0.55, 2.88)
0.41 (0.25, 0.63)
2.05 (0.96, 4.39)
0.33 (0.23, 0.46)
1.65 (0.81, 3.34)
0.20 (0.10, 0.36)
Mortality (all cause)
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal infections
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal CV events
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal Malignancies
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
0.10 (0.03, 0.23)
4.88 (0.57, 41.74)
a Based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment discontinuation.
b The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg 
0.05 (0.02, 0.12)
2.53 (0.30, 21.64)
0.00 (0.00, 0.08)
0 (0.00, Inf)
0.02 (0.00, 0.11)
twice daily to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification.
c Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
Abbreviations: TNF = tumor necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = confidence interval, PY = patient 
years, CV = cardiovascular, Inf = infinity
Psoriatic arthritis
The efficacy and safety of tofacitinib film-coated tablets were assessed in 2 randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies in adult patients with active PsA (≥ 3 swollen and ≥ 3 tender 
joints). Patients were required to have active plaque psoriasis at the screening visit. For both studies, 
the primary endpoints were ACR20 response rate and change from baseline in HAQ-DI at month 3.
Study PsA-I (OPAL BROADEN) evaluated 422 patients who had a previous inadequate response (due 
to lack of efficacy or intolerance) to a csDMARD (MTX for 92.7% of patients); 32.7% of the patients 
in this study had a previous inadequate response to > 1 csDMARD or 1 csDMARD and a targeted 
synthetic DMARD (tsDMARD). In OPAL BROADEN, previous treatment with TNF inhibitor was 
not allowed. All patients were required to have 1 concomitant csDMARD; 83.9% of patients received 
concomitant MTX, 9.5% of patients received concomitant sulfasalazine, and 5.7% of patients received 
concomitant leflunomide. The median PsA disease duration was 3.8 years. At baseline, 79.9% and 
56.2% of patients had enthesitis and dactylitis, respectively. Patients randomised to tofacitinib 
received 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily for 12 months. Patients randomised to 
placebo were advanced in a blinded manner at month 3 to either tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and received treatment until month 12. Patients randomised to 
adalimumab (active-control arm) received 40 mg subcutaneously every 2 weeks for 12 months.
Study PsA-II (OPAL BEYOND) evaluated 394 patients who had discontinued a TNF inhibitor due to 
lack of efficacy or intolerance; 36.0% had a previous inadequate response to > 1 biological DMARD. 
All patients were required to have 1 concomitant csDMARD; 71.6% of patients received concomitant 
MTX, 15.7% of patients received concomitant sulfasalazine, and 8.6% of patients received 
concomitant leflunomide. The median PsA disease duration was 7.5 years. At baseline, 80.7% and 
49.2% of patients had enthesitis and dactylitis, respectively. Patients randomised to tofacitinib 
received 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily for 6 months. Patients randomised to 
placebo were advanced in a blinded manner at month 3 to either tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or 
tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and received treatment until month 6. 
Signs and symptoms
Treatment with tofacitinib resulted in significant improvements in some signs and symptoms of PsA, 
as assessed by the ACR20 response criteria compared to placebo at month 3. The efficacy results for 
important endpoints assessed are shown in Table 16.
79
Table 16: Proportion (%) of PsA patients who achieved clinical response and mean change 
from baseline in OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND studies
Conventional synthetic DMARD 
inadequate respondersa (TNFi-Naïve)
OPAL BROADEN
TNFi 
inadequate respondersb
OPAL BEYONDc
105
131
Placebo
Placebo
5%
NA
NA
-0.4
NA
NA
10%
NA
NA
15%
NA
-
33%
NA
NA
24%
NA
-
17%
21%
-
10%
NA
-
19%*
30%
29%
52%*
64%
60%
30%e,*
38%
-
17%e,*
18%
23%
50%d,*
59%
68%
33%***
42%
41%
28%e,**
38%
45%
50%d,***
60%
-
Tofacitinib 5 
mg twice daily
131
Tofacitinib 5 
mg twice daily
107
Adalimumab 40 mg 
SC q2W
106
Treatment 
group
N
ACR20
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
ACR50
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
ACR70
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
∆LEIf
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
∆DSSf
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
PASI75g
21%
Month 3
34%
Month 6
Month 12
-
*Nominal p≤0.05; ** Nominal p<0.001; *** Nominal p<0.0001 for active treatment versus placebo at month 3.
Abbreviations: BSA=body surface area; ∆LEI=change from baseline in Leeds Enthesitis Index; ∆DSS=change from 
baseline in Dactylitis Severity Score; ACR20/50/70=American College of Rheumatology ≥ 20%, 50%, 70% 
improvement; csDMARD=conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; N=number of randomised and 
treated patients; NA=Not applicable, as data for placebo treatment is not available beyond month 3 due to placebo 
advanced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily; SC q2w=subcutaneously once every 2 weeks;
TNFi=tumour necrosis factor inhibitor; PASI=Psoriasis Area and Severity index; PASI75=≥ 75% improvement in 
PASI.
a
43%d,***
46%
56%
39%**
55%
56%
Inadequate response to at least 1 csDMARD due to lack of efficacy and/or intolerability.
Inadequate response to a least 1 TNFi due to lack of efficacy and/or intolerability.
b
c OPAL BEYOND had a duration of 6 months.
d Achieved statistical significance globally at p≤ 0.05 per the pre-specified step-down testing procedure.
e Achieved statistical significance within the ACR family (ACR50 and ACR70) at p≤ 0.05 per the pre-specified 
-1.1*
-1.3
-1.6
-1.3*
-1.5
-
-5.2*
-6.0
-
14%
NA
-
15%
NA
NA
-0.8
-1.3
-1.7
-3.5
-5.2
-7.4
-2.0
NA
NA
-0.5
NA
-
-4.0
-5.4
-6.1
-1.9
NA
-
step-down testing procedure.
f For patients with Baseline score > 0.
g For patients with Baseline BSA ≥ 3% and PASI > 0.
Both TNF inhibitor naïve and TNF inhibitor inadequate responder tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily-treated 
patients had significantly higher ACR20 response rates compared to placebo at month 3. Examination 
of age, sex, race, baseline disease activity and PsA subtype did not identify differences in response to 
tofacitinib. The number of patients with arthritis mutilans or axial involvement was too small to allow 
meaningful assessment. Statistically significant ACR20 response rates were observed with tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily in both studies as early as week 2 (first post-baseline assessment) in comparison to 
placebo.
In OPAL BROADEN, Minimal Disease Activity (MDA) response was achieved by 26.2%, 25.5% and 
6.7% of tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, adalimumab and placebo treated patients, respectively 
80
(tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily treatment difference from placebo 19.5% [95% CI: 9.9, 29.1]) at month 
3. In OPAL BEYOND, MDA was achieved by 22.9% and 14.5% of tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and 
placebo treated patients, respectively, however tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily did not achieve nominal 
statistical significance (treatment difference from placebo 8.4% [95% CI: -1.0, 17.8] at month 3).
Radiographic response 
In study OPAL BROADEN, the progression of structural joint damage was assessed radiographically 
utilising the van der Heijde modified Total Sharp Score (mTSS) and the proportion of patients with 
radiographic progression (mTSS increase from baseline greater than 0.5) was assessed at month 12. At 
month 12, 96% and 98% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, and adalimumab 40 mg 
subcutaneously every 2 weeks, respectively, did not have radiographic progression (mTSS increase 
from baseline less than or equal to 0.5).
Physical function and health-related quality of life
Improvement in physical functioning was measured by the HAQ-DI. Patients receiving tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily demonstrated greater improvement (p≤ 0.05) from baseline in physical functioning 
compared to placebo at month 3 (see Table 17). 
Table 17: Change from baseline in HAQ-DI in PsA studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL 
BEYOND
Least squares mean change from baseline in HAQ-DI
Conventional synthetic DMARD
inadequate respondersa (TNFi-naïve)
OPAL BROADEN
TNFi
inadequate respondersb
OPAL BEYOND
Placebo Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Placebo Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Treatment 
group
N
Month 3
Month 6
Month 12
* Nominal p≤0.05; *** Nominal p<0.0001 for active treatment versus placebo at month 3.
Abbreviations: DMARD=disease-modifying antirheumatic drug; HAQ-DI=Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability 
Index; N=total number of patients in the statistical analysis; SC q2w=subcutaneously once every 2 weeks; TNFi=tumour 
necrosis factor inhibitor.
a  Inadequate response to at least one conventional synthetic DMARD (csDMARD) due to lack of efficacy and/or 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
SC q2W
106
-0.38*
-0.43
-0.45
twice daily
107
-0.35c,*
-0.45
-0.54
twice daily
129
-0.39c,***
-0.44
NA
104
-0.18
NA
NA
131
-0.14
NA
NA
intolerability.
b  Inadequate response to a least one TNF inhibitor (TNFi) due to lack of efficacy and/or intolerability.
c Achieved statistical significance globally at p≤ 0.05 per the pre-specified step-down testing procedure.
The HAQ-DI responder rate (response defined as having decrease from baseline of ≥ 0.35) at month 3 
in studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND was 53% and 50%, respectively in patients 
receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, 31% and 28%, respectively in patients receiving placebo, and 
53% in patients receiving adalimumab 40 mg subcutaneously once every 2 weeks (OPAL BROADEN 
only).
Health-related quality of life was assessed by SF-36v2, fatigue was assessed by the FACIT-F. Patients 
receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily demonstrated greater improvement from baseline compared to 
placebo in the SF-36v2 physical functioning domain, the SF-36v2 physical component summary 
score, and FACIT-F scores at month 3 in studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND (nominal 
p≤ 0.05). Improvements from baseline in SF-36v2 and FACIT-F were maintained through month 6 
(OPAL BROADEN and OPAL BEYOND) and month 12 (OPAL BROADEN).
Patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily demonstrated a greater improvement in arthritis pain 
(as measured on a 0-100 visual analogue scale) from baseline at week 2 (first post-baseline 
assessment) through month 3 compared to placebo in studies OPAL BROADEN and OPAL 
BEYOND (nominal p≤ 0.05).
81
Ankylosing spondylitis
The tofacitinib clinical development program to assess the efficacy and safety included one 
placebo-controlled confirmatory trial (Study AS-I). Study AS-I was a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, 48-week treatment clinical trial in 269 adult patients who had an inadequate 
response (inadequate clinical response or intolerance) to at least 2 NSAIDs. Patients were randomised 
and treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily or placebo for 16 weeks of blinded treatment and then all 
were advanced to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily for an additional 32 weeks. Patients had active disease 
as defined by both Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) and back pain 
score (BASDAI question 2) of greater or equal to 4 despite non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
(NSAID), corticosteroid or DMARD therapy.
Approximately 7% and 21% of patients used concomitant methotrexate or sulfasalazine, respectively, 
from baseline to Week 16. Patients were allowed to receive a stable low dose of oral corticosteroids 
(8.6% received) and/or NSAIDs (81.8% received) from baseline to Week 48. Twenty-two percent of 
patients had an inadequate response to 1 or 2 TNF blockers. The primary endpoint was to evaluate the 
proportion of patients who achieved an ASAS20 response at Week 16.
Clinical response
Patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily achieved greater improvements in ASAS20 and
ASAS40 responses compared to placebo at Week 16 (Table 18). The responses were maintained from 
Week 16 through to Week 48 in patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
Table 18: ASAS20 and ASAS40 Responses at Week 16, Study AS-I 
Placebo
(N=136)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=133)
56
41
Difference from Placebo 
(95% CI) 
27 (16, 38)**
28 (18, 38)**
ASAS20 response*, %
ASAS40 response*, %
* type I error-controlled.
** p<0.0001.
29
13
The efficacy of tofacitinib was demonstrated in bDMARD naïve and TNF-inadequate responders 
(IR)/bDMARD experienced (non-IR) patients (Table 19).
Table 19: ASAS20 and ASAS40 Responses (%) by Treatment History at Week 16, Study AS-I
Prior Treatment 
History
Placebo
N
bDMARD-Naïve
105
ASAS20
Tofacitinib 
5 mg 
Twice 
Daily
N
102
Efficacy Endpoint
Difference 
from Placebo
(95% CI)
Placebo
N
ASAS40
Tofacitinib 
5 mg Twice 
Daily
N
Difference 
from 
Placebo
(95% CI)
28
(15, 41)
23
(1, 44)
105
102
31
(19, 43)
19
(2, 37)
31
31
TNFi-IR or 
bDMARD Use 
(Non-IR)
ASAS20 = An improvement from Baseline ≥ 20% and ≥ 1 unit increase in at least 3 domains on a scale of 0 to 10, and no 
worsening of ≥ 20% and ≥ 1 unit in the remaining domain; ASAS40 = An improvement from Baseline ≥ 40% and 
≥ 2 units in at least 3 domains on a scale of 0 to 10 and no worsening at all in the remaining domain; bDMARD = biologic 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug; CI = confidence interval; Non-IR = non-inadequate response; TNFi-IR = tumour 
necrosis factor inhibitor inadequate response.
31
31
The improvements in the components of the ASAS response and other measures of disease activity 
were higher in tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily compared to placebo at Week 16 as shown in Table 20. 
The improvements were maintained from Week 16 through to Week 48 in patients receiving 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily.
82
Table 20: ASAS Components and Other Measures of Disease Activity at Week 16, Study AS-I
Placebo
(N=136)
Tofacitinib 5 mg Twice Daily
(N=133)
Baseline 
(mean)
Week 16
(LSM 
change from 
Baseline)
Baseline 
(mean)
Week 16
(LSM 
change from 
Baseline)
Difference 
from Placebo
(95% CI)

ASAS Components 
Patient Global 
Assessment of 
Disease Activity 
(0-10)a,*
Total spinal pain
(0-10)a,* 

 BASFI

(0-10)b,*
Inflammation 
(0-10)c,* 
BASDAI Scored
BASMIe,* 
hsCRPf,* (mg/dL) 
ASDAScrpg,*
7.0
6.9
5.9
6.8
6.5
4.4
1.8
3.9
-0.9
-1.0
-0.8
-1.0
-1.1
-0.1
-0.1
-0.4
6.9
6.9
5.8
6.6
6.4
4.5
1.6
3.8
-2.5
-2.6
-2.0
-2.7
-2.6
-0.6
-1.1
-1.4
-1.6 
(-2.07, -1.05)**
-1.6 
(-2.10, -1.14)**
-1.2 
(-1.66, -0.80)**
-1.7 
(-2.18, -1.25)**
-1.4 
(-1.88, -1.00)**
-0.5 
(-0.67, -0.37)**
-1.0 
(-1.20, -0.72)**
-1.0 
(-1.16, -0.79)**
* type I error-controlled.
** p<0.0001.
a Measured on a numerical rating scale with 0 = not active or no pain, 10 = very active or most severe pain. 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index measured on a numerical rating scale with 0 = easy and 10 = impossible. 
c Inflammation is the mean of two patient-reported stiffness self-assessments in BASDAI. 
d Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index total score. 
e Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Metrology Index. 
f High sensitivity C-reactive protein. 
g Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score with C-reactive protein.
LSM = least squares mean.
Other health-related outcomes
Patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily achieved greater improvements from baseline in 
Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life (ASQoL) (-4.0 vs -2.0) and Functional Assessment of Chronic 
Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F) Total score (6.5 vs 3.1) compared to placebo-treated patients at 
Week 16 (p<0.001). Patients treated with tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily achieved consistently greater 
improvements from baseline in the Short Form health survey version 2 (SF-36v2), Physical 
Component Summary (PCS) compared to placebo-treated patients at Week 16.
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit results of studies with 
tofacitinib in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in juvenile idiopathic arthritis and in 
ulcerative colitis (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Following oral administration of tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablet, peak plasma 
concentrations are reached at 4 hours and half-life is ~6 hours. Steady state concentrations are 
achieved within 48 hours with negligible accumulation after once daily administration. Steady-state 
AUC and Cmax of tofacitinib for tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablet administered once daily are 
equivalent to those of tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets administered twice daily.
83
Absorption and distribution
Coadministration of tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablet with a high-fat meal resulted in no 
changes in AUC while Cmax was increased by 27%.
After intravenous administration, the volume of distribution is 87 L. Approximately 40% of 
circulating tofacitinib is bound to plasma proteins. Tofacitinib binds predominantly to albumin and 
does not appear to bind to 1-acid glycoprotein. Tofacitinib distributes equally between red blood 
cells and plasma.
Biotransformation and elimination
Clearance mechanisms for tofacitinib are approximately 70% hepatic metabolism and 30% renal 
excretion of the parent drug. The metabolism of tofacitinib is primarily mediated by CYP3A4 with 
minor contribution from CYP2C19. In a human radiolabelled study, more than 65% of the total 
circulating radioactivity was accounted for by unchanged active substance, with the remaining 35% 
attributed to 8 metabolites, each accounting for less than 8% of total radioactivity. All metabolites 
have been observed in animal species and are predicted to have less than 10-fold potency than 
tofacitinib for JAK1/3 inhibition. No evidence of stereo conversion in human samples was detected. 
The pharmacologic activity of tofacitinib is attributed to the parent molecule. In vitro, tofacitinib is a 
substrate for MDR1, but not for breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), OATP1B1/1B3, or OCT1/2.  
Pharmacokinetics in patients
The enzymatic activity of CYP enzymes is reduced in RA patients due to chronic inflammation. In RA 
patients, the oral clearance of tofacitinib does not vary with time, indicating that treatment with 
tofacitinib does not normalise CYP enzyme activity.
Population PK analysis in RA patients indicated that systemic exposure (AUC) of tofacitinib in the 
extremes of body weight (40 kg, 140 kg) were similar (within 5%) to that of a 70 kg patient. Elderly 
patients 80 years of age were estimated to have less than 5% higher AUC relative to the mean age of 
55 years. Women were estimated to have 7% lower AUC compared to men. The available data have 
also shown that there are no major differences in tofacitinib AUC between White, Black and Asian 
patients. An approximate linear relationship between body weight and volume of distribution was 
observed, resulting in higher peak (Cmax) and lower trough (Cmin) concentrations in lighter patients. 
However, this difference is not considered to be clinically relevant. The between-subject variability 
(percentage coefficient of variation) in AUC of tofacitinib is estimated to be approximately 27%.
Results from population PK analysis in patients with active PsA or AS were consistent with those in 
patients with RA.
Renal impairment
Subjects with mild (creatinine clearance 50-80 mL/min), moderate (creatinine clearance 
30-49 mL/min), and severe (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) renal impairment had 37%, 43% and 
123% higher AUC, respectively, compared to subjects with normal renal function (see section 4.2). In 
subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), contribution of dialysis to the total clearance of 
tofacitinib was relatively small. Following a single dose of 10 mg, mean AUC in subjects with ESRD 
based on concentrations measured on a non-dialysis day was approximately 40% (90% confidence 
intervals: 1.5-95%) higher compared to subjects with normal renal function. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was not evaluated in patients with baseline creatinine clearance values (estimated by 
Cockcroft-Gault equation) less than 40 mL/min (see section 4.2).
84
Hepatic impairment
Subjects with mild (Child Pugh A) and moderate (Child Pugh B) hepatic impairment had 3%, and 
65% higher AUC, respectively, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was not evaluated in subjects with severe (Child Pugh C) hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4), or in patients screened positive for hepatitis B or C.
Interactions
Tofacitinib is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYPs (CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) and is not an inhibitor of UGTs (UGT1A1, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, 
and UGT2B7). Tofacitinib is not an inhibitor of MDR1, OATP1B1/1B3, OCT2, OAT1/3, or MRP at 
clinically meaningful concentrations.
Comparison of PK of prolonged-release and film-coated tablet formulations
Tofacitinib 11 mg prolonged-release tablets once daily have demonstrated PK equivalence (AUC and 
Cmax) to tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In non-clinical studies, effects were observed on the immune and haematopoietic systems that were 
attributed to the pharmacological properties (JAK inhibition) of tofacitinib. Secondary effects from 
immunosuppression, such as bacterial and viral infections and lymphoma were observed at clinically 
relevant doses. Lymphoma was observed in 3 of 8 adult monkeys at 6 or 3 times the clinical tofacitinib 
exposure level (unbound AUC in humans at a dose of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily), and 0 of 14 juvenile 
monkeys at 5 or 2.5 times the clinical exposure level of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Exposure in 
monkeys at the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for the lymphomas was approximately 1 or 
0.5 times the clinical exposure level of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Other findings at doses exceeding 
human exposures included effects on the hepatic and gastrointestinal systems.
Tofacitinib is not mutagenic or genotoxic based on the results of a series of in vitro and in vivo tests 
for gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations.
The carcinogenic potential of tofacitinib was assessed in 6-month rasH2 transgenic mouse 
carcinogenicity and 2-year rat carcinogenicity studies. Tofacitinib was not carcinogenic in mice at 
exposures up to 38 or 19 times the clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Benign 
testicular interstitial (Leydig) cell tumours were observed in rats: benign Leydig cell tumours in rats 
are not associated with a risk of Leydig cell tumours in humans. Hibernomas (malignancy of brown 
adipose tissue) were observed in female rats at exposures greater than or equal to 83 or 41 times the 
clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Benign thymomas were observed in female rats 
at 187 or 94 times the clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily.
Tofacitinib was shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits, and have effects in rats on female fertility 
(decreased pregnancy rate; decreases in the numbers of corpora lutea, implantation sites, and viable 
foetuses; and an increase in early resorptions), parturition, and peri/postnatal development. Tofacitinib 
had no effects on male fertility, sperm motility or sperm concentration. Tofacitinib was secreted in 
milk of lactating rats at concentrations approximately 2-fold those in serum from 1 to 8 hours 
postdose. In studies conducted in juvenile rats and monkeys, there were no tofacitinib-related effects 
on bone development in males or females, at exposures similar to those achieved at approved doses in 
humans.
No tofacitinib-related findings were observed in juvenile animal studies that indicate a higher 
sensitivity of paediatric populations compared with adults. In the juvenile rat fertility study, there was 
no evidence of developmental toxicity, no effects on sexual maturation, and no evidence of 
reproductive toxicity (mating and fertility) was noted after sexual maturity. In 1-month juvenile rat 
and 39-week juvenile monkey studies tofacitinib-related effects on immune and haematology 
85
parameters consistent with JAK1/3 and JAK2 inhibition were observed. These effects were reversible 
and consistent with those also observed in adult animals at similar exposures.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Tablet core
sorbitol (E420)
hydroxyethyl cellulose
copovidone
magnesium stearate
Film coat
cellulose acetate
hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463)
hypromellose (E464)
titanium dioxide (E171)
triacetin
red iron oxide (E172)
Printing ink
shellac (E904)
ammomium hydroxide (E527)
propylene glycol (E1520)
black iron oxide (E172)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
3 years.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
6.5
Nature and contents of container
HDPE bottles with 2 silica gel desiccants and child-resistant, polypropylene closure containing 30 or 
90 prolonged-release tablets.
Aluminium foil/PVC backed aluminium foil blisters containing 7 prolonged-release tablets. Each pack 
contains 28 or 91 prolonged-release tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
86
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1178/010 
EU/1/17/1178/011
EU/1/17/1178/012
EU/1/17/1178/013
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 22 March 2017
Date of renewal of the authorisation: 04 March 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
87
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each mL of oral solution contains tofacitinib citrate, equivalent to 1 mg tofacitinib.
Excipient(s) with known effect
Each mL of oral solution contains 2.39 mg propylene glycol.
Each mL of oral solution contains 0.9 mg of sodium benzoate.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Oral solution
Clear, colourless solution.
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indication
Tofacitinib is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
(rheumatoid factor positive [RF+] or negative [RF-] polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis), and 
juvenile psoriatic arthritis (PsA) in patients 2 years of age and older, who have responded inadequately 
to previous therapy with disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs).
Tofacitinib can be given in combination with methotrexate (MTX) or as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to MTX or where continued treatment with MTX is inappropriate.
4.2 Posology and method of administration
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis and 
treatment of conditions for which tofacitinib is indicated.
Posology
Tofacitinib may be used as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX).
The recommended dose in patients 2 years of age and older is based upon the following weight 
categories:
88
Table 1:  Tofacitinib dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
juvenile PsA two years of age and older
Body weight (kg)
10 - < 20
20 - < 40
 40
Dose regimen
3.2 mg (3.2 mL of oral solution) twice daily
4 mg (4 mL of oral solution) twice daily
5 mg (5 mL of oral solution or 5 mg film-coated tablet) twice daily
Patients  40 kg treated with tofacitinib 5 mL oral solution twice daily may be switched to tofacitinib 
5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily. Patients < 40 kg cannot be switched from tofacitinib oral 
solution.
Dose adjustment 
No dose adjustment is required when used in combination with MTX.
Dose interruption and discontinuation
Available data suggest that clinical improvement is observed within 18 weeks of initiation of treatment 
with tofacitinib. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient exhibiting no 
improvement within this timeframe.
Tofacitinib treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious infection until the infection 
is controlled.
Interruption of dosing may be needed for management of dose-related laboratory abnormalities 
including lymphopenia, neutropenia, and anaemia. As described in Tables 2, 3 and 4 below, 
recommendations for temporary dose interruption or permanent discontinuation of treatment are made 
according to the severity of laboratory abnormalities (see section 4.4).
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in paediatric patients with an absolute lymphocyte count 
(ALC) less than 750 cells/mm3.
Table 2: Low absolute lymphocyte count
Low absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) (see section 4.4)
Laboratory value
(cells/mm3)
ALC greater than or equal 
to 750
ALC 500-750
ALC less than 500
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
For persistent (2 sequential values in this range on routine testing) 
decrease in this range, dosing should be reduced or interrupted until 
ALC is greater than 750. 
For patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, dosing should be 
interrupted.
When ALC is greater than 750, treatment should be resumed as 
clinically appropriate.
If laboratory value confirmed by repeat testing within 7 days, dosing 
should be discontinued.
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in paediatric patients with an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) 
less than 1,200 cells/mm3.
89
Table 3: Low absolute neutrophil count
Low absolute neutrophil count (ANC) (see section 4.4)
Laboratory Value
(cells/mm3)
ANC greater than 1,000
ANC 500-1,000
ANC less than 500
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
For persistent (2 sequential values in this range on routine testing) 
decreases in this range, dosing should be reduced or interrupted until 
ANC is greater than 1,000.
For patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, dosing should be 
interrupted.
When ANC is greater than 1,000, treatment should be resumed as 
clinically appropriate.
If laboratory value confirmed by repeat testing within 7 days, dosing 
should be discontinued. 
It is recommended not to initiate dosing in paediatric patients with haemoglobin less than 10 g/dL.
Table 4: Low haemoglobin value
Low haemoglobin value (see section 4.4)
Recommendation
Dose should be maintained.
Dosing should be interrupted until haemoglobin values have 
normalised.
Laboratory value
(g/dL)
Less than or equal to 
2 g/dL decrease and greater 
than or equal to 9.0 g/dL
Greater than 2 g/dL 
decrease or less than 
8.0 g/dL
(confirmed by repeat 
testing)
Interactions
Tofacitinib total daily dose should be reduced to 5 mg film-coated tablet once daily or weight-based 
equivalent once daily in patients receiving 5 mg film-coated tablets or weight-based equivalent twice 
daily in patients receiving potent inhibitors of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) and 
in patients receiving 1 or more concomitant medicinal products that result in both moderate inhibition 
of CYP3A4 as well as potent inhibition of CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole) (see section 4.5).
Special populations
Elderly
The safety and efficacy of tofacitinib oral solution has not been established in the elderly. 
90
Hepatic impairment
Table 5:  Dose adjustment for hepatic impairment 
Classification
Hepatic 
impairment 
category
Mild
Moderate
Child Pugh A
Child Pugh B
Dose adjustment in hepatic impairment for oral 
solution
No dose adjustment required.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg or weight-based 
equivalent once daily when the indicated dose in the 
presence of normal hepatic function is 5 mg or 
weight-based equivalent twice daily (see section 5.2).
Tofacitinib should not be used in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.3).
Table 6:  Dose adjustment for renal impairment 
Creatinine 
clearance
Dose adjustment in renal impairment for oral 
solution
Severe
Child Pugh C
Renal impairment
Renal 
impairment 
category
Mild
Moderate
Severe (including 
patients 
undergoing 
haemodialysis)
50-80 mL/min
30-49 mL/min
< 30 mL/min
No dose adjustment required.
No dose adjustment required.
Dose should be reduced to 5 mg or weight-based 
equivalent once daily when the indicated dose in the 
presence of normal renal function is 5 mg or 
weight-based equivalent twice daily.
Patients with severe renal impairment should remain on 
a reduced dose even after haemodialysis (see 
section 5.2).
Paediatric population (children below 2 years of age)
The safety and efficacy of tofacitinib in children below 2 years of age has not been established. No 
data are available.
Method of administration
Oral use.
Tofacitinib oral solution should be administered using the included press-in bottle adapter and oral 
dosing syringe.
Tofacitinib is given orally with or without food.
4.3 Contraindications




Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
Active tuberculosis (TB), serious infections such as sepsis, or opportunistic infections 
(see section 4.4).
Severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.2).
Pregnancy and lactation (see section 4.6).
91
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available in patients:
-65 years of age and older;
-patients with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors 
(such as current or past long-time smokers);
-patients with malignancy risk factors (e.g. current malignancy or history of malignancy)
Combination with other therapies
Tofacitinib has not been studied and its use should be avoided in combination with biologics such as 
TNF antagonists, interleukin (IL)-1R antagonists, IL-6R antagonists, anti-CD20 monoclonal 
antibodies, IL-17 antagonists, IL-12/IL-23 antagonists, anti-integrins, selective co-stimulation 
modulators and potent immunosuppressants such as azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, ciclosporin and 
tacrolimus because of the possibility of increased immunosuppression and increased risk of infection.
There was a higher incidence of adverse events for the combination of tofacitinib with MTX versus 
tofacitinib as monotherapy in RA clinical studies.
The use of tofacitinib in combination with phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors has not been studied in 
tofacitinib clinical studies.
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
Serious VTE events including pulmonary embolism (PE), some of which were fatal, and deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT), have been observed in patients taking tofacitinib. In a randomised 
post-authorisation safety study in patients with rheumatoid arthritis who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose dependent increased risk for VTE was 
observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
In a post hoc exploratory analysis within this study, in patients with known VTE risk factors, 
occurrences of subsequent VTEs were observed more frequently in tofacitinib-treated patients that, at 
12 months treatment, had D-dimer level ≥2× ULN versus those with D-dimer level <2×ULN; this was 
not evident in TNF inhibitor-treated patients. Interpretation is limited by the low number of VTE 
events and restricted D-dimer test availability (only assessed at Baseline, Month 12, and at the end of 
the study). In patients who did not have a VTE during the study, mean D-dimer levels were 
significantly reduced at Month 12 relative to Baseline across all treatment arms. However, D-dimer 
levels ≥2× ULN at Month 12 were observed in approximately 30% of patients without subsequent 
VTE events, indicating limited specificity of D-Dimer testing in this study.
In patients with MACE or malignancy risk factors (see also section 4.4 “Major adverse cardiovascular 
events (MACE)” and “Malignancy”) tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment 
alternatives are available.
In patients with VTE risk factors other than MACE or malignancy risk factors, tofacitinib should be 
used with caution. VTE risk factors other than MACE or malignancy risk factors include previous 
VTE, patients undergoing major surgery, immobilisation, use of combined hormonal contraceptives or 
hormone replacement therapy, inherited coagulation disorder. Patients should be re-evaluated 
periodically during tofacitinib treatment to assess for changes in VTE risk.
For patients with RA with known risk factors for VTE, consider testing D-dimer levels 
after approximately 12 months of treatment. If D-dimer test result is ≥ 2× ULN, confirm that clinical 
benefits outweigh risks prior to a decision on treatment continuation with tofacitinib.
Promptly evaluate patients with signs and symptoms of VTE and discontinue tofacitinib in patients 
with suspected VTE, regardless of dose or indication.
92
Retinal venous thrombosis
Retinal venous thrombosis (RVT) has been reported in patients treated with tofacitinib (see section 
4.8). The patients should be advised to promptly seek medical care in case they experience symptoms 
suggestive of RVT.
Serious infections
Serious and sometimes fatal infections due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, viral, or other 
opportunistic pathogens have been reported in patients receiving tofacitinib (see section 4.8). The risk 
of opportunistic infections is higher in Asian geographic regions (see section 4.8). Rheumatoid 
arthritis patients taking corticosteroids may be predisposed to infection.
Tofacitinib should not be initiated in patients with active infections, including localised infections.
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating tofacitinib in patients:




with recurrent infections,
with a history of a serious or an opportunistic infection,
who have resided or travelled in areas of endemic mycoses, 
who have underlying conditions that may predispose them to infection.
Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms of infection during 
and after treatment with tofacitinib. Treatment should be interrupted if a patient develops a serious 
infection, an opportunistic infection, or sepsis. A patient who develops a new infection during 
treatment with tofacitinib should undergo prompt and complete diagnostic testing appropriate for an 
immunocompromised patient, appropriate antimicrobial therapy should be initiated, and the patient 
should be closely monitored.
As there is a higher incidence of infections in the elderly and in the diabetic populations in general, 
caution should be used when treating the elderly and patients with diabetes (see section 4.8). In 
patients 65 years of age and older, tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives 
are available (see section 5.1).
Risk of infection may be higher with increasing degrees of lymphopenia and consideration should be 
given to lymphocyte counts when assessing individual patient risk of infection. Discontinuation and 
monitoring criteria for lymphopenia are discussed in section 4.2.
Tuberculosis
The risks and benefits of treatment should be considered prior to initiating tofacitinib in patients:


who have been exposed to TB,
who have resided or travelled in areas of endemic TB.
Patients should be evaluated and tested for latent or active infection prior to and per applicable 
guidelines during administration of tofacitinib.
Patients with latent TB, who test positive, should be treated with standard antimycobacterial therapy 
before administering tofacitinib.
Antituberculosis therapy should also be considered prior to administration of tofacitinib in patients 
who test negative for TB but who have a past history of latent or active TB and where an adequate 
course of treatment cannot be confirmed; or those who test negative but who have risk factors for TB 
infection. Consultation with a healthcare professional with expertise in the treatment of TB is 
recommended to aid in the decision about whether initiating antituberculosis therapy is appropriate for 
an individual patient. Patients should be closely monitored for the development of signs and symptoms 
of TB, including patients who tested negative for latent TB infection prior to initiating therapy.
93
Viral reactivation
Viral reactivation and cases of herpes virus reactivation (e.g., herpes zoster) have been observed in 
patients receiving tofacitinib (see section 4.8).
In patients treated with tofacitinib, the incidence of herpes zoster appears to be increased in: 



Japanese or Korean patients. 
Patients with an ALC less than 1,000 cells/mm3 (see section 4.2).
Patients with long standing RA who have previously received two or more biological disease 
modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
The impact of tofacitinib on chronic viral hepatitis reactivation is unknown. Patients screened positive 
for hepatitis B or C were excluded from clinical studies. Screening for viral hepatitis should be 
performed in accordance with clinical guidelines before starting therapy with tofacitinib.
Major adverse cardiovascular events (including myocardial infarction)
Major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) have been observed in patients taking tofacitinib.
In a randomised post authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increased incidence of myocardial infarctions 
was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). In patients 
65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients with 
history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease or other cardiovascular risk factors, tofacitinib should 
only be used if no suitable treatment alternatives are available (see section 5.1).
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorder
Tofacitinib may affect host defences against malignancies.
In a randomised post authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 50 years of age or older 
with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increased incidence of malignancies 
particularly NMSC, lung cancer and lymphoma, was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF 
inhibitors (see sections 4.8 and 5.1).
NMSC lung cancers and lymphoma in patients treated with tofacitinib have also been observed in 
other clinical studies and in the post marketing setting.
Other malignancies in patients treated with tofacitinib were observed in clinical studies and the 
post-marketing setting, including, but not limited to, breast cancer, melanoma, prostate cancer, and 
pancreatic cancer.
In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or past long-time smokers, and patients 
with other malignancy risk factors (e.g. current malignancy or history of malignancy other than a 
successfully treated non-melanoma skin cancer) tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable 
treatment alternatives are available (see section 5.1). Periodic skin examination is recommended for all 
patients, particularly those who are at increased risk for skin cancer (see Table 7 in section 4.8).
Interstitial lung disease 
Caution is also recommended in patients with a history of chronic lung disease as they may be more 
prone to infections. Events of interstitial lung disease (some of which had a fatal outcome) have been 
reported in patients treated with tofacitinib in RA clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting 
although the role of Janus kinase (JAK) inhibition in these events is not known. Asian RA patients are 
known to be at higher risk of interstitial lung disease, thus caution should be exercised in treating these 
patients.
94
Gastrointestinal perforations
Events of gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in clinical studies although the role of JAK 
inhibition in these events is not known. Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients who may 
be at increased risk for gastrointestinal perforation (e.g., patients with a history of diverticulitis, 
patients with concomitant use of corticosteroids and/or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs). Patients 
presenting with new onset abdominal signs and symptoms should be evaluated promptly for early 
identification of gastrointestinal perforation.
Fractures 
Fractures have been observed in patients treated with tofacitinib.
Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients with known risk factors for fractures such as 
elderly patients, female patients and patients with corticosteroid use, regardless of indication and 
dosage. 
Liver enzymes
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of liver enzyme elevation in 
some patients (see section 4.8 liver enzyme tests). Caution should be exercised when considering 
initiation of tofacitinib treatment in patients with elevated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), particularly when initiated in combination with potentially hepatotoxic 
medicinal products such as MTX. Following initiation, routine monitoring of liver tests and prompt 
investigation of the causes of any observed liver enzyme elevations are recommended to identify 
potential cases of drug-induced liver injury. If drug-induced liver injury is suspected, the 
administration of tofacitinib should be interrupted until this diagnosis has been excluded.
Hypersensitivity
In post-marketing experience, cases of hypersensitivity associated with tofacitinib administration have 
been reported. Allergic reactions included angioedema and urticaria; serious reactions have occurred. 
If any serious allergic or anaphylactic reaction occurs, tofacitinib should be discontinued immediately.
Laboratory parameters
Lymphocytes
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of lymphopenia compared to 
placebo. Lymphocyte counts less than 750 cells/mm3 were associated with an increased incidence of 
serious infections. It is not recommended to initiate or continue tofacitinib treatment in patients with a 
confirmed lymphocyte count less than 750 cells/mm3. Lymphocytes should be monitored at baseline 
and every 3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on lymphocyte counts, see 
section 4.2.
Neutrophils
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with an increased incidence of neutropenia (less than 
2,000 cells/mm3) compared to placebo. It is not recommended to initiate tofacitinib treatment in adult 
patients with an ANC less than 1,000 cells/mm3 and in paediatric patients with an ANC less than 
1,200 cells/mm3. ANC should be monitored at baseline and after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment and every 
3 months thereafter. For recommended modifications based on ANC, see section 4.2.
Haemoglobin
Treatment with tofacitinib has been associated with decreases in haemoglobin levels. It is not 
recommended to initiate tofacitinib treatment in adult patients with a haemoglobin value less than 
9 g/dL and in paediatric patients with haemoglobin value less than 10 g/dL. Haemoglobin should be 
95
monitored at baseline and after 4 to 8 weeks of treatment and every 3 months thereafter. For 
recommended modifications based on haemoglobin level, see section 4.2.
Lipid monitoring
Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with increases in lipid parameters such as total cholesterol, 
low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol. Maximum
effects were generally observed within 6 weeks. Assessment of lipid parameters should be performed 
after 8 weeks following initiation of tofacitinib therapy. Patients should be managed according to 
clinical guidelines for the management of hyperlipidaemia. Increases in total and LDL cholesterol 
associated with tofacitinib may be decreased to pretreatment levels with statin therapy.
Hypoglycaemia in patients treated for diabetes
There have been reports of hypoglycaemia following initiation of tofacitinib in patients receiving 
medication for diabetes. Dose adjustment of anti-diabetic medication may be necessary in the event 
that hypoglycaemia occurs.
Vaccinations
Prior to initiating tofacitinib, it is recommended that all patients, particularly pJIA and jPsA patients, 
be brought up to date with all immunisations in agreement with current immunisation guidelines. It is 
recommended that live vaccines not be given concurrently with tofacitinib. The decision to use live 
vaccines prior to tofacitinib treatment should take into account the pre-existing immunosuppression in 
a given patient.
Prophylactic zoster vaccination should be considered in accordance with vaccination guidelines. 
Particular consideration should be given to patients with longstanding RA who have previously 
received two or more biological DMARDs. If live zoster vaccine is administered; it should only be 
administered to patients with a known history of chickenpox or those that are seropositive for varicella 
zoster virus (VZV). If the history of chickenpox is considered doubtful or unreliable it is 
recommended to test for antibodies against VZV.
Vaccination with live vaccines should occur at least 2 weeks but preferably 4 weeks prior to initiation 
of tofacitinib or in accordance with current vaccination guidelines regarding immunomodulatory 
medicinal products. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines 
to patients receiving tofacitinib.
Excipients contents
Propylene glycol
This medicinal product contains 2.39 mg propylene glycol in each mL.
Examples of propylene glycol exposures based on daily doses (see section 4.2) are as follows:  
A dose of 3.2 mg twice daily of XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution administered to a child 

weighing 10 kg to < 20 kg would result in a propylene glycol exposure of 1.53 mg/kg/day.
A dose of 4 mg twice daily of XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution administered to a child weighing 
20 kg to <40 kg would result in a propylene glycol exposure of 0.96 mg/kg/day.
A dose of 5 mg twice daily of XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution administered to a child weighing 
≥40 kg would result in a propylene glycol exposure of 0.60 mg/kg/day.


Sodium benzoate
This medicinal product contains 0.9 mg sodium benzoate in each mL. 
Sodium
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per mL, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
96
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Potential for other medicinal products to influence the pharmacokinetics (PK) of tofacitinib
Since tofacitinib is metabolised by CYP3A4, interaction with medicinal products that inhibit or induce 
CYP3A4 is likely. Tofacitinib exposure is increased when coadministered with potent inhibitors of 
CYP3A4 (e.g., ketoconazole) or when administration of one or more concomitant medicinal products 
results in both moderate inhibition of CYP3A4 and potent inhibition of CYP2C19 (e.g., fluconazole)
(see section 4.2).
Tofacitinib exposure is decreased when coadministered with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin). 
Inhibitors of CYP2C19 alone or P-glycoprotein are unlikely to significantly alter the PK of tofacitinib.
Coadministration with ketoconazole (strong CYP3A4 inhibitor), fluconazole (moderate CYP3A4 and 
potent CYP2C19 inhibitor), tacrolimus (mild CYP3A4 inhibitor) and ciclosporin (moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitor) increased tofacitinib AUC, while rifampicin (potent CYP inducer) decreased tofacitinib
AUC. Coadministration of tofacitinib with potent CYP inducers (e.g., rifampicin) may result in a loss 
of or reduced clinical response (see Figure 1). Coadministration of potent inducers of CYP3A4 with 
tofacitinib is not recommended. Coadministration with ketoconazole and fluconazole increased 
tofacitinib Cmax, while tacrolimus, ciclosporin and rifampicin decreased tofacitinib Cmax. Concomitant 
administration with MTX 15-25 mg once weekly had no effect on the PK of tofacitinib in RA patients 
(see Figure 1).
Figure 1. Impact of other medicinal products on PK of tofacitinib
Coadministered
Medicinal Product
CYP3A Inhibitor
Ketoconazole
CYP3A & CYP2C19 Inhibitor
Fluconazole
CYP Inducer
Rifampicin
Methotrexate
Tacrolimus
Ciclosporin
PK
Ratio and 90% CI
Recommendation
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
AUC
Cmax
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced a
Tofacitinib dose should be reduced a
Efficacy may be decreased
No dose adjustment
Combined use of tofacitinib with 
tacrolimus should be avoided
Combined use of tofacitinib with 
ciclosporin should be avoided
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Ratio relative to reference
Note: Reference group is administration of tofacitinib alone.
a Tofacitinib dose should be reduced to 5 mg film-coated tablet once daily or oral solution weight-based equivalent in 
patients receiving 5 mg or weight-based equivalent twice daily (see section 4.2).
Potential for tofacitinib to influence the PK of other medicinal products
Coadministration of tofacitinib did not have an effect on the PK of oral contraceptives, levonorgestrel 
and ethinyl estradiol, in healthy female volunteers.
97
In RA patients, coadministration of tofacitinib with MTX 15-25 mg once weekly decreased the AUC 
and Cmax of MTX by 10% and 13%, respectively. The extent of decrease in MTX exposure does not 
warrant modifications to the individualised dosing of MTX.
Paediatric population
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults.
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate and well-controlled studies on the use of tofacitinib in pregnant women. 
Tofacitinib has been shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits, and to affect parturition and 
peri/postnatal development (see section 5.3).
As a precautionary measure, the use of tofacitinib during pregnancy is contraindicated (see 
section 4.3).
Women of childbearing potential/contraception in females
Women of childbearing potential should be advised to use effective contraception during treatment 
with tofacitinib and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose.
Breast-feeding
It is not known whether tofacitinib is secreted in human milk. A risk to the breast-fed child cannot be 
excluded. Tofacitinib was secreted in the milk of lactating rats (see section 5.3). As a precautionary 
measure, the use of tofacitinib during breast-feeding is contraindicated (see section 4.3).
Fertility
Formal studies of the potential effect on human fertility have not been conducted. Tofacitinib impaired 
female fertility but not male fertility in rats (see section 5.3).
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Tofacitinib has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Rheumatoid arthritis
The most common serious adverse reactions were serious infections (see section 4.4). In the long-term 
safety all exposure population, the most common serious infections reported with tofacitinib were 
pneumonia (1.7%), herpes zoster (0.6%), urinary tract infection (0.4%), cellulitis (0.4%), diverticulitis 
(0.3%), and appendicitis (0.2%). Among opportunistic infections, TB and other mycobacterial 
infections, cryptococcus, histoplasmosis, oesophageal candidiasis, multidermatomal herpes zoster, 
cytomegalovirus infection, BK virus infections and listeriosis were reported with tofacitinib. Some 
patients have presented with disseminated rather than localised disease. Other serious infections that 
were not reported in clinical studies may also occur (e.g., coccidioidomycosis).
The most commonly reported adverse reactions during the first 3 months of the double-blind, placebo 
or MTX controlled clinical studies were headache (3.9%), upper respiratory tract infections (3.8%), 
viral upper respiratory tract infection (3.3%), diarrhoea (2.9%), nausea (2.7%), and hypertension 
(2.2%).
98
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse reactions during first 3 months 
of the double-blind, placebo or MTX controlled studies was 3.8% for patients taking tofacitinib. The 
most common infections resulting in discontinuation of therapy during the first 3 months in controlled 
clinical studies were herpes zoster (0.19%) and pneumonia (0.15%).
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The adverse reactions listed in the table below are from clinical studies in adult patients with RA, PsA, 
and UC and are presented by System Organ Class (SOC) and frequency categories, defined using the 
following convention: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to 
< 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), or not known (cannot be estimated 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order 
of decreasing seriousness.
Table 7: Adverse reactions
Common
≥1/100 to <1/10
System organ 
class
Uncommon
≥1/1,000 to
<1/100
Rare
≥1/10,000 to
<1/1,000
Very rare
<1/10,000
Not known 
(cannot be 
estimated from 
the available 
data)
Infections and 
infestations
Pneumonia
Influenza
Herpes zoster
Urinary tract 
infection
Sinusitis
Bronchitis
Nasopharyngitis
Pharyngitis
Tuberculosis 
Diverticulitis
Pyelonephritis
Cellulitis
Herpes simplex
Gastroenteritis viral
Viral infection 
Sepsis
Urosepsis
Disseminated 
TB
Bacteraemia
Pneumocystis 
jirovecii 
pneumonia
Pneumonia 
pneumococcal
Pneumonia 
bacterial
Cytomegalovir
us infection
Arthritis 
bacterial
Tuberculosis 
of central 
nervous 
system
Meningitis 
cryptococcal
Necrotizing 
fasciitis
Encephalitis
Staphylococca
l bacteraemia
Mycobacteriu
m avium
complex 
infection
Atypical 
mycobacterial 
infection
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (incl 
cysts and polyps)
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Psychiatric 
disorders
Nervous system 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
Lung cancer
Non-melanoma skin 
cancers
Lymphoma
Lymphopenia
Anaemia
Leukopenia
Neutropenia
Dyslipidaemia
Hyperlipidaemia
Dehydration
Insomnia
Headache
Paraesthesia
Hypersensitivity
*
Angioedema*
Urticaria*
Vascular 
disorders
Hypertension
Myocardial 
infarction
Venous 
thromboembolism**
99
System organ 
class
Common
≥1/100 to <1/10
Uncommon
≥1/1,000 to
<1/100
Rare
≥1/10,000 to
<1/1,000
Very rare
<1/10,000
Not known 
(cannot be 
estimated from 
the available 
data)
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Cough
Dyspnoea
Sinus congestion
Abdominal pain
Vomiting
Diarrhoea
Nausea
Gastritis
Dyspepsia
Liver function 
test abnormal
Musculoskelet
al pain
Hepatic steatosis
Hepatic enzyme 
increased
Transaminases 
increased
Gamma glutamyl-
transferase increased
Erythema
Pruritus
Joint swelling
Tendonitis
Pyrexia
Fatigue
Blood creatinine 
increased
Blood cholesterol 
increased
Low density 
lipoprotein increased
Weight increased
Ligament sprain
Muscle strain
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Rash
Acne
Arthralgia
Oedema 
peripheral
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications
*Spontaneous reporting data
**Venous thromboembolism includes PE, DVT, and Retinal Venous Thrombosis
Description of selected adverse reactions
Venous thromboembolism
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362), randomised post-authorisation safety study of rheumatoid arthritis patients who 
were 50 years of age and older and had at least one additional cardiovascular (CV) risk factor, VTE 
was observed at an increased and dose-dependent incidence in patients treated with tofacitinib 
compared to TNF inhibitors (see section 5.1). The majority of these events were serious and some 
resulted in death. The incidence rates (95% CI) for PE for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib
10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.17 (0.08-0.33), 0.50 (0.32-0.74), and 0.06 
(0.01-0.17) patients with events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Compared with TNF inhibitors, 
the hazard ratio (HR) for PE was 2.93 (0.79-10.83) and 8.26 (2.49, 27.43) for tofacitinib 5 mg twice 
daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, respectively (see section 5.1). In tofacitinib-treated patients 
where PE was observed, the majority (97%) had VTE risk factors
Overall infections
100
Rheumatoid arthritis
In controlled phase 3 clinical studies, the rates of infections over 0-3 months in the 5 mg twice daily 
(total 616 patients) and 10 mg twice daily (total 642 patients) tofacitinib monotherapy groups were 
16.2% (100 patients) and 17.9% (115 patients), respectively, compared to 18.9% (23 patients) in the 
placebo group (total 122 patients). In controlled phase 3 clinical studies with background DMARDs, 
the rates of infections over 0-3 months in the 5 mg twice daily (total 973 patients) and 10 mg twice 
daily (total 969 patients) tofacitinib plus DMARD group were 21.3% (207 patients) and 
21.8% (211 patients), respectively, compared to 18.4% (103 patients) in the placebo plus DMARD 
group (total 559 patients).
The most commonly reported infections were upper respiratory tract infections and nasopharyngitis 
(3.7% and 3.2%, respectively).
The overall incidence rate of infections with tofacitinib in the long-term safety all exposure population 
(total 4,867 patients) was 46.1 patients with events per 100 patient-years (43.8 and 47.2 patients with 
events for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively). For patients (total 1,750) on monotherapy, the 
rates were 48.9 and 41.9 patients with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively. For patients (total 3,117) on background DMARDs, the rates were 41.0 and 50.3 patients 
with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
Serious infections
Rheumatoid arthritis
In the 6-month and 24-month, controlled clinical studies, the rate of serious infections in the 5 mg 
twice daily tofacitinib monotherapy group was 1.7 patients with events per 100 patient-years. In the 
10 mg twice daily tofacitinib monotherapy group the rate was 1.6 patients with events per 
100 patient-years, the rate was 0 events per 100 patient-years for the placebo group, and the rate was 
1.9 patients with events per 100 patient-years for the MTX group.
In studies of 6-, 12-, or 24-month duration, the rates of serious infections in the 5 mg twice daily and 
10 mg twice daily tofacitinib plus DMARD groups were 3.6 and 3.4 patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively, compared to 1.7 patients with events per 100 patient-years in the 
placebo plus DMARD group.
In the long-term safety all exposure population, the overall rates of serious infections were 2.4 and 
3.0 patients with events per 100 patient-years for 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily tofacitinib groups, 
respectively. The most common serious infections included pneumonia, herpes zoster, urinary tract 
infection, cellulitis, gastroenteritis and diverticulitis. Cases of opportunistic infections have been 
reported (see section 4.4).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, a dose-dependent increase in 
serious infections was observed with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see section 4.4).
The incidence rates (95% CI) for serious infections for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily, and TNF inhibitors were 2.86 (2.41, 3.37), 3.64 (3.11, 4.23), and 2.44 (2.02, 2.92) patients 
with events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Compared with TNF inhibitors, the hazard ratio (HR) 
for serious infections was 1.17 (0.92, 1.50) and 1.48 (1.17, 1.87) for tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily and 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, respectively.
Viral reactivation
Patients treated with tofacitinib who are Japanese or Korean, or patients with long standing RA who
have previously received two or more biological DMARDs, or patients with an ALC less 
101
than 1,000 cells/mm3, or patients treated with 10 mg twice daily may have an increased risk of herpes 
zoster (see section 4.4).
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, an increase in herpes zoster 
events was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. The incidence 
rates (95% CI) for herpes zoster for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and 
TNF inhibitors were 3.75 (3.22, 4.34), 3.94 (3.38, 4.57), and 1.18 (0.90, 1.52) patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively.
Laboratory tests
Lymphocytes
In the controlled RA clinical studies, confirmed decreases in ALC below 500 cells/mm3 occurred in 
0.3% of patients and for ALC between 500 and 750 cells/mm3 in 1.9% of patients for the 5 mg twice 
daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined.
In the RA long-term safety population, confirmed decreases in ALC below 500 cells/mm3 occurred in 
1.3% of patients and for ALC between 500 and 750 cells/mm3 in 8.4% of patients for the 5 mg twice 
daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined.
Confirmed ALC less than 750 cells/mm3 were associated with an increased incidence of serious 
infections (see section 4.4).
Neutrophils
In the controlled RA clinical studies, confirmed decreases in ANC below 1,000 cells/mm3 occurred in 
0.08% of patients for the 5 mg twice daily and 10 mg twice daily doses combined. There were no 
confirmed decreases in ANC below 500 cells/mm3 observed in any treatment group. There was no 
clear relationship between neutropenia and the occurrence of serious infections.
In the RA long-term safety population, the pattern and incidence of confirmed decreases in ANC 
remained consistent with what was seen in the controlled clinical studies (see section 4.4).
Liver enzyme tests
Confirmed increases in liver enzymes greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal (3x ULN) were 
uncommonly observed in RA patients. In those patients experiencing liver enzyme elevation, 
modification of treatment regimen, such as reduction in the dose of concomitant DMARD, 
interruption of tofacitinib, or reduction in tofacitinib dose, resulted in decrease or normalisation of 
liver enzymes.
In the controlled portion of the RA phase 3 monotherapy study (0-3 months) (study I, see section 5.1), 
ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 1.65%, 0.41%, and 0% of patients receiving 
placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In this study, AST elevations greater 
than 3x ULN were observed in 1.65%, 0.41% and 0% of patients receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg 
and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
In the RA phase 3 monotherapy study (0-24 months) (study VI, see section 5.1), ALT elevations 
greater than 3x ULN were observed in 7.1%, 3.0%, and 3.0% of patients receiving MTX, tofacitinib 
5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In this study, AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were 
observed in 3.3%, 1.6% and 1.5% of patients receiving MTX, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively.
In the controlled portion of the RA phase 3 studies on background DMARDs (0-3 months) 
(studies II-V, see section 5.1), ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 0.9%, 1.24% 
and 1.14% of patients receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. In these 
studies, AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in 0.72%, 0.5% and 0.31% of patients 
receiving placebo, tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively.
102
In the RA long-term extension studies, on monotherapy, ALT elevations greater than 3x ULN were 
observed in 1.1% and 1.4% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, respectively. 
AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in < 1.0% in both the tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg 
twice daily groups.
In the RA long-term extension studies, on background DMARDs, ALT elevations greater than 
3x ULN were observed in 1.8% and 1.6% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg and 10 mg twice daily, 
respectively. AST elevations greater than 3x ULN were observed in < 1.0% in both the tofacitinib 
5 mg and 10 mg twice daily groups. 
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, ALT elevations greater than or 
equal to 3x ULN were observed in 6.01%, 6.54% and 3.77% of patients receiving tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors respectively. AST elevations greater 
than or equal to 3x ULN were observed in 3.21%, 4.57% and 2.38% of patients receiving tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitors respectively.
Lipids
Elevations in lipid parameters (total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides) 
were first assessed at 1 month following initiation of tofacitinib in the controlled double-blind clinical 
studies of RA. Increases were observed at this time point and remained stable thereafter.
Changes in lipid parameters from baseline through the end of the study (6-24 months) in the controlled 
clinical studies in RA are summarised below:
 Mean LDL cholesterol increased by 15% in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 20% 
in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 12, and increased by 16% in the 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 19% in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at 
month 24.
 Mean HDL cholesterol increased by 17% in the tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 18% 
in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at month 12, and increased by 19% in the 
tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily arm and 20% in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily arm at 
month 24.
Upon withdrawal of tofacitinib treatment, lipid levels returned to baseline.
Mean LDL cholesterol/HDL cholesterol ratios and Apolipoprotein B (ApoB)/ApoA1 ratios were 
essentially unchanged in tofacitinib-treated patients.
In an RA controlled clinical study, elevations in LDL cholesterol and ApoB decreased to pretreatment 
levels in response to statin therapy.
In the RA long-term safety populations, elevations in the lipid parameters remained consistent with 
what was seen in the controlled clinical studies.
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, changes in lipid parameters 
from baseline through 24 months are summarised below:
 Mean LDL cholesterol increased by 13.80%, 17.04%, and 5.50% in patients receiving tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitor, respectively, at month 12. At 
month 24, the increase was 12.71%, 18.14%, and 3.64%, respectively,
 Mean HDL cholesterol increased by 11.71%, 13.63%, and 2.82% in patients receiving tofacitinib 
5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF inhibitor, respectively, at month 12. At 
month 24, the increase was 11.58%, 13.54%, and 1.42%, respectively.
103
Myocardial infarction
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years of age or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, the incidence rates 
(95% CI) for non-fatal myocardial infarction for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.37 (0.22, 0.57), 0.33 (0.19, 0.53), and 0.16 (0.07, 0.31) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years, respectively. Few fatal myocardial infarctions were reported with rates 
similar in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). The 
study required at least 1500 patients to be followed for 3 years.
Malignancies excluding NMSC
Rheumatoid arthritis
In a large (N=4,362) randomised post-authorisation safety study in patients with RA who were 
50 years of age or older with at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor, the incidence rates 
(95% CI) for lung cancer for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, and TNF 
inhibitors were 0.23 (0.12, 0.40), 0.32 (0.18, 0.51), and 0.13 (0.05, 0.26) patients with events per 
100 patient-years, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). The study required at least 1500 patients to 
be followed for 3 years.
The incidence rates (95% CI) for lymphoma for tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 10 mg twice 
daily, and TNF inhibitors were 0.07 (0.02, 0.18), 0.11 (0.04, 0.24), and 0.02 (0.00, 0.10) patients with 
events per 100 patient-years, respectively (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).
Paediatric population
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile PsA 
The adverse reactions in JIA patients in the clinical development program were consistent in type and 
frequency with those seen in adult RA patients, with the exception of some infections (influenza, 
pharyngitis, sinusitis, viral infection) and gastrointestinal or general disorders (abdominal pain, 
nausea, vomiting, pyrexia, headache, cough), which were more common in JIA paediatric population.
MTX was the most frequent concomitant csDMARD used (on Day 1, 156 of 157 patients on 
csDMARDs took MTX). There are insufficient data regarding the safety profile of tofacitinib used 
concomitantly with any other csDMARDs.
Infections
In the double-blind portion of the pivotal Phase 3 trial (Study JIA-I), infection was the most 
commonly reported adverse reaction (44.3%). The infections were generally mild to moderate in 
severity. 
In the integrated safety population, 7 patients had serious infections during treatment with tofacitinib 
within the reporting period (up to 28 days after the last dose of study medication), representing an 
incidence rate of 1.92 patients with events per 100 patient-years: pneumonia, epidural empyema (with 
sinusitis and subperiosteal abscess), pilonidal cyst, appendicitis, escherichia pyelonephritis, abscess 
limb, and UTI.
In the integrated safety population, 3 patients had non-serious events of herpes zoster within the 
reporting window representing an incidence rate of 0.82 patients with events per 100 patient-years. 
One (1) additional patient had an event of serious HZ outside the reporting window.
Hepatic events
Patients in the JIA pivotal study were required to have AST and ALT levels less than 1.5 times the 
upper limit of normal to be eligible for enrolment. In the integrated safety population, there were 
2 patients with ALT elevations ≥3 times the ULN at 2 consecutive visits. Neither event met Hy’s Law 
104
criteria. Both patients were on background MTX therapy and each event resolved after discontinuation 
of MTX and permanent discontinuation of tofacitinib.
Laboratory tests
Changes in laboratory tests in JIA patients in the clinical development program were consistent with 
those seen in adult RA patients. Patients in the JIA pivotal study were required to have a platelet count 
≥100,000 cells/mm3 to be eligible for enrolment, therefore, there is no information available for JIA 
patients with a platelet count <100,000 cells/mm3 before starting treatment with tofacitinib.  
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
In case of an overdose, it is recommended that the patient be monitored for signs and symptoms of 
adverse reactions. There is no specific antidote for overdose with tofacitinib. Treatment should be 
symptomatic and supportive.
Pharmacokinetic data up to and including a single dose of 100 mg in healthy volunteers indicate that 
more than 95% of the administered dose is expected to be eliminated within 24 hours.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic groups: Immunosuppressants, Selective Immunosuppressants; ATC 
code: L04AA29
Mechanism of action
Tofacitinib is a potent, selective inhibitor of the JAK family. In enzymatic assays, tofacitinib inhibits 
JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, and to a lesser extent TyK2. In contrast, tofacitinib has a high degree of 
selectivity against other kinases in the human genome. In human cells, tofacitinib preferentially 
inhibits signalling by heterodimeric cytokine receptors that associate with JAK3 and/or JAK1 with 
functional selectivity over cytokine receptors that signal via pairs of JAK2. Inhibition of JAK1 and 
JAK3 by tofacitinib attenuates signalling of interleukins (IL-2, -4, -6, -7, -9, -15, -21) and type I and 
type II interferons, which will result in modulation of the immune and inflammatory response.
Pharmacodynamic effects
In patients with RA, treatment up to 6 months with tofacitinib was associated with dose-dependent 
reductions of circulating CD16/56+ natural killer (NK) cells, with estimated maximum reductions 
occurring at approximately 8-10 weeks after initiation of therapy. These changes generally resolved 
within 2-6 weeks after discontinuation of treatment. Treatment with tofacitinib was associated with 
dose-dependent increases in B cell counts. Changes in circulating T-lymphocyte counts and 
T-lymphocyte subsets (CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+) were small and inconsistent.
Following long-term treatment (median duration of tofacitinib treatment of approximately 5 years), 
CD4+ and CD8+ counts showed median reductions of 28% and 27%, respectively, from baseline. In 
contrast to the observed decrease after short-term dosing, CD16/56+ natural killer cell counts showed 
a median increase of 73% from baseline. CD19+ B cell counts showed no further increases after 
105
long-term tofacitinib treatment. All these lymphocyte subset changes returned toward baseline after 
temporary discontinuation of treatment. There was no evidence of a relationship between serious or 
opportunistic infections or herpes zoster and lymphocyte subset counts (see section 4.2 for absolute 
lymphocyte count monitoring).
Changes in total serum IgG, IgM, and IgA levels over 6-month tofacitinib dosing in patients with RA 
were small, not dose-dependent and similar to those seen on placebo, indicating a lack of systemic 
humoral suppression.
After treatment with tofacitinib in RA patients, rapid decreases in serum C-reactive protein (CRP) 
were observed and maintained throughout dosing. Changes in CRP observed with tofacitinib treatment 
do not reverse fully within 2 weeks after discontinuation, indicating a longer duration of 
pharmacodynamic activity compared to the half-life.
Vaccine studies
In a controlled clinical study of patients with RA initiating tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily or placebo, 
the number of responders to influenza vaccine was similar in both groups: tofacitinib (57%) and 
placebo (62%). For pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine the number of responders was as follows: 
32% in patients receiving both tofacitinib and MTX; 62% for tofacitinib monotherapy; 62% for MTX 
monotherapy; and 77% for placebo. The clinical significance of this is unknown, however, similar 
results were obtained in a separate vaccine study with influenza and pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccines in patients receiving long-term tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
A controlled study was conducted in patients with RA on background MTX immunised with a live 
attenuated herpes virus vaccine 2 to 3 weeks before initiating a 12-week treatment with tofacitinib
5 mg twice daily or placebo. Evidence of humoral and cell-mediated responses to VZV was observed 
in both tofacitinib and placebo-treated patients at 6 weeks. These responses were similar to those 
observed in healthy volunteers aged 50 years and older. A patient with no previous history of varicella 
infection and no anti-varicella antibodies at baseline experienced dissemination of the vaccine strain 
of varicella 16 days after vaccination. Tofacitinib was discontinued and the patient recovered after 
treatment with standard doses of antiviral medicinal product. This patient subsequently made a robust, 
though delayed, humoral and cellular response to the vaccine (see section 4.4).
Clinical efficacy and safety
Clinical response
The tofacitinib Phase 3 program for JIA consisted of one completed Phase 3 trial (Study JIA-I 
[A3921104]) and one ongoing long-term extension (LTE) (A3921145) trial. In these studies the 
following JIA subgroups were included: patients with either RF+ or RF- polyarthritis, extended 
oligoarthritis, systemic JIA with active arthritis and no current systemic symptoms (referred as pJIA 
dataset) and two separate subgroups of patients with juvenile PsA and enthesitis-related arthritis 
(ERA). However, the pJIA efficacy population only includes the subgroups with either RF+ or RF-
polyarthritis or extended oligoarthritis; inconclusive results have been seen in the subgroup of patients 
with systemic JIA with active arthritis and no current systemic symptoms. Patients with juvenile PsA 
are included as separate efficacy subgroup. ERA patients are not included in the efficacy analysis.
All eligible patients in Study JIA-I received open-label tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily 
or tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice daily for 18 weeks (run-in phase); patients 
who achieved at least a JIA ACR30 response at the end of the open-label phase were randomised (1:1) 
to either active tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets or tofacitinib oral solution, or placebo in the 
26-week double-blind, placebo-controlled phase. Patients who did not achieve a JIA ACR30 response 
at the end of the open-label run-in phase or experienced a single episode of disease flare at any time 
were discontinued from the study. A total of 225 patients were enrolled in the open-label run-in phase. 
Of these, 173 (76.9%) patients were eligible to be randomised into the double-blind phase to either 
active tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets or tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice 
106
daily (n=88) or placebo (n=85). There were 58 (65.9%) patients in the tofacitinib group and 
58 (68.2%) patients in the placebo group taking MTX during the double-blind phase, which was 
permitted but not required per the protocol.
There were 133 patients with pJIA [RF+ or RF- polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis] and 15 with 
juvenile PsA randomised into the double-blind phase of the study and included in the efficacy analyses 
presented below.
Signs and symptoms
A significantly smaller proportion of patients with pJIA in Study JIA-I treated with tofacitinib 5 mg 
film-coated tablets twice daily or tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice daily flared at 
Week 44 compared with patients treated with placebo. A significantly greater proportion of patients 
with pJIA treated with tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets or tofacitinib oral solution achieved JIA 
ACR30, 50, and 70 responses compared to patients treated with placebo at Week 44 (Table 8). 
The occurrence of disease flare and JIA ACR30/50/70 results were favourable to tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily in comparison to placebo across the RF+ polyarthritis, RF- polyarthritis, extended 
oligoarthritis, and jPsA JIA subtypes and were consistent with those for the overall population.
The occurrence of disease flare and JIA ACR30/50/70 results were favourable to tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily in comparison to placebo for pJIA patients who received tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily with 
concomitant MTX use on Day 1 [n=101 (76%)] and those who were on tofacitinib monotherapy [n=32 
(24%)]. In addition, the occurrence of disease flare and JIA ACR30/50/70 results were also favourable 
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily compared to placebo for pJIA patients who had prior bDMARD 
experience [n=39 (29%)] and those who were bDMARD naïve [n=94 (71%)].  
In Study JIA-I, at Week 2 of the open-label run-in phase, the JIA ACR30 response in patients with 
pJIA was 45.03%. 
Table 8: Primary and secondary efficacy endpoints in patients with pJIA at Week 44* in Study 
JIA-I (all p-values<0.05)
Primary endpoint
(Type I error 
controlled)
Occurrence of disease 
flare 
Secondary endpoints
(Type I error 
controlled)
JIA ACR30
JIA ACR50
JIA ACR70
Treatment group
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo
(N=66)
Treatment group
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo
(N=66)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo
(N=66)
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67)
Placebo 
(N=66)
Occurrence 
rate
28%
Difference (%) 
from placebo 
(95% CI)
-24.7 (-40.8, -8.5)
53%
Response 
rate
72%
Difference (%) 
from placebo 
(95% CI)
24.7 (8.50, 40.8)
20.2 (3.72, 36.7)
17.4 (0.65, 34.0)
47%
67%
47%
55%
38%
107
Secondary endpoint 
(Type I error 
controlled)
Change from Double-
Blind Baseline in 
CHAQ Disability 
Index 
Treatment group
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
Twice Daily
(N=67; n=46)
Placebo
(N=66; n=31)
LS mean 
(SEM)
-0.11 (0.04)
Difference from 
placebo (95% CI)
-0.11 (-0.22, -0.01)
0.00 (0.04)
ACR = American College of Rheumatology; CHAQ = childhood health assessment questionnaire; CI = 
confidence interval; JIA = juvenile idiopathic arthritis; LS = least squares; n = number of patients with 
observations at the visit; N = total number of patients; SEM = standard error of the mean
* The 26-week double-blind phase is from Week 18 through Week 44 on and after randomisation day.
The Type-I error-controlled endpoints are tested in this order: Disease Flare, JIA ACR50, JIA ACR30, 
JIA ACR70, CHAQ Disability Index.
In the double-blind phase, each of the components of the JIA ACR response showed greater 
improvement from the open-label baseline (Day 1) at Week 24 and Week 44 for patients with pJIA 
treated with tofacitinib oral solution dosed as 5 mg twice daily or weight-based equivalent twice daily 
compared with those receiving placebo in Study JIA-I.
Physical function and health-related quality of life
Changes in physical function in Study JIA-I were measured by the CHAQ Disability Index. The mean 
change from the double-blind baseline in CHAQ-Disability Index in patients with pJIA was 
significantly lower in the tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily or tofacitinib oral solution 
weight-based equivalent twice daily compared to placebo at Week 44 (Table 8). The mean change 
from the double-blind baseline in CHAQ Disability Index results were favourable to tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily in comparison to placebo across the RF+ polyarthritis, RF- polyarthritis, extended 
oligoarthritis, and jPsA JIA subtypes and were consistent with those for the overall study population.
Long-term controlled safety data in RA
Study ORAL Surveillance (A3921133) was a large (N=4362), randomised active-controlled 
post-authorisation safety surveillance study of rheumatoid arthritis patients who were 50 years of age 
and older and had at least one additional cardiovascular risk factor (CV risk factors defined as: current 
cigarette smoker, diagnosis of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, family history of premature coronary 
heart disease, history of coronary artery disease including a history of revascularization procedure, 
coronary artery bypass grafting, myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, unstable angina, acute coronary 
syndrome, and presence of extra-articular disease associated with RA, e.g. nodules, Sjögren’s 
syndrome, anaemia of chronic disease, pulmonary manifestations). The majority (more than 90%) of
tofacitinib patients who were current or past smokers had a smoking duration of more than 10 years 
and a median of 35.0 and 39.0 smoking years, respectively. Patients were required to be on a stable 
dose of methotrexate at study entry; dose adjustment was permitted during the study.
Patients were randomised to open-label tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily, tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily, or a 
TNF inhibitor (TNF inhibitor was either etanercept 50 mg once weekly or adalimumab 40 mg every 
other week) in a 1:1:1 ratio. The co-primary endpoints were adjudicated malignancies excluding 
NMSC and adjudicated major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE); cumulative incidence and 
statistical assessment of endpoints were blinded. The study was an event-powered study that also 
required at least 1500 patients to be followed for 3 years. The study treatment of tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice daily was stopped and patients were switched to 5 mg twice daily because of a dose-dependent 
signal of venous thromboembolic events (VTE). For patients in the tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
treatment arm, the data collected before and after the dose switch were analysed in their originally 
randomised treatment group.
The study did not meet the non-inferiority criterion for the primary comparison of the combined 
tofacitinib doses to TNF inhibitor since the upper limit of the 95% CI for HR exceeded the 
pre-specified non-inferiority criterion of 1.8 for adjudicated MACE and adjudicated malignancies 
excluding NMSC.
108
The results for adjudicated MACE, adjudicated malignancies excluding NMSC, and selected other 
events are provided below.
MACE (including myocardial infarction) and venous thromboembolism (VTE)
An increase in non-fatal myocardial infarction was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib 
compared to TNF inhibitor. A dose-dependent increase in VTE events was observed in patients treated 
with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitor (see sections 4.4 and 4.8).
Table 9: Incidence rate and hazard ratio for MACE, myocardial infarction and venous 
thromboembolism
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailya
All Tofacitinibb
TNF inhibitor 
(TNFi) 
1.03 (0.21, 5.11) 
0.33 (0.19, 0.53) 
0.03 (0.01, 0.09) 
1.43 (0.94, 2.18) 
0.98 (0.79, 1.19) 
0.50 (0.10, 2.49) 
1.05 (0.78, 1.38) 
0.06 (0.01, 0.18) 
1.33 (0.91, 1.94) 
0.00 (0.00, 0.07) 
0.37 (0.22, 0.57) 
0.91 (0.67, 1.21) 
0.73 (0.52, 1.01) 
0.06 (0.01, 0.17) 
MACEc 
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.24 (0.81, 1.91) 
Fatal MIc
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  0.00 (0.00, Inf) 
Non-fatal MIc
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  2.32 (1.02, 5.30) 
VTEd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
PEd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
DVTd
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
a The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
8.26 (2.49, 27.43)
5.53 (1.70, 18.02)
2.93 (0.79, 10.83)
0.16 (0.07, 0.31) 
2.20 (1.02, 4.75) 
0.35 (0.24, 0.48) 
2.08 (0.89, 4.86) 
0.14 (0.06, 0.29)
0.06 (0.01, 0.17)
0.20 (0.10, 0.37)
0.21 (0.11, 0.38)
1.54 (0.60, 3.97)
0.33 (0.19, 0.53)
0.17 (0.08, 0.33)
1.66 (0.76, 3.63)
0.51 (0.38, 0.67)
2.56 (1.30, 5.05)
0.26 (0.17, 0.38)
1.87 (0.81, 4.30)
0.50 (0.32, 0.74)
2.21 (0.90, 5.43)
0.70 (0.49, 0.99)
3.52 (1.74, 7.12)
0.33 (0.23, 0.46)
0.31 (0.17, 0.51)
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification. 
b Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily. 
c Based on events occurring on treatment or within 60 days of treatment discontinuation. 
d Based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment discontinuation.
Abbreviations: MACE = major adverse cardiovascular events, MI = myocardial infarction, VTE = venous thromboembolism, PE = 
pulmonary embolism, DVT = deep vein thrombosis, TNF = tumour necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = 
confidence interval, PY = patient years, Inf = infinity
The following predictive factors for development of MI (fatal and non-fatal) were identified using a 
multivariate Cox model with backward selection: age ≥65 years, male, current or past smoking, 
history of diabetes, and history of coronary artery disease (which includes myocardial infarction, 
coronary heart disease, stable angina pectoris, or coronary artery procedures) (see sections 4.4 and 
4.8).
Malignancies
An increase in malignancies excluding NMSC, particularly lung cancer, lymphoma and an increase in 
NMSC was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitor.
109
Table 10: Incidence rate and hazard ratio for malignanciesa
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailyb
All Tofacitinibc
TNF inhibitor 
(TNFi) 
1.48 (1.04, 2.09)
1.13 (0.86, 1.45)
1.13 (0.94, 1.35)
0.28 (0.19, 0.39)
0.32 (0.18, 0.51)
1.48 (1.00, 2.19)
1.13 (0.87, 1.45)
0.23 (0.12, 0.40)
0.77 (0.55, 1.04)
Malignancies excluding NMSC
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.47 (1.00, 2.18)
Lung cancer
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  1.84 (0.74, 4.62)
Lymphoma
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY 
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi  3.99 (0.45, 35.70)
NMSC
IR (95% CI) per 100 
PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
a For malignancies excluding NMSC, lung cancer, and lymphoma, based on events occurring on treatment or after treatment 
discontinuation up to the end of the study. For NMSC based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment 
discontinuation.
b The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily 
5.09 (0.65, 39.78)
6.24 (0.75, 51.86)
0.13 (0.05, 0.26)
0.02 (0.00, 0.10)
0.32 (0.18, 0.52)
0.07 (0.02, 0.18)
1.90 (1.04, 3.47)
0.61 (0.41, 0.86)
2.16 (1.19, 3.92)
0.09 (0.04, 0.17)
2.17 (0.95, 4.93)
2.02 (1.17, 3.50)
0.69 (0.47, 0.96)
0.11 (0.04, 0.24)
2.50 (1.04, 6.02)
0.64 (0.50, 0.82)
to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification. 
c Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily. 
Abbreviations: NMSC = non melanoma skin cancer, TNF = tumour necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = 
confidence interval, PY = patient years
The following predictive factors for development of malignancies excluding NMSC were identified 
using a Multivariate Cox model with backward selection: age ≥65 years and current or past smoking 
(see section 4.4 and 4.8).
Mortality
Increased mortality was observed in patients treated with tofacitinib compared to TNF inhibitors. 
Mortality was mainly due to cardiovascular events, infections and malignancies. 
Table 11:
Incidence rate and hazard ratio for mortalitya
Tofacitinib 5 mg 
twice daily
Tofacitinib 10 mg 
twice dailyb
All Tofacitinibc
TNF inhibitor
(TNFi)
0.34 (0.20, 0.54)
0.50 (0.33, 0.74)
1.49 (0.81, 2.74)
0.80 (0.57, 1.09)
2.37 (1.34, 4.18)
0.65 (0.50, 0.82)
1.91 (1.12, 3.27)
0.08 (0.02, 0.20)
1.30 (0.29, 5.79)
0.18 (0.08, 0.35)
3.10 (0.84, 11.45)
0.13 (0.07, 0.22)
2.17 (0.62, 7.62)
0.06 (0.01, 0.17)
0.25 (0.13, 0.43)
1.26 (0.55, 2.88)
0.41 (0.25, 0.63)
2.05 (0.96, 4.39)
0.33 (0.23, 0.46)
1.65 (0.81, 3.34)
0.20 (0.10, 0.36)
Mortality (all cause)
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal infections
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal CV events
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
Fatal Malignancies
IR (95% CI) per 100 PY
HR (95% CI) vs TNFi
0.10 (0.03, 0.23)
4.88 (0.57, 41.74)
a Based on events occurring on treatment or within 28 days of treatment discontinuation.
b The tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily treatment group includes data from patients that were switched from tofacitinib 10 mg 
0.05 (0.02, 0.12)
2.53 (0.30, 21.64)
0.00 (0.00, 0.08)
0 (0.00, Inf)
0.02 (0.00, 0.11)
twice daily to tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily as a result of a study modification.
c Combined tofacitinib 5 mg twice daily and tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily.
Abbreviations: TNF = tumor necrosis factor, IR = incidence rate, HR = hazard ratio, CI = confidence interval, PY = patient 
years, CV = cardiovascular, Inf = infinity
110
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
The PK profile of tofacitinib is characterised by rapid absorption (peak plasma concentrations are 
reached within 0.5-1 hour), rapid elimination (half-life of ~3 hours) and dose-proportional increases in 
systemic exposure. Steady state concentrations are achieved in 24-48 hours with negligible 
accumulation after twice daily administration.
Absorption and distribution
Tofacitinib is well-absorbed, with an oral bioavailability of 74%. Coadministration of tofacitinib with 
a high-fat meal resulted in no changes in AUC while Cmax was reduced by 32%. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was administered without regard to meal.
After intravenous administration, the volume of distribution is 87 L. Approximately 40% of 
circulating tofacitinib is bound to plasma proteins. Tofacitinib binds predominantly to albumin and 
does not appear to bind to 1-acid glycoprotein. Tofacitinib distributes equally between red blood 
cells and plasma.
Biotransformation and elimination
Clearance mechanisms for tofacitinib are approximately 70% hepatic metabolism and 30% renal 
excretion of the parent drug. The metabolism of tofacitinib is primarily mediated by CYP3A4 with 
minor contribution from CYP2C19. In a human radiolabelled study, more than 65% of the total 
circulating radioactivity was accounted for by unchanged active substance, with the remaining 35% 
attributed to 8 metabolites, each accounting for less than 8% of total radioactivity. All metabolites 
have been observed in animal species and are predicted to have less than 10-fold potency than 
tofacitinib for JAK1/3 inhibition. No evidence of stereo conversion in human samples was detected. 
The pharmacologic activity of tofacitinib is attributed to the parent molecule. In vitro, tofacitinib is a 
substrate for MDR1, but not for breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP), OATP1B1/1B3, or OCT1/2.
Renal impairment
Subjects with mild (creatinine clearance 50-80 mL/min), moderate (creatinine clearance 
30-49 mL/min), and severe (creatinine clearance < 30 mL/min) renal impairment had 37%, 43% and 
123% higher AUC, respectively, compared to subjects with normal renal function (see section 4.2). In 
subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), contribution of dialysis to the total clearance of 
tofacitinib was relatively small. Following a single dose of 10 mg, mean AUC in subjects with ESRD 
based on concentrations measured on a non-dialysis day was approximately 40% (90% confidence 
intervals: 1.5-95%) higher compared to subjects with normal renal function. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was not evaluated in patients with baseline creatinine clearance values (estimated by 
Cockcroft-Gault equation) less than 40 mL/min (see section 4.2).
Hepatic impairment
Subjects with mild (Child Pugh A) and moderate (Child Pugh B) hepatic impairment had 3%, and 
65% higher AUC, respectively, compared to subjects with normal hepatic function. In clinical studies, 
tofacitinib was not evaluated in subjects with severe (Child Pugh C) hepatic impairment (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.4), or in patients screened positive for hepatitis B or C.
Interactions
Tofacitinib is not an inhibitor or inducer of CYPs (CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, and CYP3A4) and is not an inhibitor of UGTs (UGT1A1, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, 
and UGT2B7). Tofacitinib is not an inhibitor of MDR1, OATP1B1/1B3, OCT2, OAT1/3, or MRP at 
clinically meaningful concentrations.
111
Pharmacokinetics in paediatric patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Population PK analysis based on results from both tofacitinib 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily and 
tofacitinib oral solution weight-based equivalent twice daily indicated that tofacitinib clearance and 
volume of distribution both decreased with decreasing body weight in JIA patients. The available data 
indicated that there were no clinically relevant differences in tofacitinib exposure (AUC), based on 
age, race, gender, patient type or baseline disease severity. The between-subject variability 
(% coefficient of variation) in (AUC) was estimated to be approximately 24%.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
In non-clinical studies, effects were observed on the immune and haematopoietic systems that were 
attributed to the pharmacological properties (JAK inhibition) of tofacitinib. Secondary effects from 
immunosuppression, such as bacterial and viral infections and lymphoma were observed at clinically 
relevant doses. Lymphoma was observed in 3 of 8 adult monkeys at 6 or 3 times the clinical tofacitinib 
exposure level (unbound AUC in humans at a dose of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily), and 0 of 14 juvenile 
monkeys at 5 or 2.5 times the clinical exposure level of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Exposure in 
monkeys at the no observed adverse effect level (NOAEL) for the lymphomas was approximately 1 or 
0.5 times the clinical exposure level of 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Other findings at doses exceeding 
human exposures included effects on the hepatic and gastrointestinal systems.
Tofacitinib is not mutagenic or genotoxic based on the results of a series of in vitro and in vivo tests 
for gene mutations and chromosomal aberrations.
The carcinogenic potential of tofacitinib was assessed in 6-month rasH2 transgenic mouse 
carcinogenicity and 2-year rat carcinogenicity studies. Tofacitinib was not carcinogenic in mice at 
exposures up to 38 or 19 times the clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Benign 
testicular interstitial (Leydig) cell tumours were observed in rats: benign Leydig cell tumours in rats 
are not associated with a risk of Leydig cell tumours in humans. Hibernomas (malignancy of brown 
adipose tissue) were observed in female rats at exposures greater than or equal to 83 or 41 times the 
clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily. Benign thymomas were observed in female rats 
at 187 or 94 times the clinical exposure level at 5 mg or 10 mg twice daily.
Tofacitinib was shown to be teratogenic in rats and rabbits, and have effects in rats on female fertility 
(decreased pregnancy rate; decreases in the numbers of corpora lutea, implantation sites, and viable 
foetuses; and an increase in early resorptions), parturition, and peri/postnatal development. Tofacitinib 
had no effects on male fertility, sperm motility or sperm concentration. Tofacitinib was secreted in 
milk of lactating rats at concentrations approximately 2-fold those in serum from 1 to 8 hours 
postdose. In studies conducted in juvenile rats and monkeys, there were no tofacitinib-related effects 
on bone development in males or females, at exposures similar to those achieved at approved doses in 
humans.
No tofacitinib-related findings were observed in juvenile animal studies that indicate a higher 
sensitivity of paediatric populations compared with adults. In the juvenile rat fertility study, there was 
no evidence of developmental toxicity, no effects on sexual maturation, and no evidence of 
reproductive toxicity (mating and fertility) was noted after sexual maturity. In 1-month juvenile rat 
and 39-week juvenile monkey studies tofacitinib-related effects on immune and haematology 
parameters consistent with JAK1/3 and JAK2 inhibition were observed. These effects were reversible 
and consistent with those also observed in adult animals at similar exposures.  
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Grape flavour [containing propylene glycol (E1520), glycerin (E422), and natural flavours]
Hydrochloric acid 
Lactic acid (E270)
112
Purified water
Sodium benzoate (E211)
Sucralose (E955)
Xylitol (E967)
6.2
Incompatibilities
Not applicable.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years.
Shelf life after first opening
Should be discarded after 60 days of first opening.
6.4
Special precautions for storage
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original bottle and package in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions after first opening of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
White coloured HDPE 250 mL bottles containing 240 mL of oral solution with a child resistant, 
polypropylene cap with PP liner sealed by aluminium-foil heat-induction seal and a 5 mL oral dosing 
syringe with 3.2 mL, 4 mL, and 5 mL graduations.
The container closure system also includes a low-density polyethylene (LDPE) press-in bottle adapter 
(PIBA).
Pack size: each pack contains one bottle, one press-in bottle adapter, and one oral dosing syringe.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/17/1178/015
113
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 22 March 2017
Date of renewal of the authorisation: 04 March 2022
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
114
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
115
A. MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstätte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
Pfizer Service Company BV
Hoge Wei 10
1930 Zaventem
Belgium
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch.
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2).
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT  

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
 At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
 Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.

Additional risk minimisation measures
Prior to launch of XELJANZ in each Member State, the MAH must agree about the content and 
format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution modalities, 
and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. The MAH 
shall ensure that in each Member State where XELJANZ is marketed, healthcare professionals 
who intend to prescribe XELJANZ have been provided with an educational package.
116
The main objective of the programme is to increase awareness about the risks of the product, 
specifically in regards to all-cause mortality, serious infections, venous thromboembolism (deep 
vein thrombosis [DVT] and pulmonary embolism [PE]), cardiovascular risk (excluding 
myocardial infarction [MI]), MI, herpes zoster, tuberculosis (TB) and other opportunistic 
infections, malignancy (particularly lymphoma and lung cancer), NMSC, gastrointestinal 
perforations, interstitial lung disease, and laboratory abnormalities.
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where XELJANZ is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe or use XELJANZ have access to/are 
provided with the following educational package:
Physician educational material 
Patient information pack


 The physician educational material should contain:
o The Summary of Product Characteristics
o Guide for healthcare professionals
o Prescriber checklist
o Patient alert card
o A reference to the website with the educational material and patient alert card
 The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements:
o Relevant information of the safety concerns addressed by the aRMM (e.g. seriousness, 
severity, frequency, time to onset, reversibility of the AE as applicable)
o Details of the population at higher risk for the safety concern addressed by the aRMM (i.e. 
contraindications, risk factors, increased risk by interactions with certain medicine)
o Details of the populations at higher risk for VTE, cardiovascular risk including MI, and 
malignancy (including lymphoma and lung cancer)
o Details on use of XELJANZ in patients 65 years of age and older, including information 
on the specific risks in this population (e.g. serious infections, myocardial infarction, 
malignancy, all-cause mortality), and details on how to minimise the risks of tofacitinib in 
patients 65 years of age and older in clinical practice, i.e. the recommendation that 
tofacitinib should only be used in patients 65 years of age and older if no suitable 
treatment alternatives are available
o Details on how to minimise the safety concerns addressed by the aRMM through 
appropriate monitoring and management (i.e. who may receive the medicine, what to do, 
what not do, and who is most likely be impacted according to different scenarios, like 
when to limit or stop prescribing/ingestion, how to administer the medicine, when to 
increase/decrease the dose according to laboratory measurements, signs and symptoms)
o Details on how to minimise the risks of VTE, cardiovascular risk including MI, and 
malignancy (including lymphoma, lung cancer, and NMSC) in clinical practice, i.e.: 
o VTE: Tofacitinib should be used with caution in patients with known VTE risk 
factors.
o MACE and MI: In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or 
past long-time smokers and patients with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease or other cardiovascular risk factors, tofacitinib should only be used if no 
suitable treatment alternatives are available 
o Malignancies: In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or 
past long-time smokers and patients with other malignancy risk factors (e.g. 
current malignancy or history of malignancy other than a successfully treated non-
melanoma skin cancer), tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment 
alternatives are available
o Posology UC maintenance treatment: Tofacitinib 10 mg twice daily is not 
recommended for maintenance treatment in patients with UC who have known 
VTE, MACE and malignancy risk factors, unless there is no suitable alternative 
treatment available
117
o Key message to convey in patients counselling 
o Instructions on how to handle possible adverse events
o Information about the BSRBR, ARTIS, RABBIT, BIODABASER, UC registries, and 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) and juvenile psoriatic arthritis registries 
and the importance of contributing to these
o Vaccination course to be completed before treatment as it is recommended that live 
vaccines not be given concurrently with tofacitinib
 The Prescriber checklist shall contain the following key messages:
o Lists of tests to be conducted during the initial screening and maintenance of the patient
o Vaccination course to be completed before treatment
o A specific reference to the fact that the patient has been informed and understands that 
tofacitinib is contraindicated during pregnancy and breast-feeding and women of 
childbearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with tofacitinib 
and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose
o That the benefit risk of tofacitinib should be discussed with the patient, and the patient 
alert card should be given to and discussed with the patient
o Relevant comorbidities for which caution is advised when XELJANZ is administered and 
conditions in which XELJANZ should not be administered
o Guidance to minimise the risk of cardiovascular events including MI and malignancy 
(including lymphoma, lung cancer, and NMSC), i.e.:
o MACE and MI: In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or 
past long-time smokers and patients with history of atherosclerotic cardiovascular 
disease or other cardiovascular risk factors, tofacitinib should only be used if no 
suitable treatment alternatives are available
o Malignancies: In patients 65 years of age and older, patients who are current or 
past long-time smokers and patients with other malignancy risk factors (e.g. 
current malignancy or history of malignancy other than a successfully treated non-
melanoma skin cancer), tofacitinib should only be used if no suitable treatment 
alternatives are available
o Guidance that in patients 65 years of age and older tofacitinib should only be used 
if no suitable treatment alternatives are available 
o List of concomitant medications which are not compatible with treatment with XELJANZ
o The need to discuss with the patients the risks associated with the use of XELJANZ, 
specifically in regards to all-cause mortality, infections, venous thromboembolism (deep 
vein thrombosis [DVT] and pulmonary embolism [PE]), cardiovascular risk (excluding 
MI), MI, herpes zoster, tuberculosis (TB) and other opportunistic infections, malignancy 
(including lymphoma and lung cancer), gastrointestinal perforations, interstitial lung 
disease, and laboratory abnormalities
o The need to monitor for any signs and symptoms and laboratory abnormalities for early 
identification of the abovementioned risks 
 The Patient alert card shall contain the following key messages: 
o A warning message for HCPs treating the patient at any time, including in conditions of 
emergency, that the patient is using XELJANZ
o That treatment with XELJANZ may increase the risk of infections, malignancies 
(including lung cancer, lymphoma), and non melanoma skin cancer
o That patients should inform health professionals if they are planning to receive any 
vaccine or become pregnant
o Signs or symptoms of the following safety concern and/or when to seek attention from a 
HCP: infections, venous thromboembolism (deep vein thrombosis [DVT] and pulmonary 
embolism [PE]), myocardial infarction (MI), herpes zoster reactivation, malignancies 
(including lung cancer, lymphoma), non-melanoma skin cancer, transaminase elevation 
and potential for drug-induced liver injury, gastrointestinal perforation, interstitial lung 
disease, increased immunosuppression when used in combination with biologics and 
immunosuppressants including B lymphocyte depleting agents, increased risk of adverse 
events when XELJANZ is administered in combination with MTX, effects on pregnancy 
118
and foetus, use in breast-feeding, effect on vaccination efficacy and the use of 
live/attenuated vaccines.
o Contact details of the prescriber 
 The website repository shall contain: 
o The educational material in digital format
o The patient alert card in digital format
 The patient information pack should contain:
o Patient information leaflet
o The patient alert card
o Instructions for use
119
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
120
A. LABELLING
121
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR 5 MG BLISTER PACK 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 5 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Other ingredients include lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
56 film-coated tablets
112 film-coated tablets
182 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
122
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/003
EU/1/17/1178/004
EU/1/17/1178/014
56 film-coated tablets
182 film-coated tablets
112 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 5 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
123
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER OR STRIPS
BLISTER FOR 5 MG TABLETS 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 5 mg tablets
tofacitinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MA holder logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon., Tue., Wed., Thu., Fri., Sat., Sun.
124
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
LABEL FOR 5 MG BOTTLE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 5 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Other ingredients include lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Do not swallow the desiccant.
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
125
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/001
EU/1/17/1178/002
60 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 5 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER-HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
126
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR 10 MG BLISTER PACK 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 10 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Other ingredients include lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
56 film-coated tablets
112 film-coated tablets
182 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
127
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/007 56 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1178/008 112 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1178/009 182 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 10 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
128
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER OR STRIPS
BLISTER FOR 10 MG TABLETS 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 10 mg tablets
tofacitinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MA holder logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon., Tue., Wed., Thu., Fri., Sat., Sun.
129
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
LABEL FOR 10 MG BOTTLE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each tablet contains 10 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Other ingredients include lactose. See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
60 film-coated tablets
180 film-coated tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Do not swallow the desiccant.
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
130
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/005 60 film-coated tablets
EU/1/17/1178/006 180 film-coated tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 10 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
131
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR 11 MG BLISTER PACK 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 11 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Other ingredients include sorbitol (E420). See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
28 prolonged-release tablets
91 prolonged-release tablets
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
Do not crush, split or chew.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Once daily
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
132
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/012
EU/1/17/1178/013
28 prolonged-release tablets
91 prolonged-release tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 11 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
133
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTER OR STRIPS
BLISTER FOR 11 MG TABLETS 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets
tofacitinib
2.
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG (as MA holder logo)
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
OTHER
Mon., Tue., Wed., Thu., Fri., Sat., Sun.
134
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
LABEL FOR 11 MG BOTTLE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each prolonged-release tablet contains 11 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Other ingredients include sorbitol (E420). See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
30 prolonged-release tablets
90 prolonged-release tablets
2 silica gel desiccants
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
Do not crush, split or chew
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
Once daily
Do not swallow the desiccant.
135
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture. 
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/010
EU/1/17/1178/011
30 prolonged-release tablets
90 prolonged-release tablets
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 11 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
136
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
137
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON FOR BOTTLE 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each mL of oral solution contains 1 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains propylene glycol (E1520), sodium benzoate (E211). See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
240 mL Oral solution
One bottle of oral solution, one press-in bottle adapter, and one oral dosing syringe
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Discard after 60 days of first opening
Open date:
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original bottle and package in order to protect from light.
138
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/015
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
139
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE INNER PACKAGING
BOTTLE LABEL 
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution
tofacitinib
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each mL of oral solution contains 1 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Contains propylene glycol (E1520), sodium benzoate (E211). See leaflet for further information.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
240 mL Oral solution
One bottle of oral solution, one press-in bottle adapter, and one oral dosing syringe
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For oral use.
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
Discard after 60 days of first opening
Open date:
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in the original botte and package in order to protect from light. 
140
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/17/1178/015
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - 2D BARCODE
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER-HUMAN READABLE DATA
141
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
142
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
tofacitinib
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
In addition to this leaflet, your doctor will also give you a Patient Alert Card, which contains 
important safety information that you need to be aware of before you are given XELJANZ and during 
treatment with XELJANZ. Keep this Patient Alert Card with you.
What is in this leaflet
1. What XELJANZ is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take XELJANZ
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take XELJANZ
Possible side effects
How to store XELJANZ
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What XELJANZ is and what it is used for
XELJANZ is a medicine that contains the active substance tofacitinib. 
XELJANZ is used for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:





rheumatoid arthritis
psoriatic arthritis
ulcerative colitis
ankylosing spondylitis
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile psoriatic arthritis
Rheumatoid arthritis
XELJANZ is used to treat adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis, a 
long-term disease that mainly causes pain and swelling of your joints.
XELJANZ is used together with methotrexate when previous rheumatoid arthritis treatment was not 
sufficient or was not well tolerated. XELJANZ can also be taken on its own in those cases where 
methotrexate treatment is not tolerated or treatment with methotrexate is not advised.
XELJANZ has been shown to reduce pain and swelling of the joints and improve the ability to 
perform daily activities, when given on its own or together with methotrexate.
Psoriatic arthritis
XELJANZ is used to treat adult patients with a condition called psoriatic arthritis. This condition is an 
inflammatory disease of the joints, often accompanied by psoriasis. If you have active psoriatic 
arthritis you will be first given another medicine to treat your psoriatic arthritis. If you do not respond 
well enough or the medicine is not tolerated, you may be given XELJANZ to reduce the sign and 
symptoms of active psoriatic arthritis and improve the ability to perform daily activities. 
XELJANZ is used together with methotrexate to treat adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis. 
143
Ankylosing spondylitis
XELJANZ is used to treat a condition called ankylosing spondylitis. This condition is an inflammatory 
disease of the spine.
If you have ankylosing spondylitis, you may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well 
enough to these medicines, you will be given XELJANZ. XELJANZ can help to reduce back pain, and 
improve physical function. These effects can ease your normal daily activities and so improve your 
quality of life.
Ulcerative colitis
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large bowel. XELJANZ is used in adult patients to 
reduce the signs and symptoms of ulcerative colitis when you did not respond well enough or were 
intolerant to previous ulcerative colitis treatment.
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile psoriatic arthritis
XELJANZ is used for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis a long-term 
disease that mainly causes pain and swelling of your joints, in patients 2 years of age and older.
XELJANZ is also used for the treatment of juvenile psoriatic arthritis, a condition that is an 
inflammatory disease of the joints often accompanied by psoriasis, in patients 2 years of age and older.
XELJANZ can be used together with methotrexate when previous treatment for polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis or juvenile psoriatic arthritis was not sufficient or was not well tolerated. 
XELJANZ can also be taken on its own in those cases where methotrexate treatment is not tolerated or 
treatment with methotrexate is not advised.
2. What you need to know before you take XELJANZ
Do not take XELJANZ
-
if you are allergic to tofacitinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6)
if you have a severe infection such as bloodstream infection or active tuberculosis 
if you have been informed that you have severe liver problems, including cirrhosis (scarring of 
the liver) 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding
If you are not sure regarding any of the information provided above, please contact your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking XELJANZ:
-
if you think you have an infection or have symptoms of an infection such as fever, sweating, 
chills, muscle aches, cough, shortness of breath, new phlegm or change in phlegm, weight loss, 
warm or red or painful skin or sores on your body, difficulty or pain when swallowing, 
diarrhoea or stomach pain, burning when you urinate or urinating more often than normal, 
feeling very tired
if you have any condition that increases your chance of infection (e.g., diabetes, HIV/AIDS, or a 
weak immune system)
if you have any kind of infection, are being treated for any infection, or if you have infections 
that keep coming back. Tell your doctor immediately if you feel unwell. XELJANZ can reduce 
your body’s ability to respond to infections and may make an existing infection worse or 
increase the chance of getting a new infection
if you have or have a history of tuberculosis or have been in close contact with someone with 
tuberculosis. Your doctor will test you for tuberculosis before starting XELJANZ and may 
retest during treatment
if you have any chronic lung disease
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
144
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
if you have liver problems
if you have or had hepatitis B or hepatitis C (viruses that affect the liver). The virus may 
become active while you are taking XELJANZ. Your doctor may do blood tests for hepatitis 
before you start treatment with XELJANZ and while you are taking XELJANZ
if you are 65 years of age and older, if you have ever had any type of cancer, and also if you are 
a current or past smoker. XELJANZ may increase your risk of certain cancers. White blood cell 
cancer, lung cancer and other cancers (such as breast, skin, prostate and pancreatic) have been 
reported in patients treated with XELJANZ. If you develop cancer while taking XELJANZ your 
doctor will review whether to stop XELJANZ treatment.
if you are at known risk of fractures, e.g., if you are 65 years of age and older, you are a female,
or take corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone).
Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking XELJANZ. Your 
doctor may recommend that you have regular skin examinations while taking XELJANZ. If 
new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, tell 
your doctor. 
if you have had diverticulitis (a type of inflammation of the large intestine) or ulcers in stomach 
or intestines (see section 4)
if you have kidney problems
if you are planning to get vaccinated, tell your doctor. Certain types of vaccines should not be 
given when taking XELJANZ. Before you start XELJANZ, you should be up to date with all 
recommended vaccinations. Your doctor will decide whether you need to have herpes zoster 
vaccination. 
if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and also if you are a current 
or past smoker
There have been reports of patients treated with XELJANZ who have developed blood clots in the 
lungs or veins. Your doctor will evaluate your risk to develop blood clots in the lungs or veins and 
determine if XELJANZ is appropriate for you. If you have already had problems on developing blood 
clots in lungs and veins or have an increased risk for developing this (for example: if you are seriously 
overweight, if you have cancer, heart problems, diabetes, experienced a heart attack (within previous 3 
months), recent major surgery, if you use hormonal contraceptives\hormonal replacement therapy, if a 
coagulation defect is identified in you or your close relatives), if you are of older age, or if you smoke
currently or in the past, your doctor may decide that XELJANZ is not suitable for you.
Talk to your doctor straight away if you develop sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, 
chest pain or pain in upper back, swelling of the leg or arm, leg pain or tenderness, or redness or 
discoloration in the leg or arm while taking XELJANZ, as these may be signs of a clot in the lungs or 
veins.
Talk to your doctor straight away if you experience acute changes to your eyesight (blurry vision, 
partial or complete loss of vision), as this may be a sign of blood clots in the eyes.
There have been reports of patients treated with XELJANZ who have had a heart problem, including 
heart attack. Your doctor will evaluate your risk to develop a heart problem and determine if 
XELJANZ is appropriate for you. Talk to your doctor straight away if you develop signs and 
symptoms of a heart attack including severe chest pain or tightness (that may spread to arms, jaw, 
neck, back), shortness of breath, cold sweat, light headedness or sudden dizziness.
Additional monitoring tests
Your doctor should perform blood tests before you start taking XELJANZ, and after 4 to 8 weeks of 
treatment and then every 3 months, to determine if you have a low white blood cell (neutrophil or 
lymphocyte) count, or a low red blood cell count (anaemia). 
You should not receive XELJANZ if your white blood cell (neutrophil or lymphocyte) count or red 
blood cell count is too low. If needed, your doctor may interrupt your XELJANZ treatment to reduce 
the risk of infection (white blood cell counts) or anaemia (red blood cell counts).
145
Your doctor may also perform other tests, for example to check your blood cholesterol levels or 
monitor the health of your liver. Your doctor should test your cholesterol levels 8 weeks after you start 
receiving XELJANZ. Your doctor should perform liver tests periodically.
Elderly
There is a higher rate of infections, some of which may be serious, in patients 65 years of age and 
older. Tell your doctor as soon as you notice any signs or symptoms of infections.
Patients 65 years of age and older may be at increased risk of infections, heart attack and some types 
of cancer. Your doctor may decide that XELJANZ is not suitable for you.
Asian patients
There is a higher rate of shingles in Japanese and Korean patients. Tell your doctor if you notice any 
painful blisters on your skin. 
You may also be at higher risk of certain lung problems. Tell your doctor if you notice any breathing 
difficulties.
Children and adolescents
The safety and benefits of XELJANZ in children have not yet been established in patients less than 
2 years of age.
Other medicines and XELJANZ
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes or are taking medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide 
if you need less anti-diabetic medicine while taking tofacitinib.
Some medicines should not be taken with XELJANZ. If taken with XELJANZ, they could alter the 
level of XELJANZ in your body, and the dose of XELJANZ may require adjustment. You should tell 
your doctor if you are using medicines that contain any of the following active substances:
 antibiotics such as rifampicin, used to treat bacterial infections
 fluconazole, ketoconazole, used to treat fungal infections
XELJANZ is not recommended for use with medicines that depress the immune system, including 
so-called targeted biologic (antibody) therapies, such as those that inhibit tumour necrosis factor, 
interleukin-17, interleukin-12/interleukin-23, anti-integrins, and strong chemical immunosuppressants 
including azathioprine, mercaptopurine, ciclosporin, and tacrolimus. Taking XELJANZ with these 
medicines may increase your risk of side effects including infection.
Serious infections and fractures may happen more often in people who also take corticosteroids (e.g., 
prednisone).
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are a woman of childbearing age, you should use effective birth control during treatment with 
XELJANZ and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose.
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. XELJANZ must not be used during pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking XELJANZ.
If you are taking XELJANZ and breast-feeding, you must stop breast-feeding until you talk to your 
doctor about stopping treatment with XELJANZ.
Driving and using machines
XELJANZ has no or limited effect on your ability to drive or use machines.
146
XELJANZ contains lactose
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine.
XELJANZ contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per tablet, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take XELJANZ
This medicine is provided to you and supervised by a specialised doctor who knows how to treat your 
condition.
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you, the recommended dose should not be 
exceeded. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.
Rheumatoid arthritis
 The recommended dose is 5 mg twice a day.
Psoriatic arthritis
 The recommended dose is 5 mg twice a day. 
If you suffer from rheumatoid arthritis or psoriatic arthritis, your doctor may switch your tablets 
between XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily and XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release 
tablet once daily. You can start the XELJANZ prolonged-release tablet once daily or XELJANZ 
film-coated tablets twice daily on the day following the last dose of either tablet. You should not 
switch between XELJANZ film-coated tablets and XELJANZ prolonged-release tablet unless 
instructed by your doctor.
Ankylosing spondylitis
 The recommended dose is 5 mg twice a day.
 Your doctor may decide to stop XELJANZ if XELJANZ does not work for you within 
16 weeks.
Ulcerative colitis





The recommended dose is 10 mg twice a day for 8 weeks, followed by 5 mg twice a day.
Your doctor may decide to extend the initial 10 mg twice a day treatment by an additional 
8 weeks (16 weeks in total), followed by 5 mg twice a day.
Your doctor may decide to stop XELJANZ if XELJANZ does not work for you within 
16 weeks.
For patients, who have previously taken biologic medicines to treat ulcerative colitis 
(such as those that block the activity of tumour necrosis factor in the body) and these 
medicines did not work, the doctor may decide to increase your dose of XELJANZ to 
10 mg twice a day if you do not respond sufficiently to 5 mg twice a day. Your doctor 
will consider the potential risks, including that of developing blood clots in the lungs or 
veins, and potential benefits to you. Your doctor will tell you if this applies to you.
If your treatment is interrupted, your doctor may decide to restart your treatment. 
Use in children and adolescents
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile psoriatic arthritis
The recommended dose is 5 mg twice a day for patients ≥40 kg.

147
Try to take your tablet at the same time every day (one tablet in the morning and one tablet in the 
evening).
Tofacitinib tablets may be crushed and taken with water.
Your doctor may reduce the dose if you have liver or kidney problems or if you are prescribed certain 
other medicines. Your doctor may also stop treatment temporarily or permanently if blood tests show 
low white blood cell or red blood cell counts. 
XELJANZ is for oral use. You can take XELJANZ with or without food.
If you take more XELJANZ than you should
If you take more tablets than you should, immediately tell your doctor or pharmacist.
If you forget to take XELJANZ
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten tablet. Take your next tablet at the usual time and 
continue as before.
If you stop taking XELJANZ
You should not stop taking XELJANZ without discussing this with your doctor.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some may be serious and need medical attention.
Side effects in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile psoriatic arthritis 
were consistent with those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients with the exception of some 
infections (influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis, viral infection) and gastrointestinal or general disorders 
(abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, headache, cough), which were more common in juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis paediatric population.
Possible serious side effects 
In rare cases, infection may be life-threatening. Lung cancer, white blood cell cancer and heart attack 
have also been reported.
If you notice any of the following serious side effects you need to tell a doctor straight away.
Signs of serious infections (common) include





fever and chills
cough
skin blisters
stomach ache
persistent headaches
Signs of ulcers or holes (perforations) in your stomach (uncommon) include




fever 
stomach or abdominal pain 
blood in the stool
unexplained changes in bowel habits
148
Holes in stomach or intestines happen most often in people who also take nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs or corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone).
Signs of allergic reactions (unknown) include
chest tightness

 wheezing 



severe dizziness or light-headedness
swelling of the lips, tongue or throat
hives (itching or skin rash) 
Signs of blood clots in lungs or veins or eyes (uncommon: venous thromboembolism) include






sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
chest pain or pain in upper back
swelling of the leg or arm
leg pain or tenderness
redness or discoloration in the leg or arm
acute changes in eyesight
Signs of a heart attack (uncommon) include




severe chest pain or tightness (that may spread to arms, jaw, neck, back)
shortness of breath
cold sweat
light headedness or sudden dizziness
Other side effects which have been observed with XELJANZ are listed below. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): lung infection (pneumonia and bronchitis), shingles 
(herpes zoster), infections of nose, throat or the windpipe (nasopharyngitis), influenza, sinusitis, 
urinary bladder infection (cystitis), sore throat (pharyngitis), increased muscle enzymes in the blood 
(sign of muscle problems), stomach (belly) pain (which may be from inflammation of the stomach 
lining), vomiting, diarrhoea, feeling sick (nausea), indigestion, low white blood cell counts, low red 
blood cell count (anaemia), swelling of the feet and hands, headache, high blood pressure 
(hypertension), cough, rash, acne.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): lung cancer, tuberculosis, kidney infection, skin 
infection, herpes simplex or cold sores (oral herpes), blood creatinine increased (a possible sign of 
kidney problems), increased cholesterol (including increased LDL), fever, fatigue (tiredness), weight 
gain, dehydration, muscle strain, tendonitis, joint swelling, joint sprain, abnormal sensations, poor 
sleep, sinus congestion, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, skin redness, itching, fatty liver, 
painful inflammation of small pockets in the lining of your intestine (diverticulitis), viral infections, 
viral infections affecting the gut, some types of skin cancers (non-melanoma-types).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): blood infection (sepsis), lymphoma (white blood cell 
cancer), disseminated tuberculosis involving bones and other organs, other unusual infections, joint 
infections, increased liver enzymes in the blood (sign of liver problems), pain in the muscles and 
joints. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): tuberculosis involving the brain and spinal cord, 
meningitis, infection of the soft tissue and fascia.
In general, fewer side effects were seen when XELJANZ was used alone than in combination with 
methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
149
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store XELJANZ
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister pack, bottle, or carton. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
Do not use this medicine if you notice the tablets show visible signs of deterioration (for example, are 
broken or discoloured).
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What XELJANZ contains 
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablet
-
-
-
The active substance is tofacitinib.
Each 5 mg film-coated tablet contains 5 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, lactose monohydrate (see section 2 
“XELJANZ contains lactose”), croscarmellose sodium (see section 2 “XELJANZ contains 
sodium”), magnesium stearate, hypromellose (E464), titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol, and 
triacetin.
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablet
-
-
-
The active substance is tofacitinib.
Each 10 mg film-coated tablet contains 10 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose, lactose monohydrate (see section 2 
“XELJANZ contains lactose”), croscarmellose sodium (see section 2 “XELJANZ contains 
sodium”), magnesium stearate, hypromellose (E464), titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol, 
triacetin, FD&C Blue #2/Indigo Carmine Aluminum Lake (E132), and FD&C Blue #1/Brilliant 
Blue FCF Aluminum Lake (E133).
What XELJANZ looks like and contents of the pack
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets
XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablet is white and round in appearance.
The tablets are provided in blisters containing 14 tablets. Each pack contains 56, 112, or 182 tablets 
and each bottle contains 60 or 180 tablets.
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablets
XELJANZ 10 mg film-coated tablet is blue and round in appearance.
The tablets are provided in blisters containing 14 tablets. Each pack contains 56, 112, or 182 tablets 
and each bottle contains 60 or 180 tablets.
150
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstätte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België /Belgique / Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
België /Belgique / Belgien
Pfizer S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer S.A.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje
Tel. +3705 2514000
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 488 37 00
Česká republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420 283 004 111
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Deutschland
Pfizer Pharma GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
Malta
Vivian Corporation Ltd.
Tel: +35621 344610
Nederland
Pfizer bv
Tel: +31 (0)10 406 43 01
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
PFIZER ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E.
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 423 5500
151
France
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free)
+44 (0)1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l.
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 207 28 00
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel.: +386 (0) 1 52 11 400
Slovenská republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka
Tel: +421-2-3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige 
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
Κύπρος
PFIZER ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (CYPRUS BRANCH)
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited
Τηλ: +357 22 817690
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Latvija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel.: +371 670 35 775
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
152
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets
tofacitinib
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
In addition to this leaflet, your doctor will also give you a Patient Alert Card, which contains 
important safety information that you need to be aware of before you are given XELJANZ and during 
treatment with XELJANZ. Keep this Patient Alert Card with you.
What is in this leaflet
1. What XELJANZ is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take XELJANZ
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to take XELJANZ
Possible side effects
How to store XELJANZ
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What XELJANZ is and what it is used for
XELJANZ is a medicine that contains the active substance tofacitinib. 
XELJANZ is used for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases:



rheumatoid arthritis
psoriatic arthritis
ankylosing spondylitis
Rheumatoid arthritis
XELJANZ is used to treat adult patients with moderate to severe active rheumatoid arthritis, a 
long-term disease that mainly causes pain and swelling of your joints.
XELJANZ is used together with methotrexate when previous rheumatoid arthritis treatment was not 
sufficient or was not well tolerated. XELJANZ can also be taken on its own in those cases where 
methotrexate treatment is not tolerated or treatment with methotrexate is not advised.
XELJANZ has been shown to reduce pain and swelling of the joints and improve the ability to 
perform daily activities, when given on its own or together with methotrexate.
Psoriatic arthritis
XELJANZ is used to treat adult patients with a condition called psoriatic arthritis. This condition is an 
inflammatory disease of the joints, often accompanied by psoriasis. If you have active psoriatic 
arthritis you will be first given another medicine to treat your psoriatic arthritis. If you do not respond 
well enough or the medicine is not tolerated, you may be given XELJANZ to reduce the sign and 
symptoms of active psoriatic arthritis and improve the ability to perform daily activities. 
XELJANZ is used together with methotrexate to treat adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis.
153
Ankylosing spondylitis
XELJANZ is used to treat a condition called ankylosing spondylitis. This condition is an inflammatory 
disease of the spine.
If you have ankylosing spondylitis, you may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well 
enough to these medicines, you will be given XELJANZ. XELJANZ can help to reduce back pain, and 
improve physical function. These effects can ease your normal daily activities and so improve your 
quality of life.
2. What you need to know before you take XELJANZ
Do not take XELJANZ
-
if you are allergic to tofacitinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6)
if you have a severe infection such as bloodstream infection or active tuberculosis 
if you have been informed that you have severe liver problems, including cirrhosis (scarring of 
the liver) 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding
If you are not sure regarding any of the information provided above, please contact your doctor. 
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking XELJANZ:
-
if you think you have an infection or have symptoms of an infection such as fever, sweating, 
chills, muscle aches, cough, shortness of breath, new phlegm or change in phlegm, weight loss, 
warm or red or painful skin or sores on your body, difficulty or pain when swallowing, 
diarrhoea or stomach pain, burning when you urinate or urinating more often than normal, 
feeling very tired
if you have any condition that increases your chance of infection (e.g., diabetes, HIV/AIDS, or a 
weak immune system)
if you have any kind of infection, are being treated for any infection, or if you have infections 
that keep coming back. Tell your doctor immediately if you feel unwell. XELJANZ can reduce 
your body’s ability to respond to infections and may make an existing infection worse or 
increase the chance of getting a new infection
if you have or have a history of tuberculosis or have been in close contact with someone with 
tuberculosis. Your doctor will test you for tuberculosis before starting XELJANZ and may 
retest during treatment
if you have any chronic lung disease
if you have liver problems
if you have or had hepatitis B or hepatitis C (viruses that affect the liver). The virus may 
become active while you are taking XELJANZ. Your doctor may do blood tests for hepatitis 
before you start treatment with XELJANZ and while you are taking XELJANZ
if you are 65 years of age and older, if you have ever had any type of cancer, and also if you are 
a current or past smoker. XELJANZ may increase your risk of certain cancers. White blood cell 
cancer, lung cancer and other cancers (such as breast, skin, prostate and pancreatic) have been 
reported in patients treated with XELJANZ. If you develop cancer while taking XELJANZ your 
doctor will review whether to stop XELJANZ treatment
if you are at known risk of fractures, e.g., if you are 65 years of age and older, you are a female,
or take corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone).
Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking XELJANZ. Your 
doctor may recommend that you have regular skin examinations while taking XELJANZ. If 
new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, tell 
your doctor.
if you have had diverticulitis (a type of inflammation of the large intestine) or ulcers in stomach 
or intestines (see section 4)
if you have kidney problems
154
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
if you are planning to get vaccinated, tell your doctor. Certain types of vaccines should not be 
given when taking XELJANZ. Before you start XELJANZ, you should be up to date with all 
recommended vaccinations. Your doctor will decide whether you need to have herpes zoster 
vaccination 
if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and also if you are a current 
or past smoker
if you have narrowing of the digestive tract tell your doctor as there have been rare reports of
blockage in the digestive tract in patients taking other medicines using similar prolonged-release 
tablets
when you take XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets, you may see something in your 
stool that looks like a tablet. This is the empty shell from the prolonged-release tablet after the 
medicine has been absorbed by your body. This is to be expected and you should not be 
concerned
There have been reports of patients treated with XELJANZ who have developed blood clots in the 
lungs or veins. Your doctor will evaluate your risk to develop blood clots in the lungs or veins and 
determine if XELJANZ is appropriate for you. If you have already had problems on developing blood 
clots in lungs and veins or have an increased risk for developing this (for example: if you are seriously 
overweight, if you have cancer, heart problems, diabetes, experienced a heart attack (within previous 3 
months), recent major surgery, if you use hormonal contraceptives\hormonal replacement therapy, if a 
coagulation defect is identified in you or your close relatives), if you are of older age, or if you smoke
currently or in the past, your doctor may decide that XELJANZ is not suitable for you.
Talk to your doctor straight away if you develop sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, 
chest pain or pain in upper back, swelling of the leg or arm, leg pain or tenderness, or redness or 
discoloration in the leg or arm while taking XELJANZ, as these may be signs of a clot in the lungs or 
veins.
Talk to your doctor straight away if you experience acute changes to your eyesight (blurry vision, 
partial or complete loss of vision), as this may be a sign of blood clots in the eyes.
There have been reports of patients treated with XELJANZ who have had a heart problem, including 
heart attack. Your doctor will evaluate your risk to develop a heart problem and determine if 
XELJANZ is appropriate for you. Talk to your doctor straight away if you develop signs and 
symptoms of a heart attack including severe chest pain or tightness (that may spread to arms, jaw, 
neck, back), shortness of breath, cold sweat, light headedness or sudden dizziness.
Additional monitoring tests
Your doctor should perform blood tests before you start taking XELJANZ, and after 4 to 8 weeks of 
treatment and then every 3 months, to determine if you have a low white blood cell (neutrophil or 
lymphocyte) count, or a low red blood cell count (anaemia). 
You should not receive XELJANZ if your white blood cell (neutrophil or lymphocyte) count or red 
blood cell count is too low. If needed, your doctor may interrupt your XELJANZ treatment to reduce 
the risk of infection (white blood cell counts) or anaemia (red blood cell counts).
Your doctor may also perform other tests, for example to check your blood cholesterol levels or
monitor the health of your liver. Your doctor should test your cholesterol levels 8 weeks after you start 
receiving XELJANZ. Your doctor should perform liver tests periodically.
Elderly
There is a higher rate of infections, some of which may be serious, in patients 65 years of age and 
older. Tell your doctor as soon as you notice any signs or symptoms of infections.
Patients 65 years of age and older may be at increased risk of infections, heart attack and some types 
of cancer. Your doctor may decide that XELJANZ is not suitable for you.
155
Asian patients
There is a higher rate of shingles in Japanese and Korean patients. Tell your doctor if you notice any 
painful blisters on your skin. 
You may also be at higher risk of certain lung problems. Tell your doctor if you notice any breathing 
difficulties.
Children and adolescents
XELJANZ is not recommended for use in children or adolescents under 18 years of age. The safety 
and benefits of XELJANZ in children or adolescents have not yet been established.
Other medicines and XELJANZ
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes or are taking medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide 
if you need less anti-diabetic medicine while taking tofacitinib.
Some medicines should not be taken with XELJANZ. If taken with XELJANZ, they could alter the 
level of XELJANZ in your body, and the dose of XELJANZ may require adjustment. You should tell 
your doctor if you are using medicines that contain any of the following active substances:
antibiotics such as rifampicin, used to treat bacterial infections
fluconazole, ketoconazole, used to treat fungal infections


XELJANZ is not recommended for use with medicines that depress the immune system, including 
so-called targeted biologic (antibody) therapies, such as those that inhibit tumour necrosis factor, 
interleukin-17, interleukin-12/interleukin-23, anti-integrins, and strong chemical immunosuppressants 
including azathioprine, mercaptopurine, ciclosporin, and tacrolimus. Taking XELJANZ with these 
medicines may increase your risk of side effects including infection.
Serious infections and fractures may happen more often in people who also take corticosteroids (e.g., 
prednisone).
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are a woman of childbearing age, you should use effective birth control during treatment with 
XELJANZ and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose.
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. XELJANZ must not be used during pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking XELJANZ.
If you are taking XELJANZ and breast-feeding, you must stop breast-feeding until you talk to your 
doctor about stopping treatment with XELJANZ.
Driving and using machines
XELJANZ has no or limited effect on your ability to drive or use machines.
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablet contains sorbitol
This medicine contains approximately 152 mg sorbitol in each prolonged-release tablet. 
3.
How to take XELJANZ
This medicine is provided to you and supervised by a specialised doctor who knows how to treat your 
condition.
156
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you, the recommended dose should not be 
exceeded. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis
The recommended dose is one 11 mg prolonged-release tablet administered once daily. 
Try to take your tablet (one 11 mg prolonged-release tablet) at the same time each day, e.g., morning 
or evening.
Swallow XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablets whole in order to ensure the entire dose is 
delivered correctly. Do not crush, split, or chew.
Your doctor may reduce the dose if you have liver or kidney problems or if you are prescribed certain 
other medicines. Your doctor may also stop treatment temporarily or permanently if blood tests show 
low white blood cell or red blood cell counts.
If you suffer from rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis, your doctor may 
switch your tablets between XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets twice daily and XELJANZ 11 mg 
prolonged-release tablet once daily. You can start the XELJANZ prolonged-release tablet once daily 
or XELJANZ film-coated tablets twice daily on the day following the last dose of either tablet. You 
should not switch between XELJANZ film-coated tablets and XELJANZ prolonged-release tablet 
unless instructed by your doctor.
XELJANZ is for oral use. You can take XELJANZ with or without food.
Ankylosing spondylitis
 Your doctor may decide to stop XELJANZ if XELJANZ does not work for you within 
16 weeks.
If you take more XELJANZ than you should
If you take more prolonged-release tablets than you should, immediately tell your doctor or 
pharmacist.
If you forget to take XELJANZ
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten 11 mg prolonged-release tablet. Take your next 
prolonged-release tablet at the usual time and continue as before.
If you stop taking XELJANZ
You should not stop taking XELJANZ without discussing this with your doctor.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some may be serious and need medical attention.
Possible serious side effects 
In rare cases, infection may be life-threatening. Lung cancer, white blood cell cancer and heart attack 
have also been reported.
If you notice any of the following serious side effects you need to tell a doctor straight away.
Signs of serious infections (common) include

fever and chills
157




cough
skin blisters
stomach ache
persistent headaches
Signs of ulcers or holes (perforations) in your stomach (uncommon) include 




fever 
stomach or abdominal pain 
blood in the stool
unexplained changes in bowel habits
Holes in stomach or intestines happen most often in people who also take nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs or corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone).
Signs of allergic reactions (unknown) include
chest tightness

 wheezing 



severe dizziness or light-headedness
swelling of the lips, tongue or throat
hives (itching or skin rash) 
Signs of blood clots in lungs or veins or eyes (uncommon: venous thromboembolism) include






sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
chest pain or pain in upper back
swelling of the leg or arm
leg pain or tenderness
redness or discoloration in the leg or arm
acute changes in eyesight
Signs of a heart attack (uncommon) include




severe chest pain or tightness (that may spread to arms, jaw, neck, back)
shortness of breath
cold sweat
light headedness or sudden dizziness
Other side effects which have been observed with XELJANZ are listed below. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): lung infection (pneumonia and bronchitis), shingles 
(herpes zoster), infections of nose, throat or the windpipe (nasopharyngitis), influenza, sinusitis, 
urinary bladder infection (cystitis), sore throat (pharyngitis), increased muscle enzymes in the blood 
(sign of muscle problems), stomach (belly) pain (which may be from inflammation of the stomach 
lining), vomiting, diarrhoea, feeling sick (nausea), indigestion, low white blood cell counts, low red 
blood cell count (anaemia), swelling of the feet and hands, headache, high blood pressure 
(hypertension), cough, rash, acne.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): lung cancer, tuberculosis, kidney infection, skin 
infection, herpes simplex or cold sores (oral herpes), blood creatinine increased (a possible sign of 
kidney problems), increased cholesterol (including increased LDL), fever, fatigue (tiredness), weight 
gain, dehydration, muscle strain, tendonitis, joint swelling, joint sprain, abnormal sensations, poor 
sleep, sinus congestion, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, skin redness, itching, fatty liver, 
painful inflammation of small pockets in the lining of your intestine (diverticulitis), viral infections, 
viral infections affecting the gut, some types of skin cancers (non-melanoma-types).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): blood infection (sepsis), lymphoma (white blood cell 
cancer), disseminated tuberculosis involving bones and other organs, other unusual infections, joint 
158
infections, increased liver enzymes in the blood (sign of liver problems), pain in the muscles and 
joints. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): tuberculosis involving the brain and spinal cord, 
meningitis, infection of the soft tissue and fascia.
In general, fewer side effects were seen when XELJANZ was used alone than in combination with 
methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store XELJANZ
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister pack, bottle, or carton. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original package in order to protect from moisture.
Do not use this medicine if you notice the tablets show visible signs of deterioration (for example, are 
broken or discoloured).
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What XELJANZ contains 
-
-
-
The active substance is tofacitinib.
Each 11 mg prolonged-release tablet contains 11 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
The other ingredients are sorbitol (E420) (see section 2 “XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release 
tablet contains sorbitol”), hydroxyethyl cellulose, copovidone, magnesium stearate, cellulose 
acetate, hydroxypropyl cellulose (E463), hypromellose (E464), titanium dioxide (E171), 
triacetin, red iron oxide (E172), shellac (E904), ammonium hydroxide (E527), propylene glycol 
(E1520) and black iron oxide (E172). 
What XELJANZ looks like and contents of the pack
XELJANZ 11 mg prolonged-release tablet is pink and oval in appearance.
The tablets are provided in blisters containing 7 tablets. Each pack contains 28 or 91 tablets. The 
tablets are also available in bottles with silica gel desiccant containing 30 or 90 tablets.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
159
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Manufacturing Deutschland GmbH
Betriebsstätte Freiburg
Mooswaldallee 1
79090 Freiburg
Germany
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België /Belgique / Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
België /Belgique / Belgien
Pfizer S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer S.A.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje
Tel. +3705 2514000
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 488 37 00
Česká republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420 283 004 111
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Deutschland
Pfizer Pharma GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
Malta
Vivian Corporation Ltd.
Tel: +35621 344610
Nederland
Pfizer bv
Tel: +31 (0)10 406 43 01
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
PFIZER ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E.
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 423 5500
160
France
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free)
+44 (0)1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l.
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 207 28 00
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel.: +386 (0) 1 52 11 400
Slovenská republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka
Tel: +421-2-3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige 
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
Κύπρος
PFIZER ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (CYPRUS BRANCH)
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited
Τηλ: +357 22 817690
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Latvija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel.: +371 670 35 775
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
161
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution
tofacitinib
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
-
In addition to this leaflet, your doctor will also give you a Patient Alert Card, which contains 
important safety information that you need to be aware of before you are given XELJANZ and during 
treatment with XELJANZ. Keep this Patient Alert Card with you.
What is in this leaflet
1. What XELJANZ is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you take XELJANZ
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
How to take XELJANZ
Possible side effects
How to store XELJANZ
Contents of the pack and other information
Instructions for Use of XELJANZ oral solution
1. What XELJANZ is and what it is used for
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution is a medicine that contains the active substance tofacitinib. 
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution is used for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic 
arthritis, a long-term disease that mainly causes pain and swelling of your joints, in patients 2 years of 
age and older.
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution is also used for the treatment of juvenile psoriatic arthritis, a 
condition that is an inflammatory disease of the joints often accompanied by psoriasis, in patients
2 years of age and older.
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution can be used together with methotrexate when previous treatment for 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis or juvenile psoriatic arthritis was not sufficient or was not 
well tolerated. XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution can also be taken on its own in those cases where 
methotrexate treatment is not tolerated or treatment with methotrexate is not advised.
2. What you need to know before you take XELJANZ
Do not take XELJANZ
-
if you are allergic to tofacitinib or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6)
if you have a severe infection such as bloodstream infection or active tuberculosis 
if you have been informed that you have severe liver problems, including cirrhosis (scarring of 
the liver) 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding
-
-
-
If you are not sure regarding any of the information provided above, please contact your doctor. 
162
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking XELJANZ:
-
if you think you have an infection or have symptoms of an infection such as fever, sweating, 
chills, muscle aches, cough, shortness of breath, new phlegm or change in phlegm, weight loss, 
warm or red or painful skin or sores on your body, difficulty or pain when swallowing, 
diarrhoea or stomach pain, burning when you urinate or urinating more often than normal, 
feeling very tired
if you have any condition that increases your chance of infection (e.g., diabetes, HIV/AIDS, or a 
weak immune system)
if you have any kind of infection, are being treated for any infection, or if you have infections 
that keep coming back. Tell your doctor immediately if you feel unwell. XELJANZ can reduce 
your body’s ability to respond to infections and may make an existing infection worse or 
increase the chance of getting a new infection
if you have or have a history of tuberculosis or have been in close contact with someone with 
tuberculosis. Your doctor will test you for tuberculosis before starting XELJANZ and may 
retest during treatment
if you have any chronic lung disease
if you have liver problems
if you have or had hepatitis B or hepatitis C (viruses that affect the liver). The virus may 
become active while you are taking XELJANZ. Your doctor may do blood tests for hepatitis 
before you start treatment with XELJANZ and while you are taking XELJANZ
if you have ever had any type of cancer, and also if you are a current or past smoker. XELJANZ 
may increase your risk of certain cancers. White blood cell cancer, lung cancer and other 
cancers (such as breast, skin, prostate and pancreatic) have been reported in patients treated with 
XELJANZ. If you develop cancer while taking XELJANZ your doctor will review whether to 
stop XELJANZ treatment.
if you are at known risk of fractures, e.g., if you are 65 years of age and older, you are a female,
or take corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone).
Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking XELJANZ. Your 
doctor may recommend that you have regular skin examinations while taking XELJANZ. If 
new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, tell 
your doctor. 
if you have had diverticulitis (a type of inflammation of the large intestine) or ulcers in stomach 
or intestines (see section 4)
if you have kidney problems
if you are planning to get vaccinated, tell your doctor. Certain types of vaccines should not be 
given when taking XELJANZ. Before you start XELJANZ, you should be up to date with all 
recommended vaccinations. Your doctor will decide whether you need to have herpes zoster 
vaccination. 
if you have heart problems, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and also if you are a current or 
past smoker
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
There have been reports of patients treated with XELJANZ who have developed blood clots in the 
lungs or veins. Your doctor will evaluate your risk to develop blood clots in the lungs or veins and 
determine if XELJANZ is appropriate for you. If you have already had problems on developing blood 
clots in lungs and veins or have an increased risk for developing this (for example: if you are seriously 
overweight, if you have cancer, heart problems, diabetes, experienced a heart attack (within previous 
3 months), recent major surgery, if you use hormonal contraceptives\hormonal replacement therapy, if 
a coagulation defect is identified in you or your close relatives), or if you smoke currently or in the 
past, your doctor may decide that XELJANZ is not suitable for you.
Talk to your doctor straight away if you develop sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, 
chest pain or pain in upper back, swelling of the leg or arm, leg pain or tenderness, or redness or 
discoloration in the leg or arm while taking XELJANZ, as these may be signs of a clot in the lungs or 
veins.
163
Talk to your doctor straight away if you experience acute changes to your eyesight (blurry vision, 
partial or complete loss of vision), as this may be a sign of blood clots in the eyes.
There have been reports of patients treated with XELJANZ who have had a heart problem, including 
heart attack. Your doctor will evaluate your risk to develop a heart problem and determine if 
XELJANZ is appropriate for you. Talk to your doctor straight away if you develop signs and 
symptoms of a heart attack including severe chest pain or tightness (that may spread to arms, jaw, 
neck, back), shortness of breath, cold sweat, light headedness or sudden dizziness.
Additional monitoring tests
Your doctor should perform blood tests before you start taking XELJANZ, and after 4 to 8 weeks of 
treatment and then every 3 months, to determine if you have a low white blood cell (neutrophil or 
lymphocyte) count, or a low red blood cell count (anaemia). 
You should not receive XELJANZ if your white blood cell (neutrophil or lymphocyte) count or red 
blood cell count is too low. If needed, your doctor may interrupt your XELJANZ treatment to reduce 
the risk of infection (white blood cell counts) or anaemia (red blood cell counts).
Your doctor may also perform other tests, for example to check your blood cholesterol levels or 
monitor the health of your liver. Your doctor should test your cholesterol levels 8 weeks after you start 
receiving XELJANZ. Your doctor should perform liver tests periodically.
Elderly
The safety and efficacy of tofacitinib 1 mg/mL oral solution has not been established in the elderly.
Asian patients
There is a higher rate of shingles in Japanese and Korean patients. Tell your doctor if you notice any 
painful blisters on your skin. 
You may also be at higher risk of certain lung problems. Tell your doctor if you notice any breathing 
difficulties.
Children and adolescents
This medicine should not be given to patients less than 2 years of age.
This medicine contains propylene glycol and should be used with caution in patients 2 years of age 
and older and only if advised by the doctor (see "XELJANZ contains propylene glycol").
Other medicines and XELJANZ
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines.
Tell your doctor if you have diabetes or are taking medicines to treat diabetes. Your doctor may decide 
if you need less anti-diabetic medicine while taking tofacitinib.
Some medicines should not be taken with XELJANZ. If taken with XELJANZ, they could alter the 
level of XELJANZ in your body, and the dose of XELJANZ may require adjustment. You should tell 
your doctor if you are using medicines that contain any of the following active substances:


antibiotics such as rifampicin, used to treat bacterial infections
fluconazole, ketoconazole, used to treat fungal infections
XELJANZ is not recommended for use with medicines that depress the immune system, including 
so-called targeted biologic (antibody) therapies, such as those that inhibit tumour necrosis factor, 
interleukin-17, interleukin-12/interleukin-23, anti-integrins, and strong chemical immunosuppressants 
including azathioprine, mercaptopurine, ciclosporin, and tacrolimus. Taking XELJANZ with these 
medicines may increase your risk of side effects including infection.
164
Serious infections and fractures may happen more often in people who also take corticosteroids (e.g., 
prednisone).
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are a woman of childbearing age, you should use effective birth control during treatment with 
XELJANZ and for at least 4 weeks after the last dose.
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. XELJANZ must not be used during pregnancy. 
Tell your doctor right away if you become pregnant while taking XELJANZ.
If you are taking XELJANZ and breast-feeding, you must stop breast-feeding until you talk to your 
doctor about stopping treatment with XELJANZ.
Driving and using machines
XELJANZ has no or limited effect on your ability to drive or use machines.
XELJANZ contains propylene glycol
This medicine contains 2.39 mg propylene glycol in each mL of oral solution.
XELJANZ contains sodium benzoate
This medicine contains 0.9 mg sodium benzoate in each mL of oral solution.
XELJANZ contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per mL, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
3.
How to take XELJANZ
This medicine is provided to you and supervised by a specialised doctor who knows how to treat your 
condition.
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you, the recommended dose should not be 
exceeded. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure.
The recommended dose in patients 2 years of age and older is based upon the following weight 
categories (see Table 1). 
Table 1. XELJANZ dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile 
PsA two years of age and older:
Body weight (kg)
10 - <20
20 - <40
≥ 40
Dose regimen
3.2 mg (3.2 mL of oral solution) twice daily
4 mg (4 mL of oral solution) twice daily
5 mg (5 mL of oral solution or 5 mg film-coated tablet) twice daily
Your doctor may reduce the dose if you have liver or kidney problems or if you are prescribed certain 
other medicines. Your doctor may also stop treatment temporarily or permanently if blood tests show 
low white blood cell or red blood cell counts.
If you suffer from polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis or juvenile psoriatic arthritis, your doctor 
may switch you from XELJANZ 5 mL oral solution twice daily to XELJANZ 5 mg film-coated tablets 
twice daily. 
XELJANZ is for oral use. You can take XELJANZ with or without food.
Try to take XELJANZ at the same time every day (once in the morning and once in the evening).
165
If you take more XELJANZ than you should
If you take more XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution than you should, immediately tell your doctor or 
pharmacist.
If you forget to take XELJANZ
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. Take your next dose at the usual time and 
continue as before.
If you stop taking XELJANZ
You should not stop taking XELJANZ without discussing this with your doctor.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some may be serious and need medical attention.
Side effects in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and juvenile psoriatic arthritis 
were consistent with those seen in adult rheumatoid arthritis patients with the exception of some 
infections (influenza, pharyngitis, sinusitis, viral infection) and gastrointestinal or general disorders 
(abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, headache, cough), which were more common in juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis paediatric population.
Possible serious side effects 
In rare cases, infection may be life-threatening. Lung cancer, white blood cell cancer and heart attack 
have also been reported.
If you notice any of the following serious side effects you need to tell a doctor straight away.
Signs of serious infections (common) include





fever and chills
cough
skin blisters
stomach ache
persistent headaches
Signs of ulcers or holes (perforations) in your stomach (uncommon) include




fever 
stomach or abdominal pain 
blood in the stool
unexplained changes in bowel habits
Holes in stomach or intestines happen most often in people who also take nonsteroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs or corticosteroids (e.g., prednisone).
Signs of allergic reactions (unknown) include
chest tightness

 wheezing 



severe dizziness or light-headedness
swelling of the lips, tongue or throat
hives (itching or skin rash) 
166
Signs of blood clots in lungs or veins or eyes (uncommon: venous thromboembolism) include






sudden shortness of breath or difficulty breathing
chest pain or pain in upper back
swelling of the leg or arm
leg pain or tenderness
redness or discoloration in the leg or arm
acute changes in eyesight
Signs of a heart attack (uncommon) include




severe chest pain or tightness (that may spread to arms, jaw, neck, back)
shortness of breath
cold sweat
light headedness or sudden dizziness
Other side effects which have been observed with XELJANZ are listed below. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): lung infection (pneumonia and bronchitis), shingles 
(herpes zoster), infections of nose, throat or the windpipe (nasopharyngitis), influenza, sinusitis, 
urinary bladder infection (cystitis), sore throat (pharyngitis), increased muscle enzymes in the blood 
(sign of muscle problems), stomach (belly) pain (which may be from inflammation of the stomach 
lining), vomiting, diarrhoea, feeling sick (nausea), indigestion, low white blood cell counts, low red 
blood cell count (anaemia), swelling of the feet and hands, headache, high blood pressure 
(hypertension), cough, rash, acne.
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): lung cancer, tuberculosis, kidney infection, skin 
infection, herpes simplex or cold sores (oral herpes), blood creatinine increased (a possible sign of 
kidney problems), increased cholesterol (including increased LDL), fever, fatigue (tiredness), weight 
gain, dehydration, muscle strain, tendonitis, joint swelling, joint sprain, abnormal sensations, poor 
sleep, sinus congestion, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, skin redness, itching, fatty liver, 
painful inflammation of small pockets in the lining of your intestine (diverticulitis), viral infections, 
viral infections affecting the gut, some types of skin cancers (non-melanoma-types).
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): blood infection (sepsis), lymphoma (white blood cell 
cancer), disseminated tuberculosis involving bones and other organs, other unusual infections, joint 
infections, increased liver enzymes in the blood (sign of liver problems), pain in the muscles and 
joints. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): tuberculosis involving the brain and spinal cord, 
meningitis, infection of the soft tissue and fascia.
In general, fewer side effects were seen when XELJANZ was used alone than in combination with 
methotrexate in rheumatoid arthritis.
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of 
this medicine.
5.
How to store XELJANZ
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton or bottle. The expiry date 
refers to the last day of that month.
167
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions.
Store in the original bottle and package in order to protect from light.
Discard after 60 days of first opening.
Do not use this medicine if you notice the solution shows visible signs of deterioration.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What XELJANZ contains 
-
-
-
The active substance is tofacitinib.
Each 1 mL contains 1 mg of tofacitinib (as tofacitinib citrate).
The other ingredients are grape flavour [containing propylene glycol (E1520) (see section 2 
“XELJANZ contains propylene glycol”), glycerin (E422), and natural flavours], hydrochloric 
acid, lactic acid (E270), purified water, sodium benzoate (E211) (see section 2 “XELJANZ 
contains sodium benzoate” and “XELJANZ contains sodium”), sucralose (E955), and xylitol 
(E967).
What XELJANZ looks like and contents of the pack
XELJANZ 1 mg/mL oral solution is a clear, colourless solution.
The 1 mg/mL oral solution is provided in white coloured HDPE 250 mL bottles containing 240 mL of 
solution. Each pack contains one HDPE bottle, one press-in bottle adapter, and one oral dosing syringe
with 3.2 mL, 4 mL, and 5 mL graduations.
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Pfizer Europe MA EEIG
Boulevard de la Plaine 17 
1050 Bruxelles
Belgium
Manufacturer 
Pfizer Service Company BV
Hoge Wei 10
1930 Zaventem
Belgium 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder:
België /Belgique / Belgien
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
België /Belgique / Belgien
Pfizer S.A./N.V.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Pfizer S.A.
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)2 554 62 11
Lietuva
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filialas Lietuvoje
Tel. +3705 2514000
168
България
Пфайзер Люксембург САРЛ, Клон България
Тел.: +359 2 970 4333
Magyarország
Pfizer Kft.
Tel.: +36 1 488 37 00
Česká republika
Pfizer, spol. s r.o.
Tel: +420 283 004 111
Danmark
Pfizer ApS
Tlf: +45 44 20 11 00
Deutschland
Pfizer Pharma GmbH
Tel: +49 (0)30 550055-51000
Malta
Vivian Corporation Ltd.
Tel: +35621 344610
Nederland
Pfizer bv
Tel: +31 (0)10 406 43 01
Norge
Pfizer AS
Tlf: +47 67 52 61 00
Eesti
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL Eesti filiaal
Tel: +372 666 7500
Österreich
Pfizer Corporation Austria Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0)1 521 15-0
Ελλάδα
PFIZER ΕΛΛΑΣ A.E.
Τηλ.: +30 210 67 85 800
España
Pfizer, S.L.
Tel: +34 91 490 99 00
France
Pfizer 
Tél: +33 (0)1 58 07 34 40
Hrvatska
Pfizer Croatia d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 3908 777
Ireland
Pfizer Healthcare Ireland
Tel: 1800 633 363 (toll free)
+44 (0)1304 616161
Ísland
Icepharma hf.
Sími: +354 540 8000
Italia
Pfizer S.r.l.
Tel: +39 06 33 18 21
Polska
Pfizer Polska Sp. z o.o.,
Tel.: +48 22 335 61 00
Portugal
Laboratórios Pfizer, Lda.
Tel: +351 21 423 5500
România
Pfizer Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 207 28 00
Slovenija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL
Pfizer, podružnica za svetovanje s področja
farmacevtske dejavnosti, Ljubljana
Tel.: +386 (0) 1 52 11 400
Slovenská republika
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL, organizačná zložka
Tel: +421-2-3355 5500
Suomi/Finland
Pfizer Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)9 430 040
Sverige 
Pfizer AB
Tel: +46 (0)8 550 520 00
169
Κύπρος
PFIZER ΕΛΛΑΣ Α.Ε. (CYPRUS BRANCH)
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Pfizer Limited
Τηλ: +357 22 817690
Tel: +44 (0)1304 616161
Latvija
Pfizer Luxembourg SARL filiāle Latvijā
Tel.: +371 670 35 775
This leaflet was last revised in
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
7. Instructions for Use of XELJANZ oral solution
Read this Instructions for Use before you start taking XELJANZ oral solution. There may be 
new information. 
Important information about measuring XELJANZ oral solution
Always use the oral dosing syringe that comes with your XELJANZ oral solution to measure 
and administer your prescribed dose. Ask your healthcare provider or pharmacist to show you how 
to measure your prescribed dose if you are not sure.
How should I store XELJANZ?
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Discard remaining XELJANZ oral solution after 60 days.
To help you remember when to dispose of your XELJANZ bottle you can write the date of first
use on the carton and below:
Date of first use ____ / ____ / ____.
Before each use:
Wash your hands with soap and water and place the items from the carton on a clean flat 
surface.
170
Each carton of XELJANZ oral solution contains
• 1 press-in bottle adapter
• 1 bottle of XELJANZ oral solution
• 1 oral dosing syringe
Step 1. Remove bottle from carton
Remove the bottle of XELJANZ oral solution from the carton.
171
Step 2. Open bottle
Open the bottle. Remove the seal off the top of the bottle (first time only).
Do not throw away the child-resistant cap.
Note: Bottle does not need to be shaken before use.
Step 3. Insert press-in bottle adapter
Remove the press-in bottle adapter and oral dosing syringe from the plastic overwrap. With the bottle 
on a flat surface, push the ribbed end of the press-in bottle adapter with your thumbs all the way into 
the neck of the bottle while holding the bottle firmly.
Note: Do not remove the press-in bottle adapter from the bottle after it is inserted.
172
Step 4. Remove air from oral dosing syringe
Push the oral dosing syringe plunger fully to the tip of the syringe barrel to remove excess air.
Step 5. Insert the oral dosing syringe
Insert the oral dosing syringe into the upright bottle through the opening of the press-in bottle adapter 
until it is firmly in place.
173
Step 6. Withdraw dose from bottle
With the oral dosing syringe in place, turn the bottle upside down. Pull back the plunger.
If you see air bubbles in the oral dosing syringe, fully push the plunger in to empty the oral solution 
back into the bottle. Then withdraw your prescribed dose of oral solution.
Step 7. Remove oral dosing syringe
Turn the bottle upright and place the bottle on a flat surface. Remove the oral dosing syringe from the 
bottle adapter and bottle by pulling straight up on the oral dosing syringe barrel.
174
Step 8. Checking dose withdrawn
Check that the correct dose was drawn up into the oral dosing syringe.
If the dose is not correct, insert the oral dosing syringe tip firmly into the bottle adapter. Fully push in 
the plunger so that the oral solution flows back into the bottle. Repeat Steps 6 and 7.
Step 9. Take the dose of XELJANZ
Place the tip of the oral dosing syringe into the inside of the patient’s cheek.
Slowly push the plunger all the way down to give all the medicine in the oral dosing syringe. Make 
sure the patient has time to swallow the medicine.
175
Step 10. Close the bottle
Close the bottle tightly by turning the child-resistant cap clockwise, leaving the press-in bottle adapter 
in place.
Place the bottle back into the carton and close the carton to protect XELJANZ oral solution from light.
Step 11. Clean oral dosing syringe
Remove the plunger from the barrel by pulling the plunger and the barrel away from each other.
Rinse both with water after each use.
Allow to air dry; then put the oral dosing syringe back together with oral solution in the carton.
Store the oral dosing syringe with the XELJANZ oral solution.
Do not throw away the oral dosing syringe.
176
