23 June 2022 
EMA/780791/2022 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): tofacitinib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010588/202111 
Period covered by the PSUR: 06 November 2020 to: 05 November 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for tofacitinib, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of the available data on hypoglycaemia from spontaneous reports, including 3 cases with a 
positive de-challenge with tofacitinib in patients with diabetes and 1 case were anti-diabetic medication 
adjusted in a patient with diabetes upon which the event of hypoglycaemia resolved (all four case with a 
plausible temporal relationship), data from literature including patients with diabetes who are using JAK 
inhibitors including tofacitinib were hypoglycaemia improved after discontinuation or dose reductions of 
the JAK inhibitor or of the antidiabetic drug, data from clinical trial(s) showing a small trend for 
hypoglycemia in patients with a medical history of diabetes, and in view of a plausible mechanism of 
action of the JAK/STAT pathway on the insulin resistance and/or increased sensitivity as described in 
literature, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between tofacitinib and hypoglycaemia in patients 
with diabetes after initiation of tofacitinib is at least a reasonable possibility and a warning is 
recommended with a proposal for action in case of hypoglycaemia in those patients. The PRAC concluded 
that the product information of products containing tofacitinib should be amended accordingly. 
Furthermore, in view of the available data on retinal venous thrombosis from fifteen spontaneous reports 
and the previously established VTE risk, the PRAC considers a causal relationship between tofacitinib and 
retinal venous thrombosis is at least a reasonable possibility. Therefore, a warning in section 4.4 with a 
proposal for action in case of symptoms of retinal venous thrombosis occur and an update of the footnote 
under the ADR table in section 4.8 is recommended. The PRAC concluded that the product information of 
products containing tofacitinib should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for tofacitinib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing tofacitinib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/780791/2022 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
