23 January 2014 
EMA/CHMP/14148/2014  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Xeloda  
International non-proprietary name: CAPECITABINE 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000316/II/0058 
Note 
Variation assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially 
confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Roche Registration Ltd submitted 
to the European Medicines Agency on 6 November 2013 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary 
Presentations: 
name: 
Xeloda 
CAPECITABINE 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.13 
C.I.13 - Other variations not specifically covered elsewhere in this 
II 
Annex which involve the submission of studies to the competent 
authority 
Submission under article 46 of paediatric regulation (EC) no 1901/2006 of the NO21125 final study 
report on capecitabine and concomitant radiation therapy in children with newly diagnosed brainstem 
gliomas.  
The requested variation proposed no amendments to the Product Information. 
Rapporteur: 
Harald Enzmann 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
6 November 2013 
24 November 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
20 December 2013 
circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
23 January 2014 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Capecitabine is an orally administered precursor of 5-deoxy-5-fluorouridine (5-DFUR), which is 
preferentially converted to the active compound 5- fluorouracil (5-FU) in malignant tissues by thymidine 
phosphorylase (dThdPase). After oral administration, capecitabine is rapidly and extensively absorbed, 
metabolised in the liver to 5-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine (5-DFCR), and then converted to 5-DFUR by cytidine 
deaminase, which is located principally in hepatic and tumour tissue. The final step (metabolism of 
5-DFUR to 5-FU by dThdPase) exploits the higher concentrations of dThdPase in tumour tissues compared 
with adjacent healthy tissues, thus potentially reducing the exposure to 5-FU in normal tissue compared 
with tumour tissue. 5-FU acts by inhibiting thymidylate synthase, a key enzyme in the synthesis of 
thymidine, which forces rapidly dividing cancerous cells to undergo cell death due to the lack of 
thymidine, necessary for DNA replication. 
Assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/52806/2014 
Page 2/6 
 
  
  
 
Xeloda (capecitabine) is indicated as adjuvant treatment of patients with colon cancer, for the treatment 
of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and as first-line treatment of patients with advanced gastric 
cancer. Capecitabine is also indicated in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy 
should have included an anthracycline. Capecitabine is also indicated as monotherapy for the treatment 
of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and an 
anthracycline-containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further anthracycline therapy is not 
indicated. 
With this variation application, the MAH submitted the final clinical study report (CSR) of the paediatric 
phase II study NO21125 under Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No. 1901/2006. This was a study 
investigating Xeloda in combination with radiation therapy in paediatric patients with brainstem gliomas. 
In the EU, there is no Paediatric Investigation Plan in place for Xeloda and there is no relevant use of 
Xeloda in the paediatric population for all approved indications. 
2.2.  Clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Study NO21125 was a single arm, multicentre, open label trial with two treatment phases: a radiotherapy 
[RT] phase [9 weeks treatment + 2-week break] and a post-RT phase [9 weeks]. 
Main inclusion criteria comprised the following: Paediatric patients (≥3 and <18 years of age) with newly 
diagnosed non-disseminated brains stem cell glioma (IBSG, histopathologic diagnosis was not required); 
Performance status: Karnofsky Performance Scale (if >16 years) or Lansky Performance Score (if 
≤16 years) ≥50%; Patients must not have had received any prior chemotherapy, RT, immunotherapy or 
bone marrow transplantation for the treatment of their brainstem glioma; Prior dexamethasone and/or 
surgery were allowed; Patients must have had adequate organ function (haematologic, hepatic and renal) 
as further defined in the inclusion criteria. 
Dosing of capecitabine differed in the two treatment phases (starting dose 1300 mg/m2 daily in RT phase 
and 2500 mg/m2 daily in the post-RT phase), i.e. capecitabine was administered not only concomitantly 
with RT but at lower doses in combination with RT. 
Primary objective of the trial was: 
• 
To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) distribution for newly diagnosed patients with 
diffuse intrinsic brainstem gliomas treated with the combination of capecitabine and radiation 
therapy (RT) and compare to PBTC historical controls. 
Secondary objectives of the trial were: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
To estimate the overall survival (OS) distribution and to summarize the best tumour responses 
observed prior to failure. 
To further characterise the safety profile of capecitabine administered concomitantly with RT in 
this paediatric patient population. 
To further characterise the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine and its metabolites as delivered by 
capecitabine paediatric film-coated tablets (referred to as capecitabine Rapidly Disintegrating 
Tablets [RDT] in the protocol) in this paediatric population. 
To explore the exposure-response relationship for measures of safety and effectiveness using 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) models. 
Assessment report  
Page 3/6 
  
  
 
•  Describe diffusion tensor imaging findings at diagnosis and explore early post-irradiation changes 
as a response measure in brainstem gliomas. 
2.2.2.  Results 
A total of 35 patients were enrolled in protocol NO21125 (from 28 January 2010 through 23 May 2011). 
One patient did not receive study treatment, and thus 34 patients were included in the ITT population. In 
addition, 10 patients enrolled in protocol NO18517 (the phase I study) diagnosed with non-metastatic 
IBSG who received 650 mg/m2/dose BID capecitabine were included for analysis of efficacy and safety.   
A total of 15 patients enrolled in study NO21125 provided PK data. 
Capecitabine was rapidly absorbed and converted to its metabolites. Capecitabine and metabolite PK 
parameters could not be derived from all subjects and the limited sampling schedule meant that robust 
parameters in all patients could not be obtained by NCA analysis alone. The parameters obtained are 
summarised in the table below. 
Table 1: Mean (CV%) capecitabine and metabolites plasma PK parameters following 
administration of 650 mg/m2 capecitabine/day 
For the modelling and simulation analysis, despite the large variability observed mainly in the population 
predictions, a good agreement between the prediction and the observation was observed and it was 
concluded that the model previously developed in adults can accurately describe the data collected in the 
Phase I and Phase II paediatric studies. In the analysis of exposure-safety and exposure-efficacy 
relationships, no clear relationship between AUC and PFS and tumour size or between AUC and selected 
AEs was observed although the small sample size precluded any firm conclusions from being drawn (data 
not shown). 
Assessment report  
Page 4/6 
  
  
 
 
The 1-year Kaplan-Meier estimate for PFS in the ITT population was 8% (90% CI: 1-14%). As the 1-year 
PFS rate was not above 30.9% (the 1-year Kaplan-Meier estimate for PFS defined in the protocol as 15% 
above the historical control group), and the lower limit of the associated 90% CI was not above 15.9% 
(the protocol-defined PFS for the historical control group), the primary study endpoint was not met. 
The 1-year Kaplan-Meier estimate for OS was 42% (90% CI: 29-55%). The 1-year Kaplan-Meier estimate 
was less than 45.6%, which was the protocol-defined 1-year Kaplan-Meier estimate for the historical 
control group. 
Tumour response was based on investigator’s assessments. One patient in the ITT population partially 
responded to treatment and 6 patients had stable disease as best response. None of the patients had a 
complete response. 
The primary toxicities observed included vomiting (reported in 35/44 patients [80%]), alanine 
aminotransferase increase (33/44 patients [75%]), lymphocyte count decrease (32/44 patients [73%]), 
white blood cell count decrease (27/44 patients [61%]), and platelet count decrease (25/44 patients 
[57%]). The SAEs reported within 30 days of last dose of capecitabine mainly included neutrophil count 
decrease (5/44 patients [11%]), central nervous system (CNS) necrosis (3/44 patients [7%]) and 
hydrocephalus (3/44 patients [7%]). Five patients withdrew due to AEs (neutrophil count decreased [2 
patients], CNS necrosis [1 patient], nail infection [1 patient] and somnolence [1 patient]). One patient 
died of an AE occurring within 30 days of last treatment administration (clostridial infection considered as 
related to study drug) during the study. 
2.2.3.  Discussion 
The rationale behind the combination of capecitabine with radiotherapy (RT) is that RT would be expected 
to increase thymidine phosphorylase (dThdPase) but not dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) 
acitivity. This would lead to increased concentration of 5-FU selectively in the neoplastic tissue, thus 
leading to additive-to-synergistic tumour regression (at least as shown in animal tumour models) by 
capecitabine but not 5-FU. Study NO21125 was designed following this rationale. 
Comparison of available pharmacokinetic data in adults with the paediatric data from study NO21125 
above suggested that the pattern of metabolism seemed to be similar in children and adults while 
exposure (to capecitabine) on a dose-normalised basis seemed to be slightly higher in the paediatric 
population. 
With regard to efficacy, addition of capecitabine to RT clearly did not improve the 1-year PFS or OS in 
children with IBSG.  
On safety aspects, typical capecitabine toxicities include dose limiting hand-foot syndrome and 
gastrointestinal AEs such as diarrhoea and they are not on the level of lymphocyte (or white cell in 
general) counts, vomiting, or neurological AEs, as observed in study NO21125. Since the study did not 
have a radiotherapy-only control arm it is rather difficult to actually and reasonably attribute observed 
AEs to (low dose) capecitabine (monotherapy). Instead, safety data deriving from study NO21125 seem 
to rather describe more AEs of RT, and are, thus, not contributing relevantly to the safety profile of the 
Xeloda Product Information. 
2.3.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed no changes to the Product Information, which was considered acceptable. 
Assessment report  
Page 5/6 
  
  
 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
The efficacy data of study NO21125 showed that, as an antimetabolite, capecitabine did not show any 
clinical benefit to paediatric patients with brain tumours when administered concomitantly with 
radiotherapy (RT), despite the fact that RT increases TS activity. In principle, this conclusion applies also 
to the adult population (although not investigated to date). In terms of safety, the results of study 
NO21125 do not alter the risk of Xeloda in the labelled indications. 
Overall, the CHMP was of the opinion that the results of study NO21125 have no impact on the 
risk/benefit balance of Xeloda in its approved indications. No change to the Product Information was 
considered necessary based on these results.   
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable and 
therefore recommends the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning the 
following changes: 
Variation requested 
Type 
C.I.13 
C.I.13 - Other variations not specifically covered elsewhere in this 
II 
Annex which involve the submission of studies to the competent 
authority 
Submission under article 46 of paediatric regulation (EC) no 1901/2006 of the NO21125 final study report 
on capecitabine and concomitant radiation therapy in children with newly diagnosed brainstem gliomas.  
The requested variation proposed no amendments to the Product Information. 
5.   
Assessment report  
Page 6/6 
  
  
 
