SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  and  scientific  discussion  on  procedures,  which 
have  been  finalised  before  31  March  2005.  For  scientific  information  on  procedures  after  this  date 
please refer to module 8B.  
1. 
Introduction 
XELODA contains the new chemical entity capecitabine (INN), a fluoropyrimidine carbamate. 
Capecitabine  is  designed  as  a  'pro-drug'  to  the  cytotoxic  agent  5-fluorouracil  (5-FU)  and  to  be 
administered orally. 5-FU is a widely used cytotoxic agent. The human safety profile of 5-FU and its 
metabolite FBAL has been characterised through clinical trials and from many years of post-marketing 
experience. 
The  gastrointestinal  absorption  of  capecitabine  is  nearly  complete.  Capecitabine  is  absorbed  as 
unchanged  parent  substance  but  is  subsequently  substrate  of  enzymes  and  thus  is  nearly  completely 
metabolised. 
The metabolic pathway leads to production of 5’-DFCR via carboxylesterase (liver) and to 5’-DFUR 
via cytidine deaminase (liver and neoplastic tissue) and finally via thymidine phosphorylase to 5-FU. 
Thymidine  phosphorylase  is  in  higher  concentration  in  neoplastic  tissue,  in  comparison  to  healthy 
tissues, rendering capecitabine “tumour specific”. The catabolic pathway of 5-FU comprises dihydro-
5-fluorouracil  (FUH2,  via  dihydropyrimidine  dehydrogenase,  DPD),  5-fluoro-ureidopropionic  acid 
(FUPA) and α-fluoro-β-alanine (FBAL). 
Xeloda  is  indicated  for  first  line  monotherapy  of  metastatic  colorectal  cancer.  Colorectal  (adeno-) 
carcinoma  represents  a  major  health  problem  particularly  in  the  western  regions  or  the  northern 
hemisphere.  In  these  regions  one  of  20  persons  will  be  affected  during  his  life  span  by  colorectal 
carcinoma  rendering  it  with  about  13%  the  second  most  common  cancer  in  both  sexes.  In  Europe 
about 376,000 new cases are diagnosed each year. 
Carcinomas of the colon and rectum are differing only by their anatomic site and therefore by the local 
surgical  techniques  and  radiotherapy  applied,  if  feasible.  Concerning  tumour  biology  and  systemic 
therapy both are considered as similar entities. 
Roughly 70% of patients are presenting with (non metastatic) limited diseases, which can be resected 
with  curative  intention.  Survival  in  node  negative  patients  after  resection  is  very  favourable  with  5-
year survival rates reported in the range of 73-97%. However, relapse is a major feature in particular 
in patients with stage III (Dukes C) carcinoma. 
About 30% of patients are primarily presenting with non resectable, advanced disease. Additional 25% 
of patients are relapsing after primary resection. Both groups of patients have a poor prognosis so that 
overall cure rates in colorectal carcinoma remain below 50%. This pattern of presentation and course 
leads to an estimated 5 years survival rate combined for all stages of colorectal carcinoma of only 40% 
in Europe. 
Xeloda was granted authorisation in EU in February 2001 for first line monotherapy of patients with 
metastatic colorectal cancer. The indication was subsequently extended through a Type II variation to 
include: 
• 
combination  therapy  with  docetaxel  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  locally  advanced  or 
metastatic breast cancer after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy. Previous therapy should have 
included an anthracycline  
1/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after 
failure of taxanes and an anthracycline-containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom further 
anthracycline therapy is not indicated. 
Breast cancer is the most frequent malignancy in women with more than 300,000 new cases diagnosed 
each year in Europe and therefore a major health problem in the western world.  Despite advances in 
the management of breast cancer, metastatic breast cancer remains an incurable disease with a median 
survival of 2-3 years. 
Anti-neoplastic chemotherapy is the treatment of choice for patients with metastatic breast cancer who 
have  failed  endocrine  therapies,  or  for  whom  hormonal  treatment  is  not  appropriate.  For  almost  30 
years anti-neoplastic chemotherapy in breast cancer has been continuously further developed.  
A number of cytotoxic agents demonstrated moderate anti-tumour activity as single compounds. The 
combination  of  active  single  agents  was  found  to  be  more  effective,  and  still  well  tolerated. 
Combination  treatment  of  the  CMF  type  demonstrated  in  first-line  therapy  approximately  50% 
objective tumour response.  
Anthracyclines demonstrated a higher single agent activity. Their inclusion into combination regimens 
led  to  higher  response  rates  compared  to  non-anthracycline-containing  combination  regimens  in 
metastatic  breast  cancer.  Therefore,  anthracyclines  became  a  standard  in  first-line  chemotherapy  for 
metastatic breast cancer and for adjuvant chemotherapy in suitable patients.  
Taxanes as single agents have shown anti-tumour activities after failure of anthracyclines of roughly 
40%. The high anti-tumour activity of taxanes leads to their widespread and earlier usage. The broad 
use of anthracyclines and taxanes raises the problem which cytotoxic treatment to use in patients who 
do not respond (any longer) to these agents, due to primary or secondary resistance while on therapy, 
or relapse shortly after a prior therapy for advanced or early breast cancer (adjuvant treatment).  
The monoclonal antibody trastuzumab (Herceptin) was approved in EU as monotherapy for metastatic 
breast  cancer  after  failure  of  an  anthracycline  and  a  taxane  in  those  patients  whose  tumours  over-
express HER2.  
The use of Xeloda is primarily to simplify intravenous single-agent 5-FU based therapy of metastatic 
colorectal carcinoma through oral route of administration. The recommended dose of Xeloda is 1250 
mg/m2 twice daily in monotherapy for two weeks followed by a one-week rest period. In combination 
with docetaxel, the recommended dose of Xeloda is 1250 mg/m2 twice daily for 2 weeks followed by 
1-week  rest  period,  combined  with  docetaxel  at  75  mg/m2  as  a  1-hour  intravenous  infusion  every  3 
weeks. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition 
Xeloda is a conventional tablet with a film coating applied to mask the taste of the product and to avoid 
direct  contact  with  the  active  substance.  The  film-coated  tablets  are  manufactured  in  2  strengths, 
differentiated by size and colour. 
The formulations used in clinical trials differ only in the amount of the coating excipients (including the 
colorants).  Both  a  dissolution  study  and  a  bioequivalence  study  have  supported  that  the  clinical  trial 
formulations can be considered bioequivalent to the final composition as intended for marketing. Xeloda 
contains magnesium stearate and lactose. Information has been provided in the dossier demonstrating 
that the medicinal product is made in compliance with the CPMP Note for Guidance on  minimising 
the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products. 
The  packaging  consists  of  cartons  with  polyvinylchloride/polyethylene/polyvinylidene  lidded  with 
aluminium foil push-through blisters. 
2/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active substance 
Capecitabine  is  a  fluoropyrimidine  carbamate  with  the  chemical  name  5’-deoxy-5-fluoro-N-
[(pentyloxy)  carbonyl]-cytidine.  The  molecular  formula  is  C15H22FN3O6  and  the  molecular  weight 
359.35. It is a chiral molecule synthesised in a 3-step process where three chiral centres come from the 
starting material and the fourth one is created with stereospecific synthesis. The data provided indicate 
that  the  stereochemistry  is  not  changed  during  manufacture  or  storage  of  the  active  substance.  Ten 
impurities  have  been  identified,  two  intermediates, three  degradation  products  and  five  synthetic  by-
products. 
The particle size specification is justified by the fact that all batches of active substance that have been 
used for the production of the tablets have shown consistent dissolution and content uniformity data 
upon release.  
The identification is a combination of IR and HPLC together with a test for optical rotation. The purity 
is  controlled  by  chromatographic  methods.  The  impurity  limits  in  the  specification  are  justified  by 
toxicology studies. The possible related substances and the content of capecitabine are determined by a 
HPLC method. GC determines residual solvents (two alternative methods). All of the chromatographic 
methods  have  suitability  tests.  As  for  the  tests  for  water,  sulphated  ash  and  heavy  metals  reference  is 
given  to  Ph.Eur.  where  relevant  or  USP.  The  specified  limits  of  particle  size  distribution  of 
capecitabine reflect the quality of the material used throughout technical-pharmaceutical development. 
The impurity limits in the product specification are justified by toxicology studies. 
The proposed specifications are supported by the batch analysis results (n = 51). 
The stability studies indicate that capecitabine is a stable substance at normal conditions and the results 
support the proposed retest period of 3 years from initial analysis if stored below 30 °C with desiccant. 
Other ingredients 
All excipients comply with Ph.Eur. and the colorants comply with EU standards.  
Product development and finished product 
Xeloda  is  manufactured  by  conventional  pharmaceutical  operations  (wet  granulation  final  blending, 
compression  and  coating).  In-process  controls  include  disintegration  of  the  kernels.  There  are  no 
disintegration  requirements  in  the  finished  product  specification,  however  the  dissolution  requirement 
(min. 75% (Q) after 45 min.) controls satisfactorily the release of the drug substance. 
A satisfactory process validation has been performed, including granulation, blending, compression and 
film coating. Reproducibility was demonstrated. 
The product is being manufactured in a facility that holds the necessary Manufacturing Authorisation 
(see Annex II of the Opinion). 
The  control  test  and  specifications  for  finished  product  are  adequately  drawn  up.  The  identity  of 
capecitabine is confirmed by IR-spectroscopy and high performance liquid chromatography used for 
the assay and the detection of degradation products.  
The  dissolution  test  is  performed  with  a  validated  automatic  dissolution  measuring  system  (UV-
spectrophotometer).  The  impurity  limits  in  the  product  specification  are  justified  by  toxicology 
studies. 
The limits for the microbial contamination are based on the requirements of Ph.Eur. 
Results from 2 batches of the 150 mg strength and 3 batches of the 500 mg strength are presented. The 
results  confirm  satisfactory  uniformity  of  the  product  at  release  and  indicate  reliable  and  consistent 
performance of the product in clinical use. 
3/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability of the product 
The results from the stability studies indicate that the tablets exhibited satisfactory potency, purity and 
physical integrity. The physical appearance  of the  tablets and the dissolution  data obtained show no 
change during storage. The results support the proposed shelf life of 3 years, as defined in the SPC.  
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In summary, the documentation of substances, materials, methods of production as well as the quality 
controls is sufficient to ensure  a product of appropriate and consistent quality. Information has  been 
provided  in  the  dossier  demonstrating  that  the  medicinal  product  is  made  in  compliance  with  the 
CPMP Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy 
agents via medicinal products. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
In vitro studies 
Capecitabine has been designed and developed as a pro-drug to the known cytotoxic agent 5-FU. Data 
from  cultured  human  cancer  cell  lines  indicate  that  capecitabine  becomes  cytotoxic  only  after 
conversion  to  5-FU.  Studies  on  the  mechanism  of  action  of  5-FU  have  not  been  performed  for  this 
application.  There  is  sufficient  evidence  suggesting  that  the  metabolism  of  5-FU  in  the  anabolic 
pathway blocks the methylation reaction of deoxyuridylic acid to thymidylic acid, thereby interfering 
with the synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA). The incorporation of 5-FU also leads to inhibition 
of  RNA  and  protein  synthesis.  Since  DNA  and  RNA  are  essential  for  cell  division  and  growth,  the 
effect of 5-FU may be to create a thymidine deficiency that provokes unbalanced growth and death of 
a  cell.  The  effects  of  DNA  and  RNA  deprivation  are  most  marked  on  those  cells  which  proliferate 
more rapidly and which metabolise 5-FU at a more rapid rate. 
In vivo studies 
Efficacy  and  safety  of  capecitabine  were  superior  to  other  fluoropyrimidines  (5-FU,  UFT,  and  5’-
DFUR)  in  xenograft  models  of  human  colon,  breast,  gastric,  cervical,  bladder,  and  ovarian  and 
prostate  cancer.  In  combination  therapy,  the  capacitabine-based  combinations  (partners:  standard 
cytostatics, dThdPase up-regulators and x-ray radiation) were more effective than 5-FU combinations 
in  selected  human  breast,  gastric  and  colon  cancer  xenograft  models.  The  ratio  of  dThdPase/DPD 
(dihydropyrimidine  reductase  which  inactivates  5-FU)  in  tumours  seems  to  be  an  important 
determinant  for  antitumour  activity  of  capecitabine  in  preclinical  models.    The  clinical  relevancy  of 
this finding is not yet known, but is under active investigation. 
Capecitabine  had  an  antimetastatic  potential  and  reversed  cachexia  in  tumor-bearing  animals  in  the 
Lewis Lung carcinoma and Colon 26 carcinoma models. The antitumour activity is dependent on the 
cumulative  dose,  and  not  on  dosing  schedule,  when  capecitabine  is  given  for  a  prolonged  period  of 
time.  
While the submitted data show an increased 5-FU content of colorectal tumour tissues compared with 
adjacent healthy tissues, the available evidence also suggests that 5-FU generation in response to 
capecitabine treatment is in large part localised in non-cancer cells of colorectal tumour tissues. 
In conclusion, an enrichment of 5-FU in colorectal cancer cells, in particular in comparison with major 
target cells of fluoropyrimidine toxicity, in response to capecitabine treatment and the contribution of 
the  5-FU  generated  in  stromal  cells  of  colorectal  tumour  tissue  to  the  anti-tumour  effect  of 
capecitabine  remain  to  be  established.  This  has  been  reflected  in  the  SPC  (section  5.2 
Pharmacokinetic Properties). 
Neither  the  mechanism  of  DPD  activity  expression,  nor  the  intrinsic  factors  that  affect  the  enzyme 
activity and its gene expression are known. The anticancer drugs most likely to be used together with 
capecitabine in combination therapy do not influence DPD activity in human colon cancer xenografts.  
4/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
General and safety pharmacology programme 
There were no significant effects on respiratory, nervous and gastrointestinal systems in rats and dogs.  
Cardiovascular toxicity (e.g. PR- and QT-interval prolongation) was detectable after intravenous (100 
mg/kg)  but  not  after  repeated  dose  daily  oral  administration  to  monkeys  for  26/52  weeks  with 
sufficient systemic exposure to 5'DFUR. Nevertheless, caution should be exercised when capecitabine 
is used in patients with pre-existing cardiovascular disorders. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics  has  been  investigated  in  mice,  rats  and  monkeys.  In  all  three  species  systemic 
exposure  levels  were  approximately  proportional  to  dose,  and  did  not  change  significantly  with 
repeated dosing. 
Like  in  humans,  capecitabine  was  relatively  rapidly  and  extensively  absorbed  following  oral 
administration  to  monkeys  (at  least  81%),  rats  and  mice  (95%  or  greater).  The  plasma  tmax  for 
capecitabine was about 1 h (range 0.5 to 2 h) in monkeys and about 0.5 h in rodents. 
In  non-tumour  bearing  mice  and  rats,  capecitabine  levels  were  highest  in  liver,  kidney,  and 
gastrointestinal tract. Capecitabine levels in the brain were low in both species.  
Plasma  protein  binding  (primarily  to  the  albumin  fraction)  of  capecitabine  (51-69%)  and  its  main 
metabolites  (20%  or  less,  except  for  5'-DFUR:  60%)  were  low.  The  half-life  of  capecitabine  in  the 
monkey is 0.4 h, and in man 0.5 h. 
Capecitabine  was  rapidly  and  extensively  metabolised  to  5-FU  by  the  monkey  -  presumably  by 
hepatic/intestinal  first-pass  effect  -  with  comparatively  low  systemic  exposure  to  5-FU.  In  contrast, 
generation  of  5-FU  in  rodents  was  rapid  but  less  extensive  because  of  the  differences  in  the  5-FU-
generating enzyme distribution, as compared to monkey and man. Capecitabine is first metabolised by 
hepatic  carboxylesterase  to  5’-DFCR,  which  is  then  converted  to  5’-DFUR  by  cytidine  deaminase, 
principally located in the liver and tumour tissues. Further catalytic activation of 5’-DFUR then occurs 
in  tumour  tissues  by  the  tumour  associated  angiogenic  factor  thymidine  phosphorylase  (dThdPase). 
Capecitabine  and  its  metabolites  (5’-DFCR,  5’-DFUR,  and  5-FU  or  metabolites  of  5-FU:  5-FUH2, 
FUPA,  and  FBAL)  are  excreted  primarily  in  urine.  Interspecies  differences  are  consistent  with 
differences in the 5-FU-generating enzyme activities. Thus, cytidine deaminase activity is highest in 
monkey tissues.  
In vivo studies in male mice indicate that there is a low potential for pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
due to either inhibition or induction of P450. 
In pregnant and lactating mice, a considerable amount of capecitabine related material was transferred 
to both fetus and milk. This information is reflected in the SPC (section 4.6 Pregnancy and lactation). 
Overall, the pharmacokinetics in monkey are similar to man. However, there are differences, some of 
which may relate to differences in the enzyme activities. The lower exposure to 5’-DFCR in monkey 
compared to man is consistent with the higher activities of cytidine deaminase in monkey tissues, as 
compared to human tissues. Another difference is that, the systemic exposures to 5-FU and FBAL in 
monkey are about half those in man at similar doses.  
Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The single dose toxicity of capecitabine has been studied in mice, rats and monkeys. In the mice study 
doses of 0, 1000 or 2000 mg/kg were administered by gavage and doses of 0, 250, 375 or 500 mg/kg 
intravenously. Animals were observed for 14 days following oral dosing. The were no deaths in any 
groups  of  both  sexes.  Transient  clinical  signs  included  decreased  spontaneous  motor  activity  and 
bradypnoea. No compound-related findings were revealed at gross necropsy. The oral lethal dose was 
greater  than  2000  mg/kg  and  the  maximum  non-lethal  intravenous  dose  was  estimated  to  be  greater 
5/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
than  250  mg/kg  for  males  and  greater  than  375  but  less  than  500  mg/kg  for  female  mice.  The 
intravenous administration is not considered to be relevant for the human situation, because the first-
pass metabolism following oral administration is by-passed. 
Capecitabine  was  given  nasogastrically  at  doses  of  500,  1000  and  2000  mg/kg  in  two  male 
cynomolgus monkeys. The doses were given on days 1, 4 and 7. Animals were observed for 21 days 
(14 days observation after the final dosing). Necropsy was not performed. There were no deaths. After 
each dosing emesis, salivation and loose passage or diarrhoea was observed. The symptoms point to 
gastrointestinal toxicity of capecitabine. Due to emesis, which may have impacted exposure, the study 
does not allow conclusions regarding the maximal non-lethal dose.  
Repeated dose toxicity 
All  the  studies  have  been  performed  using  continuous  single  daily  dosing  regimen  instead  of  the 
clinical dosing regimen (two weeks of b.i.d. dosing followed by a one week off treatment). See also 
"Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects". 
In  a  study  in  mice  (n=6/sex/group,  duration  of  administration=4  weeks,  dose  levels:  0/198/395/791 
mg/kg/day,  gavage),  the  main  findings  were  effects  on  gastrointestinal  and  hematopoietic/lymphatic 
systems were shown at 395 mg/kg/day and higher: slight anemia, slight decrease in bone marrow cell 
count  (BMC),  increase  in  BUN,  slight  decrease  in  thymus  weight  and  increase  in  spleen  weight; 
slightly-to  moderately  regressive  intestinal  change;  slightly  to  moderately  increased  extramedullary 
hematopoiesis in the spleen; brown pigment deposits in marrow of the femur; slight atrophic changes 
in  thymus  and  the  spleen.  No  drug-related  death  was  observed.  Effects  on  gastrointestinal  and 
hematopoietic/lymphatic systems were shown at 395 mg/kg/day and higher. The maximum tolerated 
dose (MTD) was 198 mg/kg/day. 
Another  study  in  mice  (n=15/sex/group,  duration  of  administration=13  weeks  +  4  weeks  recovery, 
dose  levels:  0/198/395/791  mg/kg/day,  gavage)  significant  decrease  in  body  weight,  food  intake, 
emaciation, decrease of spontaneous motor activity, and loose passage were observed at the dose level 
of  791  mg/kg/day.  After  the  reduction  of  the  dose  to  593  mg/kg/day,  tendency  of  recovery  in  body 
weight gain and clinical signs was observed. Three males and 8 females were found dead or sacrificed 
in  this  dose  group  after  showing  decreased  spontaneous  motor  activity,  loose  passage,  hyposthenia, 
hypothermia,  bradypnoea  or  convulsion  (just  before  death).  Drug  related  toxicity  was  observed  in 
lymphatic/hematopoietic organs, reproductive organs as well as in gastrointestinal tract and in skin in 
almost  all  dead/sacrificed  animals.  In  the  surviving  animals,  drug  related  changes  were  observed  in 
lymphatic/hematopoietic organs, reproductive organs and gastrointestinal tract of the middle and high 
dose groups. These changes appeared to be reversible. There were no notable changes in the low dose 
group. The MTD was 198 mg/kg/day. 
In  a  study  in  rats  (n=5/sex/group,  duration  of  administration=4  weeks,  dose  levels:  0/180/395/539 
mg/kg/day,  gavage),  no  clinical  signs  of  exposure  were  evident.  Body  weight  gain  and  food 
consumption were slightly decreased in males (at 539 mg/kg/day). Organ weights, haematology, blood 
chemistry,  urinalysis,  and  necropsy  examinations  did  not 
reveal  drug-induced  changes. 
Toxicologically significant organ weight changes were not observed. Slight degeneration of the rectal 
crypt cells was observed in both genders at 539 mg/kg/day. All rats survived. In this study MTD was 
359 mg/kg/day. 
Minimal increases of MCV and MCH and increase of the number of animals which showed protein 
positive in standard urinalysis (in the absence of renal toxicity) were observed at 539 mg/kg/day in a 
study  in  rats  (n=20/sex/group,  duration  of  administration=26  weeks,  dose  levels:  0/180/395/539 
mg/kg/day,  gavage).  However,  nothing  abnormal  was  found  in  kidneys.  Other  findings  included: 
reduced body weight and food consumption, slight decrease in RBC, total protein in serum and urine 
volume, slight increase of specific gravity in urine (at 359 and 539 mg/kg/day) and slight regressive 
changes  in  rectum  (at  539  mg/kg/day).  There  were  no  deaths  in  the  study.  The  MTD  was  180 
mg/kg/day. 
6/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  a  4  week  study  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  (n=3/sex/group  except  for  the  high  dose,  only  3  males; 
dose levels: 0/36/180/359, oral), loose passage or diarrhoea were evident at the two higher doses. Two 
animals treated with 359 mg/kg/day were sacrificed in moribund condition. Decreases of weight gain 
and  food  consumption  and  decreases  of  WBC  and  BMC  were  observed  at  ≥179  mg/kg/day.  No 
toxicological significant changes in parameters relating to blood chemistry and urinalysis were found. 
A  decrease  in  thymus  weight  (at  ≥179.5  mg/kg/day)  and  in  spleen  weight  (at  395  mg/kg/day)  and 
increase in adrenal weight in the sacrificed animals has been seen. Slight to severe regressive toxicity 
in  large  intestine  and  small  intestine  as  well  as  in  lymphatic  and  hematopoietic  organs  at  ≥179.5 
mg/kg/day was noted. The MTD was 36 mg/kg/day. 
In  a  4  week  study  in  Cynomolgus  monkeys  (n=3/sex/group  except  for  the  high  dose,  only  3  males; 
dose levels in mg/kg/day: 0/36/180/359 capecitabine p.o; 220/439 galocitabine p.o; 62/123 5’-DFUR 
p.o.), all three substances caused previously seen adverse effects on the gastrointestinal, lymphoid and 
hematopoietic  systems.  Based  on  clinical  signs,  hematological  examination,  organ  weight,  and 
histopathological examination, the toxic effects of capecitabine and galocitabine appear to be weaker 
than that of 5’-DFUR (approximately 2-4 times weaker in a molar base). 
In  the  same  species,  in  another  study  (n=3/sex/dose  group  +  recovery  1/sex/dose  group,  duration  of 
administration:  13  w  +  4  w  recovery;  dose  levels  in  mg/kg/day:  0/54/108/215,  nasogastrically),  the 
high dose level was decreased to 162 mg/kg/day from day 35 after 3 days cessation of dosing due to 
aggravation  of  clinical  signs  and  decrease  of  body  weight  and  food  consumption.  There  were  two 
deaths in the highest dosage group. The clinical symptoms were similar to those in the 4-week toxicity 
study.  In  the  highest  dose  group  animals  also  lost  weight  and  their  food  consumption  decreased. 
Hematological  changes  (decrease  in  RBC,  HCT,  Hb  and  WBC)  were  evident  at  >  108  mg/kg.  The 
weights of thymus and spleen were  decreased with the dosage of ≥ 108 mg/kg/day, and in the  dead 
monkeys the weights of liver, kidneys, adrenals and brain were increased. Histopathological findings 
were  similar  to  the  ones  found  in  the  4-week  study.  This  study  revealed  regressive  toxicity  also  in 
tonsils.  Evidence  of  toxicity  was  not  observed  in  kidneys,  liver  heart  and  brain.  In  the  animals  that 
died  prematurely  hypertrophy  of  cortical  cells  in  adrenals,  probably  resulting  from  the  aggravated 
clinical symptoms, was also observed. All changes were reversed after 4-week recovery period. MTD 
was 54 mg/kg/day. 
In  a  further  study  (n=3/sex/  group,  duration  of  administration:  26  weeks;  dose  levels  in  mg/kg/day: 
0/18/54/144,  gavage),  the  reversibility  of  the  changes  after  the  dosages  was  not  followed.  The  one 
female  at  the  highest  dose  group  which  was  sacrificed  in  a  moribund  condition,  showed  diarrhoea, 
decreased  spontaneous  motor  activity,  loss  of  appetite,  emaciation,  hypothermia,  bradypnoea; 
decreased body weight & food intake. In addition, toxic changes (consistent with the previous studies) 
were observed in lymphatic / hematopoietic systems and in gastrointestinal tract. The changes in the 
serum  biochemistry  were  considered  to  be  secondary  changes  caused  by  the  aggravation  of  clinical 
signs. Weight changes were observed also in heart, liver, kidneys (low absolute weights), brain, lungs 
and  adrenals  (high  relative  weight).  However,  these  were  not  connected  with  histopathological 
changes.  In  this  same  animal  there  was  also  evidence  of  skin  toxicity  (hypoplasia  of  the  squamous 
epithelium  and  atrophy  of  the  hair  follicle).  The  clinical  symptoms  of  the  surviving  animals  were 
minor. The MTD was 54 mg/kg/day. 
Finally, a study of 52  weeks of duration of administration in  Cynomolgus  monkeys (n=4/sex/group; 
dose levels in mg/kg/day: 0/36/72/108, gavage), was performed. The reversibility of the effects after 
the dosages was not followed in the study. Overall, the findings were consistent with previous studies. 
Clinical signs of exposure were evident  at all  dose levels. They included: dosage related increase in 
the  incidence  of  postdosing  salivation  in  all  groups,  regurgitation  of  small  quantities  of  dose  in  all 
groups  (including  controls;  however,  highest  incidence  at  108  mg/kg/day),  and  transient  soft  faeces. 
There  were  no  obvious  effects  of  treatment  on  body  weight,  food  or  water  consumption  or  on 
ophthalmoscopic  and  electrocardiographic  parameters.  Myelosuppression  and  associated  effects  on 
systemic  red  and  white  cell  parameters  characterised  the  haematopoietic  toxicities.  There  were  no 
treatment-related changes in blood biochemistry examinations or urinalysis. Evidence on skin toxicity 
was not observed. At 108 mg/kg/day, the relative weight of thymus was marginally decreased. Apart 
from a decrease of lymphocytes in the cortex of the thymus and proliferation of hematopoietic cells in 
7/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the bone marrow of one animal at 108 mg/kg/day, no changes attributable to treatment were seen in 
histopathological examinations. The MTD was 72 mg/kg/day, however, at this dosage and at 32 mg/kg 
changes in white cell count and myeloid left shift index were equivocal. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
5-fluorouracil  resulting  from  conversion  of  capecitabine  has  been  found  to  target  male  and  female 
reproductive organs. Decreases in testis and epididymis weights, decreased numbers of spermatocytes 
and spermatids, and degenerative changes were found in male mice treated with 760 mg/kg/day (about 
2350 mg/m2/day) for approximately 80 days in the fertility study. Mating conducted after a minimum 
of 28 days of treatment revealed a slight reduction in the ability of these males to fertilise untreated 
female  partners.  In  female  mice,  oestrus  cycles  and  mating  were  disrupted  by  treatment  with  760 
mg/kg/day.  The  effect  was  reversible  as  the  females  mated  within  14  days  upon  withdrawal  of 
treatment.  Oestrus  cycles  were  not  evaluated  at  190  and  380  mg/kg/day.  Effects  on  female  fertility 
may have been present at lower doses. 
Embryo-foetal development 
In one study mated female mice (20/group) were given daily oral doses of capecitabine (0, 198, 395 
and 791 mg/kg/day by gavage) on gestation days 6 - 15. The females were killed on gestation day 17. 
There  were  no  deaths  attributable  to  the  test  compound.  Also  no  drug-related  toxicity  was  observed 
clinically and in gross necropsy findings. Maternal body weight development and food consumption 
were decreased dose-dependently from the middle of gestation. Decrease of foetus body weight, dose-
related  decrease  of  the  number  alive  foetuses  and  increase  of  early  death  (resorption)  and 
teratogenicity were observed at the dose of 198 mg/kg/day or higher. Non-toxic dose was estimated < 
198 mg/kg/day in parental animals and F1 foetuses. 
In a supplementary embryo-fetal development study capecitabine was given by gavage at doses of 0, 
25, 50 and 100 mg/kg/day (20/dose group) from the day 6 to 15 of gestation. Inhibition of body weight 
development and food consumption was evident in dams at 100 mg/kg/day. No drug-related toxicity 
was observed in corpora lutea or implantation sites, or on fetal viability. Slight increase of rudimentary 
14th rib was observed in 100-mg/kg groups. No drug-related toxicity was observed in foetus weight, 
external  anomaly  and  visceral  examination.  Non-toxic  dose  was  50  mg/kg/day  for  parental  animals 
and F1 foetuses.  
A  second  supplementary  Segment  II  study  was  performed  with  oral  doses  of  0,  50,  100  and  200 
mg/kg/day.  The  study  also  included  the  examination  of  physical  development  of  F1  pups  after 
delivery. A slight prolongation of pregnant period and a slight inhibition of body weight development 
and  food  consumption  were  evident  at  200mg/kg/day  in  dams.  F1-pups  showed  embryotoxicity  and 
teratogenicity at doses of 100 mg/kg/day or higher. No notable changes were observed in the physical 
development  of  F1-pups  after  delivery.  Non-toxic  dose  level  in  this  study  was  estimated  to  be  100 
mg/kg for dams and 50 mg/kg/day for F1-pups.  
Capecitabine was administered orally by gavage to mated female monkeys (5/dose level) at 0, 22.5, 45 
and 90 mg/kg/day on gestation days 20 through 50. Caesarean sections were performed on day 100-
102.  No  maternal  deaths  occurred.  One  abortion  and  embryolethality  was  noted  at  90  mg/kg. 
Additionally,  embryonic  death  was  observed  in  1  dam  of  the  22.5  mg/kg/day  group.  This  may  be 
incidental because no abortions or embryonic deaths occurred in the 45-mg/kg groups. There was no 
evidence of a teratogenic effect at any tested dose. 
Perinatal development 
No relevant effects on parturition and postnatal development  or function were identified in the  peri-
postnatal study with doses up to 400 mg/kg/day (about 1200 mg/m2/day). However, at this high dose a 
single pup developed hydrocephaly. 
8/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity 
A standard battery of tests (3 in vitro tests and 1 in vivo test) was done to investigate the genotoxic 
potential  of  capecitabine.  Capecitabine  was  not  mutagenic  in  vitro  to  bacteria  (Ames  test)  or 
mammalian  cells  (Chinese  hamster  V79/HPRT  gene  mutation  assay).  However,  similar  to  other 
nucleoside analogues (i.e., 5-FU), capecitabine was clastogenic in human lymphocytes (in vitro) and a 
positive trend occurred in mouse bone marrow micronucleus tests (in vivo). The risk associated with 
exposure to capecitabine depends largely on the enzymatic conversion to 5-FU. The first step involves 
carboxyl esterase, which is preferentially expressed in human liver. The last step, i.e. ThdPase, which 
generates  5-FU  is  generally  higher  expressed  in  tumour  tissues  compared  to  normal  human  cells.  It 
may  be  therefore  speculated  that  the  genotoxic  risk  of  normal  human  cells  after  exposure  to 
capecitabine is significantly lower compared to direct exposure to 5-FU. Repeated administration will 
enhance the clastogenic effect of capecitabine. 
Carcinogenicity 
A two-year carcinogenicity study in mice (50/sex dose group) given capecitabine in daily oral doses of 
0  (Control-1),  0  (Control-2),  30,  60  or  90  mg/kg/day  by  dietary  mixture  has  been  performed.  The 
study  did  not  reveal  any  evidence  for  an  oncogenic  potential  of  capecitabine.  In  male  mice  the 
incidence  of  bronchio-alveolar  adenomas  and  in  female  mice  the  incidence  of  histiocytic  sarcomas 
were statistically significantly decreased at the dose level of 90 mg/kg/day. These findings are likely 
to be related to the pharmacodynamic activity of capecitabine. 
Ecotoxicity/Environmental risk assessment  
Data on the environmental effects and exposure of capecitabine have been presented. Exposure to the 
environment is considered very limited and therefore no risk of concern would be expected. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  pharmacodynamic  profile  of  capecitabine  as  a  pro-drug  for  5-FU  could  be  confirmed  a)  in 
experiments  with  cancer  cell  lines,  in  which  capecitabine  itself  and  its  intermediate  metabolites  had 
only  a  low  direct  cytotoxic  potential  and  b)  in  experiments  with  mice  bearing  human  and  murine 
tumours, in which cytotoxic effects of capecitabine appeared to be related to its conversion to 5-FU. In 
accordance,  factors  which  prevent  the  generation  of  high  intratumoral  5-FU  levels,  like  e.g.  low 
intratumoral activity of ThdPase or high intratumoral activity of DPD, may represent mechanisms of 
resistance to capecitabine. 
Capecitabine  had  an  antimetastatic  potential  and  reversed  cachexia  in  mouse  tumour  models. 
Synergistic  effects  of  capecitabine  in  combination  therapy  with  other  cytotoxic  drugs  have  been 
shown. 
The safety pharmacology studies did not indicate significant effects on the major organ systems, but 
they showed a potential of capecitabine to affect cardiovascular functions in dogs and monkeys after 
iv. application. Although these effects were not reproduced after oral application to monkeys for up to 
52 weeks, the cardiotoxic potential of capecitabine should be further characterised. 
The  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  characteristics  of  capecitabine  and  its 
metabolites 5´-DFCR and 5´-DFUR in rat, mouse and monkey reflected the tissue distribution pattern 
of the enzymes responsible for conversion of capecitabine to 5-FU. 
Following oral administration, capecitabine was rapidly and extensively absorbed. 
Capecitabine is first metabolised by (hepatic) carboxylesterase to 5´-DFCR, which is then converted to 
5´-DFUR by cytidine deaminase, principally located in the liver and in tumour tissues. Activation of 
5´-DFUR  to  5-FU  then  occurs  by  ThdPase  (also  called  tumour  associated  angiogenic  factor),  which 
shows high activity in tumour tissues. Accordingly, 5-FU levels were higher in colorectal cancer tissue 
than in the  adjacent  healthy tissue and in plasma. However, since ThdPase expression appears to be 
mainly located in the stromal cells of colorectal tumour tissues, 5-FU formation within these cells may 
substantially contribute to the enhanced 5-FU levels. Data about 5-FU levels produced in response to 
capecitabine  therapy  in  main  target  cells  of  capecitabine  toxicity,  like  e.g.  intestinal  epithelial  cells, 
bone  marrow  cells  and  epidermal  cells  (related  to  gastrointestinal  toxicity,  myelosuppression  and 
hand-foot  syndrome) are  not available.  Therefore,  conclusive evidence  that  5-FU levels  produced  in 
9/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
response  to  capecitabine  treatment  are  higher  in  colorectal  cancer  cells  than  in  main  target  cells  of 
capecitabine toxicity has not been presented. 
Plasma kinetics of capecitabine and its metabolites in the Cynomolgus monkey are similar to that of 
man.  Capecitabine  was  rapidly  and  extensively  metabolised  to  5-FU  by  the  monkey,  however,  with 
comparatively low plasma levels of 5-FU. Because of interspecies differences in the tissue distribution 
of the capecitabine metabolising enzymes, generation of 5-FU in rodents, especially in rats, was less 
extensive as compared to monkey and man. 
Capecitabine and its metabolites are excreted primarily in urine. 
Capecitabine was not lethal in monkeys at 2,000 mg/kg but conclusions on the lethal dose cannot be 
drawn due to a potential effect of emesis on exposure. Based on monkey data, the manifestations of 
acute overdosage in the human situation can be anticipated to be salivation, vomiting and diarrhoea. 
In the repeated dose toxicity studies, the monkey, which shows the closest similarity to man regarding 
pharmacokinetics,  was  clearly  the  most  sensitive  species.  Safety  margins,  as  based  on  the  systemic 
exposure following oral administration were low, as expected for a cytotoxic drug. The adverse effects 
on the gastrointestinal, lymphoid and hematopoietic system as well as on female and, in high doses, 
male reproductive organs were consistent with those reported for other fluoropyrmidines and appeared 
to be reversible. 
Evidence  on  the  hand-foot  syndrome  was  not  found  in  general  toxicity  studies.  Skin  toxicity  was 
found in some dead animals (one monkey at the dose level of 144 mg/kg/day in the 26-week toxicity 
study, and 11 mice at the dose level of 791/593 mg/kg/day in the 13-week toxicity study). The skin 
toxicity  was  characterised  by  degenerative/regressive  changes.  Skin  toxicity  has  been  reported  with 
other fluoropyrimidines. The applicant has performed a tissue distribution study in monkeys showing 
that  the  levels  of  radioactivity  in  skin  were  relatively  low  compared  to  kidney  and  liver.  The 
localisation of the skin lesion in the monkey was not typical of HFS. However, the possibility that the 
cases of skin lesions observed in mice and monkeys only at high doses associated with lethality could 
represent early cases of hand-foot syndrome appears unlikely.  
The dosing regimen in clinical studies, 2 weeks on/1 week off, was different from the 5 day per week 
dosing regimen used in some pre-clinical efficacy studies. This was done to avoid toxicity that may be 
caused  by  capecitabine  metabolites  with  long  half-lives,  such  as  FBAL  (half-live  33  hours).  In 
addition,  the  intensity  of  this  and  other  potential  side  effects,  such  as  stomatitis,  should  be  reduced, 
since this rest period is considered long enough to allow recovery from such toxicities. 
Pre-clinical  models  are  insufficient  to  confirm  these  predictions  since  hand-foot  syndrome  and 
stomatitis  are  often  seen  in  patients  treated  with  fluoropyrimidines  but  not  in  animals,  including 
monkeys. Nor are they seen in tumour models (mice bearing human colon cancer xenografts) used in 
pre-clinical studies with capecitabine. 
The  database  comparing  the  relative  toxicity  of  each  dosing  regimen  in  animals  is  insufficient  to 
recommend  which  regimen  would  be  safer  in  clinical  trials  with  capecitabine.  The  5  days  per  week 
dosing regimen seemed to be slightly less toxic than the daily and 2 weeks-on/1 week-off regimens in 
a  pre-clinical  human  colon  cancer  xenograft  study  with  capecitabine.  However,  the  difference  in 
toxicity was not significant, and the number of mice used in this study was small. 
Embryotoxicity was observed in monkeys and mice, teratogenicity was observed in mice. Therefore, 
pregnancy should be avoided during Xeloda therapy as long as the anticipated benefit of capecitabine 
treatment to the mother does not outweigh this risk consideration. 
Similar  to  5-FU,  capecitabine  was  clastogenic  in  human  lymphocytes  (in  vitro)  and  a  positive  trend 
was  also  observed  in  vivo  in  the  mouse  bone  marrow  micronucleus  test  (in  vivo).  There  was  no 
evidence of carcinogenic potential in mice.  
The specifications of the impurities contained in the finished product are acceptable. 
Exposure  to  the  environment  is  considered  very  limited  and  therefore  no  risk  of  concern  would  be 
expected. 
10/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards and agreed ethical principles. 
4.1 First line monotherapy of metastatic colorectal cancer 
Clinical pharmacology 
A total  of  12 clinical pharmacology studies  involving 312 cancer patients  were  conducted  (Table  2) 
and submitted in the original dossier. 
Table 2: Clinical pharmacology studies 
N*  Tumour  Treatment 
Protocol 
no.  
[Report] 
Single dose studies  
BK14561  
[B-116093] 
6 
Cancer 
BK14824  
[W-144018] 
BK14822  
[W-144044] 
WP15354  
[W-144045] 
BP15572  
[W-144057] 
6 
CRC1 
27  Cancer2 
12  Solid 
20  Solid 
Solid 
6 
WP15353  
[W-144089] 
Multiple dose studies  
SO14693  
[N-139256] 
33  Solid 
SO14794  
[N-139257] 
SO14798  
[N-139258] 
34  Solid 
31  Solid 
BD14823  
[W-144004] 
19  CRC1 
Capecitabine p.o. single-dose 
550 mg 
Capecitabine p.o. single dose 
5-FU i.v. single dose 
1255 mg/m2 
Capecitabine p.o. single dose 
1255 mg/m2 
single dose capecitabine i.v. 
Capecitabine p.o. single-dose 
1250 mg/m2 
with/without Maalox 
Capecitabine p.o. single-dose 
2000 mg/m2 
Capecitabine p.o. single-dose 
2000 mg/m2 
Capecitabine p.o. BID,  
110-2083 mg/m2/day 
6-week continuous therapy 
Capecitabine p.o. BID,  
502-3514 mg/m2/day 
6-week intermittent therapy 
Capecitabine p.o. BID 
1004-2510 mg/m2/day 
plus folinic acid  
6-week continuous or 
intermittent therapy 
Capecitabine p.o. 
1255 mg/m2/ b.i.d. 
for 5 to 7 days 
(Colorectal cancer patients) 
SO14694  
[N-139259] 
19  Solid 
Capecitabine p.o. BID  
1004-1331 mg/m2/day 
plus paclitaxel 135-175 
mg/m2/3 weeks i.v. 
Primary objective 
Design/Phase 
Pharmacokinetics of 2 
different prodrugs of 5’-
DFUR 
Feasibility of NMRS to study 
the time course of the main 
metabolites 
Influence of hepatic 
impairment due to liver 
metastases 
Interaction study 
Bioequivalence between 2 
different tablet formulations 
of capecitabine 
Identify rates and routes of 
drug/metabolites excretion 
MTD or MAD  
MTD or MAD 
MTD or MAD 
2-way cross-over 
randomised,  
Phase I 
2-way cross-over 
Phase I 
2-way cross-over 
randomised 
Phase I 
3-way cross-over 
randomised 
Phase I 
2-way cross-over 
randomised 
Phase I 
Phase I 
Uncontrolled 
Phase I 
Uncontrolled 
Phase I 
Uncontrolled 
Phase I 
To determine tumour 
selectivity of capecitabine in 
tumour tissue (TT) vs. normal 
tissue and TT vs. plasma. 
Enzymatic activity. 
Thymidylate synthetase 
inhibition by 5-FU 
MTD 
Safety, tolerability, 
pharmacokinetic interaction 
Phase I 
Phase I 
11/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SO14797  
[N-139265] 
108  CRC1 
Capecitabine p.o. 
1331 mg/m2 /day (continuous 
therapy) vs. capecitabine p.o.  
1250 mg/m2twice daily 
(intermittent therapy) vs. 
capecitabine p.o.  
1657 mg/m2/day (intermittent 
therapy) plus folinic acid 
Efficacy  
Safety, food effects on 
pharmacokinetics, 
selection of dosage regimen 
for Phase III studies  
Randomised,  
parallel group 
Phase II 
* = evaluable patients 
1 = CRC = colorectal carcinoma 
2 = Cancer with/without liver metastases (with/without hepatic dysfunction) 
Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Capecitabine  is  an  orally  available  fluoropyrimidine  carbamate  prodrug,  which  is  activated  in  three 
steps  to  yield  5-FU.  The  rationale  for  developing  capecitabine  relies  on  the  demonstration  of 
differences  in  the  activities  between  healthy  and  tumour  tissue  of  the  enzymes  involved  in  the 
biotransformation process to the active cytotoxic compound 5-FU.  
5-FU does not demonstrate any tumour selectivity. In 8 cancer patients, 500 mg/m² i.v. bolus of 5-FU 
yielded similar 5-FU concentrations in plasma, primary colorectal tumour tissue and healthy adjacent 
tissue.  
Capecitabine is claimed to produce high levels of 5-FU in tumour tissue vs. healthy tissue and plasma 
due to higher activity of the enzyme thymidine phosphorylase in tumours. However, further data are 
needed to confirm this assumption. 
Dose finding studies and pharmacodynamic interactions 
Introduction 
In four phases I trials MTD of different capecitabine schedules have been investigated. A Phase II trial 
in 108 patients with advanced colorectal cancer compared 3 different schedules in terms of ORR. 
The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the maximum acceptable dose (MAD) were determined in 
two  phases  I  studies  (protocols  SO14693,  SO14794).  Two  additional  studies  were  performed  to 
determine  the  MTD  of  capecitabine  when  co-administered  with  folinic  acid  (protocol  SO14798)  or 
paclitaxel (protocol SO14694).  
The MTD was defined as the dose level (twice daily dose) of oral capecitabine - administered as two 
cycles  of  continuous  treatment  (3  weeks  treatment  per  cycle,  no  rest,  i.e.  6  weeks)  or  intermittent 
treatment  (two  weeks  treatment,  one  week  rest)  -  that  caused  drug-related  grade  3-4  toxicity  in  one 
third or more of the patients treated. The MAD was defined as the dose level at which four or more 
patients out of six patient cohort experienced ≥ grade 2 toxicity requiring interruption of treatment for 
more than 14 days. 
Study SO14693 (continuous, monotherapy) 
A  total  of  33  patients  with  advanced  and/or  metastatic  solid  tumours  (the  majority  of  patients  had 
colorectal carcinoma, had more than one metastasis and usually extensively pre-treated) were enrolled 
sequentially  in  cohorts  of  3  to  6  patients  to  overall  7  escalating  doses  of  capecitabine.  Capecitabine 
was given orally twice daily as continuous treatment for 6 weeks at dosages of 110, 225, 502, 1003, 
1331, 1657, and 2083 mg/m2/day.  
At the 1657 mg/m2/day dose level, 8 out of 12 patients (2 cohorts of 6 patients) experienced grade 3 
drug-related toxicity; this dose was considered the MTD. The dose limiting toxicity of this dose level 
administered  as  continuous  capecitabine  monotherapy  was  mostly  grade  3  diarrhoea.  It  should  be 
12/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
noted that this  MTD could be considered retrospectively as a too  conservative  estimate until  further 
data are at hand. The recommended dose for further trials was 1331 mg/m2/day. 
Overall, a total of 255 clinical adverse events (AEs) were reported in the 33 patients, among them 27 
severe (grade 3) and one life threatening (diarrhoea grade 4). 
The  majority  of  the  28  grades  3  to  4  AEs  (21)  were  reported  in  the  1657  mg/m2/day  dose  group 
representing the MTD while only 5 were reported in the 1331 mg/m2/day dose group. 
No tumour response was observed in the whole population. 
Study SO14794 (intermittent, monotherapy) 
A  total  of  34  patients  with  advanced  and/or  metastatic  solid  tumours  (classified  in  the  majority  as 
adenocarcinoma, most patients had more than one metastasis and were extensively pre-treated) were 
enrolled  sequentially  in  cohorts  of  3  to  9  patients  to  6  escalating  capecitabine  dose  levels. 
Capecitabine was given orally twice daily as an intermittent treatment (two weeks treatment, one week 
rest) for 6 weeks at dosages of 502, 1004, 1657, 2510, 3000, 3514 mg/m2/day. 
At  2510  mg/m2/day,  5  of  9  patient  experienced  grade  3  to  4  drug  related  toxicity,  among  them 
myelosuppression, hyperbilirubinaemia, diarrhoea and hand-foot syndrome. 
At 3000 mg/m2/day 4 of 7 patients experienced grade 4 diarrhoea and hypotension, grade 3 hand-foot 
syndrome and leukopenia, and 2 patients’ grade 3 shifts of hyperbilirubinaemia. 
At  3514  mg/m2/day  4  of  6  patients  experienced  grade  3  toxicity  (nausea;  diarrhoea,  stomatitis, 
abdominal  discomfort;  neutropenia;  vomiting;  hand-foot  syndrome)  and  a  grade  4  shift  in 
hyperbilirubinaemia. This dose level was therefore above the MTD. 
The  MTD  was  considered  to  be  3000  mg/m2/day. The  most  prominent  dose-limiting  toxicities  were 
diarrhoea,  hand-foot  syndrome  and  in  addition  to  the  continuous  treatment  also  leukopenia.  The 
resulting recommended dose for further trials was 2510 mg/m2/day. 
A total of 349 clinical adverse events were reported in the 34 patients, among them 26 severe (grade 3) 
and  4  life-threatening  (grade  4)  event.  Of  the  30  grade  3  to  4  events,  25  were  reported  in  the  three 
highest  dose  groups  (8,  7  and  10  events  in  the  2510,  3000,  and  3514  mg/m2/day  dose  groups, 
respectively). 
One  CR  (breast  cancer)  and  3  PR  (2  in  colorectal  cancer  patients)  were  observed  in  the  population 
investigated. 
The intermittent schedule with 1250-mg/m2 twice-daily capecitabine monotherapy was ultimately the 
schedule investigated in the two-phase III trials in colorectal carcinoma. Thus, study SO14794 has a 
major relevance for the assessment of the recommended dosage/schedule. 
Study SO14798 (continuous or intermittent in combination with folinic acid) 
A total of 31 extensively pre-treated patients with advanced and/or metastatic (most had more than 1 
metastasis) solid cancer were enrolled sequentially in cohorts of six to seven patients to five escalating 
capecitabine  dose  groups.  Capecitabine  was  given  as  continuous  (1004  mg/m2/day),  or  intermittent 
(1004-1657-2000-2510 mg/m2/day) therapy in combination with folinic acid (60 mg/day). 
For  the  continuous  dose  schedule  of  capecitabine  in  combination  with  60-mg/day  folinic  acids,  the 
MTD was just reached at the first dose level, i.e. capecitabine 1004 mg/m2/day. Three out of 6 patients 
experienced grade 3 AEs (diarrhoea; nausea and vomiting; hand-foot-syndrome and asthenia each). 
The  MTD  for  the  intermittent  dose  schedule  was  reached  at  2000  mg/m2/day  capecitabine  in 
combination with folinic acid 60 mg/day. Three out of 6 patients experienced grade 3 AEs (nausea and 
vomiting; diarrhoea;  hand-foot  syndrome).  The recommended dose of capecitabine for further  trials, 
13/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when  administered  in  combination  with  folinic  acid  60  mg/day,  was  1657  mg/m2/day.  At  this  dose 
level 1 out of 6 patients suffered from grade 3 stomatitis and diarrhoea. 
Both MTDs (in combination with folinic acid) are considerably and significantly lower than in study 
SO14693 (continuous monotherapy: 1657 mg/m2/day) and study SO14794 (intermittent monotherapy: 
3000 mg/m2/day). Not fully unexpected, this indicates an interaction between capecitabine and folinic 
acid as a result of the known effect of 5,10-methylene-tetrahydrofolate on the stability of the binding 
of FdUMP (an anabolite of 5-FU) and thymidylate synthetase known from 5-FU. However, there does 
not seem to be any advantage in replacing a part of the capecitabine dosage by folinic acid. 
Of the 229 clinical adverse events reported in this study, 25 events were severe (grade 3) and 2 events 
were  life-threatening  (grade  4).  The  two  life-threatening  events  were  reported  in  one  patient  in  the 
2510 mg/m2/day group. 
No  clinically  relevant  myelosuppression  was  observed  at  the  recommended  dosages  of  1657 
mg/m2/day for the intermittent schedule (plus folinic acid 60 mg/day). 
Two PR (in colorectal cancer patients) were observed in the population investigated. 
Study SO14694 (continuous in combination with paclitaxel) 
A  total  of  19  patients  with  advanced  and/or  metastatic  solid  cancer  were  enrolled  sequentially  in 
cohorts of 2 to 8 patients to five different dose combinations of capecitabine as continuous therapy and 
paclitaxel.  
Capecitabine (mg/m2/day): 
Paclitaxel (mg/m2/every 3 weeks): 
1004 
135 
1331 
135 
1657 
135 
1657 
175 
1331 
175 
The MTD was capecitabine 1657 mg/m2/day in combination with paclitaxel 175 mg/m2/3wks. Dose-
limiting toxicity in both patients recruited to this level were grade 3 neutropenia and grade 2 urinary 
tract  infection,  grade  3  fever  as  well  as  septicaemia.  The  recommended  dose  of  capecitabine  for 
further  trials,  when  administered  in  combination  with  paclitaxel  175  mg/m2/3wks,  was  1331 
mg/m2/day. 
The MTD is identical with the result of study SO14693 (continuous monotherapy: 1657 mg/m2/day). 
It  appears  that  capecitabine  and  paclitaxel  do  not  have  major  overlapping  toxicities.  However,  this 
conclusion  is  limited  by  the  small  number  of  patients  (19)  and  in  addition  not  very  relevant  for  the 
application in view of the role taxanes have in the treatment of advanced colorectal carcinoma. 
Of the 255 clinical adverse events reported in this study, 17 events were severe (grade 3) and 2 events 
were  life-threatening  (grade  4).  Both  life-threatening  events  occurred  in  the  1331  mg/m2/day 
capecitabine plus 175 mg/m2/3wks paclitaxel treatment group. 
Phase II study SO14797 on antitumour activity in colorectal carcinoma 
Introduction 
This was an open-label, multicenter (21 centres in Australia, Europe, USA) randomised phase II study 
(Protocol  SO14797)  comparing  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  continuous  and  intermittent  therapy  with 
capecitabine,  and  intermittent  capecitabine  with  oral  leucovorin  as  first-line  therapy  in  patients  with 
advanced and/or metastatic colorectal carcinoma. 
The  primary  objective  was  to  evaluate  antineoplastic  activity  (overall  best  objective  response). 
Tumour responses were evaluated after 6 and 12 weeks of treatment. The dose levels were based on 
Phase I studies (one level below MTD). Planned treatment duration was at least 6 weeks. Patients with 
progressive disease were discontinued. Patients with CR or PR after 12 weeks were allowed to enter 
into  a  maintenance  phase  up  to  a  total  of  48  weeks.  Secondary  objectives  included  comparison  of 
safety profiles and selection of dosing regimen for Phase III studies. 
Inclusion criteria included: 
- histologically or cytologically confirmed colorectal adenocarcinoma, advanced and/or metastatic 
14/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- at least one measurable lesion according to WHO criteria which had not been irradiated 
- protocol defined minimum indicator lesion size 
- age 18 years or above 
- Karnofsky P.S. at least 70% 
- life expectancy at least 3 months 
Altogether 109 patients were randomised to the following treatment arms (intermittent = 2 weeks on 
and 1 week off treatment): 
A: 
B: 
C: 
intermittent capecitabine 1657 mg/m2/day+leucovorin 60 mg/day (n=35) 
continuous capecitabine 1331 mg/ m2/day (n=39) 
intermittent capecitabine 2510 mg/ m2/day (n=35) 
The  mean  age  of  the  patients  was  similar  in  the  three  groups  (range  36-82  years).  Mean  Karnofsky 
performance status was also similar across the groups (range 70-100%). There were more males than 
females (72 vs. 36). All had advanced and/or metastatic disease, predominantly colon cancer (75%). 
The tumour was poorly differentiated in 81% of patients. The majority of patients (70%) had multiple 
metastatic  sites  at  baseline  (primarily  lung  and  liver  metastases).  The  disease  characteristics  were 
fairly  well  balanced  across  the  groups.  Ninety-four  percent  of  patients  had  received  previous 
treatment, predominantly surgery. The proportion of patients who had been treated with 5-FU based 
regimens was slightly higher in the continuous capecitabine group (33% vs. 26%). 
The most predominant concomitant diseases were hypertension (29%), constipation (14%), abdominal 
pain (12%), diarrhoea (10%) and nausea (8%). 
Eight patients completed 48 weeks of treatment, one hundred patients discontinued before 48 weeks. 
The  number  of patients who discontinued was similar in the three treatment arms. Nineteen patients 
discontinued  due  to  adverse  events.  Two  patients  died  (progressive  disease).  The  most  important 
reason for discontinuation was insufficient response/progressive disease.  
Antineoplastic Activity 
Treatment analysis was performed for ITT and standard (per protocol, at least 6 weeks of treatment) 
populations.  
The key findings for this study are given in Table 3. 
Table 3: Key findings of study SO14797 
No of patients (%) with PD as best response 
Capecitabine; 
continuous 
regimen 
8/39  (21%) 
Capecitabine; 
intermittent 
regimen 
3/35  (9%) 
Capecitabine 
plus 
Leucovorin 
3/35 (9%) 
Median Time to Tumor Progression 
127 days 
230 days 
165 days 
Median Treatment Duration 
109 days 
144.5 days 
130 days 
Median Cumulative Dose 
306.8 g 
386.5 g 
218.4 g 
Median Actual Daily Dose  
2.3 g 
2.8 g 
1.7 g 
Number of Patients discontinuing treatment due 
to insufficient therapeutic response/PD 
29/39 (74%) 
18/35 (51.5%) 
23/35 (66%) 
The overall best response in the ITT population was similar (21-24%). The rate of progressive disease 
appears to be higher and the rate of stable disease lower in the continuous capecitabine group vs. other 
15/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
treatments. No response occurred after week 12 so that best overall response at 12 and 48 weeks are 
identical. 
Five  patients  experienced  CR.  Of  these,  disease  progression  was  recorded  in  two  patients  on  study 
days 268 and 212. The other three patients remained in CR on study days 376, 343 and 127. 
Pairwise comparison of the three treatment arms (95% CI) confirmed no significant advantage of one 
treatment over the other. 
The  cumulative  dose  of  capecitabine  was  highest  in  arm  C,  intermittent  capecitabine  (mean 
cumulative  dose  was  almost  2-fold  compared  to  intermittent  capecitabine-leucovorin  group).  The 
cumulative dose was intermediate in the continuous capecitabine group. The intermittent capecitabine 
arm also demonstrated the highest OR rate. Dose modifications were necessary in 44-64% of patients. 
However,  more than 95% of the planned dose was actually administered and there were no  obvious 
differences between the groups in this respect. 
Overall, the data may be indicative for the interpretation that the lower actual daily dose in arm B may 
be causative for the shorter TTP. Of note is the toxicity of the intermittent capecitabine + folinic acid 
regimen despite the low actual dose delivered. 
The  intermittent  capecitabine  regimen  (2510  mg/m2/day  for  2  weeks,  1  week  rest)  was  chosen  for 
further studies instead of continuous capecitabine (1331 mg/m2/day). 
Safety 
Most of the patients experienced adverse events (90-100%). The majority of AEs were judged to be 
related to treatment. Compared to continuous capecitabine, intermittent treatment appeared to have 
been associated with a higher frequency of grade 3-4 AEs. Grade 3 toxicities were most frequent in 
the combination treatment group.  
Diarrhoea, nausea and hand-foot syndrome were the predominant treatment-related AEs in all groups. 
The incidence of treatment-related AEs was also highest in the capecitabine-leucovorin group. 
Only one grade 4 treatment related AE was reported (diarrhoea and vomiting, the patient died due to 
sepsis). 
Diarrhoea (47.1% vs. 33.3%),  hand-foot syndrome (44.1% vs. 33.3%), vomiting (20.6%  vs. 12.8%), 
nausea  (44.1%  vs.  23.1%)  and  stomatitis  (20.6%  vs.  12.8%)  were  more  frequently  reported  in  the 
intermittent  capecitabine  as  opposed  to  continuous  capecitabine  group.  Hand-foot  syndrome  and 
diarrhoea  also  appeared  earlier  on  intermittent  treatment.  The  incidence  of  hand-foot  syndrome  was 
highest in the combination group. 
Approximately  65%  of  patients  required  treatment  interruption  and/or  dose  modification  in  the 
intermittent capecitabine and combination treatment groups. Only 44% required dose modifications in 
the continuous treatment group. The most frequent causes for modification were hand-foot syndrome, 
diarrhoea and vomiting.  
Ten patients died during the study or within 28 days after the end of treatment. The cause of death was 
disease progression in nine cases (unrelated). One patient died of non-neutropenic sepsis 12 days after 
the end of treatment. This case was judged possibly related to treatment.  
The  tolerability  of  the  combination  capecitabine  and  leucovorin  was  inferior  to  monotherapy.  The 
results did not suggest that this combination treatment improves antineoplastic activity. 
Intermittent  treatment  appeared  to  have  been  associated  with  a  higher  frequency  of  adverse  events 
compared  to  continuous  treatment,  which  may  be  explained  by  the  higher  cumulative  mean  dose  of 
capecitabine with this schedule. 
16/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vital signs 
Vital  signs  were  measured  at  baseline  and  at  each  visit.  None  of  the  patients  experienced  grade  4 
decrease in systolic blood pressure. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Nine studies including 196 patients in total deal with the absorption and metabolism of capecitabine 
when given as a single agent in cancer patients. A meta-analysis has been performed on the data from 
four  Phase  I  studies.  The  objectives  of  the  meta-analysis  included  (i)  time-dependency  of 
pharmacokinetics,  (ii)  dose  proportionality,  (iii)  effect  of  gender,  age,  cancer  type,  creatinine 
clearance, body surface area, weight and ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine. 
Several  population  pharmacokinetic  analyses  have  been  carried  out  on  different  datasets.  The  most 
important population pharmacokinetic  analysis has  been  carried  out  on data  from the two  phases III 
trials  in  patients  with  metastatic  colorectal  cancer  (SO14695  and  SO14796).  The  results  of  this 
analysis are reviewed in the Clinical Efficacy section of this AR. 
Capecitabine is rapidly and extensively absorbed and converted to its metabolites 5’-DFCR, 5’-DFUR, 
and  5-FU.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  capecitabine  have  been  evaluated  over  a  dose  range  of  502-
3514 mg/m2/day. The concentrations of the metabolites 5'-DFCR and 5'-DFUR were similar on days 1 
and  14.  The  AUC  of  5-FU  was  30%-35%  higher  on  day  14.  Capecitabine  dose  reduction  decreases 
systemic exposure to 5-FU more than dose-proportionally, due to non-linear pharmacokinetics for the 
active metabolite. 
Absorption 
After  oral  administration,  capecitabine  is  rapidly  and  extensively  absorbed,  followed  by  extensive 
conversion to the metabolites, 5'-DFCR and 5'-DFUR. Administration with food decreases the rate of 
capecitabine absorption, but only results in a minor effect on the AUC of 5'-DFUR and 5-FU. At 1250 
2
mg/m
 on day 14 with administration after food intake, the peak plasma concentrations (Cmax in µg/ml) 
for  capecitabine,  5'-DFCR,  5'-DFUR,  5-FU  and  FBAL  were  4.67,  3.05,  12.1,  0.95  and  5.46 
respectively.  The  time  to  peak  plasma  concentrations  (tmax  in  hours)  were  1.50,  2.00,  2.00,  2.00  and 
3.34 respectively. The AUC0-∞ values in µg•h/ml were 7.75, 7.24, 24.6, 2.03 and 36.3. The variability 
of AUC and Cmax for capecitabine and its metabolites is high. Variability of PK translates directly in 
PD  effects  with  resulting  dosage  adjustments.  In  any  way,  no  obvious  advantage  of  PK  monitoring 
over the PD monitoring actually proposed in the SPC can be assumed.  
Protein binding 
In  vitro  human  plasma  studies  have  determined  that  capecitabine,  5'-DFCR,  5'-DFUR  and  5-FU  are 
54%, 10%, 62% and 10% protein bound respectively, mainly to albumin.  
Metabolism 
Capecitabine is first metabolised by hepatic carboxylesterase to 5'-deoxy-5-fluorocytidine (5'-DFCR), 
which  is  then  converted  to  5'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine  (5'-DFUR)  by  cytidine  deaminase,  principally 
located  in  the  liver  and  tumour  tissues.  Further  catalytic  activation  of  5'-DFUR  then  occurs  by 
thymidine  phosphorylase  (ThyPase).  The  enzymes  involved  in  the  catalytic  activation  are  found  in 
tumour  tissues  but  also  in  normal  tissues,  albeit  usually  at  lower  levels  leading  to  higher 
concentrations of 5-FU within tumour tissue. Following oral administration of capecitabine to patients 
with colorectal  cancer, the  ratio of 5-FU  concentration in  colorectal tumours to  adjacent  tissues was 
3.2 (0.9 - 8.0). The ratio of 5-FU concentration in tumour to plasma was 21.4 (3.9 - 59.9, n=8) whereas 
the ratio in healthy tissues to plasma was 8.9 (3.0 - 25.8, n=8). Thymidine phosphorylase activity was 
4 times greater in primary colorectal tumour than in adjacent normal tissue. 
Elimination 
The  elimination  half-life  (t1/2  in  hours)  of  capecitabine,  5'-DFCR,  5'-DFUR,  5-FU  and  FBAL  were 
0.85,  1.11,  0.66,  0.76  and  3.23  respectively.  Capecitabine  and  its  metabolites  are  predominantly 
excreted in urine; 95.5% of administered capecitabine dose is recovered in urine. Faecal excretion is 
17/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
minimal  (2.6%).  The  major  metabolite  excreted  in  urine  is  FBAL,  which  represents  57%  of  the 
administered dose. About 3% of the administered dose is excreted in urine as parent compound. 
Pharmacokinetics in special populations 
Introduction 
Results of two population pharmacokinetic analyses have been submitted. A pharmacokinetic model 
was developed to describe 5’-DFUR, 5-FU and FBAL concentration vs. time data utilising extensively 
sampled  PK  data  from  bioequivalence  study  BP15572.  The  model  was  further  developed  utilising 
sparsely sampled PK data from 54 female patients with breast cancer combined with the extensively 
sampled data from 24 patients in a bioequivalence study (total N = 78). This model was then applied 
to  the  analysis  of  sparsely  sampled  PK  data  from  481  colorectal  cancer  patients  combined  with  the 
same  extensively  sampled  data  from  the  24  bioequivalence  study  patients  (total  N=505).  The 
extensively  sampled  data  from  BP15572  were  included  in  both  population  analyses  to  stabilise  the 
structural PK model. 
The  results  of  the  population  PK  analyses  are  fairly  well  in  agreement  with  those  of  the  individual 
small scale phase I studies and the PK "meta-analysis". 
Age 
There was no effect on the pharmacokinetics of 5'-DFUR and 5-FU, but FBAL concentrations increase 
with  age  (20%  increase  in  age  leads  to  15%  increase  in  AUC).  This  is  explained  by  decrease  in 
creatinine  clearance  with 
increasing  age.  Based  on  pharmacokinetic  data,  specific  dose 
recommendations  for  the  elderly  are  not  necessary.  However,  due  to  increased  sensitivity  to  the 
toxicity of 5-FU with increasing age, special care must be taken in elderly patients. Forty-six percent 
of the patients (n=234) were at least 65 years old, but only 7 were at least 80 years old. The clinical 
significance of the effect of age on FBAL is unclear. FBAL has no antitumour activity. 
Gender 
Gender did not have any clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of the main metabolites 
of  capecitabine  (5'DFUR,  5-FU,  FBAL).  The  AUC  and  Cmax  of  FBAL  are  approximately  10%  and 
20%, respectively, higher in women than in men. 
Body surface area 
Body surface area (BSA)  does not  influence  the  pharmacokinetics of  5’-DFUR and  5-FU. Although 
BSA  does  influence  the  exposure  to  FBAL  somewhat,  the  decrease  in  FBAL  Cmax  as  a  function  of 
BSA is within the inter-patient variability and this finding is not expected to have any impact on the 
safety or efficacy of capecitabine. 
Race 
Systemic exposure to 5’-DFUR, 5-FU and FBAL was higher in Caucasian than in Japanese patients, 
whereas systemic exposure to 5’-DFCR was lower in Caucasian patients (retrospective analysis of 7 
studies). The AUC and Cmax of 5’-DFUR were approximately 50% higher and the AUC and Cmax of 5-
FU  were  approximately  30%  higher  in  Caucasian  patients.  To  clarify  this  issue,  the  applicant  has 
started a prospective pharmacokinetic study in altogether 40 Caucasian and Japanese cancer patients. 
The applicant has agreed to provide the study report as a postmarketing commitment.  
Renal impairment 
Pooled data from phase I studies suggested a significant influence of creatinine clearance on AUC of 
5-FU. This finding was unexpected since urinary excretion is a minor pathway in 5-FU elimination. 
The  population  PK  analysis  of  phase  III  trials,  however,  did  not  reveal  a  significant  effect  of  the 
calculated creatinine clearance (Cockcroft-Gault formula) on the pharmacokinetics of 5’-DFUR or 5-
FU.  However,  a  significant  effect  was  observed  on  FBAL  (50%  reduction  in  Clcreat  leads  to  a  53% 
increase in AUC of FBAL). A wide range of Clcreat values were studied, including 217 patients with 
mild  impairment  (Clcreat  51-80  ml/min)  and  41  patients  with  moderate  impairment  (30-50  ml/min). 
There  were  only  3  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment.  The  clinical  relevance  of  this  finding  is 
uncertain. FBAL does not have antiproliferative activity. However, the results from the concentration 
18/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect-analyses showed a positive relationship between AUC of FBAL and treatment-related grade 3-4 
diarrhoea and between Cmax of FBAL and treatment related grade 3-4 AE’s. The relationship between 
exposure to FBAL and safety does not necessarily mean that FBAL is causing the AE’s. FBAL, as the 
main catabolite of 5-FU, may be a marker of the amount of 5-FU that was formed in tissues. Patients 
with high values of FBAL may be patients with high exposure of tissues to 5-FU, patients with poor 
renal function and patients with a combination of both.  
The  applicant  has  submitted  the  pharmacokinetic  and  safety  data  of  a  study  in  renal  impairment. 
Preliminary  results  of  the  study  indicated  increased  mortality  in  proportion  to  decreased  creatinine 
clearance. Mild to severe renal impairment had no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics 
of  capecitabine  and  5'-DFCR.  However,  the  AUC  of  the  immediate  5-FU  precursor  5'-DFUR 
increased in patients with moderate (35% on day 1, 23% on day 14) and severe (70% on day 1) renal 
impairment.  On  day  1,  AUC  of  5-FU  was  27%  higher  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment 
compared to normal subjects. Renal impairment leads to a major increase in the systemic exposure to 
FBAL, a metabolite without antiproliferative activity (up to 255% higher AUC in patients with severe 
renal impairment). Despite the modest impact of renal impairment on the PK of 5'-DFUR and 5-FU, 
adverse events were clearly more frequent in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment.  
Effect of baseline alkaline phosphatase (ALP) 
ALP did not influence the pharmacokinetics of 5’-DFUR and FBAL. ALP had a low magnitude effect 
on AUC of 5-FU but this effect is not considered clinically important. 
Effect of ALT (ALAT), AST (ASAT), bilirubin and serum albumin 
These covariates did not affect the pharmacokinetics of 5’-DFUR, 5-FU and FBAL. However, patients 
with truly extreme values of bilirubin, ALT and AST were not included in the analyses.  
Presence or absence of liver metastases 
There were 364 (72%) patients with metastases and 142 (28%) without liver metastases. The presence 
of absence of liver metastases at baseline did not have significant effects on the pharmacokinetics of 
5’-DFUR,  5-FU  and  FBAL.  However,  in  the  phase  I  study  in  patients  with  liver  metastases  and 
abnormal aminotransferase/ALP/bilirubin values, the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine, 5’-DFUR and 
5-FU were significantly affected. Hence, the presence of liver metastases and abnormal liver function 
tests calls for special caution.  
aspirin, 
loperamide, 
Interaction studies 
The effect of the most common concomitant medications on the pharmacokinetics was investigated in 
population PK analysis of the phase III trials. Nine concomitant medications (paracetamol, ranitidine, 
morphine, 
combination  paracetamol/dextropropoxyphene,  omeprazole, 
pyridoxine  and  combination  oxycodone/acetaminophen)  were  selected  for  the  investigation  of 
potential effects on the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine metabolites. Three concomitant medications 
remained in the final population PK model and all had an effect on 5-FU clearance. Paracetamol and 
morphine  increased  5-FU  clearance  by  26%  and  41%,  respectively,  and  loperamide  decreased  5-FU 
clearance  by  31%.  However,  the  AUC  of  5-FU  was  similar  in  patients  with  and  without  these 
concomitant medications in both treatment cycles 2 and 4. Introduction of bias (dose adjustment due 
to  toxicity  such  as  hand-foot  syndrome  requiring  analgesics,  or  diarrhoea)  may  explain  the  lack  of 
effect on AUC. The clinical relevance of these observations cannot be concluded with certainty from 
the limited data (there were 9-12 patients taking each of the  medications). However, a major impact 
seems unlikely. 
Increased phenytoin plasma concentrations have been reported during concomitant use of Xeloda with 
phenytoin.  Patients  taking  phenytoin  concomitantly  with  Xeloda  should  be  regularly  monitored  for 
increased  phenytoin  plasma  concentrations.  This  has  been  reflected  in  the  SPC  (See  section  4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction). 
A  phase  I  study  in  patients  with  metastatic  renal  cell  cancer,  combination  of  escalating  doses  of 
capecitabine  with  escalating  doses  of  IFN-alpha-2a  did  not  exclude  an  interaction  between  both 
substances.  The  MTD  in  this  study  was  substantially  lower  than  that  reported  for  intermittent 
19/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
capecitabine  alone,  using  the  same  schedule  and  the  dose-limiting  toxicities  were  those  typically 
encountered  with  capecitabine.  This  suggested  that  an  interaction  instead  of  combined  toxicity  of 
capecitabine  and  IFN  is  involved  and  this  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC  (Section  4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction). 
Allopurinol:  interactions  with  allopurinol  have  been  observed  for  5-FU;  with  possible  decreased 
efficacy of 5-FU. A statement that concomitant use of allopurinol with Xeloda should be avoided has 
been included in the SPC (Section 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products  and other forms  of 
interaction). 
Interaction  with  cytochrome  P-450:  during  in  vitro  evaluations,  at  a  concentration  of  100  µmol/l, 
capecitabine and its metabolites had no significant effect on the activity of human hepatic microsomal 
P-450 isozymes 1A2, 2A6, 2C9, 2C19, 2E1, 2D6 and 3A4. 
The applicant was committed to perform an interaction study with warfarin and to continue to closely 
monitor  drug  interactions.  A  clinical  pharmacokinetic  interaction  trial  with  warfarin,  which  was 
stopped  before  reaching  its  accrual  target,  was  therefore  submitted.  Warfarin  was  chosen  as 
representative  of  coumarin  anticoagulants  metabolised  by  the  cytochrome  p450  family.  Chronic 
capecitabine  treatment  increased  the  single  warfarin  dose  AUC  of  S-warfarin  by  57%  with  a  91% 
increase in INR value. This trial provides evidence that chronic administration of capecitabine down 
regulates  CYP2C9  and  causes  an  increase  of  the  prothrombin  time,  which  also  resulted  in  a  minor 
bleeding event after single dose of warfarin. 
Bioequivalence studies 
A study with 25 patients was conducted to compare the bioavailability of capecitabine formulation 3 
(F3) used in the phase I clinical studies with that of capecitabine formulation 10 (F10) proposed for 
marketing.  The  two  formulations  were  bioequivalent  with  regard  to  observed  AUC  of  5'-DFUR,  5'-
DFCR and 5-FU but not for Cmax. Neither the AUC0-inf not Cmax of capecitabine fulfilled equivalence 
criteria. Although bioequivalence for capecitabine and Cmax of the metabolites was not demonstrated, 
the differences are not likely to affect the relevance of phase I studies.  
Clinical Efficacy  
The pivotal studies are summarised in Table 4.  
Table 4: Overview of pivotal studies 
Number  Design 
Schedule 
SO-14695  Open-label, Phase III 
SO-14796  Open-label, Phase III 
Capecitabine 
12502500 
mg/m2 twice 
daily/ day for 
two weeks 
followed by a 
one week rest 
period 
FA/5-FU 
20 mg/ m2 i.v 
leucovorin 
followed by 
425 mg/ m2 
of 5-FU i.v. 
bolus daily 
from day 1 to 
day 5 every 
28 days 
Overall response rate 
(primary end point, ITT) 
FA/5-FU 
35/303 
(11.6%) 
Capecitabine 
78/302 
(25.8%) 
57/301 
(18.9%) 
45/301 
(15%) 
Trial description 
The  indication  claim  is  based  on  two  phase  III  open,  randomised,  comparative  (capecitabine  vs.  5-
FU/LV  Mayo  regimen,  as  first  line  treatment),  multicenter  trials  in  patients  with  advanced  and/or 
metastatic  colorectal  cancer.  The  trials  have  identical  protocols.  A  prospectively  planned  integrated 
analysis of these trials has also been carried out. 
The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate at least non-inferiority of capecitabine with 5-
FU in combination with folinic acid in terms of overall response rate (complete and partial responses) 
20/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in previously untreated patients with advanced and/or metastatic colorectal carcinoma. The objective 
to demonstrate non-inferiority compared to standard/established treatment in this case is appropriate. 
Secondary objectives were to compare the efficacy and safety profiles of the two treatments (time to 
disease progression, overall survival, time to and duration of response, adverse events and time to their 
onset), to evaluate and to compare the medical care utilisation as well as changes in quality of life in 
the two treatment groups.  
Male  or  female  patients  of  at  least  18  years  of  age  with  histologically  or  cytologically  confirmed 
colorectal adenocarcinoma with advanced and/or metastatic disease, who were previously untreated by 
chemotherapy  (except  given  as  adjuvant  or  neo-adjuvant  treatment  more  than  6  months  before)  and 
who  had  at  least  one  measurable  lesion  according  to  the  WHO  criteria  with  a  minimum  indicator 
lesion size of ≥ 20 mm (in at least one diameter) in liver and soft tissue or ≥ 10 mm (in at least one 
diameter) in lung, skin, or lymph nodes were eligible for the study. Patients with clinically significant 
cardiac disease or myocardial infarction within 12 months before study entry, with evidence of CNS 
metastases  or  with  a  history  of  other  malignancies  within  the  last  five  years,  with  known 
hypersensitivity to fluoropyrimidines, with radiotherapy or major surgery within 4 weeks of the start 
of  the  study  and  patients  with  serious  uncontrolled  intercurrent  infections  were  excluded  from  the 
study. 
All patients were randomised to one of the following dosing regimens: 
Capecitabine arm: Capecitabine orally at 1250 mg/m2 twice daily within 30 minutes after the end of a 
meal for two weeks followed by a one week rest for at least 6 weeks. The dose had to be rounded to a 
combination of 500 and 150 mg tablets. 
5-FU  and  folinic  acid  arm:  20  mg/m2  folinic  acid  as  a  rapid  iv  injection  followed  by  an  iv  bolus 
injection of 425 mg/m2 5-FU, administered daily from day 1 to 5 every 28 days. 
In case of occurrence of grade 2, 3 or 4 toxicity treatment interruption until resolution to grade 0 - 1 
had  to  be  followed  by  a  selective  dose  reduction  of  capecitabine  of  25-50%  or  permanent 
discontinuation,  depending  on  the  type  and  severity  of  toxicity  as  further  specified  in  the  protocol 
Once  the  dose  had  been  reduced  re-escalation  was  not  recommended.  In  the  5-FU/FA  arm  dose 
modifications of 5-FU were allowed in cases of >grade II non-haematological toxicity and >grade III 
granulocytopenia  and  thrombocytopenia.  Furthermore,  dose  escalation  of  5-FU  by  10%  of  the 
preceding dose was allowed if no toxicity was documented on the preceding treatment cycle. 
The  study  duration  was  30  weeks  (treatment  phase  -  211  days)  with  a  continuation  phase  in 
responding patients (complete or partial response) for up to a total of 48 weeks. Patients with complete 
response had to be treated for at least an additional 12 weeks after confirmation of complete response. 
After  48  weeks  patients  with  ongoing  responses  or  stable  disease  might  continue  to  receive 
capecitabine off study at the discretion of the investigator with a quarterly collection of survival and 
time to disease progression data (post-continuation phase). 
Tumour  assessment  was  done  at  screening,  and  after  6,  12,  18,  24  and  30  weeks  of  treatment. 
Response had to be confirmed a minimum of 4 weeks after the first response had been observed. The 
response assessment was done by the investigators as well as by an independent expert panel on the 
basis  of  a  modified  assessment  system.  For  the  investigation  of  safety,  all  clinical  adverse  events 
encountered during the study as well as abnormal laboratory test values and results of regular physical 
examinations (vital signs) had to be clearly recorded in the CRF. 
The overall study population was divided into three analysis populations (Table 5): the Intent-to-treat 
population  (all  randomised  patients),  the  Safety  population  (all  randomised  patients  who  received  at 
least  one  dose  of  trial  medication)  and  the  Standard  population  (all  patients  who  participated  in  the 
study according to protocol and who received at least 50% of the anticipated treatment during at least 
6  weeks  of  therapy,  except  in  case  of  progressive  disease  or  death,  had  adequate  information  about 
tumour burden at baseline and adequate tumour assessment information).  
21/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Overview of populations 
Population 
Trial 14695 
Trial 14696 
Capecitabine 
5-FU + LV 
All  Capecitabine 
5-FU + LV 
All 
All Patients Randomised (ITT) 
Safety Population 
Standard Population 
302 
299 
269 
303 
294 
266 
605 
593 
535 
301 
297 
265 
301 
299 
273 
602 
596 
538 
According to the non-inferiority objective efficacy was analysed primarily in the standard population, 
and  results  from  the  intent-to-treat  analysis  were  regarded  as  supportive.  All  other  analyses  are 
performed on the ITT-population and are only of a descriptive nature. 
The  two  treatment  groups  were  balanced  with  respect  to  predefined  demographic  characteristics  at 
baseline. Approximately 60% of patients were male in both groups, their mean age was 62 years, 90% 
were Caucasian and the mean Karnofsky PS was 89%. About two-thirds of patients in each treatment 
group  entered  the  study  with  colon  cancer  and  about  one-third  with  rectal  cancer.  The  majority  of 
patients in each treatment group had poorly or moderately differentiated malignancies at baseline. 
The  majority  of  patients  had  involvement  of  two  or  more  metastatic  sites  at  baseline.  A  smaller 
proportion  of  patients  in  the  capecitabine  group  had  involvement  of  4  or  more  metastatic  sites  at 
baseline  (178  of  603  versus  202  of  604  in  the  5-FU/LV  group).  As  expected,  the  most  frequently 
involved tissues/organs were the liver, lung, and lymph nodes, in that order. A similar proportion of 
patients  had  metastases  in  these  sites  in  both  treatment  groups.  Metastases  to  the  brain  (protocol 
exclusion) were observed in one patient, and very few patients had metastases of bone, pleura or skin. 
There was an imbalance in the numbers of metastatic sites at baseline (see also Study SO14796). This 
difference  in  favour  of  the  capecitabine  group  over  5-FU/LV.  Cox  multivariate  analyses  based  on 
integrated  analysis  database  (all  randomised  population)  and  separate  Cox  analyses  including  only 
treatment and number of metastatic sites at baseline have been provided. These additional analyses are 
in  agreement  with  the  univariate  analyses  of  ORR,  TTP  and  overall  survival  and  do  not  change  the 
conclusions of the data. 
Most patients had received previous treatment for malignant disease in both studies. Surgery was the 
main previous treatment received by most patients in both treatment groups in both studies. The two 
treatment groups were well balanced with regard to previous treatment. 
Quality  of  life  was  assessed  by  the  patients  using  the  European  Organisation  for  Research  and 
Treatment  of  Cancer  Quality  of  Life  Questionnaire  (EORTC  QLQ-C30,  version  2.0).  The  primary 
time point for the analysis of the Quality of life data was chosen to be day 169. 
All  adverse  events  and  abnormal  laboratory  parameters  were  assessed  according  to  the  National 
Cancer Institute of Canada Common Toxicity Criteria (NCIC CTC) grading system. 
The  individual  trials  were  not  sufficiently  powered  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority in  time  to  disease 
progression  (TTP)  or  survival.  They  were  sufficiently  powered  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  with 
regard  to  ORR.  However,  the  integrated  analysis  was  powered  for  demonstration  of  non-inferiority 
with regard to TTP and survival.  
For the demonstration of non-inferiority in terms of time to disease progression or death ("disease free 
survival") and overall survival, the applicant has specified the limit 1.2. The rationale for this limit is 
as follows: 
For  an  estimate  of  median  TTP  of  approximately  5  months  as  seen  in  the  integrated  analysis,  an 
increase  of  20%  in  the  hazard  function  would  translate,  under  exponential  distribution  assumptions, 
into a 3.4 week difference in median time to disease progression as a worst case. This is regarded as a 
clinically meaningful limit for three reasons. 
22/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Usual  tumour  assessments  are  done  at  most  every  6  weeks.  A  three-week  difference  is  therefore 
clearly within the limits of measurement precision. 
2. The active comparator in these studies (Mayo regimen) has shown improvements in median time to 
progression of approximately 12 weeks when compared with 5-FU alone. 
3.  Differences,  even  statistically  significant  ones  of  3  weeks  or  less  are  generally  regarded  as  not 
clinically relevant. 
For  survival,  different  limits  than  those  set  for  time  to  disease  progression  may  be  applicable. 
However,  with  an  estimated  median  survival  of  13  months  for  the  Mayo  regimen,  under  ideal 
exponential  distribution  assumptions,  a  20%  increase  in  the  hazard  would  translate  into  a  worst 
survival  of  10.8  months.  Such  a  limit  would  rule  out  a  median  survival  difference  of  more  than  2.2 
months. This is clinically relevant because: 
• 
• 
Median survival estimates for the Mayo regimen are in the range of 11 to 13 months. In a worst 
case  scenario,  10.8  months  median  survival  for  Xeloda  would  still  fall  within  the  limits, 
assuming  the  Mayo  regimen  achieved  a  median  survival  of  13  months.  In  other  words,  a  2 
month  difference  in  survival  is  still  within  the  range  of  variation  seen  in  the  median  survival 
estimates  for  the  Mayo  regimen  in  the  treatment  of  first  line  metastatic  colon  cancer,  and  is 
therefore not considered to be a clinically relevant difference. 
In some studies, the Mayo regimen has shown  a 5-month improvement in survival over 5-FU 
monotherapy. As a worst scenario, 2.2-month survival inferiority for Xeloda would still be an 
improvement over 5-FU monotherapy. 
For tumour response the limits were broad due to power limitations. Nevertheless, a maximum limit of 
10% provides the basis for a useful clinical evaluation since  most treatments for first line colorectal 
cancer treatment achieve tumour response rates in the range of 10% to 30%. Altogether, the applicant 
has sufficiently justified the non-inferiority margins. 
Results 
The  main efficacy results are reviewed here  on the basis of the pre-planned integrated analysis. The 
primary  composite  endpoint  in  the  integrated  analysis  is  Time  to  Disease  Progression/Time  to  First 
Onset of Key Treatment-Related Grade 3-4 Adverse Events and Neutropenia/Granulocytopenia.  
As regards the primary efficacy endpoint, non-inferiority of capecitabine compared to  5-FU/FA was 
demonstrated according to the prespecified margin of 1.2 for the upper limit of the confidence interval 
for the hazard ratio; in both the investigator and IRC (independent review committee) assessment and 
in both the Standard and All Randomised populations. The results of analyses of the different  study 
populations and the investigator and IRC assessments were consistent.  
The result  of the investigator assessment of time to tumour progression (TTP) in the all randomised 
and standard population were: 
Capecitabine: 
5-FU/FA: 
Hazard Ratio (CI): 
140 days (median), 95% CI 131;161 
144 days, 131; 164 
1.00 (0.89; 1.12) 
Capecitabine: 
5-FU/FA: 
Hazard Ratio (CI): 
148 days (median), 95% CI 133;166 
144 days, 129; 165 
0.99 (0.87; 1.12) 
As regards study SO-14695, TTP was a secondary endpoint and non-inferiority was not demonstrated 
according to IRC assessment using the prespecified 1.2 margin. Non-inferiority was not consistently 
demonstrated  according  to  investigator  assessment,  either.  However,  the  Kaplan-Meier  TTP  curves 
were virtually superimposable. Importantly, the study was not powered to demonstrate non-inferiority 
with regard to this secondary endpoint. 
23/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  regards  study  SO-14796,  TTP  was  also  a  secondary  endpoint.  In  this  study,  non-inferiority  of 
capecitabine was demonstrated for the standard and all randomised population. 
There is a large difference in the IRC and Investigator assessment of Time to Disease Progression in 
the integrated analysis. However, the applicant has shown that 1) the differences in assessments of PD 
between investigator and IRC (excluding patients with PD at follow-up) were evenly distributed in the 
treatment  groups  in  the  individual  studies  and  in  the  integrated  analysis,  and  that  no  important  bias 
was introduced, and 2) the reasons for differences in the assessments of PD between investigator and 
IRC assessment were also similarly distributed in  the  two  treatment arms, in both individual studies 
and the integrated analysis. 
As regards the secondary efficacy endpoints in the integrated analysis: 
All responses reported in the dossier (if not designated differently) refer to confirmed responses. Since 
tumour assessment was recommended in regular intervals of 6 weeks, most confirmation of responses 
did not occur exactly on day 28 but around week 6 (day 42). 
Objective  Response  Rate  (ORR):  superiority  of  capecitabine  was  demonstrated  in  the  integrated 
analysis  in  both  the  standard  and  all  randomised  population  based  on  both  the  IRC  and  investigator 
assessment.  The  ORR  according  to  IRC  assessment  of  all  randomised  and  standard  population  was 
22.4%  (CI  19.1;25.9)  /  24.7%  (21.1;28.6)  in  the  capecitabine  group  and  13.3%  (10.6;16.2)  /  14.5 
(11.6; 17.7) in the 5-FU/FA group. As regards the control group, the result is consistent with published 
studies. 
Overall  survival:  non-inferiority  of  capecitabine  was  formally  demonstrated  for  the  standard 
population using the predefined  margin of 1.2. For the all randomised population, the margin of 1.2 
was slightly missed. The median survival in the standard population was as follows: 
Capecitabine: 
5-FU/FA: 
Hazard Ratio: 
401 days 
400 days 
1.01 (0.87; 1.18) 
The  most  mature  survival  update  (May  2000)  confirmed  clearly  non-inferiority  of  capecitabine  vs. 
Xeloda with a hazard ratio (standard population) of 0.96 and the upper limit of the 95% interval (0.85; 
1.08) being even below 1.1. 
The detailed analysis of the usage of second line therapy do exclude an effect of 2nd line treatment on 
the  conclusion  that  OS  in  patients  treated  with  capecitabine  is  at  least  equivalent  to  patients  treated 
with 5-FU/FA.  
The  median  duration  of  response  according  to  the  integrated  analysis  was  slightly  shorter  in  the 
capecitabine group: 246 vs. 288 days according to investigator assessment (WHO criteria). Looking at 
the  duration  of  response  according  to  investigator  assessment  in  the  two  treatment  arms,  there  is  a 
clear  difference  in  study  SO14796  in  favour  of  5-FU/LV,  but  no  difference  in  study  14695.  The 
slightly shorter duration of response in the capecitabine group compared to 5-FU/LV despite a higher 
response rate in the former treatment could be expected. The applicant is correct in pointing out that 
the patient subgroups who respond to treatment in the two groups may not be totally comparable, i.e. 
selection may be introduced.  
The  median  time  to  treatment  failure  was  consistently  slightly  longer  in  both  studies  in  the 
capecitabine group. 
The  time  to  first  response  analysed  by  the  distribution  of  responders  in  time  intervals  and  plots  of 
Kaplan-Meier estimates showed a similar pattern in the two treatment groups, with more responders in 
the capecitabine group. 
24/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  overall  Quality  of  Life  (QoL)  scores  for  global  health  were  similar  in  both  treatment  groups 
according  to  both  the  integrated  analysis  and  individual  study  analyses.  The  schedule  of  QoL 
assessments  did  not  allow  assessing  the  impact  of  an  oral  treatment  versus  an  i.v.  Treatment.  The 
results are not necessarily comparable between the treatment groups because assessment took place at 
different time points in the course of treatment cycle (during 1 week rest for capecitabine patients and 
during 3 week rest for 5-FU/FA patients). There was no worsening in any of the parameters. 
Generally,  there  were  slight,  probably  clinically  not  relevant  improvements  in  the  QoL  outcomes  in 
patients who responded (CR/PR) in either of the treatment arms. There is a tendency for these changes 
to  be  slightly  more  favourable  in  the  5-FU/LV  arm  compared  to  capecitabine.  However,  the 
differences  are  unlikely  to  be  clinically  relevant.  Clearly  less  improvement  or  even  deterioration  in 
QoL outcomes (especially global  health and physical functioning)  were  observed for patients whose 
response  was  SD  or  PD  in  both  treatment  arms.  Overall,  it  is  important  that  treatment  response 
(CR/PR) was not associated with deterioration in QoL scores in either treatment group. 
In  accordance  with  the  current  ICH  guidelines  (E9)  the  applicant  has  provided  a  statistical  analysis, 
which shows that there was no study-by-treatment interaction effect on response rate, time to disease 
progression  and  survival.  Including  study  as  a  factor  in  the  model  did  not  change  estimates  of  the 
treatment effect. 
In  the  integrated  analysis  not  even  a  trend  in  any  of  the  subgroup  analyses  could  be  identified. 
Therefore this set of analyses is reassuring for the robustness of the data concerning equivalence/non 
inferiority of both regimens in terms of TTP and OS. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No such studies have been performed. Although there is a clear gender by treatment effect for TTP in 
the univariate and multivariate analysis of study SO14695 when assessed by the IRC (but not in the 
investigator assessment), suggesting shorter TTP in the capecitabine group compared to 5-FU/LV in 
male patients than in female patients, this unexpected finding was not confirmed in study SO14796 or 
in  the  integrated  analysis  of  the  two  studies.  Furthermore,  there  was  no  evidence  of  a  gender  by 
treatment  effect  for  ORR  and  survival.  Therefore,  it  can  be  concluded  that  there  is  no  consistent 
evidence suggesting different treatment effect between males and females. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
Pharmacokinetics 
In  general,  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  capecitabine  are  well  investigated. 
The main metabolites are appropriately characterised, the recovery is nearly completely balanced and 
the main elimination and excretion pathways (FBAL, urinary) are described. The PK investigation are 
complicated by the extensive metabolism capecitabine undergoes but it appears that PK (of all major 
metabolites) is dose-proportional. 
Overall, there were few factors identified having an impact on the PK of capecitabine. Capecitabine 
may  have  interactions  with  substances  metabolised  via  CYP2C9,  such  as  phenytoin.  Potential 
interactions  with  phenytoin and  warfarin were  already described  in the initial  SmPC  on the  basis  of 
postmarketing reports. An interaction trial with warfarin was submitted post-authorisation. This study 
provided evidence that chronic administration of capecitabine down regulates CYP2C9 and causes an 
increase  in  prothrombin  time.  Furthermore,  sorivudine  and  analogues  have  been  reported  to  have  a 
clinically  significant  interaction  with  5-FU,  resulting  from  the  inhibition  of  dihydropyrimidine 
dehydrogenase. This interaction leads to increased fluoropyrimidine toxicity and is potentially fatal. 
The most important single factor influencing absorption of capecitabine is administration under fasting 
vs. feeding conditions (fasting leads to a higher absorption while capecitabine was investigated within 
30 minutes after a meal in all phase III trials). 
The effects of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of capecitabine were evaluated on the basis 
of  a  specific  pharmacokinetic  study  and  a  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  approach.  Mild  to 
severe  renal  impairment  had  no  clinically  significant  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  capecitabine 
25/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and 5’-DFCR. However, despite the modest impact of renal impairment on the PK of 5’-DFUR and 5-
FU, adverse events were clearly more frequent in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment. 
This phenomenon remains unexplained and appropriate dose recommendations and contraindications 
have been reflected in the SPC (see section 4.2, Posology and method of administration; section 4.3, 
Contraindications). 
Dosage schedules 
Overall  4  different  schedules  of  capecitabine  have  been  investigated,  between  them  two  schedules 
(“intermittent and continuous”) investigating capecitabine monotherapy. The recommended dose (i.e. 
a  dose  level  lower  than  the  MTD)  determined  in  phase  I  trials  was  lower  for  the  continuous  (1331 
mg/m2/day)  than  for  the  intermittent  schedule  (2510  mg/m2/day).  Both  schedules,  and  a  schedule 
combining  capecitabine  with  folinic  acid,  were  further  investigated  in  a  randomised,  parallel  group 
phase  II  trial.  While  ORR  was  comparable  for  all  schedules  (in  the  range  of  about  20  to  25  %)  the 
investigators  favoured  the  intermittent  schedule  due  to  a  numeric  superiority  in  terms  of  TTP. 
However,  the  intermittent  schedule  appears  to  be  more  toxic  (e.g.  in  terms  of  nausea  and  hand-foot 
syndrome)  than  the  continuous  so  that  this  decision  leaves  space  for  the  development  of  further 
schedules. In addition, this phase II trial demonstrated that folinic acid has strong pharmacodynamic 
interactions with capecitabine (in terms of Aes such as severe diarrhoea and hand-foot syndrome but 
not in terms of ORR, i.e. on healthy tissue). 
In  two  large,  multicentre,  multinational,  randomised,  parallel  group,  open  labelled  phase  III  trials 
using identical  protocols  the  intermittent  monotherapeutic capecitabine schedule  was compared with 
the well known Mayo regimen in treatment naïve patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma.  
Choice of comparator 
Concerns  have  been  raised  about  the  choice  of  comparator.  Despite  recent  developments  in  the 
combination  treatment  of  colorectal  cancer  (such  as  the  combinations  of  5-FU  and  irinotecan  or 
oxaliplatin), monotherapy remains in wide use. Capecitabine is superior to the Mayo regimen in terms 
of RR (22.4  vs.  13.3%;  p<0.0001, integrated analysis, ITT, IRC assessment)  but  not  with  respect  to 
OS.  In  addition  with  the  higher  frequency  of  hand-foot-syndrome  (or  the  lower  frequency  of 
neutropenia/stomatitis  vice  versa)  it  can  be  concluded  that  oral  capecitabine  resembles  more  an 
infusional 5-FU than a bolus regimen. 
The  antineoplastic  activity  and  adverse  reaction  profile/pattern  of  5-FU  depends  strongly  on  the 
schedule.  The  applicant  has  shown  that  there  is  no  single  standard  of  care  in  advanced  colorectal 
cancer, and for monotherapy the Mayo regimen as comparator is acceptable. In recent years only the 
pattern of 5-FU schedules in use has changed slightly. 
Overall, oral capecitabine tablets have the potential to replace i.v. 5-FU bolus (e.g. Mayo regimen) or 
to lead even to slightly improved results. 
It  is  agreed  that  capecitabine,  an  oral  fluoropyrimidine  administered  as  a  single  compound,  could 
simplify combinations with irinotecan, oxaliplatin and possibly with other therapies as well.  
Although  it  is  regrettable  that  there  is  no  information  on  results  of  combining  capecitabine  with 
substances  licensed  most  recently  for  the  combination  with  5-FU  (irinotecan,  oxaliplatin)  this  could 
not be expected as these substances were only investigational compounds during the development of 
capecitabine. The treatment of colorectal cancer has not changed very dramatically in the most recent 
period and flouropyrimidines have remained the backbone of the treatment. 
Efficacy Results 
The major results of the two pivotal trials can be briefly described as follows: 
Xeloda is at least not inferior to Mayo in terms of overall survival (OS) and time to progression (TTP), 
and superior in terms of objective response rate (ORR). The observation of an improved ORR, which 
does not affect TTP and/or OS, may be surprising at the first glance. However, it has to be taken into 
consideration that the difference and the magnitude itself (ORR: 24.7 vs. 14.5%, standard population, 
IRC assessment, integrated analysis) are not “dramatic” and refer to partial response in the majority of 
cases. Similar patterns have been reported in relation to FA modulated 5-FU. Higher response rates for 
26/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
modulated 5-FU had no effect on OS in meta-analyses. In effect, it is a usual pattern of the correlation 
between effect and efficacy endpoints in the treatment of advanced colorectal carcinoma. 
Imbalance in number of metastatic sites 
There  is  a  clear,  although  not  statistically  significant  imbalance  in  favour  of  capecitabine  in  the 
number  of  metastatic  sites  at  baseline  in  both  studies  SO14796  and  the  integrated  analysis.  The 
applicant  has  conducted  further  analyses  on  the  "all  randomised"  and  standard  ("per  protocol") 
populations,  taking  into  account  this  imbalance.  The  primary  analysis  population  as  defined  by  the 
protocol was the standard population.  
With  regard  to  Overall  Response  Rate  and  Time  to  Disease  Progression,  the  conclusion  of  non-
inferiority of capecitabine compared to 5-FU/LV was not altered by the adjusted analyses in either the 
all randomised or standard populations. 
The  applicant  has  analysed  two  different  datasets  for  survival,  the  one  submitted  in  the  original 
dossier, and an update. The minimum follow-up time in these two datasets is very different, 11 months 
in the former and 21 months in the latter. 
Original MAA dataset  
With regard to overall survival, non-inferiority cannot be claimed in study SO14796 for the adjusted 
analysis of the all randomised population. However, for the standard population, the adjusted analyses 
allow  the  conclusion  of  non-inferiority.  Similarly,  for  the  integrated  analysis  non-inferiority  was 
confirmed only for the standard population, not for the all randomised population. 
Survival update 
For both study SO14796, and the integrated analysis, non-inferiority can be concluded in both the all 
randomised and standard populations, adjusted and non-adjusted for the baseline number of metastatic 
sites.  
The protocol specified the standard population as the primary analysis target. This is in keeping with 
CPMP/EWP Points to consider on biostatistical/methodological issues: superiority, non-inferiority and 
equivalence. According to the PtC, the primary focus in a non-inferiority study should be on the per 
protocol  population.  However,  the  conclusions  should  be  similar  based  on  analysis  of  the  ITT 
population.  In  view  of  this,  the  survival  update  becomes  important  for  the  formal  demonstration  of 
non-inferiority in terms of overall survival. Altogether, it can be concluded that the baseline difference 
in metastatic sites did not introduce a clinically meaningful bias in favour of capecitabine. 
Clinical safety 
Patient exposure  
The  profile  of  adverse  events,  which  were  reported  in  the  phase  I-II  studies  using  the  intermittent 
capecitabine regimen, is comparable to that, reported in phase III trials. 
Review of the second Periodic Safety Update Report which covers the period 01/11/98 to 30/04/99 did 
not  suggest,  besides  two  reports  on fatal liver failure, any new signals  compared  to the  clinical  trial 
database included in the current dossier. 
In the two-phase III trials in colorectal cancer, altogether 603 patients were treated with capecitabine 
and  604  were  treated  with  5-FU/FA.  The  median  duration  of  treatment  (including  rest  periods)  was 
similar  in  the  two  groups  (approximately  140  days),  and  patients  received  a  mean  of  84%  of  the 
planned dose in the capecitabine group and 89% of the planned dose in the 5-FU/FA group. 
Adverse events and serious adverse events/deaths 
At  least  94%  of  patients  experienced  at  least  one  AE.  The  majority  of  treatment-related  AEs  were 
graded mild or moderate.  
Grade  3  (severe)  treatment-related  adverse  events  were  slightly  more  frequent  in  the  capecitabine 
group (38.1%  vs.  34.1%  5-FU/FA).  Grade  4 (life-threatening)  treatment-related  adverse  events  were 
slightly more frequent in the 5-FU/FA group (5.1% vs. 3.0% capecitabine). It should be noted that the 
27/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
highest grade on the scale for hand-foot syndrome (HFS) was a grade 3 event. 
The most frequent treatment-related grade 3 adverse events were as follows: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
capecitabine 2.0% 
capecitabine 0.5% 
capecitabine 17.1% 
capecitabine 11.6% 
5-FU/FA 14.2% 
5-FU/FA 5.4% 
5-FU/FA 0.5% 
5-FU/FA 10.3% 
stomatitis: 
neutropenia: 
HFS: 
diarrhoea: 
The most frequent treatment-related grade 4 adverse events were as follows: 
- 
- 
- 
capecitabine 0.2% 
capecitabine 0.2% 
capecitabine 1.5% 
5-FU/FA 0.5% 
5-FU/FA 1.9% 
5-FU/FA 1.9% 
stomatitis: 
neutropenia: 
diarrhoea: 
The incidence of grade 3  and 4 treatment related infections was 1.7% in the capecitabine group and 
2.4%  in  the  5-FU/FA  group.  Sepsis  was  reported  in  9  patients  and  one  patient  in  the  5-FU/FA  and 
capecitabine  groups,  respectively.  Compared  to  5-FU/FA  (Mayo  regimen),  the  most  striking 
differences are lower frequencies (all grades considered) of diarrhoea, stomatitis, nausea, alopecia and 
neutropenia leading to medical intervention, and a higher frequency of HFS in capecitabine patients. 
In  general,  the  profile  of  undesirable  effects  reported  for  capecitabine  is  similar  to  that  reported  for 
continuous  (prolonged)  5-FU  infusion  especially  with  regard  to  high  frequency  of  Hand-Foot 
Syndrome  (HFS)  and  low  frequency  of  neutropenia.  Comparing  the  frequency  of  about  50%  for 
capecitabine  with  literature  data  for  continuous  5-FU  infusion  (rough  estimate  20-30%)  it  appears 
indeed to be a  high  frequency.  However,  it  has  to be taken into  account that in  this study a grading 
system  was  used  which  includes  “skin  changes  or  dermatitis  without  pain”.  This  may  explain  the 
differences, or highlight the problems with the interpretation of non-randomised comparisons. 
Further analyses did not suggest a relationship between exposure to the FBAL metabolite and Hand-
foot syndrome 
Usually hand-foot syndrome and diarrhoea did not occur concomitantly. 
The  phase  III  protocols  pre-defined  six  treatment-related  grade  3  and  4  adverse  events  (diarrhoea, 
stomatitis,  nausea,  vomiting,  alopecia,  HFS,  neutropenia)  as  being  of  particular  importance  for 
evaluating comparative safety. The time to onset of prespecified adverse events was a predefined co-
primary endpoint in the integrated analysis. This endpoint is valuable since it encompasses the most 
frequent events associated with fluoropyrimidine treatment which are also important in terms of QoL 
and  the  need  for  dose  adjustment.  A  statistically  significant  difference  (one-sided  log  rank  test 
p=0.0001)  favouring  capecitabine  was  observed.  Consequently,  dose  reductions  occurred  less  often 
(66.1%  vs.  57.8%  of  patients  did  not  require  dose  reductions)  and  later  on  capecitabine  than  on  5-
FU/FA. The median time to dose reduction was 76 days and 36 days in the capecitabine and 5-FU/FA 
groups, respectively. 
Importantly, the median duration of treatment-related grade 3-4 adverse events was similar in the two 
treatment  groups.  Compared  to  5-FU/FA,  fewer  capecitabine-treated  patients  received  treatment  for 
the treatment-related adverse events (82.3% vs. 90.5%). 
Dose reductions due to adverse events occurred less often and at a later time point during treatment 
with capecitabine. 
Treatment with capecitabine was associated with fewer treatment-related serious adverse events than 
5-FU/FA  (13.6%  vs.  20.6%).  The  most  frequent  serious  events  were,  for  the  most  part, 
gastrointestinal. Of importance, neutropenia leading to medical intervention was reported as a serious 
treatment-related adverse event in 3% of patients in the 5-FU/FA group, but in only 0.3% of patients 
in the capecitabine group. The incidence of neutropenic fever reported as a serious AE was also lower 
in the capecitabine group (0% vs. 2.9%). 
Importantly,  HFS  was  reported  as  a  serious  adverse  event  in  only  two  patients  (0.3%)  in  the 
28/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
capecitabine  group.  Despite  high  frequency  of  HFS  as  a  treatment-related  adverse  event,  it  led  to 
hospitalisation  in  only  2  cases.  HFS  was  reported  as  a  cause  of  treatment  withdrawal  in  a  low 
percentage of patients (1.7%) in the capecitabine group.  
The incidence of premature withdrawals due to any AE (13.3% vs.10.8%) or due to treatment-related 
AE (9.6% vs. 6.7%) was slightly higher in the capecitabine group compared to 5-FU/FA.  
In  view  of  the  potential  cardiotoxicity  of  fluoropyrimidines,  cardiac  disorders  have  been  reviewed 
separately. The incidence of treatment-related grade 3 and 4 cardiac events, as well as serious cardiac 
events  reported  as  related  to  treatment  was  similar  in  the  two  treatment  groups.  However,  the 
incidence  of  cardiac  events  of  all  grades  and  incidence  of  all  grade  4  events  (including  those 
considered unrelated) was higher in the capecitabine group. Although the results do not suggest a clear 
difference  in  cardiotoxic  potential  between  capecitabine  and  Mayo  regimen,  cardiac  disorders  must 
continue to be closely monitored. 
to 
the  higher 
to  be  closely  monitored.  At  present, 
Hepatobiliary  disorders  have  been  reviewed  separately  due 
incidence  of 
hyperbilirubinemia  in  patients  treated  with  capecitabine  compared  to  5-FU/FA.  The  incidence  of 
treatment-related hepatobiliary events was slightly higher in the capecitabine group (grade 1: 0.7% vs. 
0.2%;  grade  2:  0.2%  vs.  0.2%;  grade  3:  0.5%  vs.  0%).  The  incidence  of  all  (including  unrelated) 
grades  4:  1.0%  vs.0.7%  in  the  capecitabine  and  5-FU/FA  group,  respectively.  In  most  of  the  cases, 
liver metastases were present. One case of cholestatic hepatitis and jaundice (possibly related) and one 
case  of  jaundice  (remotely  related)  were  reported  as  grade  4  treatment-related  events  in  the 
capecitabine  group  (see  Section  4.8  of  the  SPC,  Undesirable  effects).  Hepatobiliary  events  must 
the  most  plausible  mechanism  behind 
continue 
hyperbilirubinemia  may  be  the  inhibition  of  transport  molecules  required  for  the  uptake  of  bilirubin 
into hepatocytes by capecitabine. Isolated grade 3-4 hyperbilirubinemia is a frequent adverse reaction 
of  capecitabine  treatment  but,  based  on  the  data  presently  available,  without  a  clear  association  to 
hepato-toxicity. In the Periodic Safety Update report, two fatalities related to liver and biliary system 
disorders were reported. In the first case, a female patient experienced hepatic failure during treatment 
with  capecitabine,  docetaxel  and  diclofenac.  Although  confounding  medications  were  present,  a 
contribution  of  capecitabine  cannot  be  ruled  out.  The  other  case  involved  a  female  patient  who 
received capecitabine treatment for progressive hepatic metastases of breast cancer. Based on review 
of reports of hepatic failure, one or more confounding factors were present in all of the cases listed. 
However, a causal role of capecitabine cannot be excluded in at least two cases (see Section 4.8 of the 
SPC, Undesirable effects). 
Age and renal impairment were found to be important factors in terms of frequency of adverse events. 
Patients who were at least 80 years old experienced a greater incidence of gastrointestinal grade 3 or 4 
adverse events in both treatment groups than the overall study population. A higher incidence of grade 
3 HFS compared to overall study population was observed in patients between 70 and 79 years of age 
(capecitabine).  Patients  with  creatinine  clearance  of  30-50  ml/min  at  baseline  experienced  a  greater 
overall  incidence  of  treatment-related  grade  3-4  adverse  events  relative  to  the  overall  population  in 
both  groups.  The  safety  update  did  not  suggest  direct  nephrotoxicity  of  capecitabine  although 
dehydration must be avoided. 
The incidence of treatment-related deaths (during treatment or within 28 days from the last dose) was 
1.0% in both capecitabine and 5-FU/FA groups. The incidence of deaths (during treatment or within 
28 days from the last dose) was slightly, but statistically significantly higher in the capecitabine group 
(8.4% vs. 5.4%). This difference was biased by the difference in treatment schedules between the two 
groups. The majority of deaths in both treatment groups were considered to be unrelated to treatment 
and most of these unrelated deaths were due to progressive disease. Importantly, the reported causes of 
death (during treatment, within 28 days from last dose, deaths that occurred beyond 28 days) have a 
very similar pattern between the two treatment groups (including cardiovascular causes, septicaemia 
and gastrointestinal causes).  
The incidence of grade 3-4 neutropenia/granulocytopenia and leukocytopenia was clearly lower in the 
capecitabine  group  compared  to  5-FU/FA  (approximately  10-fold  difference),  whereas  grade  3-4 
29/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anaemia and thrombocytopenia were reported at similar low frequencies. 
Rare  cases  of  events  related  to  inflammation/ulceration  of  mucous  membranes  such  as  esophagitis, 
gastritis,  duodenitis,  colitis,  and  gastrointestinal  haemorrhage,  certain  neurological  disorders 
(encephalopathy,  confusion  and  cerebellar  signs  such  as  ataxia,  dysarthria,  impaired  balance  and 
abnormal co-ordination), colitis, hepatic and cardiac failure have been reported. This is reflected in the 
SPC (See section 4.8, Undesirable effects). 
There were two cases of haemolytic anemia and one case of microangiopathic haemolytic anemia. All 
cases were considered serious, but none was fatal. Reports of haemolytic anemia must continue to be 
monitored. 
Laboratory findings 
The incidence of grade 3-4 elevated AST (0.7-1.2%) and alkaline phosphatase (3.4-4.1%) was similar 
in both treatment groups. The only remarkable difference between capecitabine and 5-FU/FA in blood 
chemistry  was  the  incidence  of  grade  3/4  hyperbilirubinemia  (22.8%  vs.  5.9%)  and  grade  4 
hyperbilirubinemia (4.5% vs. 2.5%), with higher frequencies in the capecitabine group. However, the 
incidence of hepatobiliary events was low and not remarkably different between the two groups (see 
above). Furthermore, hyperbilirubinemia was generally moderate (between 1.5 and 3 x ULN) and not 
associated with increases in AST or alkaline phosphatase. The clinical relevance of hyperbilirubinemia 
during  capecitabine  treatment  remains  uncertain.  However,  as  noted  previously,  hepatobiliary 
reactions  must  continue  to  be  closely  monitored  and  the  applicant  should  establish  the  mechanism 
underlying increases in serum bilirubin. 
A  slightly  higher  incidence  of  grade  3  and  4  hyperglycaemia  was  observed  in  capecitabine-treated 
patients.  Although  the  prevalence  of  diabetes  mellitus  in  the  two  treatment  arms  was  similar  at 
baseline, the proportion of diabetics on insulin treatment was clearly lower in the capecitabine group 
(32% vs. 50%). 57% of the diabetics in the capecitabine group and 40% of the diabetics in 5-FU/LV 
groups used oral antidiabetic medication. This may explain the difference in the incidence of grade 3-4 
hyperglycaemia and grade 3-4 shifts from baseline. 
Safety in special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Insufficient safety and efficacy data are available in patients with hepatic impairment to provide a dose 
adjustment  recommendation.  No  information  is  available  on  hepatic  impairment  due  to  cirrhosis  or 
hepatitis.  
Renal impairment 
Xeloda  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine  clearance  below  30 
ml/min). The proposed dose reduction to 75% for patients with moderate renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance below 30  ml/min) is based on 25-30%  increase in AUC  of 5’-DFUR and on frequency of 
dose reductions in early cycles. 
Children and adolescents (under 18 years): 
The safety and efficacy of Xeloda in children and adolescents has not been studied.  
Elderly 
No adjustment of the starting dose is needed. However severe grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse 
events  were  more  frequent  in  patients  over  80  years  of  age  compared  to  younger  patients.  Careful 
monitoring of elderly patients is advisable. 
Discussion on clinical safety 
Comparison with Mayo regimen 
The safety profiles of capecitabine and Mayo regimen are clearly different. Higher frequency of hand-
foot-syndrome and lower frequency of stomatitis and neutropenia are the main features of capecitabine 
treatment. This is, however, not unexpected. Continuous i.v. administration of 5-FU leads also to a 
30/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
similar shift of adverse effects. In addition, these differences cannot be considered as unfavourable for 
capecitabine. Actually, stomatitis and neutropenia are risk factors for (fatal) infection while hand-foot-
syndrome interferes primarily with patients’ well being without being life-threatening.  
A  further  difference  to  note  is  the  frequency  of  isolated  hyperbilirubinaemias  observed  for 
capecitabine treatment. This effect is unexpected and presently not fully explained in its last details. 
The knowledge available indicates that it is a pharmacodynamic effect without clinical relevance. The 
pathomechanism is most probably the inhibition of bilirubin uptake into hepatocytes.  
The analysis of the term “death on study” resulted in a statistical significant but artificial (due to the 
different  duration  of  treatment  and  different  treatment  schedules  in  the  two  trial  arms)  difference  in 
favour of Mayo regimen. The applicant was asked to clarify this further by presenting a new analysis 
of  all  deaths  during  the  first  170  days  in  all  randomised  patients.  This  analysis  did  not  reveal  a 
statistically  significant  difference  between  the  treatment  arms  in  the  integrated  analysis.  The 
percentage of deaths in the two arms was similar.  
A fair overall conclusion is that the safety profile of intermittent Xeloda treatment differs clearly from 
the Mayo regimen. It is, however, not outside of the range of known 5-FU regimens. 
In  conclusion,  intermittent  oral  capecitabine  treatment  of  naïve  patients  with  advanced  colorectal 
carcinoma  resembles  more  a  continuous  5-FU  iv  infusion  than  the  Mayo  regimen  (low  dose  folinic 
acid plus 5-FU iv bolus) in terms of efficacy and safety. 
Variability of DPD activity 
DPD  activity  shows  considerable  inter-individual  variability.  Low  activity  could  potentially  lead  to 
severe 5-FU toxicity. Therefore Xeloda is contraindicated in patients who have a history of severe and 
unexpected reactions to fluoropyrimidine therapy, or known hypersensitivity to fluorouracil (see SPC, 
section  4.3  Contra-indications).  In  case  the  mechanism  for  fluoropyrimidine  toxicity  is  low  DPD 
activity, permanent discontinuation of treatment is recommended (see SPC, section 4.2 Posology and 
method of administration. 
Screening  for  the  enzyme  itself  has  methodological  limitations  so  that  it  cannot  be  recommended. 
Capecitabine is administered continuously and therefore by relative low single doses. Compared to 5-
FU bolus doses this is at least theoretically an advantage in the rare situation of DPD deficiency. PK 
monitoring for DPD deficiency is currently not considered feasible.  
The predictive value of DPD in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC) is not yet established. 
In  patients  treated  with  5-FU,  the  risk  of  developing  side  effects  was  not  linked  to  DPD  activity  in 
PBMNC  but  correlated  with  systemic  exposure  to  5-FU.  The  correlation  between  DPD  activity  in 
PBMNC and 5-FU clearance was weak. Moreover, in a recent published study, measurement of DPD 
activity in PBMNC of patients with severe 5-FU toxicity revealed that only 36% of the patients had 
diminished  DPD  levels.  These  results  confirm  that  DPD  levels  in  PBMNC  are  a  relatively  poor 
predictor 5-FU toxicity. 
The  applicant  has  committed  to  investigate  the  relationship  between  DPD  activity  and  capecitabine 
toxicity as a follow up measure. 
Concomitant NSAID use 
The  adverse  events  reported  in  these  patients  (compared  to  patients  with  adverse  events  but  no 
reported NSAID use) suggest a higher percentage of events possibly attributable to NSAIDs (such as 
dyspepsia, bloody diarrhoea, hematemesis, cerebral haemorrhage, epistaxis). However, whether there 
is an interaction or not cannot be concluded. 
31/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2. Adjuvant treatment of patients following surgery of stage III (Dukes' stage C) colon cancer 
Xeloda  (capecitabine),  a  pro-drug  of  5-FU,  has  granted  a  monotherapy  indication  (stage  IV  or 
metastatic)  based  on  the  demonstration  of  non-inferior  time  to  disease  progression  (or  death) 
compared  to  the  Mayo  regimen  (a  5-FU  schedule  modulated  by  low  dose  folinic  acid),  and  on  the 
favourable fact that it can be administered by the oral route.  
This application is an extension of the Xeloda indication to adjuvant treatment for patients with colon 
cancer. In 70% of patients with newly diagnosed colon cancer, the disease is apparently localised and 
potentially curable by surgical resection (i.e. stage 0 to III, see Table 1). 
TABLE 1: UICC STAGING SYSTEM OF COLON CANCER WITH REFERENCE TO THE DUKES STAGING SYSTEM 
Stage 0 Tis 
N0 
Stage I  T1, T2  N0 
Stage II T3, T4  N0 
Stage III 
Stage IV 
M0 
M0 
M0 
any T  N1, N2 M0 
any T  any N  M1 
(Dukes A) 
(Dukes B) 
(Dukes C) 
In localised (stage I to III) colon carcinoma, frequency of relapses - in most instances as a metastatic 
disease  and  infrequently  as  local  relapse-  after  complete  surgical  resection  differs  considerably  with 
stage.  Relapse  rates  according  to  stage  are  ranging  in  the  literature  from  15%  (stage  I)  to  90% 
(T4N2M0).  Directly  linked  with  the  relapse  rate  (in  terms  of  distant  metastasis)  also  the  survival  of 
patients with stage I to III (and IV) tumours differs considerably. 
On the basis of a meta-analysis only (Buys M et al.1, 1988) 5-FU based adjuvant regimens (only these 
regimens  and  not  e.g.  adjuvant  radiotherapy)  result  in  a  small  survival  benefit  in  colorectal  cancer. 
Addition of levamisol2,3 to 5-FU became standard of care in patients with Dukes C colon cancer in the 
first half of the 1990s. The issue of the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy for high risk Dukes B colon 
carcinoma is still today controversial although recent evidence4 suggests small benefit. 
More  recent  developments  comprise  the  head-to-head  comparison  5-FU  +  folinic  acid  and  5-FU  + 
levamisol5,6,7  consistently  showing  the  5-FU  +  folinic  acid  schedules  to  be  superior  to  the  Moertel 
schedule,  as  well  as  the  investigation  of  the  benefit  of  combination  treatment8  in  terms  of  the 
comparison of the LV5FU2 regimen (a 2-hour infusion of 200 mg/m2 LV followed by an i.v. bolus 
dose of 400 mg/m2 5-FU and then a 22-hour infusion of 600 mg/m2 5-FU for 2 days every 14 days) 
vs. the FOLFOX4 regimen (addition of oxaliplatin to the LV5FU2 regimen). This latter MOSAIC trial 
argues for the potential of combination treatment offering a benefit to patients resected for Dukes B 
and  C  colon  carcinoma  in  terms  of  prolonged  disease  free  as  well  as  overall  survival  (although  not 
shown by the MOSAIC trial as published) on the expense of considerably more adverse events. 
The  MAH  performed  a  trial  comparing  Xeloda  in  the  schedule  currently  licensed  for  advanced 
colorectal carcinoma (2500 mg/m2 total daily dose for 14 days followed by a seven day rest period in a 
21 day cycle for 8 cycles) vs. the Mayo Clinic regimen (20 mg/m2 folinic acid followed by 425 mg/m2 
5-FU,  both  administered  by  rapid  i.v.  injection  on  days  1  to  5  in  a  28-day  cycle  for  6  cycles) 
considered as standard, in effect a similar comparison as performed in the pivotal trials for the licensed 
metastatic colorectal carcinoma indication. 
Clinical aspects 
1 Buys M et al, JAMA 259: 3571-78, 1988 
2 Moertel et al, Journal of Clinical Oncology 7:1447-1456, 1989 
3 Laurie et al, New England Journal of Medicine 322:352-358, 1990 
4 Journal of Clinical Oncology 22: 3395-3407, 2004 
5 Journal of Clinical Oncology 17:3553-3559, 1999 
6 Journal of Clinical Oncology 19: 1787-1794, 2001 
7 Annals of Oncology 14: 395-99, 2003 
8 New England Journal of Medicine 350: 2343-51, 2004 
32/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
A  single,  confirmatory  phase  III  trial  is  the  basis  for  claiming  the  adjuvant  indication.  The  dose 
finding  (and  the  clinical  pharmacology  in  general)  was  performed  in  (a  larger)  phase  II  trial  in 
metastatic colorectal carcinoma (but not again in patients with stage Dukes C colon carcinoma). Trial 
M66001  (or  X-ACT)  is  an  ongoing  open  label,  1:1  randomized,  international  and  multi-centre9  trial 
comparing 
•  Capecitabine: (1250 mg/m2 given orally twice daily for 14 days followed by a 7-day rest period in 
• 
a 21-day cycle for 8 cycles) Vs. 
5-FU/LV (Mayo Clinic regimen): 20 mg/m2 leucovorin followed by 425 mg/m2 5-FU, both 
administered by rapid i.v. injection on days 1 to 5 in a 28-day cycle for 6 cycles 
with  the  primary  objective  to  demonstrate  that  capecitabine  is  non  inferior  to  5-FU  in  combination 
with  leucovorin  in  terms  of  disease-free  survival  in  chemotherapy-naïve  patients  who  underwent 
surgery for Dukes stage C colon carcinoma. 
Secondary objectives were: to compare overall survival, safety profiles, changes in quality of life from 
baseline, medical care utilization of the two treatment groups. 
It should be noted that the study does not comprise the attempt to demonstrate at least equivalence of 
both  treatments  in  "high  risk  Dukes  B  carcinoma",  which  should  be  reflected  in  the  wording  of  the 
indication: The inclusion criteria comprised stage Dukes C carcinoma only. Both the inclusion as well 
as the exclusion are aiming on (adult) patients otherwise healthy after surgery with curative intend 
The primary efficacy parameter disease-free survival, was assessed for each patient every 6 months 
for the first 2 years after randomization and yearly thereafter until the end of the study. In the case of a 
relapse or new occurrence of colon cancer (NOCC) during the treatment phase, the patient was to be 
taken off treatment and followed up for survival. 
Secondary efficacy parameter were overall survival (number of days between randomization and the 
date  of  death  or  the  last  date  at  which  a  patient  was  known  to  be  alive),  relapse-free  survival,  and 
Quality of Life. 
The difference between disease (primary parameter) and relapse (secondary parameter) free survival is 
that for the latter endpoint death not related to the tumour was not considered as an event (thus, a not-
tumour related death was a censored observation for determination of relapse free survival at the last 
date the patient was confirmed to be relapse-free). 
For  the  assessment  of  QoL  patients  were  to  complete  the  EORTC  QLQ-C30  quality  of  life 
questionnaire (version 2.0, 30 questions) at 4 time points, i.e. baseline, week 7, 16 and 25 (end of last 
cycle) for capecitabine and baseline, week 9, 17 and 25 (end of last cycle). According to the EORTC 
QLQ-C30 scoring manual10, these questions are grouped into functional scales and symptom scales.  
The  primary  analysis  was  a  non-inferiority  analysis  of  disease  free  survival  while,  as  secondary 
analysis the statistical plan provides a test for superiority for disease free survival, an equivalence test 
for disease free survival rate (at 3 years), and an equivalence test for overall survival. The secondary 
analysis for relapse free survival was the same as performed for the primary analysis after censoring 
not tumour related deaths. 
The sample size estimation is based on the Harrington and Fleming approach. According to this 
approach 632 events in the per-protocol population were required in this study to achieve a power of 
80% for a non-inferiority margin of 1.25 and 63% for a margin of 1.2). According to the analysis plan, 
4 populations were defined: all randomised population, per-protocol (standard) population, extended 
per-protocol population (all patients who received at least one dose of study drug and did not have a 
major violation of inclusion/exclusion criteria) and safety population. 
9 A total of 164 centres in 25 countries, including European countries, Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Israel, 
Singapore, Thailand, Uruguay, and USA. It has to be stated, however, that the vast majority of patients recruited 
were in spite of the international character Caucasians. 
10 EORTC QLQ-C30 Scoring Manual, 3rd edition. EORTC Quality of Life Group, Brussels, Belgium, 2001. 
33/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
Results 
Study Participants 
A total of 1987 patients from 164 centres in 25 countries were randomized to M66001 trial with 
treatment of capecitabine (1004 patients) or 5-FU/LV (983 patients), 996 patients received at least one 
dose of capecitabine, and 974 patients received at least one dose of 5-FU/LV. In total, 11 randomized 
patients in the capecitabine arm and 9 randomized patients in the 5-FU/LV arms violated the inclusion 
criteria, i.e., they had metastatic disease, a non-curative resection, rectal cancer, or a stage II tumour at 
baseline. The first patient was randomized on November 12, 1998, and the last patient was 
randomized on November 02, 2001.  
Table 2: Demographic characteristics by randomised treatment 
Male/female (%)  
Median age, years (range)    
ECOG score: 0/1 (%)  
Node status: N1/N2 (%)  
Baseline CEA below ULN/above ULN/missing (%) 
Weight in kg Median  
Height in cm Median  
Body Surface Area (m2) Median  
Capecitabine 
N=1004 
54/46 
62 (25-80)  
85/15 
69/30 
83/9/9    
70.00  
168.0  
1.795  
5-FU/LV 
N=983 
54/46 
63 (22-82) 
85/15 
71/29 
85/7/8 
70.00 
168.0 
1.800 
Table 3: Summary of Baseline Tumor Staging (All Randomized Population) 
____________________________________________________________________________ 
Dukes (UICC) Staging Classification   CAPECITABINE  
Primary Tumor 
PT1  
PT2 
PT3  
PT4  
Missing  
Regional Lymph node 
PN1  
PN2  
PNX  
PN0  
Missing  
Grading 
G1  
G2  
G3  
G4  
GX  
Missing  
Efficacy Results 
(N=1004) 
12 ( 1.20 )  
 90 ( 8.96 )  
763 (76.00 )  
138 (13.75 )  
1 ( 0.10 ) 
695 (69.22 )  
305 (30.38 )  
1 ( 0.10 )  
2 ( 0.20 ) 
1 ( 0.10 ) 
91 ( 9.06 )  
652 (64.94 )  
163 (16.24 )  
5 ( 0.50 )  
91 ( 9.06 )  
2 ( 0.20 )  
5-FU + LEUCOVORIN 
(N=983) 
6 ( 0.61 ) 
92 ( 9.36 ) 
746 (75.89 ) 
139 (14.14 ) 
694 (70.60 ) 
288 (29.30 ) 
1 ( 0.10 ) 
96 ( 9.77 ) 
620 (63.07 ) 
182 (18.51 ) 
7 ( 0.71 ) 
74 ( 7.53 ) 
4 ( 0.41 ) 
Table 4: Main Efficacy Results by Treatment Arm and Analysis Population 
34/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoint Number (%) of Patients without Eventa Hazard Ratiob, p-valuec (test for difference) 
Population  
 (95% CI)         p-Valuec 
Capecitabine 5-FU/LV 
Disease-free survival 
All randomized    
Per-protocol  
Extended per-protocol  
Overall survival 
All randomized    
Per-protocol  
Extended per-protocol  
Relapse-free survival 
All randomized    
Per-protocol  
Extended per-protocol  
656 (65%)  
586 (66%)  
636 (66%)  
603 (61%) 
552 (63%)  
593 (63%)  
0.87 (0.75, 1.00)     0.053 
0.89 (0.76, 1.04)     0.157 
0.87 (0.75, 1.01)     0.068 
804 (80%) 
718 (81%)  
776 (81%) 
 756 (77%)  
 694 (79%) 
 742 (78%)  
0.84 (0.69, 1.01)     0.071 
0.90 (0.73, 1.10)     0.298 
0.86 (0.71, 1.05)     0.143 
677 (67%)  
605 (68%)  
657 (69%)  
621 (63%) 
562 (64%) 
608 (64%) 
 0.86 (0.74, 0.99)    0.041 
 0.87 (0.74, 1.02)    0.078 
 0.85 (0.73, 0.99)    0.041 
a For disease-free survival, event = death, relapse, or new occurrence of colon cancer (NOCC); for overall 
survival, event = death (all causes); for relapse-free survival, event = death related to treatment or to disease 
progression, or relapse, or NOCC. 
b Capecitabine vs. 5-FU/LV. 
c Wald chi-square test (test for difference) 
Multivariate analyses incorporating predefined prognostic factors (i.e., age, gender, lymph node status 
at baseline, CEA levels at baseline, time from surgery to randomization, and country) confirmed and 
demonstrated the robustness of the results, as well as additional subgroup analyses. In the predefined 
Cox regression model, treatment with capecitabine had a significant, independent impact on disease-
free survival at least in the all randomized population for the per protocol population used as an 
example for the result in other populations; the hazard ratio in this adjusted analysis is 0.852 with a p-
value of 0.0542; in this context it may be mentioned that treatment with capecitabine was also 
statistically significantly related with an improved outcome in terms of overall survival in the as 
randomized [ITT] population). 
TABLE 5 MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF DISEASE-FREE SURVIVAL (PER-PROTOCOL POPULATION) 
Analysis of duration of disease free survival revealed that after 3.8 years median is still not reached (3 
year disease free survival rate 0.65 and 0.63 for capecitabine and 5-FU/FA respectively,  
Table 6  
Statistical Analysis of Disease-Free Survival (Per-Protocol Population) 
35/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With upper limits for the 95% CI of 1.00 to 1.04, and corresponding low p-values, there appears to be 
even a trend to a superior disease free survival for the patients treated with capecitabine.  
Figure 1 
Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Disease-Free Survival (Per-Protocol Population) 
An analysis of retention of the effect of 5-FU/FA (and odds ratio of 1.90 was supposed for 5-FU/FA 
vs. surgery alone) revealed that with high statistical significance the 0-hypothesis of the retention of 
less than 75% of the effect of 5-FU/FA by capecitabine can be rejected with sufficient statistical 
confidence 
Table 7 
Results of Testing for 75% Retention of Effect on Disease free Survival 
36/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary Endpoints 
•  Overall survival (OS) 
The upper limit of the 95% CI lies within 1.01 to 1.10, well below the 1.25 criteria. The duration to 
event, or median OS can currently not be estimated. The 3 year survival rate is 0.83 [0.80;0.85] and 
0.80 [0.78; 0.83] for the per protocol population (and similar in the two other analysis populations). 
Figure 2 
Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Overall Survival (Per-Protocol Population) 
•  Relapse free survival 
The difference between disease and relapse free survival is a very minor one (the latter censoring a 
non-tumour or not treatment related death in place of considering as an event). Overall 39 patients in 
the as randomised population were excluded from the analysis of relapse free survival (compared to 
disease free survival).  
37/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8: 
Statistical Analysis of Relapse-Free Survival (Per-Protocol Population) 
Quality of life 
Most of the patients in the safety population (91% in the capecitabine treatment arm and 88% in the 5-
FU/FA treatment arm) completed a quality of life questionnaire at baseline. 
The percentages of patients completing quality of life questionnaires at cycles 3 and 5 or 6 and at the 
end of the prescribed course of medication were slightly higher in the capecitabine treatment arm 
(80%, 81%, and 84%, respectively) than in the 5-FU/FA treatment arm (72%, 76%, and 76%, 
respectively). Similarly, the percentages of patients completing both questions in the Global Health 
Status scale at cycles 3 and 5 or 6 and at the end of the prescribed course of medication were slightly 
higher in the capecitabine treatment arm (78%, 80%, and 82%, respectively) than in the 5-FU/LV 
treatment arm (71%, 75%, and 76%, respectively). 
In summary QoL appears to increase slightly over the time, however, there is no obvious (and also no 
statistical significant) difference between both arms. Thus, if the oral adjuvant treatment offers an 
advantage of i.v. injection, this advantage is not reflected in the QoL of the patients, at least in the 
QoL as measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 instrument (sensitivity of the instrument for the question). 
Discussion of efficacy 
With  the  limitation  of  a  median  follow-up  of  3.8  years,  and  not  having  a  second  and  independent 
conducted trial available, it has to be stated that the well designed and well conducted trial M66001 
(X-ACT) met its objective. Capecitabine was demonstrated to be non-inferior to i.v. 5-FU/LV (Mayo) 
in  terms  of  disease-free  survival  in  the  all  randomized  per-protocol,  and  extended  per-protocol 
populations, based on the pre-specified margins of 1.25 (p < 0.001) and 1.20 (p < 0.001) for the hazard 
ratio,  corresponding  to  the  hierarchical  testing  strategy  specified  in  the  protocol  -in  chemotherapy 
naïve  patients  who  underwent  surgery  for  stage  Dukes  C  colon  carcinoma.  The  upper  limits  of  the 
95%  confidence  interval  of  the  hazard  ratio  were  1.00,  1.04,  and  1.01  in  the  all  randomized,  per-
protocol, and extended per-protocol populations, respectively. According to the protocol, the primary 
population  for  analysis  of  disease-free  survival  was  the  per-protocol  population;  the  analysis  of 
disease-free survival was also conducted in the all randomized and extended per-protocol populations. 
With  regard  to  disease-free  survival,  capecitabine  retained  at  least  75%  of  the  benefit  that  5-FU/LV 
has  shown  over  surgery  alone  (p  <  0.001).  In  this  calculation,  the  benefit  of  5-FU/LV  over  surgery 
alone was assumed to be given by a hazard ratio of 1.90 (surgery vs. 5-FU/LV) with a 95% confidence 
interval  of  1.53  to  2.35.  In  additional  analyses,  capecitabine  was  at  least  equivalent  to  5-FU/LV  in 
terms  of  overall  survival,  based  on  the  protocol-specified  non-inferiority  margin  of  1.25  in  all  three 
38/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
populations. The upper limits of the 95% confidence intervals of the hazard ratios were 1.01, 1.10, and 
1.05  for  the  all  randomized,  per-protocol,  and  extended  per-protocol  populations,  respectively,  and 
thus are all well below 1.25. 
There  was  a  trend  toward  superiority  for  capecitabine  vs.  5-FU/LV  with  respect  to  disease-free 
survival,  overall survival and  relapse-free  survival in the  all randomized population. Superioritywith 
respect to relapse-free survival was demonstrated for capecitabine vs. 5-FU/LV in the all randomized 
and the extended per-protocol populations. 
The quality of life scores for Global Health Status over time were similar for the two treatment arms. 
A statistically significant difference between treatment arms in the change from baseline to week 25 
could not be shown. 
Clinical safety 
Capecitabine first became commercially available in 1998. Since then, approximately 634,000 patients 
worldwide  have  been  exposed  to  the  drug.  In  recent  post-marketing  surveillance  data,  the  system 
organ  class  with  the  highest  number  of  adverse  event  reports  was  “Gastrointestinal  Disorders”, 
followed by “Skin and Subcutaneous Tissue Disorders”, and “General Disorders and Administration 
Site  Conditions”.  Among  the  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  were  palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia, vomiting, nausea, diarrhea, dehydration, pyrexia, and febrile neutropenia. 
The  Applicant’s  Summary  of  Clinical  Safety  assessment  of  capecitabine  is  based  primarily  on  one 
pivotal efficacy and safety study involving 995 patients with colon cancer in adjuvant treatment 1250 
mg/m2 of capecitabine administered twice daily (morning and evening; equivalent to 2500 mg/m2 total 
daily dose) for 14 days followed by a seven days rest period. 
Patient exposure  
Patients who received at least one dose of study medication and had at least one post-baseline safety 
assessment (995 patients in the capecitabine treatment arm and 974 patients in the 5-FU/LV-treatment 
arm) are included in the safety evaluations.  
Adverse events 
In the phase III study, 5252 and 5792 adverse events were reported in the capecitabine treatment arm 
and the 5-FU/LV-treatment arm, respectively. In both treatment arms, 91% of the patients experienced 
at  least  one  adverse  event  during  treatment  or  within  28  days  after  treatment.  The  proportions  of 
patients  with  adverse  events,  which  were  judged  related  to  study  drug  were  87%  and  89%  in  the 
capecitabine and 5-FU/LV treatment arms, respectively. The total number of treatment-related adverse 
events was 4279 events in the capecitabine treatment arm and 4830 events in the 5-FU/LV-treatment 
arm.  Fourty-one  percent  of  patients  in  capecitabine  arm  and  39%  in  5-FU/LV-treated  patients 
experienced  grade  3/4  adverse  events.  The  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  were  among  the  most 
frequent  adverse  events  in  both  treatment  arms.  The  spectrum  of  gastrointestinal  adverse  events 
associated with capecitabine therapy was qualitatively similar to that seen with 5-FU/LV-therapy, with 
diarrhea, nausea, stomatitis, and vomiting being the predominant gastrointestinal adverse events. 
The incidence of grade 3 treatment related palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia was higher (17.0% in the 
capecitabine arm and 0.5% in the 5-FU/LV arm), whereas the incidence of treatment-related diarrhoea, 
nausea,  vomiting,  stomatitis,  alopecia,  and  neutropenia  in  the  capecitabine  treatment  arm  was  lower 
than  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment  arm.  There  was  a  lower  incidence  of  treatment-related  grade  3/4 
neutropenia, febrile neutropenia/sepsis, and stomatitis in the capecitabine treatment arm than in the 5-
FU/LV-treatment arm. There was a similar incidence of grade 3/4 diarrheas in the two treatment arms, 
although there were more hospitalizations due to diarrhea in the capecitabine treatment arm. 
In  particular,  22%  of  capecitabine  treated  patients  experienced  stomatitis,  compared  with  60%  of  5-
FU/LV-treated  patients.  Other  frequently  reported  adverse  events  with  a  lower  incidence  in  the 
capecitabine  treatment  arm  than  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment  arm  included  alopecia  (6%  vs.  22%)  and 
39/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
neutropenia  (2%  vs.  8%).  The  incidences  of  all  the  frequently  reported  adverse  events  in  the 
capecitabine treatment arm were either similar to or lower than those in the 5-FU/LV-treatment arm, 
except for the incidence of palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia. More patients treated with capecitabine 
(60%) experienced palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia than did patients treated with 5-FU/LV (9%). 
The median time to first onset of the predefined treatment-related grade 3/4 adverse events was longer 
in  5-FU/LV-treated  patients.  Grade  3  palmar-plantar 
in  capecitabine-treated  patients 
erythrodysesthesia  was  a  frequent  reason  for  premature  treatment  discontinuations  (5%).  In  the 
capecitabine  arm, 
treatment-related  palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia was 79 days, and the median duration was 13 days. Patients treated in capecitabine 
arm  experienced  hyperbilirubinemia,  including  grade  3/4  hyperbilirubinemia,  more  frequently  than 
those treated with 5-FU/LV. 
to  onset  of  grade  3 
the  median 
time 
than 
There  were  more  treatment  withdrawals  for  treatment-related  adverse  events  in  the  capecitabine 
treatment  arm  (9%)  than  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment  arm  (6%),  because  of  more  palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia in the capecitabine-treated patients. 
A  lower  proportion  of  capecitabine-treated  patients  than  5-FU/LV-treated  patients  had  early-onset 
grade  3/4  fluoropyrimidine-related  toxicity  (i.e.,  gastrointestinal  toxicities,  infections,  neutropenia/ 
granulocytopenia, and thrombocytopenia). 
In both treatment arms, the proportion of patients prematurely withdrawn from treatment because of 
adverse  events  was  higher  for  older  patients  (  ≥ 65  or  ≥ 70  years  of  age)  than  for  younger  patients 
(<40, 40–69, and <65 years of age). The proportions of patients experiencing treatment-related grade 
3/4  adverse  events  and  treatment-related  serious  adverse  events  were  also  higher  for  older  patients 
than for younger patients. 
Hospitalization. If the onset of an adverse event was on or before the 28th day after the last treatment 
dose,  the  hospitalization  caused  by  this  adverse  event  was  included  in  the  analysis  even  if  the 
hospitalization itself occurred more than 28 days after the last dose. The proportion of patients with at 
least  one  hospitalization  for  adverse  events  was  similar  in  the  two  treatment  arms  (approximately 
18%).  The  total  number  of  primary  adverse  events  leading  to  hospitalization  (215  vs.  201, 
capecitabine  vs  5-FU/LV),  the  median  duration  of  hospitalization  (8  vs  6  days,  capecitabine  vs  5-
FU/LV),  and  the  median  time  to  the  first  hospitalization  (58  vs  49  days,  capecitabine  vs  5-FU/LV) 
were all comparable in the two treatment arms. Furthermore, the monthly incidence of hospitalization 
and the adjusted monthly incidence of hospitalization were similar in the two treatment arms. 
In 2 patients was palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia the sole reason for hospitalization.  
Frequently Reported (Incidence ≥ 5% in at Least One Treatment Arm) Grade 1 to 4 Treatment-
Related and Treatment-Unrelated Adverse Events (Safety Population) 
___________________________________________________________ 
Adverse Event  
5-FU+LEUCOVORIN 
N = 995  
No. (%)  
CAPECITABINE  
N = 974 
No. (%) 
632 ( 65) 
589 ( 60) 
460 ( 47) 
85 ( 9) 
467 ( 47)    
222 ( 22)    
334 ( 34)    
595 ( 60)    
___________________________________________________________ 
DIARRHOEA  
*STOMATITIS ALL   
NAUSEA   
PALMAR-PLANTAR  
ERYTHRODYSAESTHESIA 
SYNDROME 
151 ( 15)    
VOMITING  
156 ( 16)    
FATIGUE  
141 ( 14)    
ABDOMINAL PAIN   
 63 ( 6)  
ALOPECIA 
 91 ( 9)  
ANOREXIA 
96 ( 10)  
ASTHENIA  
86 ( 9)  
CONSTIPATION  
99 ( 10)  
LETHARGY  
71 ( 7) 
PYREXIA  
70 ( 7)  
RASH  
DYSGEUSIA  
59 ( 6) 
ABDOMINAL PAIN UPPER   71 ( 7)  
204 ( 21) 
151 ( 16) 
158 ( 16) 
218 ( 22) 
104 ( 11) 
95 ( 10) 
105 ( 11) 
92 ( 9) 
 83 ( 9) 
80 ( 8) 
89 ( 9) 
67 ( 7) 
40/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
54 ( 6) 
64 ( 6)  
DIZZINESS  
9 ( 6) 
51 ( 5)  
HEADACHE  
1 ( 5) 
58 ( 6)  
ERYTHEMA  
60 ( 6) 
7 ( 5)  
CONJUNCTIVITIS    
48 ( 5) 
59 ( 6)  
DYSPEPSIA  
82 ( 8) 
22 ( 2)  
NEUTROPENIA  
EPISTAXIS  
51 ( 5) 
18 ( 2) 
___________________________________________________________ 
*STOMATITIS: any adverse event preferred terms starting with the strings of ‘MUCOSAL’, ‘STOMATITIS’, 
or ‘MOUTH ULC’ were combined into the new preferred term *STOMATITIS”  
Discontinuation due to AES 
More  patients  in  the  capecitabine  treatment  arm  (112  patients,  11%)  than  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment 
arm (73 patients, 7%) were prematurely withdrawn from treatment for adverse events. The difference 
in  number  of  premature  withdrawals  from  treatment  for  adverse  events  between  the  two  treatment 
arms was largely due to more cases of treatment withdrawal for palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia in 
capecitabine-treated  patients  (32  patients,  3%)  than  in  5-FU/LV-treated  patients  (4  patients,  <1%). 
Another adverse event that commonly led to premature  withdrawal from treatment was diarrhea (30 
capecitabine-treated  patients,  3%;  28  5-FU/LV-treated  patients,  3%).  The  incidence  of  premature 
withdrawal  from  treatment  for  any  other  adverse  event  was  <1%  in  both  treatment  arms,  except  for 
stomatitis,  which  caused  premature  withdrawal  in  6  capecitabine-treated  patients  (<1%)  vs.  16  5-
FU/LV-treated patients (2%). The majority of events (133 of 157 events in the capecitabine-treatment 
arm  and  116  of  130  events  in  the  5-FU/LV  treatment  arm)  that  led  to  premature  withdrawal  from 
treatment  were  considered  related  to  treatment  by  the  investigator.  The  incidence  of  premature 
withdrawal from treatment because of treatment-related adverse events was higher in the capecitabine 
treatment  arm  (94  patients,  9%)  than  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment  arm  (62  patients,  6%).  Because  a 
laboratory  abnormality was to be coded as an adverse event if  it caused  premature withdrawal from 
treatment, all premature withdrawals for laboratory abnormalities are included in the summary tables 
and listings describing premature withdrawals for adverse events.  
Total number of patients with at least one treatment interruption was 150 (15.1%) in the capecitabine 
arm  and  48  (4.9%)  in  the  5-FU/LV-arm.  Total  number  of  cycles  interrupted  was  219  and  63, 
respectively. 
The  majority of patients (57%) needed dose adjustment (treatment interruption, cycle delay, or dose 
reduction) at some time during treatment with capecitabine. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
The  two  treatment  groups  were  similar  in  the  percentages  of  patients  having  serious  AEs 
(capecitabine,  18%;  5-FU/LV,  19%)  and  in  the  percentages  having  treatment-related  serious  AEs 
(capecitabine, 11%; 5-FU/LV, 12%). 
A  total  of  155  treatment-related  serious  adverse  events  were  reported  in  106  capecitabine-treated 
patients (11%), compared with 174 treatment-related serious adverse events reported in 115 5-FU/LV-
treated patients (12%). The most common treatment-related serious adverse events included diarrhoea 
(incidence  of  6%  vs.  3%,  capecitabine  vs.  5-FU/LV),  stomatitis  (incidence  of  <1%  vs.  3%, 
capecitabine  vs.  5  FU/LV),  and  febrile  neutropenia  (incidence  of  <1%  vs.  2%,  capecitabine  vs.  5-
FU/LV). Nine patients treated with capecitabine (<1%), compared with 18 patients (2%) treated with 
5-FU/LV,  experienced  treatment-related  serious  infections.  Palmar-plantar  erythrodysaesthesia  grade 
3/4 was reported in 169 patients (17%) in capecitabine arm and in 5 patients (<1%) in 5-FU/LV-arm. 
Treatment-related  serious  palmar-plantar  erythrodysesthesia  was  reported  in  4  capecitabine-treated 
patients,  all  of  whom  were  hospitalized.  In  2  of  these  4  patients,  hospitalization  was  due  solely  to 
palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia, whereas hospitalization in the other 2 patients was due to multiple 
events, including palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia.  
Mortality within 60 days after the start of treatment was <1% and similar for the two treatment arms 
(capecitabine,  5  patients;  5-FU/LV,  4  patients).  Eight  patient  (0.8%)  in  the  capecitabine  treatments 
arm  and 10 patients (1.0%) in the  5-FU/LV treatments arm  died during treatment or within 28  days 
after the last dose of study drug administration. Of these deaths, 3 in the capecitabine treatment arm 
and 4 in the 5-FU/LV-treatment arm were considered probably, possibly, or remotely related to study 
drug treatment by the investigators. The DSMB evaluated all the relationships for the deaths within 28 
days of last dose. The outcome of this evaluation resulted in a concordant assessment of relationships 
41/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(related  vs.  unrelated)  for  15  of  the  total  18  cases,  and  an  assessment  of  potentially  related  by  the 
DSMB in 3 cases in which the investigators had judged them to be unrelated to study treatment. Thus, 
according to the DSMB evaluations, 5 deaths in each treatment arm were related to study treatment. 
There  was  no  predominant  cause  of  death  in  either  treatment  arm.  The  causes  of  the  3  treatment-
related  deaths  in  the  capecitabine  treatment  arm  were  aspiration  pneumonia,  septic  shock,  and 
multiorgan  failure,  and  the  causes  of  the  4  treatment-related  deaths  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment  arm 
were bronchopneumonia, respiratory arrest, gastrointestinal hemorrhage, and diarrhea.  
Laboratory findings 
The  incidences  of  grade  1  to  4  abnormalities  of  granulocyte,  neutrophil,  neutrophil/granulocyte  and 
white  blood  cell  counts  were  lower  in  the  capecitabine  arm.  In  particular,  compared  with  patients 
treated  with  5-FU/LV,  grade  3/4  and  grade  4  abnormalities  of  neutrophils/granulocytes  in  patients 
treated  with  capecitabine  were  relatively  rare.  The  most  prominent  difference  in  blood  chemistry 
between the two treatment arms was in the frequency of hyperbilirubinemia, which was more common 
in  the  capecitabine  treatment  arm  than  in  the  5-FU/LV-treatment  arm.  The  incidence  of  grade  ¾ 
hyperbilirubinemia  was  higher  in  the  capecitabine  treatment  arm  (20%)  than  in  the  5-  FU/LV 
treatment arm (6%), utilizing the NCIC-CTC grading scale. 
Safety in special populations 
Safety Profile by Patients’ Age 
The  safety profiles of capecitabine and 5-FU/LV were summarized by age of the patients,  using the 
following two groupings: <65 and ≥ 65 years of age; <40, 40 to 69, and ≥ 70 years of age. The main 
findings regarding the impact of age on the safety profiles in the capecitabine and 5-FU/LV treatment 
arms  are  as  follows:  The  difference  in  the  safety  profile  between  the  capecitabine  and  5-FU/LV 
treatment arms in the whole safety population was preserved in the younger and older subpopulations 
of  patients.  The  lower  incidence  of  grade  3/4  stomatitis  and  of  neutropenia/granulocytopenia  in  the 
capecitabine treatment arm compared with the 5-FU/LV-treatment arm was observed in older as well 
as in younger age subgroups. 
In both treatment arms, the proportion of patients prematurely withdrawn from treatment because of 
adverse events was higher for older patients (≥ 65 or ≥ 70 years of age) than for younger patients (<40, 
40–69, and <65 years of age). The proportions of patients experiencing treatment-related grade 3/4 
adverse events and treatment-related serious adverse events were also higher for older patients than for 
younger patients. 
Safety Profile by Baseline Creatinine Clearance 
Creatinine clearance at baseline was calculated according to Cockcroft and Gault. After IRB approval 
of protocol amendment C at individual sites, patients with severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 30 mL/min) were excluded from this study and 75% of the standard dose of capecitabine 
should have been implemented upfront in patients with a moderate renal function impairment 
(creatinine clearance of 30 to 50 mL/min). A total of 49 patients had a baseline creatinine clearance in 
the range of 30 to 50 mL/min in the capecitabine treatment group (safety population), including 15 
patients enrolled under protocol amendment C, of whom 2 had capecitabine dose reduction at 
baseline. The general safety profile was affected by renal function in both the capecitabine and the 5-
FU/LV treatment arms. The proportion of patients with treatment related grade 3 and 4 adverse events 
and patients with treatment-related serious adverse events increased with decreasing creatinine 
clearance in both treatments groups. In the 5-FU/LV-group, decreasing baseline creatinine clearance 
was associated with an increasing proportion of patients with grade 3/4 stomatitis. 
Discussion of Safety  
The  profile  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  in  the  phase  III  trial  is  comparable  to  the  known 
safety profile of capecitabine in patients with colorectal or breast cancer. 
The MAH submitted an Integrated Summary of Safety which integrates the safety data from trial 
M66001 (X-ACT) with trials S014695 and S014796 (the two pivotal phase III comparing capecitabine 
42/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with the Mayo regimen in first line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer submitted with the 
original application) in order to discuss better the frequency of undesirable effects of Xeloda 
monotherapy in section 4.8. 
The  pooled  safety  data  confirm  the  safety  results  of  the  individual  studies.  As  expected  with 
fluoropyrimidine  therapy,  gastrointestinal  adverse  events  were  among  the  most  frequent  adverse 
events in both treatment groups.  
There was a lower incidence of treatment-related diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, alopecia, and 
neutropenia in the capecitabine treatment group than in the 5-FU/LV treatment group. 
There  was  a  lower  incidence  of  treatment-related  grade  3/4  neutropenia  and  stomatitis  in  the 
capecitabine treatment group than in the 5-FU/LV treatment group. There was a similar incidence of 
grade 3/4 diarrhoea in the two treatment groups. 
Capecitabine  caused  more  palmar-plantar  erythrodysesthesia,  including  more  grade  3  palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia, than 5-FU/LV. 
Patients 
hyperbilirubinemia, more frequently than those treated with 5-FU/LV. 
The  incidences of  grade 1 to 4  abnormalities of granulocyte, neutrophil, neutrophil/granulocyte, and 
white blood cell counts were lower in the capecitabine treatment group than in the 5-FU/LV treatment 
group.  In  particular,  compared  with  patients  treated  with  5-FU/LV,  grade  3/4  and  grade  4 
abnormalities of neutrophils/granulocytes in patients treated with capecitabine were relatively rare. 
The MAH has updated section 4.8 “Undesirable Effects” of the SmPC accordingly (see response to 
comment 5 on SmPC section 4.8). 
treated  with  capecitabine  experienced  hyperbilirubinemia, 
including  grade  3/4 
The overall incidence of cardiac disorders for patients treated with either capecitabine or 5-FU/LV in 
the adjuvant colon cancer setting was 3%, which is identical to the incidence found for the same 
treatments in the first-line metastatic colorectal cancer setting, and for capecitabine in the metastatic 
breast cancer setting. This level of cardiotoxicity is also consistent with the level reported in the 
fluoropyrimidine literature. Thus, no new unexpected findings emerged during study M66001. 
The MAH commits to update the cumulative assessment of cardiovascular events, which was provided 
to CHMP with the 10th PSUR of Xeloda submitted February 2004. The update will be included with 
the 11th PSUR for Xeloda to be submitted January 2005.  
Moreover the following statement was added in section 4 “Possible side effects” of the Patient 
Information Leaflet:  
STOP taking Xeloda immediately and contact your doctor if any of these symptoms occur: 
Chest pain: if you experience pain localized to the centre of the chest, especially if it occurs 
during exercise. 
4.3 
Treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer  
Introduction  
Xeloda was granted authorisation in EU in February 2001 for first line monotherapy of patients with 
metastatic colorectal cancer. The indication was subsequently extended through a Type II variation for 
the use of capecitabine in combination with docetaxel in patients with locally advanced or metastatic 
breast  cancer  in  whom  anthracycline  treatment  has  failed.  This  claim  was  mainly  based  on 
comparative  data  deriving  from  a  large  randomised  controlled  clinical  trial  (SO14999)  and  was 
supported  by  an  additional  and  independent  interaction  trial  investigating  PK  interactions  between 
docetaxel and capecitabine in a population of patients with advanced solid tumours in general.  
In addition to this indication a “salvage” indication: capecitabine monotherapy after failure of prior 
treatment with taxanes and anthracyclines -in breast cancer patients is claimed. This was supported 
by the open-label, non-controlled trials SO14697 and NO15542; both trials were of similar design.  
Clinical pharmacology 
43/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Only  the  additional  pharmacological  data  submitted  as  part  of  the  indications  in  breast  cancer  are 
described here. 
A  phase  I  classical  dose  escalation  trial  with  the  primary  objective  to  determine  the  MTD  of 
capecitabine in combination with docetaxel, trial SO15304 has been submitted as part of the variation 
to include the indications in breast cancer. The trial included 36 patients with advanced solid tumours, 
of which 33 received at least one course of study medication, 1 died before receiving treatment, 2 did 
not  meet  entry  criteria.  As  a  conclusion,  the  schedule  of  2500  mg/m2  capecitabine  and  75-mg/m2 
docetaxel could be recommended for further trials. 
Pharmacodynamic  effects,  interactions  and  maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD)  of  capecitabine  in 
combination  with  paclitaxel  were  investigated  in  trial  SO14694  that  was  part  of  the  original 
submission for Xeloda (for the CRC indication).  
The  effects  of  docetaxel  on  capecitabine  and  its  metabolites  (and  vice  versa)  as  studied  in  trial 
SO15304  are  displayed  in  table  1.    It  should,  however,  be  noted  that  the  PK  estimates  for  the 
combined  treatment  with  capecitabine  and  docetaxel,  capecitabine  single  agent  and  docetaxel  single 
agent  were  determined  on  study  day  1,  14  and  21  respectively.  Thus,  a  period  effect  such  as  auto-
induction of capecitabine metabolism is not excluded by the design of the trial: 
TABLE 2: 
DOSE NORMALISED PHARMACOKINETIC PARAMETERS OF CAPECITABINE AND ITS 
METABOLITES, AND DOCETAXEL AFTER ADMINISTRATION OF CAPECITABINE PLUS 
DOCETAXEL RELATIVE TO SINGLE SUBSTANCE 
Analyte 
Capecitabine 
5’-DFCR 
5’DFUR 
5-FU 
FBAL 
Docetaxel 
AUC0-∞* 
Estimate 
% 
97 
99 
105 
74 
102 
96 
in 
90% CI 
77-122 
80-123 
93-118 
57-96 
88-118 
88-104 
Cmax 
Estimate 
% 
99 
104 
106 
79 
96 
98 
in 
90% CI 
65-149 
76-141 
81-138 
53-138 
79-116 
91-106 
In summary, capecitabine has virtually no effect on the PK of paclitaxel and docetaxel. This is in line 
with  the  results  of  trial  SO14694  where  no  effects  of  paclitaxel  on  a  single  PK  estimate  of  a 
capecitabine metabolite could be found.  
Being a phase I trial, efficacy assessment was not a primary objective of this trial. However tumour 
response  assessment  was  conducted  in  6  weeks  intervals  or  within  72  hours  after  study  completion, 
withdrawal or discontinuation of treatment and 2 CRs, 3 PRs were observed resulting in a 15% ORR 
in this heavily pretreated population with various solid tumours. 
Clinical efficacy of capecitabine in combination with docetaxel for patients with metastatic 
breast cancer in whom anthracycline treatment has failed 
Clinical trial SO14999  
Study  SO14999  is  an  open-label,  multicenter,  multinational,  randomised,  parallel-group  phase  III 
clinical trial. It was designed to compare the efficacy and safety profile of capecitabine (intermittent 
schedule) in combination with (“reduced dose”) docetaxel vs. (“full dose”) docetaxel administered as 
single  agent  in  patients  with  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  breast  cancer  failing  an  anthracycline-
containing  (first-line)  regimen.  Stratification  was  done  by  previous  paclitaxel  treatment  since 
paclitaxel pre-treatment, or failure, was not an exclusion criteria. 
44/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  demonstrate  superiority  of  combination  vs.  single  agent 
treatment in terms of time to progression or death (TTP). 
The  sample  size estimation was  based, in relation to the primary endpoint  of the trial (TTP), on the 
assumptions that TTP for docetaxel single agent will be 4.5 months and that for combination treatment 
6.0 months. Assuming a strict follow up time of 9 months without drop outs, the sample size required 
for the intent to treat population was estimated to be 454 patients (α=0.05; power [1-β] = 0.8). 
511 patients were randomised to one of the following dosing regimens: 
• 
Combination arm (Arm A): Capecitabine orally at 1250 mg/m2 twice daily (within 30 minutes 
after completing a meal) for two weeks followed by a one week rest. Docetaxel as a 1 hour 
infusion of 75 mg/m2 on the first day of each cycle (every 3 weeks) together with appropriate 
co-medication (prophylaxis of hypersensitivity reactions by oral corticosteroid). 
Docetaxel single agent arm (Arm B): Docetaxel as a 1 hour infusion of 100 mg/m2 on the first 
day of each cycle (every 3 weeks) together with appropriate co-medication (prophylaxis of 
hypersensitivity reactions by oral corticosteroid). 
• 
The primary endpoint was time to progression (TTP) calculated from the day of randomisation to 
progression or death. Secondary endpoints were: 
Survival from the day of randomisation to the date of death or the last day the patient was known to 
be alive.  
Objective  response  (OR)  was  determined  only  by  bi-dimensionally  measurable,  previously  not 
irradiated indicator lesions with a diameter of more than 10 mm (20 mm for hepatic lesions).OR had 
to be confirmed at least 4 weeks after the first observation of response. Time to response was defined 
as the time from randomisation to first record of PR or CR, duration of response as the time from first 
record  of  PR  or  CR  to  progression.  Tumour  assessment  was  done  a  6  weekly  basis  until  week  48, 
thereafter in 12 weekly intervals.  
Quality  of  Life  was  assessed  using  the  questionnaire  EORTC  QLQ-30  (version  2.0)  form  and  its 
breast cancer module QLQ-BR23. 
In  a  subgroup  of  16  patients  of  the  combination  arm,  the  PK  parameters  cmax,  tmax,  AUC∞  and  t1/2 
(apparent half life) were determined on study day 14 and 77. Blood samples, overall not exceeding 90 
ml, were drawn pre-dose (capecitabine), and at 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 10 hours after administration of 
capecitabine at aliquots of 5 ml.  
Discussion of Efficacy 
Two  different  populations  were  analysed  for  TTP;  the  ITT  (all-randomised)  and  the  per  protocol 
populations and two different analysis (primary and on treatment approach) of these populations were 
planned. The results are presented in table 2. 
TABLE 2: 
ANALYSIS OF TTP 
Assessment/Approach 
Arm A 
Arm B 
All Randomized Patients 
• ‘Primary’ Approach 
Number of Events 
Median 
95% CI 
Standard Population 
• ‘Primary’ Approach 
Number of Events 
Median 
95% CI 
All Randomized Patients 
• ’On Treatment’ Approach 
230 
186 days 
[165, 198] 
247 
128 days 
[105, 136] 
182 
179 days 
[163, 195] 
212 
127 days 
[97, 136] 
Log-rank 
p-value 
Hazard 
Ratio 
0.0001 
0.643 
0.0001 
0.632 
0.0001 
0.608 
45/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of Events 
Median 
95% CI 
Standard Population 
• ’On Treatment’ Approach 
Number of Events 
Median 
95% CI 
120 
188 days 
[164, 209] 
157 
128 days 
[105, 136] 
112 
180 days 
[152, 205] 
139 
127 days 
[97, 136] 
0.0002 
0.620 
The objective of this trial to show statistically significant superiority in terms of the primary endpoint 
time  to  progression  has  been  reached  (186  vs.  128  days).  This  also  translates  into  a  relevant 
prolongation of 90 days (442 vs. 352 days) of overall survival (Table 3). There is an overall consistent 
pattern of significant efficacy, which clearly indicates that the combination results in more objective 
tumour responses, which translate into prolonged TTP and OS. 
TABLE 3: 
SUMMARY OF SURVIVAL RESULTS 
Assessment/Approach 
Combination 
Therapy 
Monotherapy 
Log-rank 
p-value 
Hazard 
Ratio 
Result of Statistical Analysis 
(Combination versus 
Monotherapy) 
All Randomized Population 
• 
Time to Death 
Number of Events 
Median  
95% CI 
183 
442 
[375,497] 
201 
352 
[298,387] 
0.0126 
0.775 
Combination therapy superior 
The result (of the primary approach for determination of TTP in the ITT population) is graphically 
displayed as the Kaplan-Meier estimate: 
FIGURE 1: KAPLAN-MEIER ESTIMATES FOR TIME TO DISEASE PROGRESSION – INVESTIGATOR 
46/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ASSESSMENT - ‘PRIMARY’ APPROACH (ALL RANDOMIZED PATIENTS). 
FIGURE 2: KAPLAN-MEIER ESTIMATES OF SURVIVAL DISTRIBUTIONS (ALL RANDOMIZED 
POPULATION) 
An overview of ORR according to investigators and IRC assessment for all randomised patients, is 
presented in table 4. 
TABLE 4: 
SUMMARY OF TUMOUR RESPONSE ASSESSED BY INVESTIGATOR AND IRC. 
Arm A 
N=255 
Arm B 
N=256 
Investigator 
IRC 
Investigator 
IRC 
Overall best response 
(CR, PR) 
N 
Rate 
95% C.I. 
Complete response (CR) 
N 
Rate 
95% C.I. 
Stable disease (SD) 
N 
Rate 
95% C.I. 
Progressive disease(PD) 
N 
Rate 
95% C.I. 
106 
41.6 
35.5 - 47.9 
12 
4.7 
2. 5 - 8.1 
96 
37.7 
31.7 - 43.9 
28 
11.0 
7.4 - 15.5 
82 
32.2 
26.5 - 38.3 
7 
2.8 
1.1 - 5.6 
117 
45.9 
39.7 - 52.2 
17 
6.7 
3.9 - 10.5 
76 
29.7 
24.2  35.7 
9 
3.5 
1.6  6.6 
113 
44.1 
38.0  50.5 
50 
19.5 
14.9  24.9 
59 
23.1 
18.0 - 28.7 
3 
1.2 
0.2 - 3.4 
131 
51.2 
44.9 - 57.5 
29 
11.3 
7.7 – 15.9 
47/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing post-baseline 
information 
N 
Rate 
95% C.I. 
25 
9.8 
6.5 - 14.3 
33 
12.9 
9.1 - 17.7 
16 
6.3 
3.6 – 10.0 
22 
8.6 
5.5 – 12.7 
Time to first response: The majority of responses occurred between week 6 and 12 (table 5). 
TABLE 5: 
NUMBER OF RESPONDERS BY TIME PERIOD – INVESTIGATOR ASSESSMENTS (ALL 
RANDOMISED PATIENTS) 
Days from Randomization to First 
Response 
1 – 42 
43 – 84 
85 – 126 
127 – 168 
169 – 210 
211 – 252 
253 – 294 
Total 
Capecitabine 
(12502500 mg/sqm twice daily/day) 
intermittent w/ Docetaxel 
(75 mg/sqm/3 weeks) 
N = 255 
21 
59 
18 
5 
 2 
0 
 1 
106 
Docetaxel 
(100 mg/sqm/3 weeks) 
N = 256 
15 
43 
18 
0 
0 
0 
0 
76 
Taking into account that the first tumour assessments were planned to be performed “around” week 6, 
it becomes  clear  that  the  vast  majority  of responses  were observed with the first  tumour assessment 
“around”  week  6,  thus,  this  is  reflecting  the  median  time  to  response.  In  the  combination  arm  late 
responses (occurring after week 18) were observed (8/106 response) while this was not the case for the 
monotherapy arm (0/76 responses). 
The duration of response was similar in both arms (220 vs. 211 days, ITT population; 213 vs. 204 
day,  per  protocol  population).  These  data  refer  to  the  primary  approach  taking  into  account  all 
information on progression, according to the WHO criteria.  
The analysis of Quality of Life data is based on the  safety population. From overall 511 patients, a 
total  of  454  patients  (224  on  the  combination  therapy  arm  and  230  on  the  monotherapy  arm) 
completed a quality of life questionnaire at least once at baseline or during the treatment phase. 
The  interpretation  of  the  information  derived  from  the  quality  of  life  questionnaires  does  not  add 
further relevant information to the evaluation of the clinical efficacy of monotherapy vs. combination 
therapy (e.g. in terms of TTP). 
Clinical efficacy of capecitabine monotherapy for breast cancer patients with failure of prior 
treatment with taxanes and anthracyclines 
The  salvage  indication  “failure  of  prior  treatment  with  taxanes  and  anthracyclines  in  breast  cancer 
patients”  is  supported  by  the  submission  of  the  open-label,  non-controlled  trial  SO14697  and  trial 
NO15542,  both  of  which  have  similar  designs.  Two  further  small-randomised  phase  II-trials  are 
included  in  the  dossier:  trial  SO14799  for  first-line  chemotherapy  for  metastatic  breast  cancer  in 
patients  older  than  55  years  (comparison  to  CMF)  and  SO15179  in  patients  with  metastatic  breast 
cancer  and  anthracycline  failure  (comparison  to  paclitaxel).  These  comparative  studies  were  not 
considered by the CPMP as supportive with respect to the applied indication. 
Scientific Advice  
With  regard  to  this  indication  the  applicant  had  obtained  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CPMP  in  June 
1996.  The  main  issues  of  Scientific  Advice  were  related  to  the  validity  of  phase  II  trials  in 
anthracycline and paclitaxel resistant breast cancer patients for granting authorisation, the number of 
patients required for efficacy, the primary endpoints (20% ORR as objective) and the acceptability of 
including safety data from the colorectal cancer patient population. 
48/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical trial SO14697 
This  was  an  open-label,  multicenter,  single-arm  phase  II  trial  designed  to  evaluate  the  efficacy  and 
safety  of  capecitabine  in  patients  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  pre-treated  with  anthracyclines  and 
paclitaxel.  The  primary  objective  was  the  overall  response  rate  in  patients  with  measurable  disease 
according  to  the  WHO  criteria.  An  Independent  Review  Committee  (IRC)  assessed  both  by  the 
investigators and tumour response. In total, 163 patients with metastatic breast cancer were included in 
this trial. The response to study treatment is given in the following table: 
Overall Best Response (CR, PR)  N 
Complete Response (CR) 
Stable Disease (SD) 
Progressive Disease (PD) 
Missing post-baseline 
Information 
Rate 
C.I. 
N 
Rate 
C.I. 
N 
Rate 
C.I. 
N 
Rate 
C.I. 
N 
Rate 
C.I. 
Capecitabine (12502510 mg/m2 
twice daily/day) intermittent 
(n = 135) 
27 
20.00 
13.61 – 27.75 
3 
2.22 
0.46 – 6.36 
54 
40.00 
31.67 – 48.78 
46 
34.07 
26.14 – 42.72 
8 
5.93 
2.59 – 11.34 
The overall objective response rate (CR and PR) in the ITT population of patients with measurable 
disease was 20%. In the standard population of patients with measurable disease (n=117) the response 
rate was 23% (CI 16%-32, n=27). The majority of these patients (82%) have been pretreated with 5-
FU. It should be noted that in the small subset of patients who had never received 5-FU the ORR of 
capecitabine was considerably higher. 
Three complete objective responses were observed in patients with predominantly skin and soft tissue 
involvement.  The  objective  responses  were  evenly  distributed  among  the  sites  of  disease  and  the 
number of sites involved at baseline. 
- 
The secondary variables were: 
The  median  duration  of  response  was  241  days  (range  97-324  days,  ongoing)  in  patients  with 
measurable disease. 
The time to response for most of the patients followed 6 or 12 weeks of treatment. 
The  median  time  to  disease  progression  was  93  days  (95%  CI  84,  106)  in  the  ITT  population. 
Approximately 34% had progressed by the time of first tumour assessment. 
The median time to treatment failure (includes in addition to TTP patient withdrawal for any reason) 
was very similar, 89.5 days (95% CI 75, 100).  
The median overall survival for all ITT patients (n=162) was 384 days. For patients with progressive 
disease it was 163 days, for patients with best response stable disease median survival was 391 days. 
Median survival was not reached by the time the study report was written.  
49/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The overall clinical benefit response included pain score, analgesic consumption, and Karnofsky 
Performance Status and was defined as follows: 
• 
positive response: reduction of pain score to less than 50 % of baseline,  reduction of analgesic 
consumption to less than 50 % and Karnofsky score increase of at least 20 points  
negative response: deterioration of any magnitude in any parameter in > 4 weeks  
stable: 
any other outcome 
• 
• 
The overall clinical benefit was analysed in 147 patients. The response was positive in 20%, stable in 
30% and negative in 50% of patients. In patients with objective tumour responses, the overall clinical 
benefit response was positive in 27%, stable in 19% and negative in 54%. Pain intensity response was 
positive  in  15.3%,  stable  in  55.4%  and  negative  in  29.3%.  Analgesic  consumption  (morphine 
equivalents) decreased in 14.0%, was stable in 60.5% and increased in 25.5%. 
Clinical trial NO15542 
The trial NO15542 was an open-label, multicenter, not randomised phase II trial designed to evaluate 
the  efficacy  and  safety  of  capecitabine  in  patients  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  pre-treated  with 
taxanes.  
The primary objective was the overall response rate in patients with measurable disease. In total, 75 
patients  with  metastatic  breast  cancer  were  included  in  this  trial.  Primarily,  patients  who  had  failed 
previous  treatment  with  taxanes  were  to  be  included.  The  wording  was  changed  to  have  received 
taxanes by an amendment. 
The overall investigator assessed best response rate (CR and PR) in the ITT population of patients 
with  measurable  disease  was  24.6%  (17/67;  95  %-CI  15.0%-36.5%).  In  the  standard  population  of 
patients with measurable disease the response rate was 27.9% (17/62, 95-CI 17.2%-40.8%). 
Complete responses were not observed.  
The stable disease rate in the ITT population was 30.4% (95%-CI 19.2%-42.7%, n=21). 
The progressive disease rate in the ITT population was 34.8% (95%-CI 23.7%-47.2%, n=24). 
The frequency of missing post-baseline information was 10.1%. 
Subgroup analyses were performed on various subsets of the ITT population. Due to the sample size 
of the trial, the subgroups consist of small numbers of patients so that a reliable interpretation of the 
result is difficult. 
The overall best response rate (investigators assessment) in patients with measurable disease was 27% 
in  patients  who  had  received  paclitaxel,  20%  in  patients  who  had  received  docetaxel  and  27%  in 
patients who had received anthracyclines and a taxane. 
Secondary variables were: 
The median duration of response was 253 days (range 213-301 days). 
The median time to disease progression was 98 days in the ITT population. 
The median time to treatment failure was very similar (97 days) to TTP. 
Tumour  response  in  patients  with  evaluable  disease  was  assessed  clinically.  For  2/5  patient’s 
improvement is reported. 
The median overall survival (for all ITT patients) was 373 (95% CI 244 - 467) days. 
The overall clinical benefit response was analysed in 54 patients. It was positive in 15 %, stable 
in 41 % and negative in 44 % of patients.  
In general, the efficacy results of this trial are in line with those of trial SO14697. 
50/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
Only additional safety data derived from clinical studies in the advanced breast cancer indications 
are described in this chapter. 
In the clinical trial SO14697 the  majority of patients (55%,  89/162) required treatment  modification 
due to AEs. The most frequent event leading to treatment modification was hand-foot syndrome (44 
patients).  Despite  the  fact  that  several  protocol  modifications  continuously  have  affected  patient 
recruitment  the  patient  population  is  considered  as  representative  for  the  target  population  of  the 
indication.  Subgroup  analysis  also  identified  age  (more  than  60  years)  as  a  risk  factor  for  treatment 
related grade 3 – 4 AEs, serious AEs and withdrawals from treatment. 
In  a  substantial  number  of  patients  in  study  NO15542  dose  reduction  was  required.  Serious  adverse 
events (SAEs) were reported in 29 patients (39 %). Forty-seven SAEs in 16 patients were judged study 
treatment related including the following: diarrhoea (11), nausea and vomiting (13), dehydration (6), 
stomatitis  (5),  pyrexia  (1),  and  sepsis  (1).  In  studies  SO14697  and  NO15542,  several  analyses 
performed by the MAH at the request of the CPMP confirm that the safety profile of capecitabine is 
acceptable in the specific population. 
In combination with docetaxel, an increased incidence of grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse events 
and treatment-related serious adverse events were observed in patients 60 years of age or more. It was 
therefore proposed that for patients 60 years of age or more treated with the combination of Xeloda 
plus docetaxel, a starting dose reduction of Xeloda to 75% (950 mg/m2 twice daily) is recommended. 
If no toxicity is observed in patients ≥ 60 years of age treated with a reduced Xeloda starting dose in 
combination  with  docetaxel,  the  dose  of  Xeloda  may  be  cautiously  escalated  to  1250  mg/m2  twice 
daily. 
Besides these data, it is argued that the safety profile of Xeloda monotherapy in patients with breast 
cancer is similar to that observed in the phase III comparative trials in patients with colorectal cancer. 
It  should  be  noted  that  the  question  of  whether  controlled  data  from  patients  with  colorectal  cancer 
receiving the same dose and schedule of Xeloda may be supportive for the monotherapy breast cancer 
claim  was  a  subject  of  the  Scientific  Advice  provided  in  1996.  Meanwhile,  the  safety  database, 
including an extensive post-marketing experience, has become considerably larger. 
Overall,  the  clinical  trial  database  and  the  wide  spread  clinical  use  provide  strong  support  for  the 
notion that Xeloda can be used in the target population with acceptable tolerability. 
5. 
Overall conclusion and benefit-risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Information  has  been  provided  in  the  dossier  demonstrating  that  the  medicinal  product  is  made  in 
compliance  with  the  CPMP  Note  for  Guidance  on  minimising  the  risk  of  transmitting  animal 
spongiform encephalopathy agents via medicinal products. 
Pre-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  pre-clinical  pharmacology  and  toxicology  profile  of  capecitabine  has  been  sufficiently 
characterised.  
Efficacy 
It  is  acknowledged  that  the  oral  route  of  administration  of  capecitabine  is  a  significant  benefit 
compared to available anticancer medicinal products for the proposed therapeutic indication. 
In  general,  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism  and  excretion  of  capecitabine  are  well  investigated. 
The main metabolites are appropriately characterised, the recovery is nearly completely balanced and 
the main elimination and excretion pathways (FBAL, urinary) are described.  
51/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall  4  different  schedules  of  capecitabine  have  been  investigated,  between  them  two  schedules 
(“intermittent and continuous”) investigating capecitabine monotherapy.  
In  two  large,  multicentre,  multinational,  randomised,  parallel  group,  open  labelled  phase  III  trials 
using identical protocols the intermittent monotherapy capecitabine schedule was compared with the 
well known Mayo regimen in treatment naïve patients with advanced colorectal carcinoma.  
The  antineoplastic  activity  and  adverse  reaction  profile/pattern  of  5-FU  depends  strongly  on  the 
schedule.  The  applicant  has  shown  that  there  is  no  single  standard  of  care  in  advanced  colorectal 
cancer, and for monotherapy the Mayo regimen as comparator is acceptable. 
Xeloda is at least not inferior to Mayo in terms of overall survival (OS) and time to progression (TTP), 
and superior in terms of objective response rate (ORR).  
For patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer failing anthracyclines, a comparative phase III 
trial  was  submitted,  investigating  the  question  whether  the  addition  of  capecitabine  to  (standard) 
docetaxel  monotherapy  can  improve  the  therapeutic  results.  The  trial  showed  statistically  significant 
superiority  in  terms  of  the  primary  endpoint  time  to  progression  (186  vs.  128  days).  This  also 
translates into a relevant prolongation of 90 days (442 vs. 352 days) of overall survival. 
For capecitabine monotherapy of patients failing anthracyclines and taxanes two large phase II trials 
were submitted with a response rate of 20 - 25%, and consistent time to disease progression as well as 
overall survival.  
Safety 
The safety profiles of capecitabine and Mayo regimen in the indication of colorectal cancer are clearly 
different. Higher frequency of hand-foot-syndrome and lower frequency of stomatitis and neutropenia 
are the main features of capecitabine treatment.  
A  further  difference  to  note  is  the  frequency  of  isolated  hyperbilirubinaemias  observed  for 
capecitabine treatment. This effect is unexpected and presently not fully explained in its last details. 
The knowledge available suggests that it is a pharmacodynamic effect without clinical relevance.  
The analysis of the term “death on study” resulted in a statistical significant but artificial (due to the 
different  duration  of  treatment  and  different  treatment  schedules  in  the  two  trial  arms)  difference  in 
favour of Mayo regimen. A further analysis did not reveal a statistically significant difference between 
the treatment arms in the integrated analysis. The percentage of deaths in the two arms was similar.  
A fair overall conclusion is that the safety profile of intermittent Xeloda treatment differs clearly from 
the Mayo regimen. It is, however, not outside of the range of known 5-FU regimens. 
An  analysis  of  safety  data  in  patients  ≥ 60  years  of  age  treated  with  Xeloda  monotherapy  and  an 
analysis of patients treated with Xeloda plus docetaxel combination therapy showed an increase in the 
incidence  of  treatment-related  grade  3  and  4  adverse  events  and  treatment-related  serious  adverse 
events  compared  to  patients  <  60  years  of  age.  Patients   ≥ 60  years  of  age  treated  with  Xeloda  plus 
docetaxel also had more early withdrawals from treatment due to adverse events compared to patients 
<  60  years  of  age.  This  was  addressed  in  the  SPC  by  the  inclusion  of  dose  reduction  /  escalation 
recommendations. 
Furthermore,  safety  of  monotherapy  in  breast  cancer  was  discussed  in  the  context  of  the  initial 
colorectal cancer submission. In overall, the clinical trial safety database and widespread clinical use 
provide additional support that Xeloda can be used in the target population of breast cancer patients 
with acceptable tolerability. 
52/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The  applicant  has  discussed  the  role  of  5-FU  based  monotherapy  particularly  taking  into  account 
recent  developments in  the combination  treatment  of colorectal  cancer in an  oral explanation  before 
the CPMP. The applicant also provided justifications for the dose recommendations for the treatment 
with Xeloda of patients with impaired renal function. 
The CPMP acknowledged that 5-FU regimens in general are considered to have a modest benefit in 
terms  of  overall  survival  in  patients  with  advanced  colorectal  cancer.  The  benefit  is  so  modest  that 
larger  meta-analysis  are  required  to  show  it.  The  non-inferior  OS  for  capecitabine  treatment  vs.  the 
Mayo  regimen  is  insofar  not  unexpected.  It  is  primarily  reassuring  in  terms  of  safety.  However, 
concerns have been raised about the choice of comparator particularly in view of recent developments 
in  the  combination  treatment  of  colorectal  cancer.  Currently,  no  comparative  data  are  available  on 
Xeloda monotherapy in comparison with first line combination regimens and this was reflected in the 
SPC. However, it was also acknowledged that 5-FU based monotherapy regimens remain in wide use.  
The  non-inferiority,  or  lack  of  superiority  more  precisely,  in  terms  of  TTP  is  to  some  extent 
disappointing in view of the superiority capecitabine has on the endpoint ORR. 
If one acknowledges that patients may directly benefit from tumour shrinkage (partial response, ORR), 
capecitabine  treatment  has  to  be  considered  as  more  beneficial  than  the  Mayo  regimen.  But  direct 
benefits deriving from partial responses are always disputable as long as they are not reflected in other 
endpoints (e.g. quality of life, symptom control etc.). 
Capecitabine  is  not  simply  an  “oral  5-FU”.  The  metabolism  which  capecitabine  undergoes  may 
represent  theoretically  an  advantage  in  comparison  with  i.v.  5-FU  administration  (e.g.  tumour 
specificity).  However,  the  5-FU  anabolic  pathway  of  capecitabine  makes  this  substance  also  more 
complex  in  relation  to  safety.  E.g.,  the  isolated  hyperbilirubinaemias  may  potentially  be  due  to  a 
capecitabine  metabolite.  Thus,  also  based  on  theoretical  grounds,  capecitabine  may  bear  the  risk  of 
unexpected AEs. However, capecitabine has also the potential to be slightly safer than bolus i.v. 5-FU 
administration. 
In summary, the data show that capecitabine has a benefit-risk ratio in the range of the Mayo regimen.  
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that the benefit/risk profile of Xeloda for first line monotherapy of metastatic colorectal cancer was 
favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Subsequently, capecitabine was demonstrated to be  non-inferior to i.v. 5-FU/LV (Mayo) in terms of 
disease-free survival in the all randomized per-protocol, and extended per-protocol populations, based 
on the pre-specified margins, specified in the protocol -in chemotherapy naïve patients who underwent 
surgery for stage Dukes C colon carcinoma. There was a trend toward superiority for capecitabine vs. 
5-FU/LV  with  respect  to  disease-free  survival,  overall  survival  and  relapse-free  survival  in  the  all 
randomized  population.  Superiority  with  respect  to  relapse-free  survival  was  demonstrated  for 
capecitabine vs. 5-FU/LV in the all randomized and the extended per-protocol populations. 
With  the  limitation  of  a  median  follow-up  of  3.8  years,  and  not  having  a  second  and  independent 
conducted trial available, it has to be stated that the well designed and well conducted trial M66001 
(X-ACT)  met  its  objectives.  The  MAH  committed  to  report  on  5  years  overall  and  disease  free 
survival rates for the X-ACT trial not later than in the 3rd quarter of 2006. 
Based on the CPMP review of data on safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus that the 
benefit/risk  profile  of  Xeloda  in  the  adjuvant  treatment  of  patients  following  surgery  of  stage  III 
(Dukes' stage C) colon cancer is positive. 
In  the  indication  of  breast  cancer  in  patients  who  have  failed  anthracyclines  the  results  were 
consistent,  indicating  that  the  combination  of  capecitabine  and  docetaxel  offers  a  clinically  relevant 
benefit  in  terms  of  TTP,  OS  and  ORR.  In  assessing  the  benefit-risk,  the  CPMP  considered  the 
somewhat  higher  toxicity  of  the  combination  arm  as  of  no  major  concern,  manageable,  and 
compensated by the efficacy data.  
53/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  CPMP  considered  that  the  agreed  objective  in  terms  of  response  rate  for  the  monotherapy  -in 
patients who have failed both anthracyclines and taxanes- has been reached. Data on overall survival 
indicate a potential survival benefit. The ORR is consistent at the level of 20% in the phase II trials 
submitted  which  reflects  an  active  treatment.  The  safety  profile  in  breast  cancer  monotherapy  is 
comparable to Xeloda monotherapy in colorectal cancer and it can be considered that it resembles the 
acceptable profile of the infusional 5-FU.  
Based on the CPMP review of data on safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus that the 
benefit/risk profile of Xeloda in the indications:  
• 
• 
in combination with docetaxel in locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of 
cytotoxic chemotherapy containing an anthracycline.  
as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer 
after failure of taxanes and an anthracycline-containing chemotherapy regimen or for whom 
further anthracycline therapy is not indicated. 
Was also favourable and therefore recommended the extension of the indication. 
The  MAH  committed  to  report  the  results  of  the  EORTC  trial  (study  number  10001)  entitled  “  A 
randomised phase III trial evaluating the efficacy of capecitabine and vinorelbine in anthracycline and 
taxane pre-treated metastatic breast cancer” once they become available.  
54/54 
   EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
