ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xenical 120 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each hard capsule contains 120 mg orlistat. 
For a full list of excipients, see 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule.  
The capsule has a turquoise cap and turquoise body bearing the imprint of “XENICAL 120”. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Xenical is indicated in conjunction with a mildly hypocaloric diet for the treatment of obese patients 
with a body mass index (BMI) greater or equal to 30 kg/m², or overweight patients (BMI > 28 kg/m²) 
with associated risk factors. 
Treatment with orlistat should be discontinued after 12 weeks if patients have been unable to lose at 
least 5 % of the body weight as measured at the start of therapy. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Adults  
The recommended dose of orlistat is one 120 mg capsule taken with water immediately before, during 
or up to one hour after each main meal. If a meal is missed or contains no fat, the dose of orlistat 
should be omitted.  
The patient should be on a nutritionally balanced, mildly hypocaloric diet that contains approximately 
30 % of calories from fat. It is recommended that the diet should be rich in fruit and vegetables. The 
daily intake of fat, carbohydrate and protein should be distributed over three main meals. 
Doses of orlistat above 120 mg three times daily have not been shown to provide additional benefit. 
The effect of orlistat results in an increase in faecal fat as early as 24 to 48 hours after dosing. Upon 
discontinuation of therapy, faecal fat content usually returns to pre-treatment levels, within 48 to 72 
hours. 
Special populations 
The effect of orlistat in patients with hepatic and/or renal impairment, children and elderly patients has 
not been studied.  
There is no relevant indication for use of Xenical in children. 
4.3  Contraindications 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients.  
Chronic malabsorption syndrome. 
Cholestasis. 
Breast-feeding. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
In clinical trials, the decrease in bodyweight with orlistat treatment was less in type II diabetic patients 
than in non-diabetic patients. Antidiabetic medicinal product treatment may have to be closely 
monitored when taking orlistat. 
Co-administration of orlistat with ciclosporin is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Patients should be advised to adhere to the dietary recommendations they are given (see section 4.2).  
The possibility of experiencing gastrointestinal adverse reactions (see section 4.8) may increase when 
orlistat is taken with a diet high in fat (e.g. in a 2000 kcal/day diet, > 30 % of calories from fat equates 
to > 67 g of fat). The daily intake of fat should be distributed over three main meals. If orlistat is taken 
with a meal very high in fat, the possibility of gastrointestinal adverse reactions may increase.  
Cases of rectal bleeding have been reported with Xenical. Prescribers should investigate further in 
case of severe and/or persistent symptoms. 
The use of an additional contraceptive method is recommended to prevent possible failure of oral 
contraception that could occur in case of severe diarrhoea (see section 4.5). 
Coagulation parameters should be monitored in patients treated with concomitant oral anticoagulants 
(see section 4.5 and 4.8). 
The use of orlistat may be associated with hyperoxaluria and oxalate nephropathy leading sometimes 
to renal failure. This risk is increased in patients with underlying chronic kidney disease and/or 
volume depletion (see section 4.8). 
Rare occurrence of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur. The 
mechanism, although not proven, may involve a decreased absorption of iodine salts and/or 
levothyroxine (see section 4.5). 
Antiepileptics patient: Orlistat may unbalance anticonvulsant treatment by decreasing the absorption 
of antiepileptic drugs, leading to convulsions (see section 4.5). 
Antiretrovirals for HIV: Orlistat may potentially reduce the absorption of antiretroviral medicines for 
HIV and could negatively affect the efficacy of antiretroviral medications for HIV (see section 4.5). 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Ciclosporin 
A decrease in ciclosporin plasma levels has been observed in a drug-drug-interaction study and also 
reported in several cases, when orlistat was administered concomitantly. This can lead to a decrease of 
immunosuppressive efficacy. Therefore the combination is not recommended (see section 4.4). 
However, if such concomitant use is unavoidable, more frequent monitoring of ciclosporin blood 
levels should be performed both after addition of orlistat and upon discontinuation of orlistat in 
ciclosporin treated patients. Ciclosporin blood levels should be monitored until stabilised. 
Acarbose  
In the absence of pharmacokinetic interaction studies, the concomitant administration of orlistat with 
acarbose should be avoided.  
Oral anticoagulants 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When warfarin or other anticoagulants are given in combination with orlistat, international normalised 
ratio (INR) values should be monitored (see section 4.4). 
Fat soluble vitamins 
Treatment with orlistat may potentially impair the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins (A, D, E and K). 
The vast majority of patients receiving up to four full years of treatment with orlistat in clinical studies 
had vitamin A, D, E and K and beta-carotene levels that stayed within normal range. In order to ensure 
adequate nutrition, patients on a weight control diet should be advised to have a diet rich in fruit and 
vegetables and use of a multivitamin supplement could be considered. If a multivitamin supplement is 
recommended, it should be taken at least two hours after the administration of orlistat or at bedtime. 
Amiodarone  
A slight decrease in plasma levels of amiodarone, when given as a single dose, has been observed in a 
limited number of healthy volunteers who received orlistat concomitantly. In patients receiving 
amiodarone treatment, the clinical relevance of this effect remains unknown but may become 
clinically relevant in some cases. In patients receiving concomitant amiodarone treatment, 
reinforcement of clinical and ECG monitoring is warranted. 
Convulsions have been reported in patients treated concomitantly with orlistat and antiepileptic drugs 
e.g. valproate, lamotrigine, for which a causal relationship to an interaction cannot be excluded. 
Therefore, these patients should be monitored for possible changes in the frequency and/or severity of 
convulsions.  
Rare occurrence of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of hypothyroidism may occur. The 
mechanism, although not proven, may involve a decreased absorption of iodine salts and/or 
levothyroxine (see section 4.4). 
There are some case reports of reduced efficacy of antiretroviral HIV medicines, antidepressants 
antipsychotics (including lithium) and benzodiazepines coincidental to the initiation of orlistat 
treatment in previously well-controlled patients.  Therefore orlistat treatment should only be initiated 
after careful consideration of the possible impact in these patients. 
Lack of interactions 
No interactions with amitriptyline, atorvastatin, biguanides, digoxin, fibrates, fluoxetine, losartan, 
phenytoin, phentermine, pravastatin, nifedipine Gastrointestinal Therapeutic System (GITS), 
nifedipine slow release, sibutramine or alcohol have been observed. The absence of these interactions 
has been demonstrated in specific drug-drug-interaction studies. 
The absence of an interaction between oral contraceptives and orlistat has been demonstrated in 
specific drug-drug interaction studies. However, orlistat may indirectly reduce the availability of oral 
contraceptives and lead to unexpected pregnancies in some individual cases. An additional 
contraceptive method is recommended in case of severe diarrhoea (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
For orlistat no clinical data on exposed pregnancies are available. 
Animal studies do not indicate direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, 
embryonal/foetal development, parturition or postnatal development (see section 5.3). 
Caution should be exercised when prescribing to pregnant women. 
As it is not known whether orlistat is secreted into human milk, orlistat is contra-indicated during 
breast-feeding. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Xenical has no influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Adverse reactions to orlistat are largely gastrointestinal in nature. The incidence of adverse events 
decreased with prolonged use of orlistat.  
Adverse events are listed below by system organ class and frequency.  Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 
to <1/1,000) and very rare (<1/10,000) including isolated reports.   
Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. 
The following table of undesirable effects (first year of treatment) is based on adverse events that 
occurred at a frequency of > 2 % and with an incidence ≥ 1 % above placebo in clinical trials of 1 and 
2 years duration: 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction/event 
Nervous system disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very common:  
Headache 
Very common:  
Upper respiratory infection 
Common:  
Lower respiratory infection 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common:  
Abdominal pain/discomfort 
Oily spotting from the rectum 
Flatus with discharge 
Faecal urgency 
Fatty/oily stool 
Flatulence 
Liquid stools 
Oily evacuation 
Increased defecation 
Common:  
Rectal pain/discomfort 
Soft stools 
Faecal incontinence 
Abdominal distension* 
Tooth disorder 
Gingival disorder 
Common: 
Urinary tract infection 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Infections and infestations 
Very common:  
Hypoglycemia* 
Very common:  
Influenza 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Common:  
Fatigue 
Common:  
Menstrual irregularity 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common:  
Anxiety 
* only unique treatment adverse events that occurred at a frequency of > 2 % and with an incidence 
≥ 1 % above placebo in obese type 2 diabetic patients. 
In a 4 year clinical trial, the general pattern of adverse event distribution was similar to that reported 
for the 1 and 2 year studies with the total incidence of gastrointestinal related adverse events occurring 
in year 1 decreasing year on year over the four year period. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table of undesirable effects is based on post-marketing spontaneous reports, and 
therefore the frequency remains unknown: 
System organ class 
Adverse reaction 
Investigations  
Increase in liver transaminases and in alkaline  
phosphatase.  
Decreased prothrombin, increased INR and  
unbalanced anticoagulant treatment resulting in  
variations of haemostatic parameters have been  
reported in patients treated with anticoagulants in  
association with orlistat (see section 4.4 and 4.5) 
Gastrointestinal disorders  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders  
Immune system disorders  
Rectal bleeding  
Diverticulitis  
Pancreatitis 
Bullous eruptions  
Hepatobiliary disorders  
Renal and urinary disorders 
Hypersensitivity (e.g. pruritus, rash, urticaria,  
angioedema, bronchospasm and anaphylaxis)  
Cholelithiasis  
Hepatitis that may be serious. Some fatal cases or 
cases requiring liver transplantation have been 
reported. 
Oxalate nephropathy that may lead to renal failure 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions  
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V*. 
4.9  Overdose 
Single doses of 800 mg orlistat and multiple doses of up to 400 mg three times daily for 15 days have 
been studied in normal weight and obese subjects without significant adverse findings. In addition, 
doses of 240 mg tid have been administered to obese patients for 6 months. The majority of orlistat 
overdose cases received during post-marketing reported either no adverse events or adverse events that 
are similar to those reported with recommended dose. 
Should a significant overdose of orlistat occur, it is recommended that the patient be observed for 24 
hours. Based on human and animal studies, any systemic effects attributable to the lipase-inhibiting 
properties of orlistat should be rapidly reversible. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group: Peripherally acting antiobesity agent, ATC code A08AB01. 
7 
 
 
 
  
 
                                                          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Orlistat is a potent, specific and long-acting inhibitor of gastrointestinal lipases. It exerts its therapeutic 
activity in the lumen of the stomach and small intestine by forming a covalent bond with the active 
serine site of the gastric and pancreatic lipases. The inactivated enzyme is thus unavailable to 
hydrolyse dietary fat, in the form of triglycerides, into absorbable free fatty acids and monoglycerides. 
In the 2-year studies and the 4-year study, a hypocaloric diet was used in association with treatment in 
both the orlistat and the placebo treated groups. 
Pooled data from five 2 year studies with orlistat and a hypocaloric diet showed that 37 % of orlistat 
patients and 19 % of placebo patients demonstrated a loss of at least 5 % of their baseline body weight 
after 12 weeks of treatment. Of these, 49 % of orlistat treated patients and 40 % of placebo treated 
patients went on to lose ≥ 10 % of their baseline body weight at one year. Conversely, of patients 
failing to demonstrate a loss of 5 % of their baseline body weight after 12 weeks of treatment, only 
5 % of orlistat treated patients and 2 % of placebo treated patients went on to lose ≥ 10 % of their 
baseline body weight at one year. Overall, after one year of treatment, the percentage of patients 
taking 120 mg orlistat who lost 10 % or more of their body weight was 20 % with orlistat 120 mg 
compared to 8 % of patients taking placebo. The mean difference in weight loss with the drug 
compared to placebo was 3.2 kg.  
Data from the 4-year XENDOS clinical trial showed that 60 % of orlistat patients and 35 % of placebo 
patients demonstrated a loss of at least 5 % of their baseline body weight after 12 weeks of treatment. 
Of these, 62 % of orlistat treated patients and 52 % of placebo treated patients went on to lose ≥ 10 % 
of their baseline body weight at one year. Conversely, of patients failing to demonstrate a loss of 5 % 
of their baseline body weight after 12 weeks of treatment, only 5 % of orlistat treated patients and 4 % 
of placebo treated patients went on to lose ≥ 10 % of their baseline body weight at one year. After 
1 year of treatment, 41 % of the orlistat treated patients versus 21 % of placebo treated patients lost 
≥ 10 % of body weight with a mean difference of 4.4 kg between the two groups. After 4 years of 
treatment 21 % of the orlistat treated patients compared to 10 % of the placebo treated patients had lost 
≥ 10 % of body weight, with a mean difference of 2.7 kg.  
More patients on orlistat or placebo lost baseline body weight of at least 5 % at 12 weeks or 10 % at 
one year in the XENDOS study than in the five 2-year studies. The reason for this difference is that the 
five 2-year studies included a 4-week diet and placebo lead-in period during which patients lost on 
average 2.6 kg prior to commencing treatment. 
Data from the 4-year clinical trial also suggested that weight loss achieved with orlistat delayed the 
development of type 2 diabetes during the study (cumulative diabetes cases incidences: 3.4 % in the 
orlistat group compared to 5.4 % in the placebo-treated group). The great majority of diabetes cases 
came from the subgroup of patients with impaired glucose tolerance at baseline, which represented 
21 % of the randomised patients. It is not known whether these findings translate into long-term 
clinical benefits. 
In obese type 2 diabetic patients insufficiently controlled by antidiabetic agents, data from four one-
year clinical trials showed that the percentage of responders (≥ 10 % of body weight loss) was 11.3 % 
with orlistat as compared to 4.5 % with placebo. In orlistat-treated patients, the mean difference from 
placebo in weight loss was 1.83 kg to 3.06 kg and the mean difference from placebo in HbA1c 
reduction was 0.18 % to 0.55 %. It has not been demonstrated that the effect on HbA1c is independent 
from weight reduction.  
In a multi-centre (US, Canada), parallel-group, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 539 obese 
adolescent patients were randomised to receive either 120 mg orlistat (n=357) or placebo (n=182) 
three times daily as an adjunct to a hypocaloric diet and exercise for 52 weeks. Both populations 
received multivitamin supplements. The primary endpoint was the change in body mass index (BMI) 
from baseline to the end of the study. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The results were significantly superior in the orlistat group (difference in BMI of 0.86 kg/m2 in favour 
of orlistat). 9.5 % of the orlistat treated patients versus 3.3 % of the placebo treated patients lost 
≥ 10 % of body weight after 1 year with a mean difference of 2.6 kg between the two groups. The 
difference was driven by the outcome in the group of patients with ≥ 5 % weight loss after 12 weeks of 
treatment with orlistat representing 19 % of the initial population. The side effects were generally 
similar to those observed in adults. However, there was an unexplained increase in the incidence of 
bone fractures (6 % versus 2.8 % in the orlistat and placebo groups, respectively). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Studies in normal weight and obese volunteers have shown that the extent of absorption of orlistat was 
minimal. Plasma concentrations of intact orlistat were non-measurable (< 5 ng/ml) eight hours 
following oral administration of orlistat. 
In general, at therapeutic doses, detection of intact orlistat in plasma was sporadic and concentrations 
were extremely low (< 10 ng/ml or 0.02 µmol), with no evidence of accumulation, which is consistent 
with minimal absorption. 
Distribution 
The volume of distribution cannot be determined because the drug is minimally absorbed and has no 
defined systemic pharmacokinetics. In vitro orlistat is > 99 % bound to plasma proteins (lipoproteins 
and albumin were the major binding proteins). Orlistat minimally partitions into erythrocytes. 
Metabolism 
Based on animal data, it is likely that the metabolism of orlistat occurs mainly within the 
gastrointestinal wall. Based on a study in obese patients, of the minimal fraction of the dose that was 
absorbed systemically, two major metabolites, M1 (4-member lactone ring hydrolysed) and M3 (M1 
with N-formyl leucine moiety cleaved), accounted for approximately 42 % of the total plasma 
concentration.  
M1 and M3 have an open beta-lactone ring and extremely weak lipase inhibitory activity (1000 and 
2500 fold less than orlistat respectively). In view of this low inhibitory activity and the low plasma 
levels at therapeutic doses (average of 26 ng/ml and 108 ng/ml respectively), these metabolites are 
considered to be pharmacologically inconsequential. 
Elimination 
Studies in normal weight and obese subjects have shown that faecal excretion of the unabsorbed drug 
was the major route of elimination. Approximately 97 % of the administered dose was excreted in 
faeces and 83 % of that as unchanged orlistat. 
The cumulative renal excretion of total orlistat-related materials was < 2 % of the given dose. The time 
to reach complete excretion (faecal plus urinary) was 3 to 5 days. The disposition of orlistat appeared 
to be similar between normal weight and obese volunteers. Orlistat, M1 and M3 are all subject to 
biliary excretion. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity, genotoxicity, carcinogenic potential, and toxicity to 
reproduction. 
In animal reproductive studies, no teratogenic effect was observed. In the absence of a teratogenic 
effect in animals, no malformative effect is expected in man. To date, active substances responsible for 
malformations in man have been found teratogenic in animals when well-conducted studies were 
performed in two species. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule filling: 
microcrystalline cellulose (E460)  
sodium starch glycolate (type A) 
povidone (E1201)  
sodium laurilsulfate  
talc 
Capsule shell: 
gelatine  
indigo carmine (E132)  
titanium dioxide (E171)  
edible printing ink (black iron oxide, ammonia solution concentrated, potassium hydroxide, shellac, 
propylene glycol) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Blisters: Do not store above 25 °C. Store in original package and keep the blister in the outer carton in 
order to protect from light and moisture. 
Bottles: Do not store above 30 °C. Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/ PVDC blisters containing 21, 42 and 84 hard capsules. 
Glass bottles with desiccant containing 21, 42 and 84 hard capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany  
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/98/071/001-006 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 29 July 1998 
Date of latest renewal: 17 June 2008 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Bahnhofstr. 1a 
17498 Mesekenhagen 
Germany 
or  
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 23-24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany  
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) ) provided 
for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines 
webportal. 
D.   CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time 
.
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR BLISTER PACKS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xenical 120 mg hard capsules 
Orlistat 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 120 mg orlistat. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
21 hard capsules 
42 hard capsules 
84 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use 
Read the package leaflet before use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 25 °C 
Store in original package and keep the blister in the outer carton in order to protect from light and 
moisture. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/98/071/001 21 capsules 
EU/1/98/071/002 42 capsules 
EU/1/98/071/003 84 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
xenical 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN:  
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER FOIL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xenical 120 mg hard capsules 
Orlistat 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP  
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING AND THE IMMEDIATE 
PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON AND BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xenical 120 mg hard capsules 
Orlistat 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 120 mg orlistat. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
21 hard capsules 
42 hard capsules 
84 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Oral use 
Read the package leaflet before use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30 °C 
Keep the container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/98/071/004 21 capsules 
EU/1/98/071/005 42 capsules 
EU/1/98/071/006 84 capsules 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Batch 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
xenical 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC:  
SN:  
NN: 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PACKAGE LEAFLET: INFORMATION FOR THE USER 
Xenical 120mg hard capsules 
Orlistat 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, please ask your doctor or your pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any of the side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Xenical is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xenical 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Xenical 
Possible side effects 
How to store Xenical 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What XENICAL is and what it is used for 
Xenical is a medicine used to treat obesity. It works in your digestive system to block about one-third 
of the fat in the food you eat from being digested.  
Xenical attaches to the enzymes in your digestive system (lipases) and blocks them from breaking 
down some of the fat you have eaten during your meal. The undigested fat cannot be absorbed and is 
eliminated by your body. 
Xenical is indicated in the treatment of obesity in conjunction with a low calorie intake diet. 
2.  What you need to know before you take XENICAL 
Do not take XENICAL 
• 
• 
if you are allergic (hypersensitive) to orlistat or to any of the other ingredients of Xenical,  
if you have chronic malabsorption syndrome (insufficient absorption of nutrients from 
alimentary tract), 
if you have cholestasis (liver disorder) 
if you are breast-feeding 
• 
• 
Warnings and precautions 
Weight loss may also affect the dose of medicines taken for other conditions (e.g. high cholesterol or 
diabetes). Be sure to discuss these and other medicines you may be taking with your doctor. Losing 
weight may mean you need adjustments to the dose of these medicines. 
To gain the maximum benefit from Xenical you should follow the nutrition program recommended to 
you by your doctor. As with any weight-control program, over-consumption of fat and calories may 
reduce any weight loss effect.  
This medicine can cause harmless changes in your bowel habits, such as fatty or oily stools, due to the 
elimination of undigested fat in your faeces. The possibility of this happening may increase if Xenical 
is taken with a diet high in fat. In addition your daily intake of fat should be distributed evenly over 
three main meals because if Xenical is taken with a meal very high in fat, the possibility of 
gastrointestinal effects may increase. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of an additional contraceptive method is recommended to prevent possible failure of oral 
contraception that could occur in case of severe diarrhoea. 
The use of orlistat may be associated with renal stones in patients suffering from chronic kidney 
disease. Inform your doctor whether you suffer from problems with your kidney. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
Children 
Xenical is not intended to be used in children. 
Other medicines and Xenical 
Please inform your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, 
even those not prescribed. 
This is important as using more than one medicine at the same time can strengthen or weaken the 
effects of the medicines. 
Xenical may modify the activity of  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Anticoagulant drugs (e.g. warfarin). Your doctor may need to monitor your blood coagulation. 
Ciclosporin. Co-administration with ciclosporin is not recommended. Your doctor may need to 
monitor your ciclosporin blood levels more frequently than usual. 
Iodine salts and/or levothyroxine. Cases of hypothyroidism and/or reduced control of 
hypothyroidism may occur. 
Amiodarone. You may ask your doctor for advice. 
Medicines to treat HIV. 
Medicines for depression, psychiatric disorders or anxiousness 
Xenical reduces the absorption of supplements of some fat soluble nutrients, particularly beta-carotene 
and vitamin E. You should therefore follow your doctor’s advice in taking a well balanced diet rich in 
fruit and vegetables. Your doctor may suggest you take a multivitamin supplement. 
Orlistat may unbalance an anticonvulsant treatment, by decreasing the absorption of antiepileptic 
drugs, thus leading to convulsions. Please contact your doctor if you think that the frequency and/or 
severity of the convulsions have changed when taking Xenical together with antiepileptic drugs. 
Xenical is not recommended for people taking acarbose (an anti-diabetic drug used to treat type 2 
diabetes mellitus). 
Xenical with food and drink 
Xenical can be taken immediately before, during a meal or up to one hour after a meal. The capsule 
should be swallowed with water. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Taking Xenical during pregnancy is not recommended.  
You must not breast-feed your infant during treatment with Xenical as it is not known whether Xenical 
passes into human milk. 
Driving and using machines 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Xenical has no known effect on your ability to drive a car or operate machinery. 
3. 
How to take XENICAL 
Always take Xenical exactly as your doctor has told you. You should check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. The usual dose of Xenical is one 120 mg capsule taken with each of the 
three main meals per day. It can be taken immediately before, during a meal or up to one hour after a 
meal. The capsule should be swallowed with water. 
Xenical should be taken with a well-balanced, calorie controlled diet that is rich in fruit and vegetables 
and contains an average of 30 % of the calories from fat. Your daily intake of fat, carbohydrate and 
protein should be distributed over three meals. This means you will usually take one capsule at 
breakfast time, one capsule at lunch time and one capsule at dinner time. To gain optimal benefit, 
avoid the intake of food containing fat between meals, such as biscuits, chocolate and savoury snacks. 
Xenical only works in the presence of dietary fat. Therefore, if you miss a main meal or if you have a 
meal containing no fat, Xenical need not be taken. 
Tell your doctor if, for any reason, you have not taken your medicine exactly as prescribed. Otherwise, 
your doctor may think that it was not effective or well tolerated and may change your treatment 
unnecessarily. 
Your doctor will discontinue the treatment with Xenical after 12 weeks if you have not lost at least 
5 % of your body weight as measured at the start of treatment with Xenical. 
Xenical has been studied in long-term clinical studies of up to 4 years duration. 
If you take more XENICAL than you should 
If you take more capsules than you have been told to take, or if someone else accidentally takes your 
medicine, contact a doctor, pharmacist or hospital as you may need medical attention. 
If you forget to take XENICAL 
If you forget to take your medicine at any time, take it as soon as you remember provided this is 
within one hour of your last meal, then continue to take it at the usual times. Do not take a double 
dose. If you have missed several doses, please inform your doctor and follow the advice given to you. 
Do not change the prescribed dose yourself unless your doctor tells you to. 
If you have further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, Xenical can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist as soon as possible if you do not feel well while you are taking Xenical. 
The majority of unwanted effects related to the use of Xenical result from its local action in your 
digestive system. These symptoms are generally mild, occur at the beginning of treatment and are 
particularly experienced after meals containing high levels of fat. Normally, these symptoms disappear 
if you continue treatment and keep to your recommended diet. 
Very common side effects (affects more than 1 user in 10) 
Headache, abdominal pain/discomfort, urgent or increased need to open the bowels, flatulence (wind)  
with discharge, oily discharge, oily or fatty stools, liquid stools, low blood sugar levels (experienced 
by some people with type 2 diabetes). 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common side effects (affects 1 to 10 users in 100) 
Rectal pain/discomfort, soft stools, incontinence (stools), bloating (experienced by some people with  
type 2 diabetes), tooth/gum disorder, irregularity of menstrual cycle, tiredness. 
The following side effects have also been reported but their frequency cannot be estimated from the 
available data: 
Allergic reactions. The main symptoms are itching, rash, wheals (slightly elevated, itchy skin patches 
that are paler or redder than surrounding skin), severe difficulty in breathing, nausea, vomiting and 
feeling unwell. Skin blistering (including blisters that burst). Diverticulitis. Bleeding from the back 
passage (rectum). Increases in the levels of some liver enzymes may be found in blood tests. Hepatitis 
(inflammation of the liver). Symptoms can include yellowing skin and eyes, itching, dark coloured 
urine, stomach pain and liver tenderness (indicated by pain under the front of the rib cage on your 
right hand side), sometimes with loss of appetite. Stop Xenical if such symptoms occur and tell your 
doctor. Gallstones. Pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas). Oxalate nephropathy (build up of 
calcium oxalate which may lead to kidney stones). See Chapter 2, take special care with Xenical. 
Effects on clotting with anti-coagulants. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V*. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store XENICAL 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
Blister packs 
Do not use Xenical after the expiry date stated on the carton. 
Do not store above 25 °C. 
Store in original package and keep the blister in the outer carton in order to protect from light and 
moisture.  
Glass bottles 
Do not use Xenical after the expiry date stated on the bottle. 
Do not store above 30 °C.  
Keep container tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. 
Medicines should not be disposed via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
dispose of medicines no longer required. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information  
What XENICAL contains 
• 
• 
The active substance is orlistat. Each capsule contains 120 mg of orlistat. 
The other ingredients are microcrystalline cellulose (E460), sodium starch glycolate (type A), 
povidone (E1201), sodium laurilsulfate and talc. The capsule shell consists of gelatine, indigo 
carmine (E132), titanium dioxide (E171) and edible printing ink. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What XENICAL looks like and contents of the pack 
Xenical capsules are turquoise with the imprint “XENICAL 120” and are supplied in blister packs and 
glass bottles, containing 21, 42 and 84 capsules.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany  
Manufacturer 
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Bahnhofstr. 1a 
17498 Mesekenhagen 
Germany 
or  
CHEPLAPHARM Arzneimittel GmbH 
Ziegelhof 23-24 
17489 Greifswald 
Germany  
This leaflet was last revised in <{MM/YYYY}> <{month YYYY}>. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
