20 April 2012 
EMA/276626/2012 
Patient Health Protection 
Assessment report for Xenical 
Review under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 
International Non-proprietary Name: orlistat 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/C/154/A-20/0057 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.1.1. Efficacy ............................................................................................................ 4 
2.1.2. Safety .............................................................................................................. 4 
2.1.2.1. Pre-clinical data .............................................................................................. 4 
2.1.2.2. Clinical data ................................................................................................... 5 
2.1.2.3. Spontaneous reports ....................................................................................... 7 
2.1.2.4. Expected versus observed analysis ................................................................. 11 
2.1.2.5. Possible mechanism ...................................................................................... 12 
2.1.2.6. Overall discussion on safety ........................................................................... 13 
2.2. Risk management plan ........................................................................................ 14 
2.3. Product information ............................................................................................ 14 
3. Overall discussion and benefit-risk assessment .................................... 15 
4. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................. 16 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
Orlistat is an inhibitor of gastrointestinal (especially gastric and pancreatic) lipases which are essential 
for  fat  digestion.  It  impairs  the  metabolism  of  nutrients  in  the  intestinal  lumen  and  prevents  lipid 
absorption  without  affecting  appetite.  Orlistat  exerts  its  therapeutic  activity  in  the  lumen  of  the 
stomach and small intestine by forming a covalent bond with the active serine site of the gastric and 
pancreatic lipases. The inactivated enzyme is thus unavailable to hydrolyse dietary fat, in the form of 
triglycerides,  into  absorbable  free  fatty  acids  and  monoglycerides.  This  allows  about  30%  of  the  fat 
ingested in a meal to pass through the gut undigested. As a result, the body cannot use this dietary fat 
for energy or convert it into fat tissue, which helps weight reduction. Orlistat is poorly absorbed (less 
than 2%) and is mostly excreted in unchanged form through the faeces.  
Three  formulations  of  orlistat  are  currently  authorised  in  the  European  Union  through  the  centralised 
procedure.  Xenical  (orlistat  120  mg,  capsules)  was  authorised  in  July  1998  and  is  marketed  by  F. 
Hoffmann-La  Roche  Ltd.  In  January  2009,  a  marketing  authorisation  was  granted  to  Glaxo  Group 
Limited  for  Alli  (orlistat  60  mg,  capsules).  The  third  formulation,  Alli  27  mg,  chewable  tablets,  was 
authorised in November 2010. Orlistat is available as both a prescription only medicine (Xenical) and a 
non-prescription medicine (Alli). Generic formulations of 60 mg and 120 mg orlistat are also authorised 
nationally in different member states. 
•  120  mg  orlistat  is  indicated  in  conjunction  with  a  mildly  hypocaloric  diet  for  the  treatment  of 
obese  patients  with  a  body  mass  index  (BMI)  greater  or  equal  to  30kg/m2,  or  overweight 
patients  (BMI  >_28kg/m2)  with  associated  risk  factors.  Treatment  with  orlistat  should  be 
discontinued  after  12  weeks  if  patients  have  been  unable  to  lose  at  least  5%  of  the  body 
weight as measured at the start of therapy. 
•  27 mg and 60 mg orlistat is indicated for weight loss in adults who are overweight (body mass 
index, BMI, >28 kg/m2) and should be taken in conjunction with a mildly hypocaloric, lower-fat 
diet. 
In May 2010 the US food and drug administration (FDA) communicated the conclusions of its review on 
reports of severe liver injury in patients taking orlistat. The FDA was of the opinion that at this time, a 
cause and effect relationship of severe liver injury with orlistat use had not been established. However, 
because of the seriousness of severe liver injury, the FDA added information about reported cases of 
severe liver injury to the product information of Xenical and Alli, in order to educate the public about 
the  signs  and  symptoms  of  liver  injury  and  the  need  to  see  a  physician  promptly  should  they  occur. 
The section on warnings was revised accordingly. 
In  the  EU  the  risks  of  orlistat,  including  liver  reactions,  have  been  kept  under  close  review.  The 
undesirable  effects  “hepatitis  that  may  be  serious”  and  “increase  in  transaminases  and  alkaline 
phosphatases” were added to section 4.8 of the Xenical Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) in 
May 2001, while the product information (PI) for Alli has reflected the risks of liver reactions since its 
initial  marketing  authorisation  in  January  2009.  The  risks  were  addressed  in  the  Risk  Management 
Plans (RMP) of both products. 
Cumulative reviews of orlistat-induced liver disorders were previously assessed by the Committee for 
Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) in 2009 and 2010 and no additional changes to the PI were 
considered  necessary.  In  a  recent  review,  concerns  were  raised  regarding  the  number  of  reported 
cases of liver disorders. The analysis of Xenical, covering the period 8 August 2009 to 31 January 2011, 
identified a total of 21 hepatic events of which 4 were cases of serious liver toxicity (one fatal case of 
hepatic failure, one case of hepatic failure leading to liver transplantation, one case of exacerbation of 
hepatitis and one case of hepatitis). Overall, since 1997 until January 2011, 21 cases of serious liver 
toxicity  have  been  reported,  for  which  causality  cannot  be  excluded.  For  Alli,  a  total  of  9  reports  of 
hepatic failure/liver transplant (one case of acute hepatic failure considered related to orlistat by the 
reporter  despite  confounding  factors,  five  cases  with  possible  confounding  factors/alternative 
aetiologies and three cases with limited data to allow causality) were reported during the period May 
2007 to January 2011. 
In view of the above the European Commission initiated procedures under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) 
No 726/2004 for Alli and Xenical, referring the matter to the CHMP on 08 August 2011. The European 
Commission  requested  the  CHMP  to  assess  the  above  concerns  and  their  impact  on  the  risk-benefit 
balance  of  all  centrally  authorised  orlistat-containing  medicinal  products  and  to  give  its  opinion  on 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measures  necessary  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  these  products  and  on  whether  the 
marketing authorisations for these products should be maintained, varied, suspended or withdrawn. A 
procedure  under  Article  31  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended  was  also  triggered  for  mutual 
recognition/decentralised products and nationally authorised products which had either already been or 
were  in  the  process  of  being  authorised  at  national  level.  In  its  assessment,  the  CHMP  therefore 
considered the total body of available data on orlistat. 
The CHMP consulted its Pharmacovigilance working party (PhVWP) as applicable. 
After  reviewing  all  the  available  data  submitted  by  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holders  (MAHs)  to 
address the concerns discussed, the CHMP adopted an opinion on 16 February 2012. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
Overweight  and  obesity  is  recognised  as  the  most  prevalent  metabolic  disease  worldwide.  The 
economic implications and the burden of obesity on national health costs are substantial and represent 
a  major  worldwide  health  concern.  A  Body  Mass  Index  (BMI)  of  25  kg/m²  and  above  conventionally 
defines  overweight,  while  a  BMI  of  30  kg/m²  and  above  defines  obesity.  Overweight  and  obesity  are 
considered  important  risk  factors  for  mortality  and  morbidity  from  cardiovascular  diseases,  diabetes, 
cancers and are responsible for about 80% of cases of type 2 diabetes, 35% of ischaemic heart disease 
and  55%  of  hypertensive  disease  among  adults  in  Europe.  The  aim  of  an  obesity  treatment  is  to 
achieve a clinically relevant and maintained weight loss which is susceptible to decrease cardiovascular 
risk factors in order to prevent morbidity and mortality. It has been demonstrated that a weight loss of 
10%  of  the  initial body  weight  had  a  positive  influence  on  cardiovascular  risk  factors  such  as  arterial 
blood pressure, lipaemia and glycaemia. The use of obesity drugs may be prescribed after assessment 
of both the clinical and economic potential benefits and risks. 
Concerns  regarding  the  safety  of  orlistat,  in  particular  of  orlistat-induced  liver  disorders,  were 
addressed  in  this  article  20  review.  The  discussion  focuses  on  the  data  relevant  to  the  identified 
concerns. 
2.1.1.  Efficacy 
Data from randomised clinical trials and other studies are available. When  used in conjunction with a 
mildly  hypocaloric,  lower-fat  diet,  orlistat  has  been  shown  to  significantly  reduce  body  weight, 
compared  to  placebo.  A  reduction  in  body  weight  could  translate  into  clinically  meaningful 
improvements  of  risk  factors  for  diabetes  and  cardiovascular  disease.  Treatment  may  need  to  be 
discontinued  after  12  weeks,  if  patients  have  been  unable  to  lose  weight.  The  CHMP  considered  that 
the demonstrated efficacy has not changed since the initial authorisations of the products. 
2.1.2.  Safety 
2.1.2.1.  Pre-clinical data 
The  MAHs  provided  a  summary  overview  of  the  orlistat  pre-clinical  toxicity  study  results  relating  to 
hepatic  effects.  In  the  rat,  hepatic  lipid  accumulation,  in  the  form  of  fatty  change  and/or  positive  fat 
staining, was observed in rats following intravenous (i.v.) administration of orlistat doses ranging from 
5  to  100  mg/kg/day  for  2  weeks  and  following  oral  administration  of  orlistat  doses  of  1000  and 
2500 mg/kg/day  for  13  weeks.  No  evidence  of  hepatic  lipid  accumulation  was  observed  in  rats 
following  i.v.  administration  of  orlistat  doses  up  to  4.48  mg/kg/day  for  2  weeks,  or  following  oral 
administration at doses up to 500 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks or 125 mg/kg/day for 52 weeks. Single cell 
hepatic necrosis was observed in a single study following i.v. administration of 100 mg/kg/day orlistat 
to rats for 2 weeks. It was not observed in rats following i.v. administration of orlistat at doses up to 
25 mg/kg/day for 2 weeks, or following oral administration of orlistat at doses up to 2500 mg/kg/day 
for  13  weeks,  or  125  mg/kg/day  for  52  weeks.  In  the  dog,  the  results  of  a  single  2-week  i.v.  study 
with orlistat revealed increases in alanine aminotransferase  (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), 
alkaline  phosphatase,  and  bilirubin  following  administration  of  25  or  125  mg/kg/day  and  yellow 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
coloured  livers  and  multifocal  hepatitis  with  marked  fatty  change  following  administration  of  125 
mg/kg/day (mean AUC of 302,7000 ng.hr/ml). However, in another 2-week i.v. study in dogs, in which 
lower  dose  levels  of  1.16,  or  4.46  mg/kg/day  orlistat  were  administered,  there  was  no  evidence  of 
adverse hepatic effects. Similarly, 3 oral toxicity studies in which orlistat was administered to dogs at 
doses  up  to  1000  mg/kg/day  for  periods  up  to  52  weeks  revealed  no  adverse  hepatic  effects.  In  the 
mouse,  there  was  no  evidence  of  adverse  hepatic  effects  in  a  study  in  which  doses  up  to  2500 
mg/kg/day were administered orally in the diet for 13 weeks.  
The  metabolites  designated  as  M1  (Ro  42-3988)  and  M3  (Ro  42-2556)  have  been  shown  to  be  the 
main metabolites of orlistat in human plasma following oral administration. The results of oncogenicity 
studies  in  mice  and  rats  demonstrated  plasma levels  of  orlistat  and its  M1  (Ro  42-3988)  and  M3  (Ro 
42-2556) metabolites that exceeded those observed in clinical studies. Additionally, the results of a 1-
year  chronic  oral  toxicity  study  in  dogs  demonstrated  plasma  levels  of  orlistat  and  its  M1  metabolite 
that exceeded those observed in clinical studies. The results of these animal studies revealed no major 
adverse  effects  (including  no  adverse  hepatic  effects)  associated  with  orlistat  and  it  M1  and  M3 
metabolites  for  periods  of  1  to  2  years  at  doses  that  were  significantly  greater  than  the  intended 
clinical  dose.  Finally,  a  recent  literature  search  did  not  reveal  additional  pre-clinical  information 
indicative of hepatotoxicity of orlistat that is relevant to humans.  
The CHMP noted that orlistat exerts its therapeutic activity by forming a covalent bond with the active 
serine site of gastric and pancreatic lipases in the lumen of the stomach and small intestine. Orlistat is 
not  selective  for  GI  lipases  but  inhibits  a  broad  range  of  lipases  including  gastric,  pancreatic, 
lipoprotein, hepatic and hormone sensitive lipases. However, at therapeutic doses the interference with 
systemic  lipid  metabolism  is  avoided,  as  absorption  of  the  drug  following  oral  administration  is 
negligible  in  animals  and  humans,  with  less  than  1%  systemic  availability  of  intact  orlistat.  In  the 
chronic  toxicity  studies,  the  exposure  of  animals  (mouse,  rat  and  dog)  to  orlistat  and  its  main 
metabolites at the no-adverse hepatic effect level were considerably higher than levels seen in humans 
under therapeutic conditions. In the rat, hepatic effects such as fatty infiltration and fatty change were 
only seen at very high oral doses of 1000 and 2500 mg/kg/day. Toxicity studies in which orlistat was 
administered  orally  to  dogs  at  doses  up  to  1000  mg/kg/day  for  periods  up  to  52  weeks  revealed  no 
adverse hepatic effects and in the mouse there was no evidence of adverse hepatic effects at doses up 
to 2500 mg/kg/day for 13 weeks. 
Intravenous  dosing  studies  were  conducted  in  rats  and  dogs  which  produced  more  severe  hepatic 
effects than observed with higher oral doses.  In the rat, single cell hepatic necrosis was present in a 
number  of  high  dose  animals.  In  dogs,  marked  hepatic  toxicity  and  clinical  pathological  alterations 
such  as  increased  plasma  transaminase  activity  and  hyperbilirubinemia  were  seen.  High  doses 
produced  yellow-coloured  livers  and  multifocal  hepatitis  with  marked  fatty  change.  Findings  at 
25mg/kg day were confined to increased transaminases. However, the CHMP considered the systemic 
exposures  in  these  studies  to  be  too  far  in  excess  of  normal  human  therapeutic  exposures  for  the 
hepatic  effects  to  be  considered  relevant.  The  CHMP  stated  that  for  idiosyncratic  hepatotoxicity  to 
occur,  rare  combinations  of  poorly  characterised  exposure  conditions,  host  and  genetic  defects  are 
required  and  conventional  pre-clinical  toxicity  studies  have  limited  ability  to  predict  these  reactions. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  possibility  of  haptenization  is  one  of  many  potential  risk  factors  that  have 
been associated with idiosyncratic hepatotoxicity, due to the covalent binding mechanism of action of 
orlistat.  The  safety  of  orlistat  derives  from  its  very  low  bioavailability  and  makes  a  systemic 
pharmacological effect of orlistat (or metabolites) unlikely. The CHMP therefore concluded that the pre-
clinical  studies  are  not  suggestive  of  an  increased  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  following  normal  human 
therapeutic exposures. 
2.1.2.2.  Clinical data 
Clinical Pharmacology 
In a high dose clinical pharmacokinetic study in obese subjects, oral doses of 400 mg t.i.d. (more than 
3 times the recommended dose of Xenical and approximately 7 times the recommended dose of Alli) 
for 10 days resulted in most plasma concentrations of orlistat being either non-measurable or below 10 
ng/ml,  with  an  assay  sensitivity  of  1ng/ml.  Peak  concentrations  were  maintained  for  less  than  two 
hours  and  no  accumulation  of  orlistat  was  observed.  Liver  function  tests  (transaminases,  bilirubin, 
gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase, alkaline phosphatase, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, 
protein  and  albumin)  were  monitored  before,  during  and  after  treatment,  and  all  values  remained 
within normal limits. Compared to i.v. doses of 125 mg/kg/day to dogs in which hepatic events were 
observed,  the  systemically  available  dose  in  this  pharmacokinetic  study  would  be  equivalent  to  a 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
human  dose  of  0.34  mg/kg/day  assuming  2%  absorption  and  a  body  weight  of  70  kg.  Systemic 
exposure in humans receiving therapeutic doses is unlikely to have a toxic effect on the liver. 
Clinical trials 
Liver function tests were assessed in the Phase III clinical trials, enrolling approximately 6,000 middle-
age  patients  with  obesity,  obesity  related  risk  factors  and  diabetes.  There  was  no  statistically 
significant difference between the orlistat 60mg and 120mg treatment groups and the placebo group. 
From  approximately  2,500  patients treated  with  orlistat  for  up  to two  years  during  Phase  III  trials,  a 
total of 18 (0.4%) patients presented with an ALT abnormality at or above 3 times the upper limit of 
normal (ULN). The ALT abnormalities appeared unrelated to either the dose of the active treatment or 
the allocation to the active or the placebo groups. None of these marked abnormalities was associated 
with serious damage or persistent deviation. Out of a total of 3,245 gastrointestinal system disorders 
reported,  the  incidence  of  hepatobiliary  events  varied  from  1.0%  to  2.1%,  depending  on  group  and 
duration of treatment. Differences between treatment groups were not significant. 
In  a Phase  IV multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial, 3,304 patients received 
orlistat  120mg  for  up  to  4  years.  Marked  ALT  abnormalities  occurred  with  incidences  of  2.9%,  2.2%, 
2.0%  and  2.5%  (years  1,  2,  3  and  4  respectively)  for  the  orlistat  group,  compared  to  1.7%,  2.4%, 
2.6%  and  3.5%  (years  1,  2,  3  and  4  respectively)  for  the  placebo  group.  There  was  no  significant 
difference  between  the  orlistat  and placebo  groups.  Hepatobiliary  adverse  events  consisted  mostly  of 
cholelithiasis  and/or  cholecystitis,  with  47  cases  (3%)  in  the  orlistat  versus  30  cases  (2%)  in  the 
placebo groups. 
Meta-analysis of liver function tests in clinical trials 
The MAHs submitted a meta-analysis of liver function test data from previously completed randomised 
clinical  trials  of  orlistat.  This  study  primarily  used  data  from  internal  clinical  trials  but  also  included 
externally  performed  studies  identified  from  the  literature.  Studies  had  to  meet  the  following  criteria 
for selection: randomised and placebo-controlled trial, orlistat dose 60mg or 120mg, available data on 
ALT or bilirubin and the nominal treatment period must be 16 weeks or longer (this was later widened 
to include studies ≥ 4 weeks but no further data was identified). The meta-analysis focused on serum 
ALT  and  BIL  (total  bilirubin),  as  these  may  be  useful  diagnostic  tests  of  potential  drug-induced  liver 
injury  (DILI).  Only  the  first  year’s  data  from  long  studies  was  analysed  as  the  onset  of  DILI  is  very 
likely to eventuate within this period and only data from the first period of cross-over studies was used. 
The  primary  analysis  was  a  comparison  between  orlistat  120  mg  and  placebo,  while  the  analyses 
comparing orlistat 60 mg with placebo were considered secondary.  
The results indicated that the occurrence of two successive abnormal ALT measurements was slightly 
higher  for  the  orlistat  patients  compared  to  placebo  but  that  this  difference  was  not  statistically 
significant:  7.4%  compared  to  6.9%  (odds  ratio  1.09  and  1.10  from  the  fixed-  and  random-effects 
analyses, p=0.27 and 0.32, respectively). The analysis of individual abnormal ALT measurements was 
similar to that of two successive abnormal measurements, with odds ratios of 1.05 and 1.04. Analyses 
for 60 mg and 120 mg doses separately gave similar results. The average occurrence of two successive 
abnormal  bilirubin  levels  was  5.6%  for  orlistat  compared  to  4.6%  for  placebo,  with  odds  ratio  1.24 
from  the  fixed-effect  analysis  (p=0.02)  and  1.21  from  the  random-effects  analysis  (p=0.21).  The 
analysis  of  individual  abnormal  measurements  gave  an  average  occurrence  of  11%  for  orlistat 
compared to 10% with placebo, with an odds ratio of 1.13, which was at the limit of significance at 5%. 
For  all  measurements,  the  differences  may  be  explained  by  the  higher  number  of  measurements 
carried  out  on  orlistat  patients,  due  to  higher  withdrawal  rates  for  placebo  patients.  A  patient-level 
analysis  was  carried  out  analysing  ALT  and  bilirubin  simultaneously,  using  the  individual  patient  data 
from  the  same  trials.  Generally,  there  was  no  striking  distinction  between  placebo  and  orlistat.  A 
Kaplan-Meier analysis of these data showed little difference between treatments. 
A  number  of  limitations  of  the  meta-analysis  were  acknowledged,  including  a  number  of  excluded 
studies for which the MAHs were unable to access data, the quality of individual studies, the fact that 
potential biases were not evaluated (there is a potential for reporting bias with orlistat as blinding may 
be  hindered  by  its  gastrointestinal  side-effects),  differences  in  the  populations  being  studied  (e.g. 
some studies included obese diabetic patients, or patients with different severities of obesity) and no 
attempt to model for covariates such as BMI and concomitant medication.  
Other epidemiological data  
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results  from  seven  studies  investigating  an  association  between  obesity  and  liver  disease  were 
provided. The studies showed that non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is seen in approximately 30% 
of  obese  patients,  with  5-30%  of  these  progressing  to  cirrhosis  (Caldwell  et  al,  2002)  and  that  non-
alcoholic  fatty  liver  disease  (NAFLD)  is  higher  in  the  obese  population  (58%-75%)  compared  to  the 
general  population  (10-24%)  (Rutherford  et  al,  2006).  The  prevalence  of  elevated  aminotransferase 
may  also  be  increased  in  overweight  (7.3%)  and  in  obese  (12.0%)  subjects  compared  to  normal 
weight subjects (4.4%) (Erbey et al, 2000). Increased alcohol intake may also be associated with an 
increased prevalence of elevated aminotransferase amongst the overweight and the obese (Ruhl et al, 
2003).  A  nested  case  control  study  in  the  UK  General  Practice  Research  Database  (GPRD)  identified 
2,718 cases of newly diagnosed liver disorder. Of these 1,524 had known predisposing conditions. The 
overall incidence rates per 1,000 person years were 2.48 for the normal weight subjects, 2.91 for pre-
obese  subjects  and  3.83  for  obese  subjects.  In  the  nested  case-control  analysis,  the  adjusted  odds 
ratio for obese, as compared to normal weight subjects, was 1.2 (95% CI 1.1-1.4). The overall risk for 
obese vs. non-obese for idiopathic cases (without known risk factors for liver disorders) was 1.3 (95% 
CI 1.1-1.6). The study concluded that the risk of both overall liver disorders and idiopathic cases may 
be  increased  in  obese  patients  compared  to  normal  weight  patients  (Meier  et  al,  2002).  No 
observational  studies  of  the  incidence  of  acute  liver  failure  in  the  obese  are  available,  however  one 
study  showed  that  some  patients  with  undiagnosed  NASH  had  silent  progression  to  cirrhosis  which 
progressed to subacute liver failure.  
In  addition,  a  large  US  study  with  over  170,000  diabetic  patients  and  650,000  non-diabetic  patients 
revealed  that  the  incidence  rate  of  acute  liver  failure  was  significantly  higher  in  diabetic  patients 
(incidence rates of 2.3 per 10,000 person years compared to 1.4 for non-diabetics). The relative risk 
was  1.44  (95%CI:  1.26-1.63)  after  adjusting  for  age,  gender,  race  and  the  presence  of  chronic  liver 
disease.  Another  study,  investigating  the  outcome  of  573  patients  with  (acute  liver  failure  (ALF), 
showed that obese patients with ALF were 1.6 times more likely to have a transplant or die compared 
with  non-obese  patients  with  ALF.  Obese  subjects  are  often  also  prescribed  potentially  hepatotoxic 
medications for complications associated with obesity (e.g. oral hypoglycaemic agents) increasing their 
risk for liver injury. 
The  CHMP  reviewed  the  data  submitted  by  the  MAHs,  which  showed  that  liver  function  tests  before, 
during  and  after  treatment  remained  within  the  normal  limits  and  that  there  were  no  statistically 
significant differences in the occurrence of abnormal liver function tests between orlistat and placebo. 
Only  in  one  Phase  III  study  (study  14161)  was  there  any  sign  of  a  possible  dose  relationship  with  a 
marked  increase  in  the  percentage  of  patients  in  the  120mg  group  having  raised  liver  enzymes 
compared  to  placebo  (4%  vs.  1%  after  year  1).  However,  the  incidence  in  the  orlistat  60  mg  group 
(1%) was equal to that in the placebo group. The MAHs meta-analysis of orlistat clinical trials found a 
small  non-statistically  significant  increase  in  the  occurrence  of  abnormal  ALT  and  bilirubin 
measurements (9% and 20% increase, respectively) with orlistat compared to placebo. The CHMP was 
of the opinion that there is evidence from epidemiological studies that obesity may be associated with 
an increased risk of liver disease. 
2.1.2.3.  Spontaneous reports 
Spontaneous reports for Alli (orlistat 60 mg) 
An overview of all spontaneous reports by System Organ Class (SOC) received in association with Alli 
was provided. A total of 47,707 reports describing 101,530 adverse events were received between 01 
May  2007  and  31  August  2011.  Where  gender  was  reported  (77%  of  reports),  the  patients  were 
overwhelmingly female (92%) and mainly in the age range 30 to 59 years. The majority of the cases 
were  non-serious  (96%).  The  Gastro-intestinal  disorders  SOC  accounted  for  the  largest  proportion  of 
cases  (50.3%),  followed  by  the  General  disorders  and  administration  site  disorders  (18.2%), 
Investigations (8.2%), Nervous system disorders (4.8%) and Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
(4%) SOCs. 
The  most  commonly  reported  events  in  the  Gastro-intestinal  disorders  SOC  generally  related  to  the 
expected gastrointestinal side effects of orlistat (e.g. diarrhoea, abdominal distension, abdominal pain 
and  steatorrhoea/oily  discharge).  Constipation  and  nausea  were  also  commonly  reported  but  these 
events  are  not  unexpected  in  subjects  on  reduced  calorie  diets.  The  most  frequent  events  in  the 
General  disorders  and  administrations  site  disorders  SOC  involved  non-specific  symptoms  such  as  ill-
defined  disorder,  malaise  or  fatigue.  Pain  (unspecified)  and  hunger  were also  commonly  reported.  In 
the  Investigations  SOC,  ‘weight  increased’  accounted  for  75%  of  all  reported  events.  The  next  most 
commonly reported terms were ‘blood pressure increased’, ‘heart rate increased’ and ‘hepatic enzymes 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
increased’. The majority of cases in the Nervous system disorders SOC reported headache or dizziness 
which  would  not  be  unexpected  in  subjects  on  a  reduced  calorie  diet.  In  the  Skin  and  subcutaneous 
tissue  disorders  SOC,  the  majority  of  reports  related  to  the  listed  reactions  itching  and  rash. 
Hyperhydrosis was also commonly reported but this event is considered to be commonly experienced 
by the general population. 
Serious cases (including fatal reports) 
1,837  (4%)  of  the  spontaneous  reports  received  up  to  31  August  2011  were  serious.  The  Gastro-
intestinal disorders SOC accounted for the largest proportion of serious cases (38%), followed by the 
Investigations  (10%),  Nervous  system  disorders  (7%),  Hepatobiliary  disorders  (5.1%)  and  Infections 
and  infestations  (5%)  SOCs.  Rectal  bleeding  was  the  most  frequently  reported  serious  event  in  the 
Gastro-intestinal  disorders  SOC.  The  other  events  in  this  SOC  reflect  the  expected  gastrointestinal 
events  associated  with  orlistat.  Increased  hepatic  enzymes/abnormal  liver  function  tests  were  among 
the most frequently reported events in the Investigations SOC. Dizziness and headache accounted for 
almost  a third  of  the  reported  events in  the  Nervous  system  disorders  SOC  and  gastro-intestinal  and 
respiratory infections accounted for the majority of the events in the Infections and infestations SOC. 
Fourteen reports had a fatal outcome, including one case of hepatic failure. 
Hepatic events 
A  total  of  300  reports  of  ‘drug-related  hepatic  events’  in  association  with  Alli  were  identified,  which 
represent  0.63%  of  the  entire  dataset  of  Alli  spontaneous  reports.  The  majority  of  reports  originated 
from  the  US  (85%),  with  15%  of  the  reports  originating  from  Europe.  24%  were  reported  by  health 
professionals.  The  majority  of  cases  (85%)  met  the  criteria  for  a  serious  adverse  event  report. 
Seriousness  was  most  commonly  due  to  the  inclusion  of  an  event  from  the  list  of  medically  serious 
terms and included any report of abnormal liver function test (LFT) results. The MAHs  stated that for 
this report, medical judgement had been used to determine the subset of cases that represent serious 
liver disorders. Where gender was known (n=283), 90% involved female subjects, with a median age 
of 52 years (range 23 to 82 years). Of the 300 reports, 76 reports were considered to involve isolated 
signs  or  symptoms  of  possible  liver  disease,  but  were  not  indicative  of  hepatotoxicity:  15  reports  of 
yellow skin/eyes, 6 reports of erratic or deranged prothrombin time, 4 reports of ascites and 51 cases 
of liver pain, enlarged liver or unspecified liver damage/disorder. There were also a further 181 reports 
involving  elevations/derangement  in  liver  function  tests  as  well  as  8  reports  involving  a  primary 
hepatic  event  of  fatty  liver  and  one  report  each  of hepatic  cyst  and  hepatic  lesion.  The  remaining  33 
reports were subject to detailed review by the MAHs to identify serious liver disorders and to provide a 
specific comment on each report. 
From  these  33  reports,  thirteen  reports  described  medically  serious  hepatic  conditions  and  were  also 
medically  confirmed  and/or  well  documented  (7  reports  of  hepatic  failure,  3  reports  of  autoimmune 
hepatitis, 2 reports of hepatitis and one report of drug-induced hypersensitivity syndrome). A further 4 
reports  involving  hepatic  failure  either  lacked  objective  verification  of  this  diagnosis  or  provided 
insufficient information for assessment. In addition, there were 12 reports of hepatitis and one report 
of hepatic cirrhosis (6 medically confirmed). These reports were generally not well documented and did 
not provide a coherent picture of potential hepatotoxicity. The final 3 reports were of hepatic steatosis, 
hepatotoxicity and primary biliary cirrhosis. Of the 33 reports, the outcome was known in 24 cases and 
included  11  patients  who  recovered  after  treatment  and  6  patients  who  recovered  after  stopping 
orlistat. In 3 cases, the outcome was stated as not recovered and a further 3 patients received a liver 
transplant  and  one  case  resulted  in  death.  None  of  the  patients  were  subject  to  rechallenge.  Gender 
and  age  distribution  largely  reflected  that  of  the  general  Alli  user  population,  being  predominantly 
female (88%) aged between 23 and 67 years (mean 46 years). No pattern could be observed in terms 
of type of liver injury and time to onset, where known, was highly variable, ranging from a few days to 
years.  BMI  was  reported  in  fewer  than  half  these  reports  but  where  information  was  provided,  both 
persons  of  low  weight  and  obese  patients  were  identified.  No  patients  were  reported  to  be  morbidly 
obese and none were underweight. Two thirds of patients were receiving concurrent medication which 
could have been a factor in the evolution of the events in over 50% of the 33 reports. Relevant medical 
history (potentially representing confounding features) was described in 70% of reports that provided 
this information. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the majority  of  spontaneous  reports  received  in  association  with  Alli  were  non-
serious consumer reports in female patients and that half of all reports reported the primary reaction in 
the  Gastrointestinal  disorder  SOC.  The  Alli  SmPC  states  that  adverse  reactions  to  orlistat  are  largely 
gastrointestinal  in  nature  and  related  to  the  pharmacologic  effect  of  the  medicinal  product  on 
preventing the absorption of ingested fat and that the package leaflet (PL) advises patients that eating 
lower-fat meals can help manage diet-related treatment effects. Apart from gastrointestinal disorders, 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 8 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the only other common adverse reactions listed in the Alli SmPC was anxiety, which is possibly related 
to  the  anticipation  of,  or  secondary  to,  gastrointestinal  adverse  reactions.  Other  frequently  reported 
reactions in the spontaneous reports described event terms that are common background events in the 
general population such as malaise/fatigue, dizziness and headache. 
Regarding  hepatic  events,  the  CHMP  noted  the  recorded  spontaneous  reports  and  that  the  identified 
reports  of  ‘drug-related  hepatic  events’  account  for  less  than  one  percent  of  the  total  number  of 
spontaneous reports received in association with Alli (of note, hepatobiliary disorders accounted for 5% 
of reports reported by health professionals). The majority were cases of elevations in hepatic enzymes 
with  no  clinical  features  documented,  which  are  already  listed  in  the  Alli  SmPC  as  ‘increase  in 
transaminases and in alkaline phosphatase’ in Section 4.8. In addition, there were also reports of non-
specific  terms:  yellow  skin  eyes,  abnormal  prothrombin  reading,  ascites,  liver  pain,  enlarged  liver  or 
unspecified  liver  damage/disorder,  which  were  considered  to  involve  isolated  signs  or  symptoms  of 
possible  liver  disease,  but  not  indicative  of  hepatotoxicity.  There  were  also  additional  reports  of  liver 
symptoms/disorders not considered indicative of drug-induced liver injury (fatty liver, hepatic cyst and 
hepatic lesion). 
Overall,  the  CHMP  noted  the  reports  of  hepatic  failure  received  in  association  with  Alli,  3  of  which 
resulted  in  a  liver  transplant  and  one  of  which  had  a  fatal  outcome.  In  one  report  of  hepatic 
failure/transplant,  the  transplant  surgeon  considered  that  the  acute  hepatic  failure  was  related  to 
orlistat.  In  this  case,  hepatic  copper  levels  were  indicative  of  Wilson’s  disease,  although  this  was 
thought  to  be  an  incidental  finding  by  the  reporter.  In  the  remaining  cases,  6  reports  had  possible 
confounding  factors  or  alternative  aetiologies  and  4  reports  had  limited  data  which  did  not  allow  full 
assessment or objective verification of the diagnosis of liver failure. The CHMP also noted the reports 
of hepatitis in association with Alli. Nine of these had possible confounding factors and the others had 
insufficient  information  for  assessment.  There  were  also  3  reports  of  autoimmune  hepatitis  for  which 
temporal association with Alli was weak and where all 3 subjects had lost significant amounts of weight 
prior to the onset of symptoms. The CHMP noted that hepatitis is a listed reaction in the Alli SmPC and 
is listed as an identified risk in the Alli RMP. Notwithstanding this  fact, the CHMP considered that the 
SmPC  wording should be  revised to reflect ‘Hepatitis that may be serious’.  The PL (Section 4) should 
be updated accordingly to ensure that patients are aware of hepatic signs and symptoms. 
The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  available  spontaneous  reports  do  not  provide  convincing 
evidence  of  a  causal  relationship  between  Alli  and  serious  hepatotoxicity  and  that  no  additional  new 
issues with Alli were identified from the overview of spontaneous reports. 
Spontaneous reports for Xenical (orlistat 120 mg) 
A  summary  tabulation  of  all  spontaneous  events  by  SOC  was  provided  for  Xenical,  reported 
cumulatively from initial authorisation until 31 August 2011, together with a summary tabulation of all 
cases and spontaneous events by report type (medically confirmed vs. non-medically confirmed) and a 
full  list  of  all  spontaneous  events.  A  total  of  36,066  cases  were  reported,  describing  69,376  adverse 
events.  Among  these  cases,  7,887  (22%)  were  medically  confirmed  and  28,179  were  non-medically 
confirmed (78%). The majority of spontaneous cases were female (84.0%) and the predominant age 
group  30-60  years.  The  most  frequently  reported  events  were  in  the  Gastrointestinal  Disorders  SOC 
(49.4%), followed by the General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions SOC (10.9%) and the 
Skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders  SOC  (6.6%).  Within  the  Gastrointestinal  Disorders  SOC,  the 
most frequently reported events were steatorrhoea (n=6,085) followed by diarrhoea (n=3,889). Within 
the  General  Disorders  and  Administration  Site  Conditions  SOC,  the  most  frequently  reported  events 
were ‘drug ineffective’ (n=1,830) followed by ‘no adverse events’ (n=987). Lastly, within the Skin and 
subcutaneous  tissue  disorders  SOC,  the  events  most  frequently  reported  were  rashes  (n=1062) 
followed  by  pruritus  (n=685).  Events  in  the  Hepatobiliary  Disorders  SOC  accounted  for  0.9%  of  all 
spontaneous events reported. The most frequent event within this SOC was cholelithiasis (30%). 
Adverse  events  in  the  Renal  and  Urinary  Disorders  SOC  accounted  for  2.4%  of  all  events.  The  most 
frequently  reported  event  in  this  SOC  was  pollakiuria  (23%).  Adverse  events  in  the  Gastrointestinal 
Disorders  SOC  accounted  for  49%  of  all  spontaneous  events  reported.  The  most  frequently  reported 
event  in  this  SOC  was  steatorrhoea  (18%).  Gastrointestinal  adverse  events  have  been  closely 
monitored and presented in several cumulative case reviews. 393 events of rectal haemorrhage were 
identified,  together  with  3625  events  of  constipation,  1411  events  of  nausea  and  780  events  of 
vomiting.  These  events  are  already  reflected  in  the  Xenical  PI  and  no  changes  to  the  SmPC  were 
considered necessary. There have been 86 events of pancreatitis and 26 events of pancreatitis acute, 
which are listed events. A causal relationship between pancreatitis and treatment with orlistat was not 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
established.  Adverse  events  in  the  Endocrine  Disorders  SOC  account  for  0.1%  of  all  events,  whilst 
adverse  events  in  the  Metabolism  and  Nutrition  Disorders  SOC  account  for  4.4%  of  all  events.  The 
most  frequently  reported  event  in  the  Endocrine  Disorders  SOC  was  hypothyroidism  with  41  reports 
(50%),  which  is  a  listed  event,  together  with  24  reports  of  ‘blood  thyroid  stimulating  hormone 
increased’.  The  most  frequently  reported  event  in  the  Metabolism  and  Nutrition  Disorders  SOC  was 
‘weight loss poor’ (70%). There were also 100 reported events of hypoglycaemia, which is listed as a 
very common adverse event. 
The Neoplasms Benign, Malignant and Unspecified SOC accounted for 0.2% of all reported events. The 
most frequently reported event in this SOC was breast cancer (21%). There were 2 reported events of 
colon  adenoma,  9  reported  events  of  colon  cancer,  one  reported  event  of  colon  cancer  stage  1,  and 
one reported event of colon neoplasm. Colorectal cancer in patients taking orlistat was reviewed in a 
report  published  jointly  by  Roche  and  GSK  on  03  August  2006,  which  included  a  comprehensive 
assessment of pre-clinical and clinical trials data as well as spontaneous case reports. Adverse events 
in  the  Vascular  Disorders  SOC  accounted  0.9%  of  all  spontaneous  events.  The  most  frequently 
reported  event  within  this  SOC  was  hypertension  (29%).  There  were  5  reported  events  of  vasculitis. 
Two  cases  of  cutaneous  vasculitis  were  also  reported  under  the  Skin  and  Subcutaneous  Tissue 
Disorders  SOC,  which  accounted  for  6.6%  of  all  spontaneous  events  reported.  The  most  frequently 
reported events within this SOC were rash (23%) and pruritis (15%). There were 7 events of erythema 
multiforme and one case of toxic epidermal necrolysis. No events of Stevens Johnson syndrome were 
reported.  Adverse  events  in  the  Psychiatric  Disorders  SOC  accounted  for  2.1%  of  all  spontaneous 
events. The most frequently reported events within this SOC were insomnia (19%), depression (17%) 
and  anxiety  (16%).  29  events  of  overdose  were  also  reported.  Regarding  misuse  and  off-label  use, 
there  was  1  reported  event  of  binge  eating,  2  of  bulimia  nervosa  and  6  of  eating  disorder.  The  MAH 
also  reviewed  258  events  of  drug  interaction,  including  drug  interactions  with  antidepressants,  anti-
epileptics,  antihypertensives, 
fat  soluble  vitamins,  cyclosporine,  oral 
contraceptives, and clozapine.  
lithium,  antipsychotics, 
Regarding hepatic events, hepatobiliary adverse events are continuously monitored since March 2000, 
covering the complete review time from initial launch to 31 August 2011. Several drug safety reports 
(DSR)  have  been  submitted  with  detailed  analyses  of  all  relevant  case  reports  concerning  hepatic 
disorders.  A  cumulative  DSR  (DSR  1036542)  up  to  07  August  2009  and  a  1st  Addendum  DSR  (DSR 
1043544)  covering  the  period  08  August  2009  to  31  January  2011  had  been  previously  submitted, 
while a 2nd Addendum DSR (DSR 1046850) covering the additional period from 01 February 2011 to 
31  August  2011  was  submitted  in  the  context  of  this  procedure.  Adverse  events  in  the  Hepatobiliary 
Disorders  SOC  accounted  for  0.9%  of  all  reports.  The  most  frequent  event  within  this  SOC  was 
cholelithiasis  (30%).  DSR  1036542  was  based  on  a  search  performed  using  the  SMQs  `Liver  related 
investigations,  signs  and  symptoms’,  `Hepatic  failure,  fibrosis  and  cirrhosis  and  other  liver  damage 
related  conditions’,  ‘Hepatitis,  non-infectious’,  `Cholestasis  and  jaundice  of  hepatic  origin’.  A  total  of 
555 cases including 810 hepatic events were received, of which 252 were reported as serious. Seven 
patients died, and 5 patients required liver transplant. Of 312 cases reporting laboratory findings only, 
67  were  serious  and  249  were  non  serious  cases.  Of  those  67  serious  cases,  34  had  alternative 
explanations  for  the  events,  16  provided  insufficient  information  for  a  causality  assessment  and  in  9 
cases,  the  laboratory  findings  were  co-manifestations  of  other  serious  adverse  events.  Of  212  cases 
reporting hepatic pathology, 161 had alternative explanations and 46 provided insufficient information 
for a causality assessment. DSR 1043544 identified a total of 21 cases with 30 hepatic events, 18 of 
them  serious  adverse  events  were  identified.  Hepatic  failure  was  reported  in  3  cases  (with  fatal 
outcome  in  2  cases  and  liver  transplant  in  one  case),  unspecified  liver  injury  in  one  case,  increased 
liver enzymes in 10 cases, hepatitis in 2 cases, hepatic steatosis in 4 cases and unspecified increased 
hepatic  echogenicity  in  one  case.  None  of  these  cases  provided  evidence  of  a  causal  association  with 
orlistat  and  all  presented  either  alternative  explanations  (e.g.  concurrent  diseases,  co-medications), 
temporal relationships which made a causal role of orlistat very unlikely, or limited information which 
precluded an adequate assessment. Finally, DSR 1046850 identified an additional 5 cases. Of those, 4 
were  reported  ‘Liver  enzymes  increased’  (all  non-serious)  and  1  `Cholestasis  and  jaundice  of  hepatic 
origin’  (reported  as  serious).  Of  the  4  cases  with  liver  enzymes  increased,  one  had  alternative 
explanations  for  the  event,  one  had  mild  elevations  of  ALT  and  AST  occurring  8  years  after  stopping 
orlistat  and  in  2  cases  there  was  insufficient  information  for  an  adequate  assessment.  In  the  patient 
with  cholestasis  and  jaundice,  the  events  appear  to  have  occurred  in  the  context  of  pancreatitis, 
although  there  is  insufficient  information  for  an  adequate  assessment  (i.e.  no  laboratory  or  imaging 
data).  
The  CHMP  noted  the  total  36,066  cases  representing  69,376  adverse  events  (of  which  5,151  were 
serious)  reported  for  Xenical,  the  majority  of  which  were  non-medically  confirmed  (78%).  The  most 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
frequently  reported  events  were  from  the  Gastrointestinal  Disorders  SOC  (49.4%),  followed  by  the 
General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions (10.9%), and the Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders (6.6%) SOC. The CHMP considered that the Xenical SmPC already describes various adverse 
effects  including  in  particular  the  following  listed  as  very  common:  abdominal  pain/discomfort,  oily 
spotting  from  the  rectum,  flatus  with  discharge,  faecal  urgency,  fatty/oily  stool,  flatulence,  liquid 
stools, oily evacuation and increased defecation. Pancreatitis has already been listed in Section 4.8 of 
the  Xenical  SmPC  based  on  nearly  86  cases  of  pancreatitis,  including  a  certain  number  of  reports 
where  no  confounding  factors  were  retrieved.  Based  on  the  GRPD,  the  MAH  provided  an  estimate  of 
the incidence rate of pancreatitis of 54.4 per 100,000 person-years for Xenical. The CHMP noted that 
obesity  is  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  several  types  of  cancers  including  “colorectal  cancer” 
and  “breast  cancer”  after  menopause  but  that  the  available  pre-clinical  data  including  genotoxicity, 
carcinogenicity and exploratory studies on colonic cell proliferation do not support a causal relationship 
between orlistat and the occurrence of such malignancies. 
Regarding  hepatotoxicity,  the  CHMP  reviewed  the  provided  Drug  Safety  reports  and  concluded  that 
cumulatively, a total of 581 cases with 846 hepatic events (271 serious) have been recorded from an 
estimated  exposure  of  39.76  million  patients.  Nine  patients  died  and  six  required  a  liver 
transplantation.  Among  the  846  hepatics  events,  536  were  listed  in  the  Investigations  SOC.  Among 
these,  a  total  of  21  cases  of  serious  hepatotoxicity  where  the  role  of  orlistat  cannot  definitively  be 
excluded were identified, including 5 cases of hepatic failure (2 cases with a fatal outcome and 3 cases 
leading to liver transplant), one case of liver injury, one case of cholestatic hepatitis, one case of acute 
hepatitis,  2  cases  of  toxic  hepatitis,  and  10  cases  of  hepatitis,  and  one  case  of  exacerbation  of 
hepatitis.  The  CHMP  also  noted  a  retrospective  study  carried  out  by  France,  reviewing  all  cases  of 
hepatic transplant for fulminant hepatitis in France, in order to identify possible cases related to orlistat 
intake  and  not  reported  in  the  national  pharmacovigilance  system.  Using  the  French  National 
Transplant  Database  “Cristal”,  all  registered  cases  of  hepatic  transplant  for  fulminant  hepatitis  from 
2008 (launch of Xenical in France) until 14 October 2011 were considered and cases from exclusively 
paediatric transplant centres or from a foreign transplant centres were excluded. A total of 561 cases 
of  hepatic  transplant  for  fulminant  hepatitis  were  retained,  248  of  which  were  selected  for  further 
review. None of these 248 cases suggested a causal association with orlistat.  
The  CHMP  noted  that  ‘Hepatitis  that  may  be  serious’  is  a  listed  reaction  in  the  Xenical  SmPC  and  is 
listed as an identified risk in the Xenical RMP. The CHMP considered that the PL (section 4) should be 
updated accordingly in order to ensure that patients are aware of hepatic signs and symptoms. 
Based  on  the  analysis  of  all  submitted  spontaneous  reports,  the  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  there 
was  no  convincing  evidence  of  a  causal  relationship  between  Xenical  and  serious  hepatotoxicity  and 
that no additional new issues with Xenical were identified from the overview of spontaneous reports. 
2.1.2.4.  Expected versus observed analysis 
At  the  request  of  the  CHMP,  the  MAHs  carried  out  ‘observed  versus  expected’  analyses  for  Alli  and 
Xenical,  using  global  exposure  data  and  background  rates  of  serious  liver  events  calculated  among 
obese subjects in the GPRD.  
The expected number of serious liver events in subjects exposed to Alli was estimated by applying the 
age-  and  gender-  specific  background  hepatic  event  rates  calculated  among  obese  subjects  in  GPRD. 
The  analysis  was  based  on  the  estimated  total  of  13.5  million  subjects  exposed  to  Alli  and  assumed 
that each subject was exposed for 78 days, resulting in a total of 2,880,074 person years. The MAHs 
also  assumed  that  80%  of  users  were  women  and  that  the  proportion  of  subjects  in  each  age  group 
was 36.5% < 40 years, 29% 40-49 years, 19% 50-59 years, 11% 60-69 years, 4% 70-79 years and 
0.4%  80+  years.  Based  on  these  assumptions,  the  expected  number  of  cases  among  13.5  million 
subjects  exposed  to  Alli  was  estimated  to  be  195.  To  date,  a  total  of  18  serious  liver  disorders  have 
been  reported.  Since  these  were  spontaneous  ADR  reports,  under-reporting  should  be  considered. 
Assuming  that  only  20%  of  all  serious  liver  cases  were  reported,  the  adjusted  number  of  cases 
observed would be 90 and if assuming that only 10% of all cases were reported, the adjusted number 
of observed cases would be 180. The limitations of this analysis were acknowledged, as the number of 
patients  using  the  product,  their  age/gender  profile  and  the  duration  of  use  was  based  on 
observational data that preceded the European launch of the product. In addition, the selected serious 
hepatic events reported in GPRD may not precisely match those reported among Alli users.  
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The analysis for Xenical was based on an estimated global use of approximately 39.8 million patients 
since  launch.  Using  the  distribution  of  gender  derived  from  over  40,000  spontaneous  reports  on 
Xenical,  the  MAHs  estimated  that  86%  of  patient  population  is  female.  Since  launch,  21  reports  of 
serious  or  potentially  serious  liver  conditions  (SLC)  associated  with  Xenical  have  been  received.  In 
order to provide a context to the observed number of cases relative to the number of patients exposed 
to Xenical, the MAHs used the GPRD database to define and follow a cohort of obese patients in order 
to  estimate  the  expected  background  incidence  rate  of  SLC  in  obese  individuals.  The  GPRD  obese 
cohort comprised of 163,752 patients and during the time followed, 18 females and 24 males reported 
a SLC, yielding incidence rates of 7.6 and 15.3 per 100,000 patient years respectively. To estimate the 
background  expected  number  of  cases  amongst  Xenical  users,  the  MAHs  defined  a  risk  period 
associated with Xenical (i.e. exposure period to the drug plus a follow up period during which events 
could be reported in association with the drug) of 6 months, based on an average duration of use of 3 
months and a 3 months follow-up period. Based on this exposure period, a risk period of 17.1 million 
person years for females and 2.8 million person years for males was calculated. Applying the estimated 
GPRD rates to the Xenical risk periods yields background expected rates of approximately 1,300 cases 
amongst  females  and  428  amongst  males,  in  total  1,728  expected  cases.  The  MAHs  calculated  the 
observed/expected ratio to be 21/1,728 = 0.012. While agreeing that spontaneous reports in general 
are known to under-estimate the true incidence of adverse events, the MAHs considered it unlikely that 
SLC  would  be  subject  to  the  same  magnitude  of  under  reporting.  Nevertheless,  assuming  that  only 
10%  of  SLC  cases  were  reported  (i.e.  that  the  true  number  of  SLC  is  around  210)  the 
observed/expected  ratio  would  then  be  0.12.  The  MAHs  further  investigated  sensitivity  by  assuming 
that only events occurring during drug therapy are reported, thus reducing the risk period to 3 months. 
This  resulted  in  an  observed/expected  ratio  of  0.24.  The  Proportional  Reporting  Ratios  (PRR)  which 
compare  the  reporting  of  livers  conditions  for  Xenical  with  that  for  all  others  drugs  in  the  MAHs 
spontaneous reports database were submitted. The PRRs for hepatic events provided no evidence of an 
increased reporting of these events for Xenical 
The CHMP reviewed both analyses and identified several limitations, including the inherent limitations 
and biases of spontaneous case reports and the use of an external source for expected incidence rates, 
as well as the lack of accurate overall exposure and of age-stratified exposure data. Nevertheless, the 
CHMP  considered  that  the  results  indicated  that  the  observed  number  of  cases  of  serious  hepatic 
reactions  reported  in  association  with  orlistat  is  within  the  expected  number  of  cases  in  an  obese 
population and that the number of reports of serious hepatic reactions may reflect background events 
in a very large population of users. The CHMP therefore concluded that the results from the analyses 
do not support a causal relationship between orlistat and serious hepatotoxicity. 
2.1.2.5.  Possible mechanism 
Pharmacokinetic  data  in  human  subjects  show  that  orlistat  is  minimally  absorbed,  low  in  bile,  and  is 
primarily  excreted  unchanged  in  the  faeces.  The  systemic  and  biliary  exposures  to  orlistat  and  its 
metabolites  are  extremely  low.  The  CHMP  considered  that  rare  idiosyncratic  drug-induced  liver  injury 
(DILI) may be a potential explanation. The common features of these reactions are the unpredictability 
of susceptible individuals and the lack of a dose-response relationship. 
There  are  2  pathological  categories  to  consider  for  idiosyncratic  DILI:  allergic  and  non-allergic, 
however  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  spontaneous  case  reports  received  do  not  point  towards  a 
single patho-physiological mechanism. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  possible  mechanism  for  hepatic  disorders  in  association  with  orlistat  is  not 
known,  however  published  case  reports  of  hepatic  injury  in  association  with  orlistat  have  suggested 
that  this  may  be  a  rare  idiosyncratic  reaction  (Lau  &  Chan,  2002)  or  an  immunoallergic  reaction 
(Umemura  et  al,  2006).  The  CHMP  agreed  that  idiosyncratic  DILI  may  be  the  mechanism  for  the 
potential causal relationship between orlistat and hepatotoxicity but also considered that the strength 
of evidence from suspected cases of severe hepatotoxicity and from the observed/expected analysis is 
very weak. It has been proposed that the risk of DILI may be related to the daily dose of drug and the 
extent  of  hepatic  metabolism  (Lammert  et  al,  2008,  Lambert  et  al,  2010).  Other  potential  factors  in 
the  development  of  DILI  may  include  mitochondrial  toxicity,  reactive  metabolites,  immune-response 
pathways  and  biliary  transporters.  The  CHMP  noted  that  faecal  excretion  is  the  major  route  of 
elimination  (approximately  97%  of  the  administered  dose),  although  orlistat  and  its  2  major 
metabolites are also subject to biliary excretion. 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1.2.6.  Overall discussion on safety 
For Alli, the CHMP noted the 47,707 spontaneous case reports identified between 01 May 2007 and 31 
August  2011,  describing  101,530  adverse  events.  Where  gender  was  reported  (77%  of  reports),  the 
patients were overwhelmingly female (92%) and mainly in the age range 30 to 59 years. The majority 
of  the  cases  were  non-serious  (96%).  Gastro-intestinal  disorders  SOC  accounted  for  the  largest 
proportion of cases (50.3%), followed by General disorders and administration site disorders (18.2%), 
Investigations (8.2%), Nervous system disorders (4.8%) and Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
(4%).  The  CHMP  noted  that  these  identified  risks  are  already  mentioned  in  the  SmPC.  Close 
observation  through  routine  pharmacovigilance  was  deemed  sufficient  for  all  identified  and  potential 
risks and no additional risk minimisation was considered to be necessary. 
Regarding  hepatic  events  in  association  with  Alli,  the  CHMP  noted  that  the  review  of  spontaneous 
reports  of  ‘drug-related  hepatic  events’,  account  for  less  than  one  percent  of  the  total  number  of 
spontaneous  reports  received.  The  majority  were  cases  of  elevations  in  hepatic  enzymes  with  no 
clinical  features  documented  (181  reports,  60%  of  all  reported  hepatic  reactions),  which  are  already 
listed in Section 4.8 of the Alli SmPC as ‘increase in transaminases and in alkaline phosphatase’ in. In 
addition,  there  were  also  76  reports  of  non-specific  terms:  yellow  skin  eyes,  abnormal  prothrombin 
reading, ascites, liver pain, enlarged liver or unspecified liver damage/disorder, which were considered 
to involve isolated signs or symptoms of possible liver disease, but not indicative of hepatotoxicity. The 
CHMP  assessed  11  reports  of  hepatic  failure  received  in  association  with  Alli as  well  as  14  reports  of 
hepatitis.  The  CHMP  noted  that  hepatitis  is  a  listed  reaction  in  the  Alli  SmPC  and  is  listed  as  an 
identified risk in the Alli RMP. Nevertheless, based on the data, the CHMP decided that the statement 
should be revised to reflect “Hepatitis that may be serious”. The CHMP also updated Section 4 of the PL 
in  order  to  ensure  that  patients  are  aware  of  hepatic  signs  and  symptoms.  The  CHMP  was  of  the 
opinion  that  the  reported  spontaneous  reports  do  not  provide  convincing  evidence  of  a  causal 
relationship  between  Alli  and  serious  hepatotoxicity  and  that  no  additional  new  issues  were  identified 
for Alli. The CHMP also noted that interaction with acarbose and the risk of oxalate nephropathy were 
mentioned  in  the  Alli  SmPC  but  not  in  the  PL  and  therefore  revised  the  PL  to  align  the  wording  for 
acarbose and oxalate nephropathy. 
Overall,  the  CHMP  considered  that  once  the  revisions  regarding  hepatitis,  acarbose  and  oxalate 
nephropathy have been implemented, the Alli product information will adequately reflect the available 
data from clinical trials and spontaneous reports of suspected adverse drug reactions. 
For  Xenical,  the  CHMP  noted  the  36,066  spontaneous  case  reports  identified  cumulatively  until  31 
August 2011, describing 69,376 adverse events of which 5,151 were serious events from an estimated 
exposure  of  39.76  million  patients.  The  majority  of  the  cases  were  non-medically  confirmed  (78%). 
The most frequently reported events were in the Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC (49.4%), followed by 
the General Disorders and Administration Site Conditions SOC (10.9%) and the Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders SOC (6.6%). Within the Gastrointestinal Disorders SOC, the most frequently reported 
events were: steatorrhoea followed by diarrhoea. Within the General Disorders and Administration Site 
Conditions SOC, the most frequently reported events were “drug ineffective” followed by “no adverse 
events”. Lastly, within the Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders SOC, the events the most frequently 
reported  were  rash  followed  by  pruritus.  The  CHMP  noted  that  these  identified  risks  are  already 
mentioned  in  the  SmPC.  Close  observation  through  routine  pharmacovigilance  was  deemed  sufficient 
for all identified and potential risks and no additional risk minimisation was considered to be necessary. 
Regarding  hepatic  events  in  association  with  Xenical,  the  CHMP  noted  the  581  cases  of  846  hepatic 
events (271 of which were serious) analysed in the 3 Drug Safety Reports. Nine patients died and six 
required a liver transplant. Among the 846  hepatics events, 536 events concerned the  Investigations 
SOC.  A  total  of  21  cases  of  serious  liver  toxicity  where  the  role  of  orlistat  cannot  definitively  be 
excluded have been identified, including 5 cases of hepatic failure (2 cases with a fatal outcome and 3 
cases leading to liver transplant), one case of liver injury, one case of cholestatic hepatitis, one case of 
acute hepatitis, 2 cases of toxic hepatitis, and 10 cases of  hepatitis, and one  case of exacerbation of 
hepatitis. The CHMP noted that “Hepatitis that may be serious” is listed in section 4.8 of the SmPC of 
Xenical  since  2001  but  updated  Section  4  of  the  PL  in  order  to  ensure  that  patients  are  aware  of 
hepatic signs and symptoms. Given the low number of relevant cases up to now where the causality of 
the drug cannot be formally excluded compared to the population exposed (>39 million patients), the 
CHMP  considered  that  spontaneous  reports  do  not  currently  provide  evidence  confirming  orlistat-
induced serious hepatotoxicity. The CHMP noted that interaction with acarbose and the risk of oxalate 
nephropathy  were  mentioned  in  the  Xenical  SmPC  but  not  in  the  PL  and  therefore  revised  the  PL  to 
align the wording for acarbose and oxalate nephropathy. 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 13 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Overall,  the  CHMP  considered  that  once  the  revisions  regarding  hepatitis,  acarbose  and  oxalate 
nephropathy  have  been  implemented,  the  Xenical  product  information  will  adequately  reflect  the 
available data from clinical trials and spontaneous reports of suspected adverse drug reactions. 
The  CHMP  also  assessed  the  results  of  the  ‘expected  versus  observed’  analyses,  which  indicated  that 
the observed number of cases of serious hepatic reactions reported in association with orlistat is within 
the  expected  number  of  cases  in  an  obese  population,  even  when  assuming  a  reporting  rate  for 
spontaneous  events  of  10%.  While  the  CHMP  identified  limitations  to  the  analyses,  it  concluded  that 
the  number  of  reports  of  serious  hepatic  reactions  may  reflect  background  events  in  a  very  large 
population  of  users.  The  CHMP  also  noted  the  pre-clinical  evidence  submitted  for  orlistat  and 
considered  that  no  evidence  of  a  causal  relationship  between  orlistat  and  serious  hepatotoxicity  was 
identified. 
2.2.  Risk management plan 
The  MAHs  submitted  risk  management  plans  for  their  products,  which  were  considered  during  this 
review.  The  CHMP  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  identified  and  potential  risks  and  the  proposed 
pharmacovigilance  activities  and  risk  minimisation  activities  associated  with  each  of  these  safety 
concerns are adequately reflected in the RMPs of orlistat-containing products. 
Further  to  the  assessment  and  discussion  of  the  data  submitted  by  the  MAHs,  the  CHMP  considered 
whether  a  case-control  study  could  provide  further  evidence  of  a  causal  association  between  an 
increased  risk  of  serious  hepatotoxicity  and  orlistat.  The  CHMP  noted  a  publication  by  Fontana  et  al, 
2010  (Fontana  RJ.  Approaches  to  the  study  of  drug-induced  liver  injury.  Clin  Pharmacol  Ther.  2010 
Sep;88(3):416-9),  indicating  that  drug-induced  liver  injuries  are  very  rare.  In  addition,  diagnosing 
DILI is difficult as it is largely a diagnosis of exclusion based on circumstantial evidence. The CHMP also 
noted  that  prospective  multicentre  registry  studies  allow  for  more  accurate  phenotyping  of  individual 
patients  with  DILI,  as  well  as  for  collection  of  biological  samples  for  mechanistic  studies.  This  was 
supported by Bell & Chalasani, 2009 (Bell & Chalasani. Epidemiology of idiosyncratic drug-induced liver 
injury. Semin Liver Dis. 2009 Nov;29(4):337-47), who stated that the high variability in the estimated 
frequency  of  DILI  in  retrospective  studies  reflects  not  only  the  difficulty  in  diagnosing  this  condition, 
but  also  the  need  for  prospectively  designed  clinical  studies  investigating  DILI.  The  CHMP  noted  that 
prospective  registries  such  as  the  US  DILI  Network,  the  US  Acute  Liver  Failure  Study  Group  or  the 
Spanish Drug Induced Liver Injury Network could be considered for prospective studies. However, the 
CHMP  questioned  the  feasibility  of  a  case-control  study.  Given  the  low  incidence  of  the  observed 
hepatotoxicity  events  and  the  expected  difficulties  of  identifying  exposure-positive  or  exposure-
negative  subjects  (due  to  the  availability  of  a  non-prescription  orlistat  product),  the  CHMP  concluded 
that a study would not provide further adequate evidence of a causal association between an increased 
risk of serious hepatotoxicity and orlistat. The CHMP concluded that no further study was required for 
orlistat. 
The  CHMP  therefore  considered  that  further  risk  minimisation  measures  are  not  required  beyond  the 
agreed revisions to the PIs and that the RMPs do not need to be revised. 
2.3.  Product information 
Based on the assessment of the data submitted by the MAHs as well as the overall total available data, 
the CHMP was of the opinion that a small number of revisions to the SmPC and the PL were necessary. 
The  PL  (Section  4)  should  be  updated  accordingly  to  ensure  that  patients  are  aware  of  hepatic  signs 
and  symptoms.  In  addition,  the  CHMP  noted  that  interaction  with  acarbose  and  the  risk  of  oxalate 
nephropathy were mentioned in the SmPC but not in the PL and therefore revised the PL to align the 
wording for acarbose and oxalate nephropathy. The CHMP also clarified the recommendation on how to 
take Xenical. 
PACKAGE LEAFLET (PL) 
•  Section 2 - Before you take [Product name] 
• 
 “[Product name] is not recommended for people taking acarbose (an anti-diabetic drug 
used to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus).” 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  “Taking [Product name] with food and drink” “[Product name] can be taken immediately 
before, during a meal or up to one hour after a meal. The capsule should be swallowed 
with water.“ 
•  Section 4 - Possible side effects 
•  “Hepatitis  (inflammation  of  the  liver).  Symptoms  can  include  yellowing  skin  and  eyes, 
itching, dark coloured urine, stomach pain and liver tenderness (indicated by pain under 
the front of the rib cage on your right hand side), sometimes with loss of appetite.” 
•  “oxalate nephropathy (build up of calcium oxalate which may lead to kidney stones) See 
Chapter 2, take extra care with [Product name]” 
3.  Overall discussion and benefit-risk assessment 
Benefit 
The  CHMP  assessed  the  data  submitted  by  the  MAHs  as  well  as  the  total  available  body  of  data  and 
concluded  that  a  clinically  relevant  degree  of  weight  loss  was  demonstrated  for  orlistat-containing 
products, which could translate into clinically meaningful improvements of risk factors for diabetes and 
cardiovascular disease. 
Risks 
Hepatotoxicity 
The  focus  of  this  review  was  on  the  strength  of  the  evidence  relating  to  serious  hepatotoxicity  with 
orlistat.  The  evidence  available  from  pre-clinical  studies  is  not  suggestive  of  the  possibility  of  liver 
toxicity following normal human therapeutic exposures. Clinical trials showed no significant differences 
in  the  occurrence  of  abnormal  liver  function  tests  between  orlistat  and  placebo.  However,  a  meta-
analysis  of  some  orlistat  clinical  trials  identified  a  small  non-statistically  significant  increase  in  the 
occurrence  of  abnormal  alanine  aminotransferase  and  bilirubin  measurements  with  orlistat  compared 
with placebo. This may provide some evidence of an adverse effect of orlistat on hepatic function but 
does  not  provide  evidence  of  serious  hepatotoxicity.  It  was  noted  that  evidence  from  epidemiological 
studies suggests that obesity per se may be associated with an increased risk of liver disease. 
The  CHMP  noted  a  total  of  881  reports  of  ‘drug-related  hepatic  events’  received  in  association  with 
orlistat-containing  products  since  July  1998,  from  an  estimated  exposure  of  53  million  patients.  The 
majority  of  cases  were  non-serious.  For  Alli,  60%  of  the  reports  described  elevations  in  hepatic 
enzymes  with  no  clinical  features  while  a  further  25%  described  isolated  signs  and  symptoms  of 
possible  liver  disease  but  were  not  indicative  of  hepatotoxicity.  A  total  of  18  cases  of  serious  liver 
disorder were identified, the majority of which had possible confounding factors, alternative aetiologies 
or limited data prohibiting a full assessment. For Xenical, nine cases involved fatalities and six involved 
a  liver  transplant  and  a  total  of  21  cases  of  serious  hepatotoxicity  where  the  role  of  orlistat  cannot 
definitively  be  excluded  were  identified.  The  CHMP  considered  that  the  spontaneous  reports  provide 
only  very  weak  evidence  of  a  causal  relationship  between  orlistat  and  serious  hepatotoxicity.  It  is 
notable  that  there  is  no  specific  pattern  regarding  the  nature  of  reported  hepatotoxicity  or  any 
particular  pattern  in  relation  to  time  to  onset  of  events,  and  in  many  cases,  alternative  explanations 
are  present.  The  potential  mechanism  for  hepatic  disorders  in  association  with  orlistat  is  not  known, 
however  published  case  reports  of  hepatic  injury  in  association  with  orlistat  have  suggested  that  this 
may  be  a  rare  idiosyncratic  reaction.  The  CHMP  considered  the  number  of  reports  received  in 
association with orlistat to be small in the context of the cumulative usage of this medicine. 
Furthermore,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  results  of  the  ‘expected  versus  observed’  analyses  of 
reports  of  serious  hepatotoxicity  indicated  that  the  observed  number  of  cases  of  serious  hepatic 
reactions  reported  in  association  with  orlistat  is  within  the  expected  number  of  cases  in  an  obese 
population  and  concluded  that  the  number  of  reports  of  serious  hepatic  reactions  may  reflect 
background events in a very large population of users. 
The  risk  of  hepatitis  and  increases  in  transaminases  and  alkaline  phosphatase  have  been  included  in 
the product information and risk management plan (RMP) of orlistat containing medicinal products. In 
view  of  the  evidence  available,  the  CHMP  considered  that  “hepatitis  that  may  be  serious”  should  be 
reflected under Section 4.8 of the SmPCs of all orlistat-containing products. The CHMP also considered 
that  the  PL  (Section  4)  should  be  updated  accordingly  to  ensure  that  patients  are  aware  of  hepatic 
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
signs  and  symptoms.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  measures  were 
necessary to address the issue of serious liver reactions with orlistat. 
Other risks 
In  addition  to  the  risk  of  hepatotoxicity,  the  CHMP  also  reviewed  other  orlistat  safety  concerns, 
including  hepatobiliary  events  (cholelithiasis),  pancreatitis,  oxalate  nephropathy,  acute  kidney  injury, 
gastrointestinal  events,  hypersensitivity  reactions,  hypoglycaemia,  hypokalaemia,  drug  interactions, 
misuse,  and  off-label  use.  Gastro-intestinal  reactions  were  the  most  frequently  reported  side-effects 
with orlistat and are related to its pharmacological effects. At the time of CHMP approval, the gastro-
intestinal  safety  profile  for  orlistat  60  mg  was  considered  to  be  better  than  that  of  orlistat  120  mg, 
causing milder gastrointestinal adverse effects. The CHMP noted that interaction with acarbose and the 
risk of oxalate nephropathy were mentioned in the SmPC but not in the PL and therefore revised the PL 
to align the wording for acarbose and oxalate nephropathy.  
Risk management plan 
The CHMP was of the opinion that all safety concerns are adequately reflected in the risk management 
plans of orlistat-containing products and therefore considered that these do not need to be revised. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Overall, the CHMP considered that the benefits of orlistat-containing products outweigh the associated 
risks  in  their  current  indication.  The  CHMP  recommended  that  the  current  wording  of  the  approved 
SmPCs should be revised to include the risk of ‘Hepatitis that may be serious’ in Section 4.8 and that 
the  PLs  should  be  harmonised  and  revised  to  include  additional  symptoms  of  liver  injury  as  well  as 
statements on interaction with acarbose and the risk of oxalate nephropathy. 
4.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Having considered the overall submitted data provided by the MAHs in writing and taking into account 
the  discussions  during  the  Committee  plenary  meetings,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  benefits  of 
orlistat-containing  products  outweigh  the  associated  risks  in  their  current  indication  and  that  the 
benefit-risk balance of Xenical is therefore positive under normal conditions of use.  
On the basis of the above, the Committee recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisation for Xenical and for which the amendments to the summary of product characteristics and 
package leaflet are set out in annex I and IIIB of the opinion.  
The scientific conclusions and the grounds for the amendment of the SmPC and PL are set out in Annex 
IV of the opinion.  
EMA/276626/2012  
Page 16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
