Summary of the Risk Management Plan for Xenleta 
(lefamulin) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Xenleta. The RMP details important risks of 
Xenleta, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Xenleta’s 
risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Xenleta’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential information 
to healthcare professionals and patients on how Xenleta should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Xenleta should be read in the context of all this information including the 
assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the European 
Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Xenleta’s RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What it is Used for 
Xenleta is authorised for community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CAP) (see SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains lefamulin as the active substance and it is given by infusion or orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Xenleta’s benefits can be found in Xenleta’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to 
Minimise or Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of Xenleta, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Xenleta's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Xenleta is not yet available, it is listed under 
‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Xenleta are risks that need special risk management activities to further investigate 
or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. Important risks can be 
regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
link with the use of Xenleta. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the 
medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  None 
•  Severe Hepatotoxicity 
•  Use in Patients with Severe Hepatic 
Impairment 
•  Use in Pregnant and Lactating Women 
II.B Summary of Important Risks 
Important Potential Risk: Severe Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
In the nonclinical data, a direct effect of lefamulin 
on the liver cannot be entirely discounted. 
However, liver histopathology was limited to 1 
animal and this finding occurred only at a non-
tolerated dose level associated with significant local 
intolerance at the site of a surgically implanted 
catheter (thromboemboli which may have caused 
liver pathology), suggesting that significant 
hepatotoxicity as a direct result of lefamulin was 
unlikely. 
In the Phase 1 program, there were no clinically 
relevant changes in liver chemistry parameters. 
In the Phase 2 and Phase 3 studies, the incidence 
of liver chemistry findings reported as TEAEs was 
similar or lower in the lefamulin groups compared 
with the comparator groups. Across all studies 
(combined data), a TEAE indicative of increased 
hepatic enzymes was reported in 2.4% of lefamulin 
subjects compared with 2.8% of subjects receiving 
a comparator. Increased bilirubin was not reported 
as a TEAE in any lefamulin-treated subject and was 
reported in only 1 comparator-treated 
(moxifloxacin) subject. 
Among lefamulin subjects with baseline ALT within 
normal limits, 3.4% (17/495) developed ALT >3 x 
ULN, 1.6% (8/495) developed ALT >5 x ULN and 
0.2% (1/495) developed ALT >10 x ULN. The 
corresponding proportions for moxifloxacin subjects 
were 2.9% (14/475), 0.4% (2/475), and 
0.0% (0/475).  
Among lefamulin subjects with baseline ALT above 
normal but ≤3 x ULN, 16.4% (12/73) developed 
ALT >3 x ULN and 4.1% (3/73) developed ALT >5 
x ULN. The corresponding proportions for 
moxifloxacin were 13.9% (14/101) and 4.0% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Potential Risk: Severe Hepatotoxicity 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
(4/101). Similar trends were observed for AST 
analyses. 
Since there is limited human experience with 
administration of systemic pleuromutilins, there are 
no potentially relevant data that might assist in 
assessing the risk that the transaminase increases 
may translate into severe hepatotoxicity. The 
actual risk of severe hepatotoxicity occurring 
cannot be predicted solely by comparing the rates 
for hepatic enzyme elevation, and elevation per se 
does not predict progression of drug induced liver 
injury.  
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond 
adverse reactions reporting and signal detection: 
Recommendation to prescribers to monitor 
transaminases as in the current product label. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
No risk minimisation measures. 
Important Missing Information: Use in Patients with Severe Hepatic Impairment 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.4 Special warning and Precautions: 
Hepatic Impairment 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important Missing Information: Use in Pregnant and Lactating Women 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation  
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1 Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Xenleta. 
II.C.2 Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Xenleta. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
