EMA/329151/2022  
EMEA/H/C/004850 
Xenpozyme (olipudase alfa) 
An overview of Xenpozyme and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Xenpozyme and what is it used for? 
Xenpozyme is a medicine for treating patients  with  acid sphingomyelinase deficiency (ASMD), a genetic 
condition, historically known as Niemann-Pick disease type A, A/B and B. There are three types of 
Niemann-Pick disease (A, B and C), with  different genetic causes and different symptoms . Xenpozyme 
is used to treat patients with  type A/B or type B. It is intended to  treat the symptoms of ASMD that are 
not related to the brain. 
Niemann-Pick disease is rare, and Xenpozyme was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used 
in rare diseases) on 5 December 2016. Further information on the  orphan designation can be found 
here: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu-3-01-056. 
Xenpozyme contains the active substance  olipudase alfa. 
How is Xenpozyme used? 
Xenpozyme can only be obtained with  a prescription and treatment  should be supervised by a 
healthcare professional experienced in the management of ASMD or other inherited metabolic 
disorders. Xenpozyme should be administered by a healthcare professional with  access to appropriate 
medical support to  manage potential severe reactions such as hypersensitivity  (allergic) reactions 
affecting the whole body (see risks section below).  
Xenpozyme is given by infusion (drip) into a vein every two weeks. The recommended dose depends 
on the patient’s weight.  The treatment starts with  a low dose that  is gradually increased until  the 
recommended dose is reached, usually after 14 to  16 weeks. Depending on the dose, the duration of  
the infusion ranges between 18  and 220  minutes (almost 3.7 hours).  
For more information about using Xenpozyme, see the package leaflet or contact  your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Xenpozyme work? 
Because of a genetic mutation,  patients with  ASMD type A, A/B and B lack a functioning  enzyme, acid 
sphingomyelinase, which is found in lysosomes (parts of the body's cells that break down nutrients  and 
other materials) and is needed to break down certain fats. The resulting build-up  of fats changes the 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
  
way cells work and causes them to die, affecting normal functioning  of tissues and organs, including 
the liver, spleen, lungs, heart and brain. 
The active substance in Xenpozyme, olipudase alfa, is a copy of the  normal acid sphingomyelinase 
enzyme. It is expected to replace the patients'  faulty enzyme and there by reduce the build-up  of fats 
within  lysosomes and relieve some of the symptoms of the disease. It is not, however, expected to 
improve symptoms affecting the  brain as the medicine is unable to cross the blood-brain barrier which 
separates the blood from brain tissue. 
What benefits of Xenpozyme have been shown in studies? 
Xenpozyme was shown to  improve lung function and reduce spleen volume both in  adults and in 
children. 
In a main study conducted in 36  adults with  ASMD type B or type A/B, improvement in lung function 
was measured by looking at the change in diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLco), 
a type of gas used in  small quantities  to measure how much oxygen travels from the lungs to the 
blood. After one year of treatment, the increase in DLco was greater in the group of patients  who 
received Xenpozyme (22% increase on average) compared with the  group who received placebo, a 
dummy treatment (3% increase on average). Based on other lung-related conditions, a greater than 
15% increase is considered a meaningful improvement. 
In addition, after one year of treatment, spleen volume in patients  receiving Xenpozyme reduced on 
average by 39%, while  it increased by 0.5% on average in patients  receiving placebo. Based on 
Gaucher’s disease (another genetic disease where fats build up in the  spleen and other organs), a 
greater than  30% reduction in spleen volume is considered clinically meaningful . 
A second main study was conducted in 20 patients under 18 years of age (4 adolescents, 9 children, 7 
infants/young children) who all received Xenpozyme. The medicine appeared to work in the same way 
and have the same effects in children and adults. Improvements in lung function  and spleen volume 
were also observed, with an average increase in DLco of 33% and reduction in spleen volume of 49% 
after one year of treatment.  
What are the risks associated with Xenpozyme? 
The most common side effects with  Xenpozyme (which may affect more than  1 in 10 people) are  
headache, fever, itching,  urticaria (itchy  rash), nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, abdominal (belly) pain, 
muscle pain and increased blood level of C-reactive protein (a marker of inflammation). In clinical 
trials, infusion-associated reactions, including hypersensitivity (allergic reactions), occurred in more 
than 1 in  2 adults and in around 2 in 3 children.  
Serious side effects that  were reported during the  clinical trials are extrasystoles (additional heartbeats 
that  interrupt the normal heart rhythm) in a patient who already had damage to the heart muscle. 
Anaphylactic reaction (sudden, severe allergic reaction) and severe cases of urticaria, rash, 
hypersensitivity and increased blood level of alanine aminotransferase (a liver enzyme) were reported 
in children. Serious hypersensitivity reactions linked to  the infusion were more common in children 
than in  adults.  
For the full list  of side effects and restrictions of Xenpozyme, see the package leaflet. 
Xenpozyme (olipudase alfa)  
EMA/329151/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
Why is Xenpozyme authorised in the EU? 
There are very limited  treatment options for patients  with  ASMD. Xenpozyme has been shown to 
provide clinically meaningful benefits to  patients with  ASMD type B or type A/B, improving lung 
function and reducing spleen volume. In terms of safety, Xenpozyme’s side effects are  generally mild 
to moderate. More serious side effects, in particular severe allergic reactions, can occur but are 
considered manageable with  the risk minimisation measures in place. The European Medicines Agency 
decided that  Xenpozyme’s benefits are greater than its risks and it  can be authorised for use in the EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xenpozyme? 
The company that  markets Xenpozyme is requested to  distribute educational materials to healthcare 
professionals, patients or caregivers to help manage the risk of serious side effects, particularly severe 
allergic reactions linked to  the infusion. These include information on the signs and symptoms to  watch 
out for and recommended actions if side effects occur. 
Recommendations and precautions to  be followed by healthcare profes sionals and patients  for the safe 
and effective use of Xenpozyme have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Xenpozyme are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with  Xenpozyme are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients.  
Other information about Xenpozyme 
Xenpozyme received a marketing authorisation valid throughout  the EU on 24 June 2022. 
Further information on Xenpozyme can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/xenpozyme.  
This overview was last updated in  07-2022. 
Xenpozyme (olipudase alfa)  
EMA/329151/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
