ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 25 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 50 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 75 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 100 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 150 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
25 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 39 mg paliperidone palmitate in 0.25 mL equivalent to 25 mg
paliperidone.
50 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 78 mg paliperidone palmitate in 0.5 mL equivalent to 50 mg 
paliperidone.
75 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 117 mg paliperidone palmitate in 0.75 mL equivalent to 75 mg 
paliperidone.
100 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 156 mg paliperidone palmitate in 1 mL equivalent to 100 mg 
paliperidone.
150 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Each pre-filled syringe contains 234 mg paliperidone palmitate in 1.5 mL equivalent to 150 mg 
paliperidone.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
The suspension is white to off-white. The suspension is pH neutral (approximately 7.0).
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Xeplion is indicated for maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients stabilised with 
paliperidone or risperidone.
In selected adult patients with schizophrenia and previous responsiveness to oral paliperidone or 
risperidone, Xeplion may be used without prior stabilisation with oral treatment if psychotic symptoms 
are mild to moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed.
2
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Recommended initiation of Xeplion is with a dose of 150 mg on treatment day 1 and 100 mg
one week later (day 8), both administered in the deltoid muscle in order to attain therapeutic 
concentrations rapidly (see section 5.2). The third dose should be administered one month after the 
second initiation dose. The recommended monthly maintenance dose is 75 mg; some patients may 
benefit from lower or higher doses within the recommended range of 25 to 150 mg based on 
individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy. Patients who are overweight or obese may require doses 
in the upper range (see section 5.2). Following the second initiation dose, monthly maintenance doses 
can be administered in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle.
Adjustment of the maintenance dose may be made monthly. When making dose adjustments, the 
prolonged release characteristics of Xeplion should be considered (see section 5.2), as the full effect of 
maintenance doses may not be evident for several months.
Switching from oral prolonged release paliperidone or oral risperidone to Xeplion
Xeplion should be initiated as described at the beginning of section 4.2 above. During monthly 
maintenance treatment with Xeplion, patients previously stabilised on different doses of paliperidone 
prolonged release tablets can attain similar paliperdone steady-state exposure by injection. The 
Xeplion maintenance doses needed to attain similar steady-state exposure are shown as follows:
Doses of paliperidone prolonged release tablets and Xeplion needed to attain similar steady-
state paliperidone exposure during maintenance treatment
Previous paliperidone
prolonged release tablet dose
3 mg daily
6 mg daily
9 mg daily
12 mg daily
Xeplion injection
25-50 mg monthly
75 mg monthly
100 mg monthly
150 mg monthly
Previous oral paliperidone or oral risperidone can be discontinued at the time of initiation of treatment 
with Xeplion. Some patients may benefit from gradual withdrawal. Some patients switching from 
higher paliperidone oral doses (e.g., 9-12 mg daily) to gluteal injections with Xeplion may have lower 
plasma exposure during the first 6 months after the switch. Therefore, alternatively, it could be 
considered to give deltoid injections for the first 6 months.
Switching from risperidone long acting injection to Xeplion
When switching patients from risperidone long acting injection, initiate Xeplion therapy in place of 
the next scheduled injection. Xeplion should then be continued at monthly intervals. The one-week 
initiation dosing regimen including the intramuscular injections (day 1 and 8, respectively) as 
described in section 4.2 above is not required. Patients previously stabilised on different doses of 
risperidone long acting injection can attain similar paliperidone steady-state exposure during 
maintenance treatment with Xeplion monthly doses according to the following:
Doses of risperidone long acting injection and Xeplion needed to attain similar paliperidone 
exposure at steady-state
Previous risperidone long acting injection dose
25 mg every 2 weeks
37.5 mg every 2 weeks
50 mg every 2 weeks
Xeplion injection
50 mg monthly
75 mg monthly
100 mg monthly
Discontinuation of antipsychotic medicinal products should be made in accordance with appropriate 
prescribing information. If Xeplion is discontinued, its prolonged release characteristics must be 
considered. The need for continuing existing extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) medicine should be 
re-evaluated periodically.
3
Missed doses
Avoiding missed doses
It is recommended that the second initiation dose of Xeplion be given one week after the first dose. To 
avoid a missed dose, patients may be given the second dose 4 days before or after the one-week 
(day 8) time point. Similarly, the third and subsequent injections after the initiation regimen are 
recommended to be given monthly. To avoid a missed monthly dose, patients may be given the 
injection up to 7 days before or after the monthly time point.
If the target date for the second Xeplion injection (day 8 ± 4 days) is missed, the recommended 
reinitiation depends on the length of time which has elapsed since the patient's first injection.
Missed second initiation dose (< 4 weeks from first injection)
If less than 4 weeks have elapsed since the first injection, then the patient should be administered the 
second injection of 100 mg in the deltoid muscle as soon as possible. A third Xeplion injection of 
75 mg in either the deltoid or gluteal muscles should be administered 5 weeks after the first injection 
(regardless of the timing of the second injection). The normal monthly cycle of injections in either the 
deltoid or gluteal muscle of 25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy 
should be followed thereafter.
Missed second initiation dose (4-7 weeks from first injection)
If 4 to 7 weeks have elapsed since the first injection of Xeplion, resume dosing with two injections of 
100 mg in the following manner:
1.
2.
3.
a deltoid injection as soon as possible
another deltoid injection one week later
resumption of the normal monthly cycle of injections in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle of 
25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
Missed second initiation dose (> 7 weeks from first injection)
If more than 7 weeks have elapsed since the first injection of Xeplion, initiate dosing as described for 
the initial recommended initiation of Xeplion above.
Missed monthly maintenance dose (1 month to 6 weeks)
After initiation, the recommended injection cycle of Xeplion is monthly. If less than 6 weeks have 
elapsed since the last injection, then the previously stabilised dose should be administered as soon as 
possible, followed by injections at monthly intervals.
Missed monthly maintenance dose (> 6 weeks to 6 months)
If more than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last injection of Xeplion, the recommendation is as 
follows:
For patients stabilised with doses of 25 to 100 mg
1.
2.
3.
a deltoid injection as soon as possible at the same dose the patient was previously stabilised on
another deltoid injection (same dose) one week later (day 8)
resumption of the normal monthly cycle of injections in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle of 
25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
For patients stabilised with 150 mg
1.
2.
3.
a deltoid injection as soon as possible at the 100 mg dose
another deltoid injection one week later (day 8) at the 100 mg dose
resumption of the normal monthly cycle of injections in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle of 
25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
Missed monthly maintenance dose (> 6 months)
If more than 6 months have elapsed since the last injection of Xeplion, initiate dosing as described for 
the initial recommended initiation of Xeplion above.
4
Special populations
Elderly
Efficacy and safety in elderly > 65 years have not been established.
In general, recommended dosing of Xeplion for elderly patients with normal renal function is the same 
as for younger adult patients with normal renal function. However, because elderly patients may have 
diminished renal function, dose adjustment may be necessary (see Renal impairment below for dosing 
recommendations in patients with renal impairment).
Renal impairment
Xeplion has not been systematically studied in patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). For 
patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 50 to < 80 mL/min), recommended 
initiation of Xeplion is with a dose of 100 mg on treatment day 1 and 75 mg one week later, both 
administered in the deltoid muscle. The recommended monthly maintenance dose is 50 mg with a
range of 25 to 100 mg based on patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
Xeplion is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 50 mL/min) (see section 4.4).
Hepatic impairment
Based on experience with oral paliperidone, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or 
moderate hepatic impairment. As paliperidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment, caution is recommended in such patients (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Xeplion in children and adolescents < 18 years of age have not been 
established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Xeplion is intended for intramuscular use only. It must not be administered by any other route. It 
should be injected slowly, deep into the deltoid or gluteal muscle. Each injection should be 
administered by a healthcare professional. Administration should be in a single injection. The dose 
should not be given in divided injections.
The day 1 and day 8 initiation doses must each be administered in the deltoid muscle in order to attain 
therapeutic concentrations rapidly (see section 5.2). Following the second initiation dose, monthly 
maintenance doses can be administered in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle. A switch from gluteal 
to deltoid (and vice versa) should be considered in the event of injection site pain if the injection site 
discomfort is not well tolerated (see section 4.8). It is also recommended to alternate between left and 
right sides (see below).
For instructions for use and handling of Xeplion, see package leaflet (information intended for medical 
or healthcare professionals).
Deltoid muscle administration
The recommended needle size for initial and maintenance administration of Xeplion into the deltoid 
muscle is determined by the patient’s weight. For those ≥ 90 kg, the 1½ inch, 22 gauge needle 
(38.1 mm x 0.72 mm) is recommended. For those < 90 kg, the 1-inch, 23 gauge needle (25.4 mm x 
0.64 mm) is recommended. Deltoid injections should be alternated between the two deltoid muscles.
Gluteal muscle administration
The recommended needle size for maintenance administration of Xeplion into the gluteal muscle is the 
1½-inch, 22 gauge needle (38.1 mm x 0.72 mm). Administration should be made into the upper-outer 
quadrant of the gluteal area. Gluteal injections should be alternated between the two gluteal muscles.
5
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to risperidone or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Use in patients who are in an acutely agitated or severely psychotic state
Xeplion should not be used to manage acutely agitated or severely psychotic states when immediate 
symptom control is warranted.
QT interval
Caution should be exercised when paliperidone is prescribed in patients with known cardiovascular 
disease or family history of QT prolongation, and in concomitant use with other medicinal products
thought to prolong the QT interval.
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), characterised by hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic 
instability, altered consciousness, and elevated serum creatine phosphokinase levels has been reported 
to occur with paliperidone. Additional clinical signs may include myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis) and 
acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs or symptoms indicative of NMS, paliperidone should be 
discontinued.
Tardive dyskinesia/extrapyramidal symptoms
Medicinal products with dopamine receptor antagonistic properties have been associated with the 
induction of tardive dyskinesia characterised by rhythmical, involuntary movements, predominantly of 
the tongue and/or face. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear, the discontinuation of all 
antipsychotics, including paliperidone, should be considered.
Caution is warranted in patients receiving both, psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) and 
paliperidone concomitantly, as extrapyramidal symptoms could emerge when adjusting one or both 
medications. Gradual withdrawal of stimulant treatment is recommended (see section 4.5).
Leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis
Events of leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported with Xeplion. 
Agranulocytosis has been reported very rarely (< 1/10,000 patients) during post-marketing 
surveillance. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a 
drug-induced leucopenia/neutropenia should be monitored during the first few months of therapy and 
discontinuation of Xeplion should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in 
WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should 
be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such 
symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1 x 109/L) 
should discontinue Xeplion and have their WBC followed until recovery.
Hypersensitivity reactions
Anaphylactic reactions in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral paliperidone 
have been rarely reported during post-marketing experience (see sections 4.1 and 4.8).
If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue use of Xeplion; initiate general supportive measures as 
clinically appropriate and monitor the patient until signs and symptoms resolve (see sections 4.3 and 
4.8).
6
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus
Hyperglycaemia, diabetes mellitus, and exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes including diabetic coma 
and ketoacidosis, have been reported during treatment with paliperidone. Appropriate clinical 
monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines. Patients treated with 
Xeplion should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, 
polyphagia and weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored regularly for 
worsening of glucose control.
Weight gain
Significant weight gain has been reported with Xeplion use. Weight should be monitored regularly.
Use in patients with prolactin-dependent tumours
Tissue culture studies suggest that cell growth in human breast tumours may be stimulated by 
prolactin. Although no clear association with the administration of antipsychotics has so far been 
demonstrated in clinical and epidemiological studies, caution is recommended in patients with relevant 
medical history. Paliperidone should be used with caution in patients with a pre-existing tumour that 
may be prolactin-dependent.
Orthostatic hypotension
Paliperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension in some patients based on its alpha-blocking activity.
Based on pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials with oral 
paliperidone prolonged release tablets (3, 6, 9, and 12 mg), orthostatic hypotension was reported by 
2.5% of subjects treated with oral paliperidone compared with 0.8% of subjects treated with placebo. 
Xeplion should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, 
myocardial infarction or ischaemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions 
that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g. dehydration and hypovolaemia).
Seizures
Xeplion should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that 
potentially lower the seizure threshold.
Renal impairment
The plasma concentrations of paliperidone are increased in patients with renal impairment and 
therefore, dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment. Xeplion is not 
recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 50 mL/min) (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Caution is 
recommended if paliperidone is used in such patients.
Elderly patients with dementia
Xeplion has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. Xeplion should be used with caution in 
elderly patients with dementia with risk factors for stroke.
The experience from risperidone cited below is considered valid also for paliperidone.
7
Overall mortality
In a meta-analysis of 17 controlled clinical trials, elderly patients with dementia treated with other 
atypical antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, olanzapine, and quetiapine had an 
increased risk of mortality compared to placebo. Among those treated with risperidone, the mortality 
was 4% compared with 3.1% for placebo.
Cerebrovascular adverse reactions
An approximately 3-fold increased risk of cerebrovascular adverse reactions has been seen in 
randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials in the dementia population with some atypical 
antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine. The mechanism for this increased 
risk is not known.
Parkinson’s disease and dementia with Lewy bodies
Physicians should weigh the risks versus the benefits when prescribing Xeplion to patients with 
Parkinson’s Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) since both groups may be at increased risk 
of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome as well as having an increased sensitivity to antipsychotics. 
Manifestation of this increased sensitivity can include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with 
frequent falls, in addition to extrapyramidal symptoms.
Priapism
Antipsychotic medicinal products (including risperidone) with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have 
been reported to induce priapism. During post-marketing surveillance, priapism has also been reported 
with oral paliperidone, which is the active metabolite of risperidone. Patients should be informed to 
seek urgent medical care in case that priapism has not been resolved within 4 hours.
Body temperature regulation
Disruption of the body’s ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic 
medicinal products. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing Xeplion to patients who will be 
experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g.,
exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medicinal products with 
anticholinergic activity or being subject to dehydration.
Venous thromboembolism
Cases of venous thromboembolism (VTE) have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal products. 
Since patients treated with antipsychotics often present with acquired risk factors for VTE, all possible 
risk factors for VTE should be identified before and during treatment with Xeplion and preventative 
measures undertaken.
Antiemetic effect
An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in
humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain medicinal products or of 
conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye’s syndrome and brain tumour.
Administration
Care must be taken to avoid inadvertent injection of Xeplion into a blood vessel.
Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome
Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in patients 
treated with medicinal products with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect, such as Xeplion (see 
section 4.8).
8
IFIS may increase the risk of eye complications during and after the operation. Current or past use of 
medicinal products with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect should be made known to the 
ophthalmic surgeon in advance of surgery. The potential benefit of stopping alpha 1 blocking therapy 
prior to cataract surgery has not been established and must be weighed against the risk of stopping the 
antipsychotic therapy.
Excipients
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e., essentially 
sodium-free.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Caution is advised when prescribing Xeplion with medicinal products known to prolong the QT 
interval, e.g. class IA antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmics
(e.g. amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some other antipsychotics and some antimalarials 
(e.g. mefloquine). This list is indicative and not exhaustive.
Potential for Xeplion to affect other medicines
Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicinal 
products that are metabolised by cytochrome P-450 isozymes.
Given the primary central nervous system (CNS) effects of paliperidone (see section 4.8), Xeplion
should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products, e.g., 
anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, hypnotics, opiates, etc. or alcohol.
Paliperidone may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination 
is deemed necessary, particularly in end-stage Parkinson’s disease, the lowest effective dose of each 
treatment should be prescribed.
Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension (see section 4.4), an additive effect may 
be observed when Xeplion is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential, e.g., 
other antipsychotics, tricyclics.
Caution is advised if paliperidone is combined with other medicinal products known to lower the 
seizure threshold (i.e., phenothiazines or butyrophenones, tricyclics or SSRIs, tramadol, mefloquine, 
etc.).
Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged release tablets at steady-state (12 mg once daily) 
with divalproex sodium prolonged release tablets (500 mg to 2 000 mg once daily) did not affect the 
steady-state pharmacokinetics of valproate.
No interaction study between Xeplion and lithium has been performed, however, a pharmacokinetic 
interaction is not likely to occur.
Potential for other medicines to affect Xeplion
In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone 
metabolism, but there are no indications in vitro nor in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role 
in the metabolism of paliperidone. Concomitant administration of oral paliperidone with paroxetine, a 
potent CYP2D6 inhibitor, showed no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
paliperidone.
Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged release once daily with carbamazepine 200 mg twice 
daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. 
9
This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone 
likely as a result of induction of renal P-gp by carbamazepine. A minor decrease in the amount of 
active substance excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP 
metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. Larger 
decreases in plasma concentrations of paliperidone could occur with higher doses of carbamazepine. 
On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of Xeplion should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. 
Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of Xeplion should be re-evaluated and 
decreased if necessary.
Co-administration of a single dose of an oral paliperidone prolonged release tablet 12 mg with 
divalproex sodium prolonged release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of 
approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone, likely as a result of increased oral 
absorption. Since no effect on the systemic clearance was observed, a clinically significant interaction 
would not be expected between divalproex sodium prolonged release tablets and Xeplion
intramuscular injection. This interaction has not been studied with Xeplion.
Concomitant use of Xeplion with risperidone or with oral paliperidone
Since paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone, caution should be exercised when 
Xeplion is co-administered with risperidone or with oral paliperidone for extended periods of time. 
Safety data involving concomitant use of Xeplion with other antipsychotics is limited.
Concomitant use of Xeplion with psychostimulants
The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) with paliperidone can lead to 
extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of paliperidone during pregnancy. Intramuscularly injected 
paliperidone palmitate and orally administered paliperidone were not teratogenic in animal studies, but 
other types of reproductive toxicity were seen (see section 5.3). Neonates exposed to paliperidone 
during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or 
withdrawal symptoms that may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been 
reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding 
disorder. Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. Xeplion should not be used during 
pregnancy unless clearly necessary.
Breast-feeding
Paliperidone is excreted in the breast milk to such an extent that effects on the breast-fed infant are 
likely if therapeutic doses are administered to breast-feeding women. Xeplion should not be used 
while breast-feeding.
Fertility
There were no relevant effects observed in the non-clinical studies.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Paliperidone can have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines due to 
potential nervous system and visual effects, such as sedation, somnolence, syncope, vision blurred (see 
section 4.8). Therefore, patients should be advised not to drive or operate machines until their 
individual susceptibility to Xeplion is known.
10
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The adverse  reactions most frequently reported in clinical trials were insomnia, headache, anxiety, 
upper respiratory tract infection, injection site reaction, parkinsonism, weight increased, akathisia, 
agitation, sedation/somnolence, nausea, constipation, dizziness, musculoskeletal pain, tachycardia, 
tremor, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, fatigue, and dystonia. Of these, akathisia and 
sedation/somnolence appeared to be dose-related.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following are all adverse reactions that were reported with paliperidone by frequency category 
estimated from paliperidone palmitate clinical trials. The following terms and frequencies are applied: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data).
System Organ 
Class
Infections and 
infestations
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Endocrine 
disorders
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Very 
common
Common
upper respiratory 
tract infection, 
urinary tract 
infection, influenza
hyperprolactinaemiab
hyperglycaemia, 
weight increased, 
weight decreased, 
decreased appetite
Psychiatric 
disorders
insomniae
agitation, depression, 
anxiety
Adverse reactions
Frequency
Uncommon
pneumonia, bronchitis, 
respiratory tract 
infection, sinusitis, 
cystitis, ear infection, 
tonsillitis, 
onychomycosis, 
cellulitis,
subcutaneous abscess
white blood cell count 
decreased,  anaemia
hypersensitivity
diabetes mellitusd, 
hyperinsulinaemia, 
increased appetite, 
anorexia, blood 
triglycerides increased, 
blood cholesterol 
increased
sleep disorder, mania, 
libido decreased, 
nervousness, 
nightmare
Rare
Not knowna
eye infection, 
acarodermatitis
agranulocytosis
anaphylactic 
reaction
water intoxication
sleep-related 
eating disorder
neutropenia, 
thrombocytopenia,
eosinophil count 
increased
inappropriate 
antidiuretic 
hormone 
secretion, glucose 
urine present
diabetic 
ketoacidosis, 
hypoglycaemia, 
polydipsia
catatonia, 
confusional state, 
somnambulism, 
blunted affect, 
anorgasmia
11
Nervous system 
disorders
parkinsonismc, 
akathisiac, 
sedation/somnolence, 
dystoniac, dizziness, 
dyskinesiac, tremor, 
headache
tardive dyskinesia, 
syncope, psychomotor 
hyperactivity, 
dizziness postural, 
disturbance in 
attention, dysarthria, 
dysgeusia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
paraesthesia
Eye disorders
vision blurred, 
conjunctivitis, dry eye
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders
Cardiac disorders
tachycardia
vertigo, tinnitus, ear 
pain
atrioventricular block, 
conduction disorder, 
electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged, postural 
orthostatic tachycardia 
syndrome, 
bradycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
abnormal, palpitations
hypotension, 
orthostatic hypotension
dyspnoea, 
pharyngolaryngeal 
pain, epistaxis
hypertension
cough, nasal 
congestion
abdominal pain, 
vomiting, nausea, 
constipation, 
diarrhoea, dyspepsia, 
toothache
abdominal discomfort, 
gastroenteritis, 
dysphagia, dry mouth, 
flatulence
transaminases 
increased
musculoskeletal pain, 
back pain, arthralgia
gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
increased, hepatic 
enzyme increased
urticaria, pruritus, rash, 
alopecia, eczema, dry 
skin, erythema, acne
blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased, muscle 
spasms, joint stiffness,
muscular weakness
12
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders
diabetic coma
floppy iris 
syndrome 
(intraoperative)
neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome, 
cerebral 
ischaemia, 
unresponsive to 
stimuli, loss of 
consciousness, 
depressed level of 
consciousness, 
convulsione, 
balance disorder, 
coordination 
abnormal, head 
titubation
glaucoma, eye 
movement 
disorder, eye 
rolling, 
photophobia, 
lacrimation 
increased, ocular 
hyperaemia
atrial fibrillation, 
sinus arrhythmia
pulmonary 
embolism, venous 
thrombosis, 
flushing
sleep apnoea 
syndrome, 
pulmonary 
congestion, 
respiratory tract 
congestion, rales, 
wheezing
pancreatitis, 
intestinal 
obstruction, 
swollen tongue, 
faecal 
incontinence, 
faecaloma, 
cheilitis
ischaemia
hyperventilation, 
pneumonia 
aspiration, 
dysphonia
ileus
jaundice
drug eruption, 
hyperkeratosis, 
seborrhoeic 
dermatitis,
dandruff
rhabdomyolysis, 
joint swelling
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis, 
angioedema, skin 
discolouration
posture abnormal
Renal and 
urinary disorders
Pregnancy, 
puerperium and 
perinatal 
conditions
Reproductive 
system and breast 
disorders
General disorders 
and 
administration 
site conditions
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications
a
amenorrhoea
pyrexia, asthenia, 
fatigue, injection site 
reaction
urinary incontinence, 
pollakiuria, dysuria
urinary retention
erectile dysfunction, 
ejaculation disorder, 
menstrual disordere, 
gynaecomastia, 
galactorrhoea, sexual 
dysfunction, breast 
pain
face oedema, oedemae, 
body temperature 
increased, gait 
abnormal, chest pain, 
chest discomfort, 
malaise, induration
fall
priapism, breast 
discomfort, breast 
engorgement, 
breast 
enlargement,
vaginal discharge
hypothermia, 
chills, thirst, drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome, 
injection site 
abscess, injection 
site cellulitis, 
injection site cyst, 
injection site 
haematoma
drug withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal (see 
section 4.6)
body temperature 
decreased, 
injection site 
necrosis, 
injection site 
ulcer
The frequency of adverse reactions is qualified as “not known” because they were not observed in paliperidone palmitate 
clinical trials. They were either derived from spontaneous post-marketing reports and frequency cannot be determined, or they 
were derived from risperidone (any formulation) or oral paliperidone clinical trials data and/or post-marketing reports.
b Refer to ‘Hyperprolactinaemia’ below.
c Refer to ‘Extrapyramidal symptoms’ below.
d
e
In placebo-controlled trials, diabetes mellitus was reported in 0.32% in Xeplion-treated subjects compared to a rate of 0.39% 
in placebo group. Overall incidence from all clinical trials was 0.65% in all Xeplion treated subjects.
Insomnia includes: initial insomnia, middle insomnia; Convulsion includes: grand mal convulsion; Oedema includes:
generalised oedema, oedema peripheral, pitting oedema. Menstrual disorder includes: menstruation delayed, menstruation 
irregular, oligomenorrhoea.
Undesirable effects noted with risperidone formulations
Paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone, therefore, the adverse reaction profiles of these 
compounds (including both the oral and injectable formulations) are relevant to one another.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Anaphylactic reaction
Rarely, cases of anaphylactic reaction after injection with Xeplion have been reported during 
post-marketing experience in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral 
paliperidone (see section 4.4).
Injection site reactions
The most commonly reported injection site related adverse reaction was pain. The majority of these 
reactions were reported to be of mild to moderate severity. Subject evaluations of injection site pain 
based on a visual analogue scale tended to lessen in frequency and intensity over time in all Phase 2 
and 3 studies with Xeplion. Injections into the deltoid were perceived as slightly more painful than 
corresponding gluteal injections. Other injection site reactions were mostly mild in intensity and 
included induration (common), pruritus (uncommon) and nodules (rare).
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)
EPS included a pooled analysis of the following terms: parkinsonism (includes salivary 
hypersecretion, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism, drooling, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, 
hypokinesia, masked facies, muscle tightness, akinesia, nuchal rigidity, muscle rigidity, parkinsonian 
gait, glabellar reflex abnormal, and parkinsonian rest tremor), akathisia (includes akathisia, 
13
restlessness, hyperkinesia, and restless leg syndrome), dyskinesia (dyskinesia, muscle twitching, 
choreoathetosis, athetosis, and myoclonus), dystonia (includes dystonia, hypertonia, torticollis, muscle 
contractions involuntary, muscle contracture, blepharospasm, oculogyration, tongue paralysis, facial 
spasm, laryngospasm, myotonia, opisthotonus, oropharyngeal spasm, pleurothotonus, tongue spasm, 
and trismus), and tremor. It should be noted that a broader spectrum of symptoms are included that do 
not necessarily have an extrapyramidal origin.
Weight gain
In the 13-week study involving the 150 mg initiation dosing, the proportion of subjects with an 
abnormal weight increase ≥ 7% showed a dose-related trend, with a 5% incidence rate in the placebo 
group compared with rates of 6%, 8% and 13% in the Xeplion 25 mg, 100 mg, and 150 mg groups, 
respectively.
During the 33-week open-label transition/maintenance period of the long-term recurrence prevention 
trial, 12% of Xeplion-treated subjects met this criterion (weight gain of ≥ 7% from double-blind phase 
to endpoint); the mean (SD) weight change from open-label baseline was + 0.7 (4.79) kg.
Hyperprolactinaemia
In clinical trials, median increases in serum prolactin were observed in subjects of both genders who 
received Xeplion. Adverse reactions that may suggest increase in prolactin levels (e.g., amenorrhoea, 
galactorrhoea, menstrual disturbances, gynaecomastia) were reported overall in < 1% of subjects.
Class effects
QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias (ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia), sudden 
unexplained death, cardiac arrest, and Torsade de pointes may occur with antipsychotics.
Cases of venous thromboembolism, including cases of pulmonary embolism and cases of deep vein 
thrombosis, have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal products (frequency unknown).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medical product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Symptoms
In general, expected signs and symptoms are those resulting from an exaggeration of paliperidone’s 
known pharmacological effects, i.e., drowsiness and sedation, tachycardia and hypotension, QT 
prolongation, and extrapyramidal symptoms. Torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been 
reported in a patient in the setting of overdose with oral paliperidone. In the case of acute overdose, 
the possibility of multiple drug involvement should be considered.
Management
Consideration should be given to the prolonged release nature of the medicinal product and the long 
elimination half-life of paliperidone when assessing treatment needs and recovery. There is no specific 
antidote to paliperidone. General supportive measures should be employed. Establish and maintain a 
clear airway and ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation.
Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous
electrocardiographic monitoring for possible arrhythmias. Hypotension and circulatory collapse should 
be treated with appropriate measures such as intravenous fluid and/or sympathomimetic agents. In 
14
case of severe extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic agents should be administered. Close 
supervision and monitoring should continue until the patient recovers.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Psycholeptics, other antipsychotics. ATC code: N05AX13
Xeplion contains a racemic mixture of (+)- and (-)-paliperidone.
Mechanism of action
Paliperidone is a selective blocking agent of monoamine effects, whose pharmacological properties 
are different from that of traditional neuroleptics. Paliperidone binds strongly to serotonergic 5-HT2-
and dopaminergic D2-receptors. Paliperidone also blocks alpha 1-adrenergic receptors and slightly 
less, H1-histaminergic and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. The pharmacological activity of the (+)- and 
(-)-paliperidone enantiomers are qualitatively and quantitatively similar.
Paliperidone is not bound to cholinergic receptors. Even though paliperidone is a strong 
D2-antagonist, which is believed to relieve the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, it causes less 
catalepsy and decreases motor functions less than traditional neuroleptics. Dominating central 
serotonin antagonism may reduce the tendency of paliperidone to cause extrapyramidal side effects.
Clinical efficacy
Acute treatment of schizophrenia
The efficacy of Xeplion in the acute treatment of schizophrenia was established in four short-term 
(one 9-week and three 13-week) double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies of 
acutely relapsed adult inpatients who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia. The fixed doses of 
Xeplion in these studies were given on days 1, 8, and 36 in the 9-week study, and additionally on 
day 64 of the 13-week studies. No additional oral antipsychotic supplementation was needed during 
the acute treatment of schizophrenia with Xeplion. The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as a 
decrease in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores as shown in the table below. 
The PANSS is a validated multi-item inventory composed of five factors to evaluate positive 
symptoms, negative symptoms, disorganised thoughts, uncontrolled hostility/excitement and 
anxiety/depression. Functioning was evaluated using the Personal and Social Performance (PSP) scale. 
The PSP is a validated clinician rated scale that measures personal and social functioning in four 
domains: socially useful activities (work and study), personal and social relationships, self-care and 
disturbing and aggressive behaviours.
In a 13-week study (n = 636) comparing three fixed doses of Xeplion (initial deltoid injection of 
150 mg followed by 3 gluteal or deltoid doses of either 25 mg/4 weeks, 100 mg/4 weeks or 
150 mg/4 weeks) to placebo, all three doses of Xeplion were superior to placebo in improving the 
PANSS total score. In this study, both the 100 mg/4 weeks and 150 mg /4 weeks, but not the 
25 mg/4 weeks, treatment groups demonstrated statistical superiority to placebo for the PSP score. 
These results support efficacy across the entire duration of treatment and improvement in PANSS and 
was observed as early as day 4 with significant separation from placebo in the 25 mg and 150 mg
Xeplion groups by day 8.
The results of the other studies yielded statistically significant results in favour of Xeplion, except for 
the 50 mg dose in one study (see table below).
15
Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) Total Score - Change From Baseline to End 
Point- LOCF for Studies R092670-SCH-201, R092670-PSY-3003, R092670-PSY-3004 and 
R092670-PSY-3007: Primary Efficacy Analysis Set
R092670-PSY-3007*
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
R092670-PSY-3003
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
R092670-PSY-3004
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
R092670-SCH-201
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
Placebo
n = 160
86.8 (10.31)
-2.9 (19.26)
--
n = 132
92.4 (12.55)
-4.1 (21.01)
--
n = 125
90.7 (12.22)
-7.0 (20.07)
--
n = 66
87.8 (13.90)
6.2 (18.25)
--
25 mg
n = 155
86.9 (11.99)
-8.0 (19.90)
0.034
50 mg
--
--
n = 93
89.9 (10.78)
-7.9 (18.71)
0.193
n = 129
90.7 (12.25)
-13.6 (21.45)
0.015
n = 128
91.2 (12.02)
-13.2 (20.14)
0.017
--
n = 63
88.0 (12.39)
-5.2 (21.52)
0.001
100 mg
n = 161
86.2 (10.77)
-11.6 (17.63)
< 0.001
n = 94
90.1 (11.66)
-11.0 (19.06)
0.019
n = 131
90.8 (11.70)
-16.1 (20.36)
< 0.001
n = 68
85.2 (11.09)
-7.8 (19.40)
< 0.0001
150 mg
n = 160
88.4 (11.70)
-13.2 (18.48)
< 0.001
n = 30
92.2 (11.72)
-5.5 (19.78)
--
--
--
* For Study R092670-PSY-3007 an initiation dose of 150 mg was given to all subjects in the Xeplion treatment groups on 
day 1 followed by the assigned dose afterwards.
Note: Negative change in score indicates improvement.
Maintaining symptom control and delaying relapse of schizophrenia
The efficacy of Xeplion in maintaining symptomatic control and delaying relapse of schizophrenia 
was established in a longer-term double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible-dose study involving 849 
non-elderly adult subjects who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia. This study included a 33-week 
open-label acute treatment and stabilisation phase, a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled 
phase to observe for relapse, and a 52-week open-label extension period. In this study, doses of 
Xeplion included 25, 50, 75, and 100 mg administered monthly; the 75 mg dose was allowed only in 
the 52-week open-label extension. Subjects initially received flexible doses (25-100 mg) of Xeplion
during a 9-week transition period, followed by a 24-week maintenance period, where subjects were 
required to have a PANSS score of ≤ 75. Dosing adjustments were only allowed in the first 12 weeks 
of the maintenance period. A total of 410 stabilised patients were randomised to either Xeplion
(median duration 171 days [range 1 day to 407 days]) or to placebo (median duration 105 days [range 
8 days to 441 days]) until they experienced a relapse of schizophrenia symptoms in the variable length 
double-blind phase. The trial was stopped early for efficacy reasons as a significantly longer time to 
relapse (p < 0.0001, Figure 1) was seen in patients treated with Xeplion compared to placebo (hazard 
ratio = 4.32; 95% CI: 2.4-7.7).
16
e
s
p
a
e
R
l
t
u
o
h
t
i
W
s
t
c
e
b
u
S
j
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
100
80
60
40
20
0
Placebo N=156
XEPLION N=156
Log-rank test, P-value<0.0001
20
40
60
80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 240 260 280 300
Days since Randomisation
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Plot of Time to Relapse – Interim Analysis (Intent-to-Treat Interim 
Analysis Set)
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Xeplion in all subsets of the paediatric population in schizophrenia. See section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption and distribution
Paliperidone palmitate is the palmitate ester prodrug of paliperidone. Due to its extremely low water 
solubility, paliperidone palmitate dissolves slowly after intramuscular injection before being 
hydrolysed to paliperidone and absorbed into the systemic circulation. Following a single 
intramuscular dose, the plasma concentrations of paliperidone gradually rise to reach maximum 
plasma concentrations at a median Tmax of 13 days. The release of the active substance starts as early 
as day 1 and lasts for at least 4 months.
Following intramuscular injection of single doses (25-150 mg) in the deltoid muscle, on average, a 
28% higher Cmax was observed compared with injection in the gluteal muscle. The two initial deltoid 
intramuscular injections of 150 mg on day 1 and 100 mg on day 8 help attain therapeutic 
concentrations rapidly. The release profile and dosing regimen of Xeplion results in sustained 
therapeutic concentrations. The total exposure of paliperidone following Xeplion administration was 
dose-proportional over a 25-150 mg dose range, and less than dose-proportional for Cmax for doses 
exceeding 50 mg. The mean steady-state peak:trough ratio for a Xeplion dose of 100 mg was 1.8 
following gluteal administration and 2.2 following deltoid administration. The median apparent 
17
 
 
 
 
 
half-life of paliperidone following Xeplion administration over the dose range of 25-150 mg ranged 
from 25-49 days.
The absolute bioavailability of paliperidone palmitate following Xeplion administration is 100%.
Following administration of paliperidone palmitate the (+) and (-) enantiomers of paliperidone 
interconvert, reaching an AUC (+) to (-) ratio of approximately 1.6-1.8.
The plasma protein binding of racemic paliperidone is 74%.
Biotransformation and elimination
One week following administration of a single oral dose of 1 mg immediate-release 14C-paliperidone, 
59% of the dose was excreted unchanged into urine, indicating that paliperidone is not extensively 
metabolised in the liver. Approximately 80% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in urine 
and 11% in the faeces. Four metabolic pathways have been identified in vivo, none of which accounted 
for more than 6.5% of the dose: dealkylation, hydroxylation, dehydrogenation, and benzisoxazole 
scission. Although in vitro studies suggested a role for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 in the metabolism of 
paliperidone, there is no evidence in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role in the metabolism 
of paliperidone. Population pharmacokinetics analyses indicated no discernible difference on the 
apparent clearance of paliperidone after administration of oral paliperidone between extensive 
metabolisers and poor metabolisers of CYP2D6 substrates. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes 
showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of medicinal products
metabolised by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, 
CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5.
In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate and a weak inhibitor of P-gp at high 
concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown.
Long acting paliperidone palmitate injection versus oral prolonged release paliperidone
Xeplion is designed to deliver paliperidone over a monthly period while prolonged release oral 
paliperidone is administered on a daily basis. The initiation regimen for Xeplion (150 mg/100 mg in 
the deltoid muscle on day 1/day 8) was designed to rapidly attain steady-state paliperidone 
concentrations when initiating therapy without the use of oral supplementation.
In general, overall initiation plasma levels with Xeplion were within the exposure range observed with 
6-12 mg prolonged release oral paliperidone. The use of the Xeplion initiation regimen allowed 
patients to stay in this exposure window of 6-12 mg prolonged release oral paliperidone even on 
trough pre-dose days (day 8 and day 36). Because of the difference in median pharmacokinetic 
profiles between the two medicinal products, caution should be exercised when making a direct 
comparison of their pharmacokinetic properties.
Hepatic impairment
Paliperidone is not extensively metabolised in the liver. Although Xeplion was not studied on patients 
with hepatic impairment, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. In a study with oral paliperidone in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh class B), the plasma concentrations of free paliperidone were similar to those of healthy 
subjects. Paliperidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
Renal impairment
The disposition of a single oral dose paliperidone 3 mg prolonged release tablet was studied in 
subjects with varying degrees of renal function. Elimination of paliperidone decreased with decreasing 
estimated creatinine clearance. Total clearance of paliperidone was reduced in subjects with impaired 
renal function by 32% on average in mild (CrCl = 50 to < 80 mL/min), 64% in moderate (CrCl = 30 to 
18
< 50 mL/min), and 71% in severe (CrCl = 10 to < 30 mL/min) renal impairment, corresponding to an 
average increase in exposure (AUCinf) of 1.5, 2.6, and 4.8 fold, respectively, compared to healthy 
subjects. Based on a limited number of observations with Xeplion in subjects with mild renal 
impairment and pharmacokinetic simulations, a reduced dose is recommended (see section 4.2).
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetics analysis showed no evidence of age related pharmacokinetics 
differences.
Body mass index (BMI)/body weight
Pharmacokinetic studies with paliperidone palmitate have shown somewhat lower (10-20%) plasma 
concentrations of paliperidone in patients who are overweight or obese in comparison with normal 
weight patients (see section 4.2).
Race
Population pharmacokinetics analysis of data from studies with oral paliperidone revealed no evidence 
of race-related differences in the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone following Xeplion administration.
Gender
No clinically significant differences were observed between men and women.
Smoking status
Based on in vitro studies utilising human liver enzymes, paliperidone is not a substrate for CYP1A2; 
smoking should, therefore, not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone. Effect of 
smoking on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone was not studied with Xeplion. A population 
pharmacokinetic analysis based on data with oral paliperidone prolonged release tablets showed a 
slightly lower exposure to paliperidone in smokers compared with non-smokers. The difference is 
unlikely to be of clinical relevance.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Repeat-dose toxicity studies of intramuscularly injected paliperidone palmitate (the 1-month 
formulation) and orally administered paliperidone in rat and dog showed mainly pharmacological 
effects, such as sedation and prolactin-mediated effects on mammary glands and genitals. In animals 
treated with paliperidone palmitate an inflammatory reaction was seen at the intramuscular injection 
site. Occasionally abscess formation occurred.
In rat reproduction studies with oral risperidone, which is extensively converted to paliperidone in rats 
and humans, adverse effects were seen on the birth weight and survival of the offspring. No 
embryotoxicity or malformations were observed following intramuscular administration of 
paliperidone palmitate to pregnant rats up to the highest dose (160 mg/kg/day) corresponding to 
4.1 times the exposure level in humans at the maximum recommended dose of 150 mg. Other 
dopamine antagonists, when administered to pregnant animals, have caused negative effects on 
learning and motor development in the offspring.
Paliperidone palmitate and paliperidone were not genotoxic. In oral carcinogenicity studies of 
risperidone in rats and mice, increases in pituitary gland adenomas (mouse), endocrine pancreas 
adenomas (rat), and mammary gland adenomas (both species) were seen. The carcinogenic potential 
of intramuscularly injected paliperidone palmitate was assessed in rats. There was a statistically 
significant increase in mammary gland adenocarcinomas in female rats at 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg/month. 
Male rats showed a statistically significant increase in mammary gland adenomas and carcinomas at 
30 and 60 mg/kg/month which is 1.2 and 2.2 times the exposure level at the maximum recommended 
19
human 150 mg dose. These tumours can be related to prolonged dopamine D2 antagonism and 
hyperprolactinaemia. The relevance of these tumour findings in rodents in terms of human risk is 
unknown.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Polysorbate 20
Polyethylene glycol 4 000
Citric acid monohydrate
Disodium hydrogen phosphate anhydrous
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 30°C.
6.5 Nature and contents of container
25 mg0.25 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, 
backstop, and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) 
and a 23G 1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
50 mg 
0.5 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, backstop, 
and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) and a 23G 
1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
75 mg 
0.75 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, backstop, 
and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) and a 23G 
1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
100 mg
1 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, backstop, 
and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) and a 23G 
1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
150 mg
1.5 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, backstop, 
and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) and a 23G 
1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
Pack sizes:
Pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe and 2 needles.
20
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/001 (25 mg)
EU/1/11/672/002 (50 mg)
EU/1/11/672/003 (75 mg)
EU/1/11/672/004 (100 mg)
EU/1/11/672/005 (150 mg)
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 04 March 2011
Date of latest renewal: 16 December 2015
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
21
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 150 mg and Xeplion 100 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
2.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each pre-filled syringe contains 156 mg paliperidone palmitate in 1 mL equivalent to 100 mg
paliperidone.
Each pre-filled syringe contains 234 mg paliperidone palmitate in 1.5 mL equivalent to 150 mg
paliperidone.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
The suspension is white to off-white. The suspension is pH neutral (approximately 7.0).
4.
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1 Therapeutic indications
Xeplion is indicated for maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients stabilised with 
paliperidone or risperidone.
In selected adult patients with schizophrenia and previous responsiveness to oral paliperidone or 
risperidone, Xeplion may be used without prior stabilisation with oral treatment if psychotic symptoms 
are mild to moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed.
4.2
Posology and method of administration
Posology
Recommended initiation of Xeplion is with a dose of 150 mg on treatment day 1 and 100 mg
one week later (day 8), both administered in the deltoid muscle in order to attain therapeutic 
concentrations rapidly (see section 5.2). The third dose should be administered one month after the 
second initiation dose. The recommended monthly maintenance dose is 75 mg; some patients may 
benefit from lower or higher doses within the recommended range of 25 to 150 mg based on 
individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy. Patients who are overweight or obese may require doses 
in the upper range (see section 5.2). Following the second initiation dose, monthly maintenance doses 
can be administered in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle.
Adjustment of the maintenance dose may be made monthly. When making dose adjustments, the 
prolonged release characteristics of Xeplion should be considered (see section 5.2), as the full effect of 
maintenance doses may not be evident for several months.
Switching from oral prolonged release paliperidone or oral risperidone to Xeplion
Xeplion should be initiated as described at the beginning of section 4.2 above. During monthly 
maintenance treatment with Xeplion, patients previously stabilised on different doses of paliperidone 
prolonged release tablets can attain similar paliperdone steady-state exposure by injection. The 
Xeplion maintenance doses needed to attain similar steady-state exposure are shown as follows:
22
Doses of paliperidone prolonged release tablets and Xeplion needed to attain similar steady-
state paliperidone exposure during maintenance treatment
Previous paliperidone
prolonged release tablet dose
3 mg daily
6 mg daily
9 mg daily
12 mg daily
Xeplion injection
25-50 mg monthly
75 mg monthly
100 mg monthly
150 mg monthly
Previous oral paliperidone or oral risperidone can be discontinued at the time of initiation of treatment 
with Xeplion. Some patients may benefit from gradual withdrawal. Some patients switching from 
higher paliperidone oral doses (e.g., 9-12 mg daily) to gluteal injections with Xeplion may have lower 
plasma exposure during the first 6 months after the switch. Therefore, alternatively, it could be 
considered to give deltoid injections for the first 6 months.
Switching from risperidone long acting injection to Xeplion
When switching patients from risperidone long acting injection, initiate Xeplion therapy in place of 
the next scheduled injection. Xeplion should then be continued at monthly intervals. The one-week 
initiation dosing regimen including the intramuscular injections (day 1 and 8, respectively) as 
described in section 4.2 above is not required. Patients previously stabilised on different doses of 
risperidone long acting injection can attain similar paliperidone steady-state exposure during 
maintenance treatment with Xeplion monthly doses according to the following:
Doses of risperidone long acting injection and Xeplion needed to attain similar paliperidone 
exposure at steady-state
Previous risperidone long acting injection dose
25 mg every 2 weeks
37.5 mg every 2 weeks
50 mg every 2 weeks
Xeplion injection
50 mg monthly
75 mg monthly
100 mg monthly
Discontinuation of antipsychotic medicinal products should be made in accordance with appropriate 
prescribing information. If Xeplion is discontinued, its prolonged release characteristics must be 
considered. The need for continuing existing extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) medicine should be 
re-evaluated periodically.
Missed doses
Avoiding missed doses
It is recommended that the second initiation dose of Xeplion be given one week after the first dose. To 
avoid a missed dose, patients may be given the second dose 4 days before or after the one-week 
(day 8) time point. Similarly, the third and subsequent injections after the initiation regimen are 
recommended to be given monthly. To avoid a missed monthly dose, patients may be given the 
injection up to 7 days before or after the monthly time point.
If the target date for the second Xeplion injection (day 8 ± 4 days) is missed, the recommended 
reinitiation depends on the length of time which has elapsed since the patient's first injection.
Missed second initiation dose (< 4 weeks from first injection)
If less than 4 weeks have elapsed since the first injection, then the patient should be administered the 
second injection of 100 mg in the deltoid muscle as soon as possible. A third Xeplion injection of 
75 mg in either the deltoid or gluteal muscles should be administered 5 weeks after the first injection 
(regardless of the timing of the second injection). The normal monthly cycle of injections in either the 
deltoid or gluteal muscle of 25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy 
should be followed thereafter.
23
Missed second initiation dose (4-7 weeks from first injection)
If 4 to 7 weeks have elapsed since the first injection of Xeplion, resume dosing with two injections of 
100 mg in the following manner:
1.
2.
3.
a deltoid injection as soon as possible
another deltoid injection one week later
resumption of the normal monthly cycle of injections in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle of 
25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
Missed second initiation dose (> 7 weeks from first injection)
If more than 7 weeks have elapsed since the first injection of Xeplion, initiate dosing as described for 
the initial recommended initiation of Xeplion above.
Missed monthly maintenance dose (1 month to 6 weeks)
After initiation, the recommended injection cycle of Xeplion is monthly. If less than 6 weeks have 
elapsed since the last injection, then the previously stabilised dose should be administered as soon as 
possible, followed by injections at monthly intervals.
Missed monthly maintenance dose (> 6 weeks to 6 months)
If more than 6 weeks have elapsed since the last injection of Xeplion, the recommendation is as 
follows:
For patients stabilised with doses of 25 to 100 mg
1.
2.
3.
a deltoid injection as soon as possible at the same dose the patient was previously stabilised on
another deltoid injection (same dose) one week later (day 8)
resumption of the normal monthly cycle of injections in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle of 
25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
For patients stabilised with 150 mg
1.
2.
3.
a deltoid injection as soon as possible at the 100 mg dose
another deltoid injection one week later (day 8) at the 100 mg dose
resumption of the normal monthly cycle of injections in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle of 
25 mg to 150 mg based on individual patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
Missed monthly maintenance dose (> 6 months)
If more than 6 months have elapsed since the last injection of Xeplion, initiate dosing as described for 
the initial recommended initiation of Xeplion above.
Special populations
Elderly
Efficacy and safety in elderly > 65 years have not been established.
In general, recommended dosing of Xeplion for elderly patients with normal renal function is the same 
as for younger adult patients with normal renal function. However, because elderly patients may have 
diminished renal function, dose adjustment may be necessary (see Renal impairment below for dosing 
recommendations in patients with renal impairment).
Renal impairment
Xeplion has not been systematically studied in patients with renal impairment (see section 5.2). For 
patients with mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance ≥ 50 to < 80 mL/min), recommended 
initiation of Xeplion is with a dose of 100 mg on treatment day 1 and 75 mg one week later, both 
administered in the deltoid muscle. The recommended monthly maintenance dose is 50 mg with a 
range of 25 to 100 mg based on patient tolerability and/or efficacy.
Xeplion is not recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 50 mL/min) (see section 4.4).
24
Hepatic impairment
Based on experience with oral paliperidone, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or 
moderate hepatic impairment. As paliperidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic 
impairment, caution is recommended in such patients (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of Xeplion in children and adolescents < 18 years of age have not been 
established. No data are available.
Method of administration
Xeplion is intended for intramuscular use only. It must not be administered by any other route. It 
should be injected slowly, deep into the deltoid or gluteal muscle. Each injection should be 
administered by a healthcare professional. Administration should be in a single injection. The dose 
should not be given in divided injections.
The day 1 and day 8 initiation doses must each be administered in the deltoid muscle in order to attain 
therapeutic concentrations rapidly (see section 5.2). Following the second initiation dose, monthly 
maintenance doses can be administered in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle. A switch from gluteal 
to deltoid (and vice versa) should be considered in the event of injection site pain if the injection site 
discomfort is not well tolerated (see section 4.8). It is also recommended to alternate between left and 
right sides (see below).
For instructions for use and handling of Xeplion, see package leaflet (information intended for medical 
or healthcare professionals).
Deltoid muscle administration
The recommended needle size for initial and maintenance administration of Xeplion into the deltoid 
muscle is determined by the patient’s weight. For those ≥ 90 kg, the 1½ inch, 22 gauge needle 
(38.1 mm x 0.72 mm) is recommended. For those < 90 kg, the 1-inch, 23 gauge needle 
(25.4 mm x 0.64 mm) is recommended. Deltoid injections should be alternated between the two 
deltoid muscles.
Gluteal muscle administration
The recommended needle size for maintenance administration of Xeplion into the gluteal muscle is the 
1½-inch, 22 gauge needle (38.1 mm x 0.72 mm). Administration should be made into the upper-outer 
quadrant of the gluteal area. Gluteal injections should be alternated between the two gluteal muscles.
4.3 Contraindications
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to risperidone or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1.
4.4
Special warnings and precautions for use
Use in patients who are in an acutely agitated or severely psychotic state
Xeplion should not be used to manage acutely agitated or severely psychotic states when immediate 
symptom control is warranted.
QT interval
Caution should be exercised when paliperidone is prescribed in patients with known cardiovascular 
disease or family history of QT prolongation, and in concomitant use with other medicinal products 
thought to prolong the QT interval.
25
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome
Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome (NMS), characterised by hyperthermia, muscle rigidity, autonomic 
instability, altered consciousness, and elevated serum creatine phosphokinase levels has been reported 
to occur with paliperidone. Additional clinical signs may include myoglobinuria (rhabdomyolysis) and 
acute renal failure. If a patient develops signs or symptoms indicative of NMS, paliperidone should be 
discontinued.
Tardive dyskinesia/extrapyramidal symptoms
Medicinal products with dopamine receptor antagonistic properties have been associated with the 
induction of tardive dyskinesia characterised by rhythmical, involuntary movements, predominantly of 
the tongue and/or face. If signs and symptoms of tardive dyskinesia appear, the discontinuation of all 
antipsychotics, including paliperidone, should be considered.
Caution is warranted in patients receiving both, psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) and 
paliperidone concomitantly, as extrapyramidal symptoms could emerge when adjusting one or both 
medications. Gradual withdrawal of stimulant treatment is recommended (see section 4.5).
Leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis
Events of leucopenia, neutropenia, and agranulocytosis have been reported with Xeplion. 
Agranulocytosis has been reported very rarely (< 1/10,000 patients) during post-marketing 
surveillance. Patients with a history of a clinically significant low white blood cell count (WBC) or a 
drug-induced leucopenia/neutropenia should be monitored during the first few months of therapy and 
discontinuation of Xeplion should be considered at the first sign of a clinically significant decline in 
WBC in the absence of other causative factors. Patients with clinically significant neutropenia should 
be carefully monitored for fever or other symptoms or signs of infection and treated promptly if such 
symptoms or signs occur. Patients with severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count < 1 x 109/L) 
should discontinue Xeplion and have their WBC followed until recovery.
Hypersensitivity reactions
Anaphylactic reactions in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral paliperidone 
have been rarely reported during post-marketing experience (see sections 4.1 and 4.8).
If hypersensitivity reactions occur, discontinue use of Xeplion; initiate general supportive measures as 
clinically appropriate and monitor the patient until signs and symptoms resolve (see sections 4.3 and 
4.8).
Hyperglycaemia and diabetes mellitus
Hyperglycaemia, diabetes mellitus, and exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes including diabetic coma 
and ketoacidosis, have been reported during treatment with paliperidone. Appropriate clinical 
monitoring is advisable in accordance with utilised antipsychotic guidelines. Patients treated with 
Xeplion should be monitored for symptoms of hyperglycaemia (such as polydipsia, polyuria, 
polyphagia and weakness) and patients with diabetes mellitus should be monitored regularly for 
worsening of glucose control.
Weight gain
Significant weight gain has been reported with Xeplion use. Weight should be monitored regularly.
Use in patients with prolactin-dependent tumours
Tissue culture studies suggest that cell growth in human breast tumours may be stimulated by 
prolactin. Although no clear association with the administration of antipsychotics has so far been 
26
demonstrated in clinical and epidemiological studies, caution is recommended in patients with relevant 
medical history. Paliperidone should be used with caution in patients with a pre-existing tumour that 
may be prolactin-dependent.
Orthostatic hypotension
Paliperidone may induce orthostatic hypotension in some patients based on its alpha-blocking activity.
Based on pooled data from the three placebo-controlled, 6-week, fixed-dose trials with oral 
paliperidone prolonged release tablets (3, 6, 9, and 12 mg), orthostatic hypotension was reported by 
2.5% of subjects treated with oral paliperidone compared with 0.8% of subjects treated with placebo. 
Xeplion should be used with caution in patients with known cardiovascular disease (e.g., heart failure, 
myocardial infarction or ischaemia, conduction abnormalities), cerebrovascular disease, or conditions 
that predispose the patient to hypotension (e.g., dehydration and hypovolaemia).
Seizures
Xeplion should be used cautiously in patients with a history of seizures or other conditions that 
potentially lower the seizure threshold.
Renal impairment
The plasma concentrations of paliperidone are increased in patients with renal impairment and 
therefore, dose adjustment is recommended in patients with mild renal impairment. Xeplion is not 
recommended in patients with moderate or severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 50 mL/min) (see sections 4.2 and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh class C). Caution is 
recommended if paliperidone is used in such patients.
Elderly patients with dementia
Xeplion has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. Xeplion should be used with caution in 
elderly patients with dementia with risk factors for stroke.
The experience from risperidone cited below is considered valid also for paliperidone.
Overall mortality
In a meta-analysis of 17 controlled clinical trials, elderly patients with dementia treated with other 
atypical antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, olanzapine, and quetiapine had an 
increased risk of mortality compared to placebo. Among those treated with risperidone, the mortality 
was 4% compared with 3.1% for placebo.
Cerebrovascular adverse reactions
An approximately 3-fold increased risk of cerebrovascular adverse reactions has been seen in 
randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials in the dementia population with some atypical 
antipsychotics, including risperidone, aripiprazole, and olanzapine. The mechanism for this increased 
risk is not known.
Parkinson’s disease and dementia with Lewy bodies
Physicians should weigh the risks versus the benefits when prescribing Xeplion to patients with 
Parkinson’s Disease or Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) since both groups may be at increased risk 
of Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome as well as having an increased sensitivity to antipsychotics. 
Manifestation of this increased sensitivity can include confusion, obtundation, postural instability with 
frequent falls, in addition to extrapyramidal symptoms.
27
Priapism
Antipsychotic medicinal products (including risperidone) with alpha-adrenergic blocking effects have 
been reported to induce priapism. During post-marketing surveillance, priapism has also been reported 
with oral paliperidone, which is the active metabolite of risperidone. Patients should be informed to 
seek urgent medical care in case that priapism has not been resolved within 4 hours.
Body temperature regulation
Disruption of the body’s ability to reduce core body temperature has been attributed to antipsychotic 
medicinal products. Appropriate care is advised when prescribing Xeplion to patients who will be 
experiencing conditions which may contribute to an elevation in core body temperature, e.g.,
exercising strenuously, exposure to extreme heat, receiving concomitant medicinal products with 
anticholinergic activity or being subject to dehydration.
Venous thromboembolism
Cases of venous thromboembolism (VTE) have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal products. 
Since patients treated with antipsychotics often present with acquired risk factors for VTE, all possible 
risk factors for VTE should be identified before and during treatment with Xeplion and preventative 
measures undertaken.
Antiemetic effect
An antiemetic effect was observed in preclinical studies with paliperidone. This effect, if it occurs in
humans, may mask the signs and symptoms of overdosage with certain medicinal products or of 
conditions such as intestinal obstruction, Reye’s syndrome and brain tumour.
Administration
Care must be taken to avoid inadvertent injection of Xeplion into a blood vessel.
Intraoperative Floppy Iris Syndrome
Intraoperative floppy iris syndrome (IFIS) has been observed during cataract surgery in patients 
treated with medicinal products with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect, such as Xeplion (see 
section 4.8).
IFIS may increase the risk of eye complications during and after the operation. Current or past use of 
medicinal products with alpha 1a-adrenergic antagonist effect should be made known to the 
ophthalmic surgeon in advance of surgery. The potential benefit of stopping alpha 1 blocking therapy 
prior to cataract surgery has not been established and must be weighed against the risk of stopping the 
antipsychotic therapy.
Excipients
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, i.e., essentially 
sodium-free.
4.5
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
Caution is advised when prescribing Xeplion with medicinal products known to prolong the QT 
interval, e.g. class IA antiarrhythmics (e.g., quinidine, disopyramide) and class III antiarrhythmics
(e.g. amiodarone, sotalol), some antihistaminics, some other antipsychotics and some antimalarials 
(e.g. mefloquine). This list is indicative and not exhaustive.
28
Potential for Xeplion to affect other medicines
Paliperidone is not expected to cause clinically important pharmacokinetic interactions with medicinal 
products that are metabolised by cytochrome P-450 isozymes.
Given the primary central nervous system (CNS) effects of paliperidone (see section 4.8), Xeplion
should be used with caution in combination with other centrally acting medicinal products, e.g., 
anxiolytics, most antipsychotics, hypnotics, opiates, etc. or alcohol.
Paliperidone may antagonise the effect of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. If this combination 
is deemed necessary, particularly in end-stage Parkinson’s disease, the lowest effective dose of each 
treatment should be prescribed.
Because of its potential for inducing orthostatic hypotension (see section 4.4), an additive effect may 
be observed when Xeplion is administered with other therapeutic agents that have this potential, e.g., 
other antipsychotics, tricyclics.
Caution is advised if paliperidone is combined with other medicinal products known to lower the 
seizure threshold (i.e., phenothiazines or butyrophenones, tricyclics or SSRIs, tramadol, mefloquine, 
etc.).
Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged release tablets at steady-state (12 mg once daily) 
with divalproex sodium prolonged release tablets (500 mg to 2 000 mg once daily) did not affect the 
steady-state pharmacokinetics of valproate.
No interaction study between Xeplion and lithium has been performed, however, a pharmacokinetic 
interaction is not likely to occur.
Potential for other medicines to affect Xeplion
In vitro studies indicate that CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 may be minimally involved in paliperidone 
metabolism, but there are no indications in vitro nor in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role 
in the metabolism of paliperidone. Concomitant administration of oral paliperidone with paroxetine, a 
potent CYP2D6 inhibitor, showed no clinically significant effect on the pharmacokinetics of 
paliperidone.
Co-administration of oral paliperidone prolonged release once daily with carbamazepine 200 mg twice 
daily caused a decrease of approximately 37% in the mean steady-state Cmax and AUC of paliperidone. 
This decrease is caused, to a substantial degree, by a 35% increase in renal clearance of paliperidone 
likely as a result of induction of renal P-gp by carbamazepine. A minor decrease in the amount of 
active substance excreted unchanged in the urine suggests that there was little effect on the CYP 
metabolism or bioavailability of paliperidone during carbamazepine co-administration. Larger 
decreases in plasma concentrations of paliperidone could occur with higher doses of carbamazepine. 
On initiation of carbamazepine, the dose of Xeplion should be re-evaluated and increased if necessary. 
Conversely, on discontinuation of carbamazepine, the dose of Xeplion should be re-evaluated and 
decreased if necessary.
Co-administration of a single dose of an oral paliperidone prolonged release tablet 12 mg with 
divalproex sodium prolonged release tablets (two 500 mg tablets once daily) resulted in an increase of 
approximately 50% in the Cmax and AUC of paliperidone, likely as a result of increased oral 
absorption. Since no effect on the systemic clearance was observed, a clinically significant interaction 
would not be expected between divalproex sodium prolonged release tablets and Xeplion
intramuscular injection. This interaction has not been studied with Xeplion.
29
Concomitant use of Xeplion with risperidone or with oral paliperidone
Since paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone, caution should be exercised when 
Xeplion is co-administered with risperidone or with oral paliperidone for extended periods of time. 
Safety data involving concomitant use of Xeplion with other antipsychotics is limited.
Concomitant use of Xeplion with psychostimulants
The combined use of psychostimulants (e.g., methylphenidate) with paliperidone can lead to 
extrapyramidal symptoms upon change of either or both treatments (see section 4.4).
4.6
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no adequate data from the use of paliperidone during pregnancy. Intramuscularly injected 
paliperidone palmitate and orally administered paliperidone were not teratogenic in animal studies, but 
other types of reproductive toxicity were seen (see section 5.3). Neonates exposed to paliperidone 
during the third trimester of pregnancy are at risk of adverse reactions including extrapyramidal and/or 
withdrawal symptoms that may vary in severity and duration following delivery. There have been 
reports of agitation, hypertonia, hypotonia, tremor, somnolence, respiratory distress, or feeding 
disorder. Consequently, newborns should be monitored carefully. Xeplion should not be used during 
pregnancy unless clearly necessary.
Breast-feeding
Paliperidone is excreted in the breast milk to such an extent that effects on the breast-fed infant are 
likely if therapeutic doses are administered to breast-feeding women. Xeplion should not be used 
while breast-feeding.
Fertility
There were no relevant effects observed in the non-clinical studies.
4.7 Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Paliperidone can have minor or moderate influence on the ability to drive and use machines due to 
potential nervous system and visual effects, such as sedation, somnolence, syncope, vision blurred (see 
section 4.8). Therefore, patients should be advised not to drive or operate machines until their 
individual susceptibility to Xeplion is known.
4.8 Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
The adverse  reactions  most frequently reported in clinical trials were insomnia, headache, anxiety, 
upper respiratory tract infection, injection site reaction, parkinsonism, weight increased, akathisia, 
agitation, sedation/somnolence, nausea, constipation, dizziness, musculoskeletal pain, tachycardia, 
tremor, abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhoea, fatigue, and dystonia. Of these, akathisia and 
sedation/somnolence appeared to be dose-related.
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following are all adverse reactions that were reported with paliperidone by frequency category 
estimated from paliperidone palmitate clinical trials. The following terms and frequencies are applied: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100); rare 
30
(≥ 1/10 000 to < 1/1 000); very rare (< 1/10 000); and not known (cannot be estimated from the 
available data).
System Organ 
Class
Infections and 
infestations
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders
Immune system 
disorders
Endocrine 
disorders
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders
Very 
common
Common
upper respiratory 
tract infection, 
urinary tract 
infection, influenza
hyperprolactinaemia
b
hyperglycaemia, 
weight increased, 
weight decreased, 
decreased appetite
Psychiatric 
disorders
insomniae
agitation, 
depression, anxiety
Nervous system 
disorders
parkinsonismc, 
akathisiac, 
sedation/somnolence
, dystoniac, 
dizziness, 
dyskinesiac, tremor, 
headache
Adverse reactions
Frequency
Uncommon
pneumonia, 
bronchitis, respiratory 
tract infection, 
sinusitis, cystitis, ear 
infection, tonsillitis, 
onychomycosis, 
cellulitis, 
subcutaneous abscess
white blood cell count 
decreased, anaemia
hypersensitivity 
diabetes mellitusd, 
hyperinsulinaemia, 
increased appetite, 
anorexia, blood 
triglycerides 
increased, blood 
cholesterol increased
sleep disorder, mania, 
libido decreased, 
nervousness, 
nightmare
tardive dyskinesia, 
syncope, 
psychomotor 
hyperactivity, 
dizziness postural, 
disturbance in 
attention, dysarthria, 
dysgeusia, 
hypoaesthesia, 
paraesthesia
Eye disorders
vision blurred, 
conjunctivitis, dry eye
Ear and 
labyrinth 
disorders
vertigo, tinnitus, ear 
pain
31
Rare
Not knowna
eye infection, 
acarodermatitis
agranulocytosis
anaphylactic 
reaction
water 
intoxication
sleep-related 
eating disorder
diabetic coma
floppy iris 
syndrome 
(intraoperative)
neutropenia,
thrombocytopenia
, eosinophil count 
increased
inappropriate
antidiuretic 
hormone 
secretion, glucose 
urine present
diabetic 
ketoacidosis, 
hypoglycaemia, 
polydipsia
catatonia, 
confusional state, 
somnambulism,
blunted affect, 
anorgasmia
neuroleptic 
malignant 
syndrome, 
cerebral 
ischaemia, 
unresponsive to 
stimuli, loss of 
consciousness, 
depressed level of 
consciousness, 
convulsione, 
balance disorder, 
coordination 
abnormal, head 
titubation
glaucoma, eye 
movement 
disorder, eye 
rolling, 
photophobia, 
lacrimation 
increased, ocular 
hyperaemia
Cardiac 
disorders
tachycardia
Vascular 
disorders
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders
Gastrointestinal 
disorders
Hepatobiliary 
disorders
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders
Renal and 
urinary disorders
Pregnancy, 
puerperium and 
perinatal 
conditions
Reproductive 
system and 
breast disorders
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions
atrioventricular block, 
conduction disorder, 
electrocardiogram QT 
prolonged, postural 
orthostatic 
tachycardia 
syndrome, 
bradycardia, 
electrocardiogram 
abnormal, palpitations
hypotension, 
orthostatic 
hypotension
dyspnoea, 
pharyngolaryngeal 
pain, epistaxis
hypertension
cough, nasal 
congestion
abdominal pain, 
vomiting, nausea, 
constipation, 
diarrhoea, 
dyspepsia, toothache
abdominal 
discomfort, 
gastroenteritis, 
dysphagia, dry mouth, 
flatulence
transaminases 
increased
musculoskeletal 
pain, back pain, 
arthralgia
gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
increased, hepatic 
enzyme increased
urticaria, pruritus, 
rash, alopecia, 
eczema, dry skin, 
erythema, acne
blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased, muscle 
spasms, joint 
stiffness, muscular
weakness
urinary incontinence, 
pollakiuria, dysuria
atrial fibrillation, 
sinus arrhythmia
pulmonary 
embolism, venous 
thrombosis, 
flushing
sleep apnoea 
syndrome, 
pulmonary 
congestion, 
respiratory tract 
congestion, rales, 
wheezing
pancreatitis, 
intestinal 
obstruction, 
swollen tongue, 
faecal 
incontinence, 
faecaloma, 
cheilitis
ischaemia
hyperventilation, 
pneumonia 
aspiration, 
dysphonia
ileus
jaundice
drug eruption, 
hyperkeratosis, 
seborrhoeic 
dermatitis 
,dandruff
rhabdomyolysis, 
joint swelling
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome/toxic 
epidermal 
necrolysis, 
angioedema, 
skin 
discolouration
posture 
abnormal
urinary retention
drug withdrawal 
syndrome 
neonatal (see 
section 4.6)
amenorrhoea
pyrexia, asthenia, 
fatigue, injection site 
reaction
erectile dysfunction, 
ejaculation disorder, 
menstrual disordere, 
gynaecomastia, 
galactorrhoea, sexual 
dysfunction, breast 
pain
face oedema, 
oedemae, body 
temperature 
increased, gait 
abnormal, chest pain, 
chest discomfort, 
malaise, induration
32
priapism, breast 
discomfort, breast 
engorgement, 
breast 
enlargement,
vaginal discharge
hypothermia, 
chills, thirst, drug 
withdrawal 
syndrome, 
injection site 
abscess, injection 
site cellulitis, 
injection site cyst, 
injection site 
haematoma
body 
temperature 
decreased, 
injection site 
necrosis, 
injection site 
ulcer
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications
a
fall
The frequency of adverse reactions is qualified as “not known” because they were not observed in paliperidone palmitate 
clinical trials. They were either derived from spontaneous post-marketing reports and frequency cannot be determined, or 
they were derived from risperidone (any formulation) or oral paliperidone clinical trials data and/or post-marketing 
reports.
b Refer to ‘Hyperprolactinaemia’ below.
c Refer to ‘Extrapyramidal symptoms’ below.
d
e
In placebo-controlled trials, diabetes mellitus was reported in 0.32% in Xeplion-treated subjects compared to a rate of 
0.39% in placebo group. Overall incidence from all clinical trials was 0.65% in all Xeplion treated subjects.
Insomnia includes: initial insomnia, middle insomnia; Convulsion includes: grand mal convulsion; Oedema includes:
generalised oedema, oedema peripheral, pitting oedema. Menstrual disorder includes: menstruation delayed, 
menstruation irregular, oligomenorrhoea.
Undesirable effects noted with risperidone formulations
Paliperidone is the active metabolite of risperidone, therefore, the adverse reaction profiles of these 
compounds (including both the oral and injectable formulations) are relevant to one another.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Anaphylactic reaction
Rarely, cases of anaphylactic reaction after injection with Xeplion have been reported during 
post-marketing experience in patients who have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral 
paliperidone (see section 4.4).
Injection site reactions
The most commonly reported injection site related adverse reaction was pain. The majority of these 
reactions were reported to be of mild to moderate severity. Subject evaluations of injection site pain 
based on a visual analogue scale tended to lessen in frequency and intensity over time in all Phase 2 
and 3 studies with Xeplion. Injections into the deltoid were perceived as slightly more painful than 
corresponding gluteal injections. Other injection site reactions were mostly mild in intensity and 
included induration (common), pruritus (uncommon) and nodules (rare).
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS)
EPS included a pooled analysis of the following terms: parkinsonism (includes salivary 
hypersecretion, musculoskeletal stiffness, parkinsonism, drooling, cogwheel rigidity, bradykinesia, 
hypokinesia, masked facies, muscle tightness, akinesia, nuchal rigidity, muscle rigidity, parkinsonian 
gait, glabellar reflex abnormal, and parkinsonian rest tremor), akathisia (includes akathisia, 
restlessness, hyperkinesia, and restless leg syndrome), dyskinesia (dyskinesia, muscle twitching, 
choreoathetosis, athetosis, and myoclonus), dystonia (includes dystonia, hypertonia, torticollis, muscle 
contractions involuntary, muscle contracture, blepharospasm, oculogyration, tongue paralysis, facial 
spasm, laryngospasm, myotonia, opisthotonus, oropharyngeal spasm, pleurothotonus, tongue spasm, 
and trismus), and tremor. It should be noted that a broader spectrum of symptoms are included that do 
not necessarily have an extrapyramidal origin.
Weight gain
In the 13-week study involving the 150 mg initiation dosing, the proportion of subjects with an 
abnormal weight increase ≥ 7% showed a dose-related trend, with a 5% incidence rate in the placebo 
group compared with rates of 6%, 8% and 13% in the Xeplion 25 mg, 100 mg, and 150 mg groups, 
respectively.
During the 33-week open-label transition/maintenance period of the long-term recurrence prevention 
trial, 12% of Xeplion-treated subjects met this criterion (weight gain of ≥ 7% from double-blind phase 
to endpoint); the mean (SD) weight change from open-label baseline was + 0.7 (4.79) kg.
33
Hyperprolactinaemia
In clinical trials, median increases in serum prolactin were observed in subjects of both genders who 
received Xeplion. Adverse reactions that may suggest increase in prolactin levels (e.g., amenorrhoea, 
galactorrhoea, menstrual disturbances, gynaecomastia) were reported overall in < 1% of subjects.
Class effects
QT prolongation, ventricular arrhythmias (ventricular fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia), sudden 
unexplained death, cardiac arrest, and Torsade de pointes may occur with antipsychotics.
Cases of venous thromboembolism, including cases of pulmonary embolism and cases of deep vein 
thrombosis, have been reported with antipsychotic medicinal products (frequency unknown).
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medical product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V.
4.9 Overdose
Symptoms
In general, expected signs and symptoms are those resulting from an exaggeration of paliperidone’s 
known pharmacological effects, i.e., drowsiness and sedation, tachycardia and hypotension, QT 
prolongation, and extrapyramidal symptoms. Torsade de pointes and ventricular fibrillation have been 
reported in a patient in the setting of overdose with oral paliperidone. In the case of acute overdose, 
the possibility of multiple drug involvement should be considered.
Management
Consideration should be given to the prolonged release nature of the medicinal product and the long 
elimination half-life of paliperidone when assessing treatment needs and recovery. There is no specific 
antidote to paliperidone. General supportive measures should be employed. Establish and maintain a 
clear airway and ensure adequate oxygenation and ventilation.
Cardiovascular monitoring should commence immediately and should include continuous 
electrocardiographic monitoring for possible arrhythmias. Hypotension and circulatory collapse should 
be treated with appropriate measures such as intravenous fluid and/or sympathomimetic agents. In 
case of severe extrapyramidal symptoms, anticholinergic agents should be administered. Close 
supervision and monitoring should continue until the patient recovers.
5.
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1
Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Psycholeptics, other antipsychotics. ATC code: N05AX13
Xeplion contains a racemic mixture of (+)- and (-)-paliperidone.
Mechanism of action
Paliperidone is a selective blocking agent of monoamine effects, whose pharmacological properties 
are different from that of traditional neuroleptics. Paliperidone binds strongly to serotonergic 5-HT2-
and dopaminergic D2-receptors. Paliperidone also blocks alpha 1-adrenergic receptors and slightly 
34
less, H1-histaminergic and alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. The pharmacological activity of the (+)- and 
(-)-paliperidone enantiomers are qualitatively and quantitatively similar.
Paliperidone is not bound to cholinergic receptors. Even though paliperidone is a strong 
D2-antagonist, which is believed to relieve the positive symptoms of schizophrenia, it causes less 
catalepsy and decreases motor functions less than traditional neuroleptics. Dominating central 
serotonin antagonism may reduce the tendency of paliperidone to cause extrapyramidal side effects.
Clinical efficacy
Acute treatment of schizophrenia
The efficacy of Xeplion in the acute treatment of schizophrenia was established in four short-term 
(one 9-week and three 13-week) double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose studies of 
acutely relapsed adult inpatients who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia. The fixed doses of 
Xeplion in these studies were given on days 1, 8, and 36 in the 9-week study, and additionally on 
day 64 of the 13-week studies. No additional oral antipsychotic supplementation was needed during 
the acute treatment of schizophrenia with Xeplion. The primary efficacy endpoint was defined as a 
decrease in Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) total scores as shown in the table below. 
The PANSS is a validated multi-item inventory composed of five factors to evaluate positive 
symptoms, negative symptoms, disorganised thoughts, uncontrolled hostility/excitement and 
anxiety/depression. Functioning was evaluated using the Personal and Social Performance (PSP) scale. 
The PSP is a validated clinician rated scale that measures personal and social functioning in four 
domains: socially useful activities (work and study), personal and social relationships, self-care and 
disturbing and aggressive behaviours.
In a 13-week study (n = 636) comparing three fixed doses of Xeplion (initial deltoid injection of 
150 mg followed by 3 gluteal or deltoid doses of either 25 mg/4 weeks, 100 mg/4 weeks or 
150 mg/4 weeks) to placebo, all three doses of Xeplion were superior to placebo in improving the 
PANSS total score. In this study, both the 100 mg/4 weeks and 150 mg /4 weeks, but not the 
25 mg/4 weeks, treatment groups demonstrated statistical superiority to placebo for the PSP score. 
These results support efficacy across the entire duration of treatment and improvement in PANSS and 
was observed as early as day 4 with significant separation from placebo in the 25 mg and 150 mg
Xeplion groups by day 8.
The results of the other studies yielded statistically significant results in favour of Xeplion, except for 
the 50 mg dose in one study (see table below).
Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale for Schizophrenia (PANSS) Total Score - Change From Baseline to End 
Point- LOCF for Studies R092670-SCH-201, R092670-PSY-3003, R092670-PSY-3004 and 
R092670-PSY-3007: Primary Efficacy Analysis Set
R092670-PSY-3007*
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
R092670-PSY-3003
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
R092670-PSY-3004
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
Placebo
n = 160
86.8 (10.31)
-2.9 (19.26)
--
n = 132
92.4 (12.55)
-4.1 (21.01)
--
n = 125
90.7 (12.22)
-7.0 (20.07)
--
25 mg
n = 155
86.9 (11.99)
-8.0 (19.90)
0.034
50 mg
--
--
n = 93
89.9 (10.78)
-7.9 (18.71)
0.193
n = 129
90.7 (12.25)
-13.6 (21.45)
0.015
n = 128
91.2 (12.02)
-13.2 (20.14)
0.017
100 mg
n = 161
86.2 (10.77)
-11.6 (17.63)
< 0.001
n = 94
90.1 (11.66)
-11.0 (19.06)
0.019
n = 131
90.8 (11.70)
-16.1 (20.36)
< 0.001
150 mg
n = 160
88.4 (11.70)
-13.2 (18.48)
< 0.001
n = 30
92.2 (11.72)
-5.5 (19.78)
--
--
35
R092670-SCH-201
Mean baseline (SD)
Mean change (SD)
P-value (vs. Placebo)
n = 66
87.8 (13.90)
6.2 (18.25)
--
--
n = 63
88.0 (12.39)
-5.2 (21.52)
0.001
n = 68
85.2 (11.09)
-7.8 (19.40)
< 0.0001
--
* For Study R092670-PSY-3007 an initiation dose of 150 mg was given to all subjects in the Xeplion treatment groups on 
day 1 followed by the assigned dose afterwards.
Note: Negative change in score indicates improvement.
Maintaining symptom control and delaying relapse of schizophrenia
The efficacy of Xeplion in maintaining symptomatic control and delaying relapse of schizophrenia 
was established in a longer-term double-blind, placebo-controlled, flexible-dose study involving 849 
non-elderly adult subjects who met DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia. This study included a 33-week 
open-label acute treatment and stabilisation phase, a randomised, double-blind placebo-controlled 
phase to observe for relapse, and a 52-week open-label extension period. In this study, doses of 
Xeplion included 25, 50, 75, and 100 mg administered monthly; the 75 mg dose was allowed only in 
the 52-week open-label extension. Subjects initially received flexible doses (25-100 mg) of Xeplion
during a 9-week transition period, followed by a 24-week maintenance period, where subjects were 
required to have a PANSS score of ≤ 75. Dosing adjustments were only allowed in the first 12 weeks 
of the maintenance period. A total of 410 stabilised patients were randomised to either Xeplion
(median duration 171 days [range 1 day to 407 days]) or to placebo (median duration 105 days [range 
8 days to 441 days]) until they experienced a relapse of schizophrenia symptoms in the variable length 
double-blind phase. The trial was stopped early for efficacy reasons as a significantly longer time to 
relapse (p < 0.0001, Figure 1) was seen in patients treated with Xeplion compared to placebo (hazard 
ratio = 4.32; 95% CI: 2.4-7.7).
e
s
p
a
e
R
l
t
u
o
h
t
i
W
s
t
c
e
b
u
S
j
f
o
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
100
80
60
40
20
0
Placebo N=156
XEPLION N=156
Log-rank test, P-value<0.0001
20
40
60
80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 240 260 280 300
Days since Randomisation
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Plot of Time to Relapse – Interim Analysis (Intent-to-Treat Interim 
Analysis Set)
36
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
Xeplion in all subsets of the paediatric population in schizophrenia. See section 4.2 for information on 
paediatric use.
5.2
Pharmacokinetic properties
Absorption and distribution
Paliperidone palmitate is the palmitate ester prodrug of paliperidone. Due to its extremely low water 
solubility, paliperidone palmitate dissolves slowly after intramuscular injection before being 
hydrolysed to paliperidone and absorbed into the systemic circulation. Following a single 
intramuscular dose, the plasma concentrations of paliperidone gradually rise to reach maximum 
plasma concentrations at a median Tmax of 13 days. The release of the active substance starts as early 
as day 1 and lasts for at least 4 months.
Following intramuscular injection of single doses (25-150 mg) in the deltoid muscle, on average, a 
28% higher Cmax was observed compared with injection in the gluteal muscle. The two initial deltoid 
intramuscular injections of 150 mg on day 1 and 100 mg on day 8 help attain therapeutic 
concentrations rapidly. The release profile and dosing regimen of Xeplion results in sustained 
therapeutic concentrations. The total exposure of paliperidone following Xeplion administration was 
dose-proportional over a 25-150 mg dose range, and less than dose-proportional for Cmax for doses 
exceeding 50 mg. The mean steady-state peak:trough ratio for a Xeplion dose of 100 mg was 1.8 
following gluteal administration and 2.2 following deltoid administration. The median apparent 
half-life of paliperidone following Xeplion administration over the dose range of 25-150 mg ranged 
from 25-49 days.
The absolute bioavailability of paliperidone palmitate following Xeplion administration is 100%.
Following administration of paliperidone palmitate the (+) and (-) enantiomers of paliperidone 
interconvert, reaching an AUC (+) to (-) ratio of approximately 1.6-1.8.
The plasma protein binding of racemic paliperidone is 74%.
Biotransformation and elimination
One week following administration of a single oral dose of 1 mg immediate-release 14C-paliperidone, 
59% of the dose was excreted unchanged into urine, indicating that paliperidone is not extensively 
metabolised in the liver. Approximately 80% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in urine 
and 11% in the faeces. Four metabolic pathways have been identified in vivo, none of which accounted 
for more than 6.5% of the dose: dealkylation, hydroxylation, dehydrogenation, and benzisoxazole 
scission. Although in vitro studies suggested a role for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 in the metabolism of 
paliperidone, there is no evidence in vivo that these isozymes play a significant role in the metabolism 
of paliperidone. Population pharmacokinetics analyses indicated no discernible difference on the 
apparent clearance of paliperidone after administration of oral paliperidone between extensive 
metabolisers and poor metabolisers of CYP2D6 substrates. In vitro studies in human liver microsomes 
showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit the metabolism of medicinal products 
metabolised by cytochrome P450 isozymes, including CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8/9/10, CYP2D6, 
CYP2E1, CYP3A4, and CYP3A5.
In vitro studies have shown that paliperidone is a P-gp substrate and a weak inhibitor of P-gp at high 
concentrations. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance is unknown.
37
Long acting paliperidone palmitate injection versus oral prolonged release paliperidone
Xeplion is designed to deliver paliperidone over a monthly period while prolonged release oral 
paliperidone is administered on a daily basis. The initiation regimen for Xeplion (150 mg/100 mg in 
the deltoid muscle on day 1/day 8) was designed to rapidly attain steady-state paliperidone 
concentrations when initiating therapy without the use of oral supplementation.
In general, overall initiation plasma levels with Xeplion were within the exposure range observed with 
6-12 mg prolonged release oral paliperidone. The use of the Xeplion initiation regimen allowed 
patients to stay in this exposure window of 6-12 mg prolonged release oral paliperidone even on 
trough pre-dose days (day 8 and day 36). Because of the difference in median pharmacokinetic 
profiles between the two medicinal products, caution should be exercised when making a direct 
comparison of their pharmacokinetic properties.
Hepatic impairment
Paliperidone is not extensively metabolised in the liver. Although Xeplion was not studied on patients 
with hepatic impairment, no dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic 
impairment. In a study with oral paliperidone in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh class B), the plasma concentrations of free paliperidone were similar to those of healthy 
subjects. Paliperidone has not been studied in patients with severe hepatic impairment.
Renal impairment
The disposition of a single oral dose paliperidone 3 mg prolonged release tablet was studied in 
subjects with varying degrees of renal function. Elimination of paliperidone decreased with decreasing 
estimated creatinine clearance. Total clearance of paliperidone was reduced in subjects with impaired 
renal function by 32% on average in mild (CrCl = 50 to < 80 mL/min), 64% in moderate (CrCl = 30 to 
< 50 mL/min), and 71% in severe (CrCl = 10 to < 30 mL/min) renal impairment, corresponding to an 
average increase in exposure (AUCinf) of 1.5, 2.6, and 4.8 fold, respectively, compared to healthy 
subjects. Based on a limited number of observations with Xeplion in subjects with mild renal 
impairment and pharmacokinetic simulations, a reduced dose is recommended (see section 4.2).
Elderly
Population pharmacokinetics analysis showed no evidence of age related pharmacokinetics 
differences.
Body mass index (BMI)/body weight
Pharmacokinetic studies with paliperidone palmitate have shown somewhat lower (10-20%) plasma 
concentrations of paliperidone in patients who are overweight or obese in comparison with normal 
weight patients (see section 4.2).
Race
Population pharmacokinetics analysis of data from studies with oral paliperidone revealed no evidence 
of race-related differences in the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone following Xeplion administration.
Gender
No clinically significant differences were observed between men and women.
Smoking status
Based on in vitro studies utilising human liver enzymes, paliperidone is not a substrate for CYP1A2; 
smoking should, therefore, not have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone. Effect of 
38
smoking on the pharmacokinetics of paliperidone was not studied with Xeplion. A population 
pharmacokinetic analysis based on data with oral paliperidone prolonged release tablets showed a 
slightly lower exposure to paliperidone in smokers compared with non-smokers. The difference is 
unlikely to be of clinical relevance.
5.3
Preclinical safety data
Repeat-dose toxicity studies of intramuscularly injected paliperidone palmitate (the 1-month 
formulation) and orally administered paliperidone in rat and dog showed mainly pharmacological 
effects, such as sedation and prolactin-mediated effects on mammary glands and genitals. In animals 
treated with paliperidone palmitate an inflammatory reaction was seen at the intramuscular injection 
site. Occasionally abscess formation occurred.
In rat reproduction studies with oral risperidone, which is extensively converted to paliperidone in rats 
and humans, adverse effects were seen on the birth weight and survival of the offspring. No 
embryotoxicity or malformations were observed following intramuscular administration of 
paliperidone palmitate to pregnant rats up to the highest dose (160 mg/kg/day) corresponding to 
4.1 times the exposure level in humans at the maximum recommended dose of 150 mg. Other 
dopamine antagonists, when administered to pregnant animals, have caused negative effects on 
learning and motor development in the offspring.
Paliperidone palmitate and paliperidone were not genotoxic. In oral carcinogenicity studies of 
risperidone in rats and mice, increases in pituitary gland adenomas (mouse), endocrine pancreas 
adenomas (rat), and mammary gland adenomas (both species) were seen. The carcinogenic potential 
of intramuscularly injected paliperidone palmitate was assessed in rats. There was a statistically 
significant increase in mammary gland adenocarcinomas in female rats at 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg/month. 
Male rats showed a statistically significant increase in mammary gland adenomas and carcinomas at 
30 and 60 mg/kg/month which is 1.2 and 2.2 times the exposure level at the maximum recommended 
human 150 mg dose. These tumours can be related to prolonged dopamine D2 antagonism and 
hyperprolactinemia. The relevance of these tumour findings in rodents in terms of human risk is 
unknown.
6.
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1 List of excipients
Polysorbate 20
Polyethylene glycol 4 000
Citric acid monohydrate
Disodium hydrogen phosphate anhydrous
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
Water for injections
6.2
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products.
6.3
Shelf life
2 years
6.4
Special precautions for storage
Do not store above 30°C.
39
6.5 Nature and contents of container
100 mg
1 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, backstop,
and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) and a 23G 
1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
150 mg
1.5 mL suspension in a pre-filled syringe (cyclic-olefin-copolymer) with a plunger stopper, backstop, 
and tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle (0.72 mm x 38.1 mm) and a 23G 
1-inch safety needle (0.64 mm x 25.4 mm).
Pack sizes:
Pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe and 2 needles.
Treatment initiation pack:
Each pack contains 1 pack of Xeplion 150 mg and 1 pack of Xeplion 100 mg.
6.6
Special precautions for disposal
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/006
9.
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 04 March 2011
Date of latest renewal:16 December 2015
10. DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu
40
ANNEX II
A.
B.
C.
D.
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT
41
A. MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
B.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION

Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT

Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:


At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.
42
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
43
A. LABELLING
44
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 25 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 25 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
1 pre-filled syringe of 0.25 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
45
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/001
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 25 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
46
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Xeplion 25 mg injection
Paliperidone
IM
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
25 mg
6.
OTHER
47
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 50 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 50 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
1 pre-filled syringe of 0.5 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
48
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/002
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 50 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
49
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Xeplion 50 mg injection
Paliperidone
IM
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
50 mg
6.
OTHER
50
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 75 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 75 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
1 pre-filled syringe of 0.75 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
51
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/003
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 75 mg
17. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
52
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Xeplion 75 mg injection
Paliperidone
IM
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
75 mg
6.
OTHER
53
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 100 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 100 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
1 pre-filled syringe of 1 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
54
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/004
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 100 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
55
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Xeplion 100 mg injection
Paliperidone
IM
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
100 mg
6.
OTHER
56
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 150 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 150 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
1 pre-filled syringe of 1.5 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
57
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/005
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 150 mg17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
SN:
NN:
58
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
PRE-FILLED SYRINGE
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Xeplion 150 mg injection
Paliperidone
IM
2. METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
3.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4.
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5.
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
150 mg
6.
OTHER
59
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK
OUTER LABEL (WITH BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 150 mg
Xeplion 100 mg
prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Xeplion 150 mg: Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 150 mg
paliperidone.
Xeplion 100 mg: Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 100 mg
paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
Treatment initiation pack
Each pack contains 2 pre-filled syringes:
1 pre-filled syringe of paliperidone 150 mg in 1.5 mL and 2 needles
1 pre-filled syringe of paliperidone 100 mg in 1 mL and 2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
60
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 150 mg
xeplion 100 mg
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18. UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC:
61
SN:
NN:
62
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON (150 mg PRE-FILLED SYRINGE, COMPONENT OF 
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK - WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 150 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 150 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection.
Day 1
1 pre-filled syringe of 1.5 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
63
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 150 mg
64
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARDBOARD CARTON (100 mg PRE-FILLED SYRINGE, COMPONENT OF 
TREATMENT INITIATION PACK - WITHOUT BLUE BOX)
1.
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Xeplion 100 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
2.
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each pre-filled syringe contains paliperidone palmitate equivalent to 100 mg paliperidone.
3.
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Excipients: Polysorbate 20, Polyethylene glycol 4 000, Citric acid monohydrate, Disodium hydrogen 
phosphate anhydrous, Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate, Sodium hydroxide, Water for 
injections.
4.
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Prolonged release suspension for injection
Day 8
1 pre-filled syringe of 1 mL
2 needles
5. METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
Intramuscular use
6.
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8.
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
65
9.
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Do not store above 30°C.
10.
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE
11. NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
12. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/11/672/006
13. BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14. GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15.
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16.
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
xeplion 100 mg
66
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
67
Package leaflet: Information for the user
Xeplion 25 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 50 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 75 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 100 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Xeplion 150 mg prolonged release suspension for injection
Paliperidone
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you.
-
-
-
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist, or nurse.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet:
1. What Xeplion is and what it is used for
2. What you need to know before you use Xeplion
3.
4.
5.
6.
How to use Xeplion
Possible side effects
How to store Xeplion
Contents of the pack and other information
1. What Xeplion is and what it is used for
Xeplion contains the active substance paliperidone which belongs to the class of antipsychotic 
medicines and is used as a maintenance treatment for the symptoms of schizophrenia in adult patients 
stabilised on paliperidone or risperidone.
If you have shown responsiveness to paliperidone or risperidone in the past and have mild to moderate 
symptoms your doctor may start treatment with Xeplion without prior stabilisation with paliperidone 
or risperidone.
Schizophrenia is a disease with “positive” and “negative” symptoms. Positive means an excess of 
symptoms that are not normally present. For example, a person with schizophrenia may hear voices or 
see things that are not there (called hallucinations), believe things that are not true (called delusions), 
or feel unusually suspicious of others. Negative means a lack of behaviours or feelings that are 
normally present. For example, a person with schizophrenia may appear withdrawn and may not 
respond at all emotionally or may have trouble speaking in a clear and logical way. People with this 
disease may also feel depressed, anxious, guilty, or tense.
Xeplion can help alleviate the symptoms of your disease and stop your symptoms from coming back.
2. What you need to know before you use Xeplion
Do not use Xeplion
-
if you are allergic to paliperidone or to any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6).
if you are allergic to another antipsychotic medicine including the substance risperidone.
-
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Xeplion.
68
This medicine has not been studied in elderly patients with dementia. However, elderly patients with 
dementia, who are treated with other similar types of medicine, may have an increased risk of stroke 
or death (see section 4, possible side effects).
All medicines have side effects and some of the side effects of this medicine can worsen the symptoms 
of other medical conditions. For that reason, it is important to discuss with your doctor any of the 
following conditions which can potentially worsen during treatment with this medicine:
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
if you have Parkinson’s disease
if you have ever been diagnosed with a condition whose symptoms include high temperature 
and muscle stiffness (also known as Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome)
if you have ever experienced abnormal movements of the tongue or face (Tardive Dyskinesia)
if you know that you have had low levels of white blood cells in the past (which may or may not 
have been caused by other medicines)
if you are diabetic or prone to diabetes
if you have had breast cancer or a tumour in the pituitary gland in your brain
if you have a heart disease or heart disease treatment that makes you prone to low blood 
pressure
if you have low blood pressure when you stand up or sit up suddenly
if you have epilepsy
if you have kidney problems
if you have liver problems
if you have prolonged and/or painful erection
if you have problems with controlling core body temperature or overheating
if you have an abnormally high level of the hormone prolactin in your blood or if you have a 
possible prolactin-dependent tumour
if you or someone else in your family has a history of blood clots, as antipsychotics have been 
associated with formation of blood clots.
If you have any of these conditions, please talk to your doctor as he/she may want to adjust your dose 
or monitor you for a while.
As dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight infection in your 
blood has been seen very rarely with patients taking this medicine, your doctor may check your white 
blood cell counts.
Even if you have previously tolerated oral paliperidone or risperidone, rarely allergic reactions occur 
after receiving injections of Xeplion. Seek medical attention right away if you experience a rash, 
swelling of your throat, itching, or problems breathing as these may be signs of a serious allergic 
reaction.
This medicine may cause you to gain weight. Significant weight gain may adversely affect your 
health. Your doctor should regularly measure your body weight.
As diabetes mellitus or worsening of pre-existing diabetes mellitus have been seen with patients taking 
this medicine, your doctor should check for signs of high blood sugar. In patients with pre-existing 
diabetes mellitus blood glucose should be monitored regularly.
Since this medicine may reduce your urge to vomit, there is a chance that it may mask the body’s 
normal response to ingestion of toxic substances or other medical conditions.
During an operation on the eye for cloudiness of the lens (cataract), the pupil (the black circle in the 
middle of your eye) may not increase in size as needed. Also, the iris (the coloured part of the eye) 
may become floppy during surgery and that may lead to eye damage. If you are planning to have an 
operation on your eye, make sure you tell your eye doctor that you are taking this medicine.
Children and adolescents
This medicine is not for people who are under 18 years old.
69
Other medicines and Xeplion
Tell your doctor if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.
Taking this medicine with carbamazepine (an anti-epileptic and mood stabiliser) may require a change 
to your dose of this medicine.
Since this medicine works primarily in the brain, interference from other medicines that work in the 
brain can cause an exaggeration of side effects such as sleepiness or other effects on the brain such as 
other psychiatric medications, opioids, antihistamines and sleep medication.
Since this medicine can lower blood pressure, care should be taken when this medicine is used with 
other medicines that lower blood pressure.
This medicine can reduce the effect of medicines against Parkinson’s disease and restless legs 
syndrome (e.g., levodopa).
This medicine may cause an electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormality demonstrating a long time for an 
electrical impulse to travel through a certain part of the heart (known as “QT prolongation”). Other 
medicines that have this effect include some medicines used to treat the rhythm of the heart or to treat 
infection, and other antipsychotics.
If you are prone to develop convulsions, this medicine may increase your chance of experiencing 
them. Other medicines that have this effect include some medicines used to treat depression or to treat 
infection, and other antipsychotics.
Xeplion should be used with caution with medicines that increase the activity of the central nervous 
system (psychostimulants such as methylphenidate).
Xeplion with alcohol
Alcohol should be avoided.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. You should not use this medicine 
during pregnancy unless this has been discussed with your doctor. The following symptoms may occur 
in newborn babies of mothers that have used paliperidone in the last trimester (last three months of 
their pregnancy): shaking, muscle stiffness and/or weakness, sleepiness, agitation, breathing problems, 
and difficulty in feeding. If your baby develops any of these symptoms you may need to contact your 
doctor.
This medicine can pass from mother to baby through breast milk and may harm the baby. Therefore, 
you should not breastfeed when using this medicine.
Driving and using machines
Dizziness, extreme tiredness and vision problems may occur during treatment with this medicine (see 
section 4). This should be considered in cases where full alertness is required, e.g., when driving a car 
or handling machines.
Xeplion contains sodium
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’.
70
3.
How to use Xeplion
This medicine is administered by your doctor or other healthcare professional. Your doctor will tell 
you when you need your next injection. It is important not to miss your scheduled dose. If you cannot 
keep your appointment with the doctor, make sure you call him right away so another appointment can 
be made as soon as possible.
You will receive the first injection (150 mg) and second injection (100 mg) of this medicine in the 
upper arm approximately one week apart. Thereafter, you will receive an injection (ranging from 
25 mg to 150 mg) in either the upper arm or buttocks once a month.
If your doctor is switching you from risperidone long acting injection to this medicine, you will 
receive the first injection of this medicine (ranging from 25 mg to 150 mg) in either the upper arm or 
buttocks on the date that your next injection was scheduled. Thereafter, you will receive an injection 
(ranging from 25 mg to 150 mg) in either the upper arm or buttocks once a month.
Depending on your symptoms, your doctor may increase or decrease the amount of medicine you 
receive by one dose level at the time of your scheduled monthly injection.
Patients with kidney problems
Your doctor may adjust your dose of this medicine based on your kidney function. If you have mild 
kidney problems your doctor may give you a lower dose. If you have moderate or severe kidney 
problems this medicine should not be used.
Elderly
Your doctor may reduce your dose of this medicine if your kidney function is reduced.
If you are given more Xeplion than needed
This medicine will be given to you under medical supervision; it is, therefore, unlikely that you will be 
given too much.
Patients who have been given too much paliperidone may experience the following symptoms:
drowsiness or sedation, fast heart rate, low blood pressure, an abnormal electrocardiogram (electrical 
tracing of the heart), or slow or abnormal movements of the face, body, arms or legs.
If you stop using Xeplion
If you stop receiving your injections, you will lose the effects of the medicine. You should not stop 
using this medicine unless told to do so by your doctor as your symptoms may return.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4.
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor immediately if you:

experience blood clots in the veins, especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, pain, and 
redness in the leg), which may travel through blood vessels to the lungs causing chest pain and 
difficulty breathing. If you notice any of these symptoms seek medical advice immediately.
have dementia and experience a sudden change in your mental state or sudden weakness or 
numbness of your face, arms or legs, especially on one side, or slurred speech, even for a short 
period of time. These may be signs of a stroke.
experience fever, muscle stiffness, sweating or a lowered level of consciousness (a disorder 
called “Neuroleptic Malignant Syndrome”). Immediate medical treatment may be needed.
are a man and experience prolonged or painful erection. This is called priapism. Immediate 
medical treatment may be needed.



71




experience involuntary rhythmic movements of the tongue, mouth and face. Withdrawal of 
paliperidone may be needed.
experience a severe allergic reaction characterised by fever, swollen mouth, face, lip or tongue, 
shortness of breath, itching, skin rash and sometimes drop in blood pressure (amounting to an 
‘anaphylactic reaction’). Even if you have previously tolerated oral risperidone or oral 
paliperidone, rarely allergic reactions occur after receiving injections of paliperidone.
are planning to have an operation on your eye, make sure you tell your eye doctor that you are 
taking this medicine. During an operation on the eye for cloudiness of the lens (cataract), the iris 
(the coloured part of the eye) may become floppy during surgery (known as “floppy iris 
syndrome”) that may lead to eye damage.
are aware of having dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to 
fight infection in your blood.
The following side effects may happen:
Very common side effects: may affect more than 1 in 10 people

difficulty falling or staying asleep.
Common side effects: may affect up to 1 in 10 people


common cold symptoms, urinary tract infection, feeling like you have the flu
Xeplion can raise your levels of a hormone called “prolactin” found on a blood test (which may 
or may not cause symptoms). When symptoms of high prolactin occur, they may include (in 
men) breast swelling, difficulty in getting or maintaining erections, or other sexual dysfunction;
(in women) breast discomfort, leakage of milk from the breasts, missed menstrual periods, or 
other problems with your cycle
high blood sugar, weight gain, weight loss, decreased appetite
irritability, depression, anxiety
parkinsonism: This condition may include slow or impaired movement, sensation of stiffness or 
tightness of the muscles (making your movements jerky), and sometimes even a sensation of 
movement "freezing up" and then restarting. Other signs of parkinsonism include a slow 
shuffling walk, a tremor while at rest, increased saliva and/or drooling, and a loss of expression 
on the face.
restlessness, feeling sleepy, or less alert
dystonia: This is a condition involving slow or sustained involuntary contraction of muscles. 
While it can involve any part of the body (and may result in abnormal posture), dystonia often 
involves muscles of the face, including abnormal movements of the eyes, mouth, tongue or jaw.
dizziness
dyskinesia: This is a condition involving involuntary muscle movements, and can include 
repetitive, spastic or writhing movements, or twitching.
tremor (shaking)
headache
rapid heart rate
high blood pressure
cough, stuffy nose
abdominal pain, vomiting, nausea, constipation, diarrhoea, indigestion, toothache
increased liver transaminases in your blood
bone or muscle ache, back pain, joint pain
loss of menstrual periods
fever, weakness, fatigue (tiredness)
a reaction at the injection site, including itching, pain or swelling


















Uncommon side effects: may affect up to 1 in 100 people

pneumonia, infection of the chest (bronchitis), infection of the breathing passages, sinus 
infection, bladder infection, ear infection, fungal infection of the nails, tonsillitis, infection of 
the skin
72




























white blood cell count decreased, decrease in the type of white blood cells that help to protect 
you against infection, anaemia
allergic reaction
diabetes or worsening of diabetes, increased insulin (a hormone that controls blood sugar levels) 
in your blood
increased appetite
loss of appetite resulting in malnutrition and low body weight
high blood triglycerides (a fat), increased cholesterol in your blood
sleep disorder, elated mood (mania), decreased sexual drive, nervousness, nightmares
tardive dyskinesia (twitching or jerking movements that you cannot control in your face, tongue, 
or other parts of your body). Tell your doctor immediately if you experience involuntary 
rhythmic movements of the tongue, mouth and face. Withdrawal of this medicine may be 
needed.
fainting, a restless urge to move parts of your body, dizziness upon standing, disturbance in 
attention, problems with speech, loss or abnormal sense of taste, reduced sensation of skin to 
pain and touch, a sensation of tingling, pricking, or numbness of skin
blurry vision, eye infection or "pink eye", dry eye
sensation of spinning (vertigo), ringing in the ears, ear pain
an interruption in conduction between the upper and lower parts of the heart, abnormal electrical 
conduction of the heart, prolongation of the QT interval from your heart, rapid heartbeat upon 
standing, slow heart rate, abnormal electrical tracing of the heart (electrocardiogram or ECG), a 
fluttering or pounding feeling in your chest (palpitations)
low blood pressure, low blood pressure upon standing (consequently, some people taking this 
medicine may feel faint, dizzy, or may pass out when they stand up or sit up suddenly)
shortness of breath, sore throat, nosebleeds
abdominal discomfort, stomach or intestinal infection, difficulty swallowing, dry mouth
excessive passing of gas or wind
increased GGT (a liver enzyme called gamma-glutamyltransferase) in your blood, increased 
liver enzymes in your blood
hives (or "nettle rash"), itching, rash, hair loss, eczema, dry skin, skin redness, acne, abscess 
under the skin
an increase of CPK (creatine phosphokinase) in your blood, an enzyme which is sometimes 
released with muscle breakdown
muscle spasms, joint stiffness, muscle weakness
incontinence (lack of control) of urine, frequent passing of urine, pain when passing urine
erectile dysfunction, ejaculation disorder, missed menstrual periods or other problems with your 
cycle (females), development of breasts in men, sexual dysfunction, breast pain, leakage of milk 
from the breasts
swelling of the face, mouth, eyes, or lips, swelling of the body, arms or legs
an increase in body temperature
a change in the way you walk
chest pain, chest discomfort, feeling unwell
hardening of the skin
fall
Rare side effects: may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people









eye infection
skin inflammation caused by mites, flaky itchy scalp or skin
increase in eosinophils (a type of white blood cell) in your blood
decrease in platelets (blood cells that help you stop bleeding)
shaking of the head
inappropriate secretion of a hormone that controls urine volume
sugar in the urine
life threatening complications of uncontrolled diabetes
low blood sugar
73






























excessive drinking of water
not moving or responding while awake (catatonia)
confusion
sleep walking
lack of emotion
inability to reach orgasm
neuroleptic malignant syndrome (confusion, reduced or loss of consciousness, high fever, and 
severe muscle stiffness), blood vessel problems in the brain, including sudden loss of blood 
supply to brain (stroke or "mini" stroke), unresponsive to stimuli, loss of consciousness, low 
level of consciousness, convulsion (fits), balance disorder
abnormal coordination
glaucoma (increased pressure within the eyeball)
problems with movement of your eyes, eye rolling, oversensitivity of the eyes to light, increased 
tears, redness of the eyes
atrial fibrillation (an abnormal heart rhythm), irregular heartbeat
blood clot in the lungs causing chest pain and difficulty in breathing. If you notice any of these 
symptoms seek medical advice immediately
blood clots in the veins especially in the legs (symptoms include swelling, pain and redness in 
the leg). If you notice any of these symptoms seek medical advice immediately
flushing
trouble breathing during sleep (sleep apnoea)
lung congestion, congestion of breathing passages
crackly lung sounds, wheezing
inflammation of the pancreas, swollen tongue, stool incontinence, very hard stool
a blockage in the bowels
chapped lips
rash on skin related to drug, thickening of skin, dandruff
breakdown of muscle fibers and pain in muscles (rhabdomyolysis)
joint swelling
inability to pass urine
breast discomfort, enlargement of the glands in your breasts, breast enlargement
vaginal discharge
priapism (a prolonged penile erection that may require surgical treatment)
very low body temperature, chills, feeling thirsty
symptoms of drug withdrawal
accumulation of pus caused by infection at injection site, deep skin infection, a cyst at injection 
site, bruising at injection site.
Not known: frequency cannot be estimated from the available data

dangerously low numbers of a certain type of white blood cell needed to fight infection in your 
blood
severe allergic reaction characterised by fever, swollen mouth, face, lip or tongue, shortness of 
breath, itching, skin rash and sometimes drop in blood pressure
dangerously excessive intake of water
sleep-related eating disorder
coma due to uncontrolled diabetes
decreased oxygen in parts of your body (because of decreased blood flow)
fast, shallow breathing, pneumonia caused by inhaling food, voice disorder
lack of bowel muscle movement that causes blockage
yellowing of the skin and the eyes (jaundice)
severe or life-threatening rash with blisters and peeling skin that may start in and around the 
mouth, nose, eyes and genitals and spread to other areas of the body (Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis)
serious allergic reaction with swelling that may involve the throat and lead to difficulty 
breathing










74





skin discolouration
abnormal posture
newborn babies born to mothers who have taken Xeplion during pregnancy may experience side 
effects of the drug and/or withdrawal symptoms, such as irritability, slow, or sustained muscle 
contractions, shaking, sleepiness, breathing, or feeding problems
a decrease in body temperature
dead skin cells at the injection site and an ulcer at the injection site
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine.
5.
How to store Xeplion
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton. The expiry date refers to 
the last day of that month.
Do not store above 30°C.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help to protect the environment.
6.
Contents of the pack and other information
What Xeplion contains
The active substance is paliperidone.
Each Xeplion 25 mg pre-filled syringe contains 39 mg paliperidone palmitate in 0.25 mL.
Each Xeplion 50 mg pre-filled syringe contains 78 mg paliperidone palmitate in 0.5 mL.
Each Xeplion 75 mg pre-filled syringe contains 117 mg paliperidone palmitate in 0.75 mL.
Each Xeplion 100 mg pre-filled syringe contains 156 mg paliperidone palmitate in 1 mL.
Each Xeplion 150 mg pre-filled syringe contains 234 mg paliperidone palmitate in 1.5 mL.
The other ingredients are:
Polysorbate 20
Polyethylene glycol 4 000
Citric acid monohydrate
Disodium hydrogen phosphate anhydrous
Sodium dihydrogen phosphate monohydrate
Sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment)
Water for injections
What Xeplion looks like and contents of the pack
Xeplion is a white to off-white prolonged release suspension for injection in a pre-filled syringe.
Each pack contains 1 pre-filled syringe and 2 needles.
Treatment initiation pack:
Each pack contains 1 pack of Xeplion 150 mg and 1 pack of Xeplion 100 mg.
Not all pack sizes may be marketed.
75
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Janssen-Cilag International NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
Manufacturer
Janssen Pharmaceutica NV
Turnhoutseweg 30
B-2340 Beerse
Belgium
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder.
België/Belgique/Belgien
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tel/Tél: +32 14 64 94 11
Lietuva
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON”
Tel: +370 5 278 68 88
България
”Джонсън & Джонсън България” ЕООД
Тел.:+359 2 489 94 00
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
Janssen-Cilag NV
Tél/Tel: +32 14 64 94 11
Česká republika
Janssen-Cilag s.r.o.
Tel:+420 227 012 227
Danmark
Janssen-Cilag A/S
Tlf: +45 4594 8282
Deutschland
Janssen-Cilag GmbH
Tel: +49 2137 955 955
Magyarország
Janssen-Cilag Kft.
Tel.:+36 1 884 2858
Malta
AM MANGION LTD.
Tel: +356 2397 6000
Nederland
Janssen-Cilag B.V.
Tel: +31 76 711 1111
Eesti
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON” Eesti filiaal
Tel.: +372 617 7410
Norge
Janssen-Cilag AS
Tlf: +47 24 12 65 00
Ελλάδα
Janssen-Cilag Φαρμακευτική Α.Ε.Β.Ε
Tηλ: +30 210 80 90 000
Österreich
Janssen-Cilag Pharma GmbH
Tel: +43 1 610 300
España
Janssen-Cilag, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 722 81 00
Polska
Janssen-Cilag Polska Sp. z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 237 60 00
France
Janssen-Cilag
Tel: 0 800 25 50 75 / +33 1 55 00 40 03
Portugal
Janssen-Cilag Farmacêutica, Lda.
Tel: +351 214 368 600
Hrvatska
Johnson & Johnson S.E. d.o.o.
Tel: +385 1 6610 700
România
Johnson & Johnson România SRL
Tel: +40 21 207 1800
76
Ireland
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: 1 800 709 122
medinfo@its.jnj.com
Ísland
Janssen-Cilag AB
C/o Vistor hf
Sími: +354 535 7000
Italia
Janssen-Cilag SpA
Tel:  800.688.777 / +39 02 2510 1
Κύπρος
Βαρνάβας Χατζηπαναγής Λτδ
Tηλ: +357 22 207 700
Slovenija
Johnson & Johnson d.o.o.
Tel: +386 1 401 18 00
Slovenská republika
Johnson & Johnson s.r.o.
Tel: +421 232 408 400
Suomi/Finland
Janssen-Cilag Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 207 531 300
Sverige
Janssen-Cilag AB
Tfn: +46 8 626 50 00
Latvija
UAB “JOHNSON & JOHNSON” filiāle Latvijā
Tel: +371 678 93561
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Janssen Sciences Ireland UC
Tel: +44 1 494 567 444
medinfo@its.jnj.com
This leaflet was last revised in
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu
77
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only and should 
be read by the medical or healthcare professional in conjunction with the full prescribing 
information (Summary of Product Characteristics).
The suspension for injection is for single use only. It should be inspected visually for foreign matter 
before administration. Do not use if the syringe is not visually free of foreign matter.
The pack contains a pre-filled syringe and 2 safety needles (a 1½-inch 22 gauge needle [38.1 mm x 
0.72 mm] and a 1-inch 23 gauge needle [25.4 mm x 0.64 mm]) for intramuscular injection. Xeplion is 
also available in a Treatment initiation pack which contains two pre-filled syringes (150 mg + 100 mg)
and 2 additional safety needles.
1.
Shake the syringe vigorously for a minimum of 10 seconds to ensure a homogeneous 
suspension.
2.
Select the appropriate needle.
The first initiation dose of Xeplion (150 mg) is to be administered on Day 1 in the DELTOID 
muscle using the needle for DELTOID injection. The second initiation dose of Xeplion
(100 mg) is to also be administered in the DELTOID muscle one week later (Day 8) using the 
needle for DELTOID injection.
78
If the patient is being switched from risperidone long acting injection to Xeplion, the first 
injection of Xeplion (ranging from 25 mg to 150 mg) can be administered in either the 
DELTOID or GLUTEAL muscle using the appropriate needle for the injection site at the time 
of the next scheduled injection.
Thereafter, the monthly maintenance injections can be administered in either the DELTOID or 
GLUTEAL muscle using the appropriate needle for the injection site.
For DELTOID injection, if the patient weighs < 90 kg, use the 1-inch, 23 gauge needle 
(25.4 mm x 0.64 mm) (needle with blue coloured hub); if the patient weighs ≥ 90 kg, use the 
1½-inch, 22 gauge needle (38.1 mm x 0.72 mm) (needle with grey coloured hub).
For GLUTEAL injection, use the 1½-inch, 22 gauge needle (38.1 mm x 0.72 mm) (needle with 
grey coloured hub).
3.
Hold the syringe with the tip cap pointing up,  remove the rubber tip cap with a gentle twisting 
motion.
4.
Peel the safety needle blister pouch half way open. Grasp the needle sheath using the plastic 
peel pouch. Hold the syringe pointing up. Attach the safety needle to the syringe using a gentle 
twisting motion to avoid needle hub cracks or damage. Always check for signs of damage or 
leaking prior to administration.
5.
Pull the needle sheath away from the needle with a straight pull. Do not twist the sheath as the 
needle may be loosened from the syringe.
79
6.
Bring the syringe with the attached needle in upright position to de-aerate. De-aerate the syringe 
by moving the plunger rod carefully forward.
7.
8.
Inject the entire contents intramuscularly slowly, deep into the selected deltoid or gluteal muscle 
of the patient. Do not administer intravascularly or subcutaneously.
After the injection is complete, use either thumb or finger of one hand (8a, 8b) or a flat surface 
(8c) to activate the needle protection system. The system is fully activated when a ‘click’ is 
heard. Discard the syringe with needle appropriately.
80
8a
8b
8c
Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements.
81
