PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of Risk Management Plan for XEPLION (Paliperidone Palmitate 
1-Monthly Injection) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for XEPLION. The RMP details important 
risks of XEPLION, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about XEPLION’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
XEPLION’s  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how XEPLION should be used. 
This summary  of  the RMP  for XEPLION should be read in the context of  all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of XEPLION’s 
RMP. 
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used For 
XEPLION is authorised  for  maintenance treatment  of  schizophrenia in adult  patients  stabilised 
with paliperidone or risperidone and in selected adult patients with schizophrenia and previous 
responsiveness to oral paliperidone or risperidone. 
XEPLION may be used without prior stabilisation with oral treatment if psychotic symptoms are 
mild  to  moderate  and  a  long-acting  injectable  treatment  is  needed  (see  SmPC  for  the  full 
indication). 
It  contains  paliperidone  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  administered  by  intramuscular  (IM) 
injection as a prolonged-release suspension in prefilled syringes containing 39, 78, 117, 156, or 
234 mg  of  XEPLION;  which  is  equivalent  to  25,  50,  75,  100,  or  150  mg,  respectively,  of 
paliperidone. XEPLION is administered by a health care professional. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  XEPLION’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  XEPLION’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  European  Medicines 
webpage:  
Agency (EMA) 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/xeplion. 
medicine’s 
website, 
under 
the 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or 
Further Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of XEPLION, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about XEPLION’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the PL and 
SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
  The  medicine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the  patient  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of XEPLION is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important  risks  of  XEPLION  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of XEPLION. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks  None 
Missing information 
Exposure during pregnancy 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks 
Missing Information: Exposure during pregnancy 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
INVEGA, XEPLION, and TREVICTA SmPCs 
Section 4.6, Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Section 5.3, Preclinical safety data 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
II.C. 
Post-authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation for 
XEPLION. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Post-authorisation Development Plan 
There are no studies required for XEPLION. 
