Doc. Ref.: EMA/60983/2011  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Xeplion 
International nonproprietary name: paliperidone  
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/2105 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 6 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 6 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product ................................................................................ 8 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects............................. 10 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 11 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 11 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 11 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 11 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 13 
2.3.4. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 14 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 17 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 18 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 19 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 19 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 19 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 19 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 27 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 28 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ............................................................... 29 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 29 
2.5.1. Dose response study...................................................................................... 30 
2.5.2. Main studies ................................................................................................. 31 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 92 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 98 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 98 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ...........................................................................108 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ....................................................................110 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance...........................................................................................111 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................................115 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................118 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 2/118
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Janssen-Cilag International NV  submitted on 3 December 2009 an application for 
Marketing Authorisation to the Agency for Xeplion, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 
(2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon 
by the EMA/CHMP on 28 November 2008.  
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of adult patients with schizophrenia. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/231/2009  on  a  paediatric investigation  plan  with a  waiver,  as  modified  by  the  decision  P/346/2010 
on granting a deferral. 
The following conditions are covered in the paediatric investigation plan: 
  Schizophrenia 
  Schizoaffective disorder 
The PIP is not yet completed. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advices from the CHMP on 27/07/2000, 18/11/2004 and 21/09/2006. 
The Scientific Advices pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 3/118
 
 
 
 
Licensing status 
Xeplion has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the United States on 31 July 2009. 
A new application was filed in the following countries: Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Korea, 
Switzerland, Turkey, Russia, Taiwan, Mexico, Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: 
Tomas Salmonson 
Co-Rapporteur: Martina Weise  
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 3 December 2009.  
The procedure started on 23 December 2009. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 March 2010. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 12 March 
2010.  
  During the meeting on 22 April 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be 
sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 22 April 
2010. 
  During a meeting of the Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) on 13 July 2010, experts were convened 
to address questions raised by the CHMP. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 19 August 
2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on  4 October 2010. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 21 October 2010, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing and oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 12 
November 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 29 November 2010. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 10 December 2010. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 13 December 2010, outstanding issues were addressed by the 
applicant during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
  During the meeting on 13-16 December 2010, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Xeplion on 16 December 2010. The applicant provided the letter of 
undertaking on the follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 15 December 2010. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 4/118
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
This  is  a  complete,  Article  8(3)  application  for  XEPLION  (paliperidone)  for  a  known  active  substance 
(paliperidone) through the centralised procedure. The product is intended for prescription only. 
Paliperidone  (9-hydroxy-risperidone)  is  the  major  metabolite  of  risperidone,  which  is  approved  for 
treatment  of  schizophrenia  since  1994.  Paliperidone  shares  the  characteristic  serotonin  (5HT2A)  and 
dopamine  (D2)  antagonism  and  receptor  binding  profile  of its  parent  risperidone.  It  binds  also  to  a1-
adrenergic receptors, and, with lower affinity, to H1-histaminergic and a2-adrenergic receptors, which 
may explain some of the other effects of paliperidone. 
The claimed indication for XEPLION is treatment of adult patients with schizophrenia. 
The  goals  of  treatment  of  schizophrenia  are  to  rapidly  eliminate  symptoms,  reduce  the  number  of 
relapses, and reduce the severity of the illness. Improving the level of social function and relationships 
are also important. 
Antipsychotics are the mainstay of treatment of schizophrenia. Conventional antipsychotics, typified by 
haloperidol,  have  a  proven  track  record  over  the  last  half-century  in  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia. 
While these drugs are highly effective against the positive, psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia, they 
show  little  benefit  in  alleviating  negative  symptoms  or  the  cognitive  impairment  associated  with  the 
disease. 
Second  generation,  also  called  atypical  antipsychotics  differ  considerably  in  their  chemical, 
pharmacological, and clinical profiles and are generally characterised by effectiveness against both the 
positive  and  negative  symptoms  associated  with  schizophrenia  and  with  enhanced  safety  profile  with 
respect to extrapyramidal symptoms. 
Although  a  number  of  products  in  this  class  are  currently  available,  treatment  challenges  and 
consequently  goals  for  the  development  of  a  new  second  generation  antipsychotic  continue  to  exist 
such  as  the  need  for  titration,  twice  daily  dosing,  slow  onset  of  action  necessitating  the  use  of  acute 
intramuscular treatment, and high treatment discontinuation rates due to lack of compliance or other 
reasons. 
XEPLION (paliperidone palmitate) is a prolonged release aqueous suspension for injection in pre-filled 
syringes, for intramuscular administration, available in dosage strengths equivalent to 25, 50, 75, 100 
and 150 mg paliperidone. Doses of paliperidone palmitate are expressed as mg eq./kg, referring to mg 
paliperidone  (base)  equivalents  (eq.)/kg  body  weight  (conversion  factor  paliperidone  palmitate  to 
paliperidone, f = 1.56). 
XEPLION is intended for once monthly intramuscular (i.m) injection. The recommended dose initiation 
regimen  is  150 mg eq.  on  Day 1  followed  by  100 mg eq.  1 week  later,  administered  in  the  deltoid 
muscle  in  order  to  rapidly  obtain  therapeutic  plasma  concentrations  and  apparent  steady-state, 
thereby eliminating the need for oral supplementation in the dose initiation phase. The recommended 
monthly  maintenance  dosage  is  once  75 mg  eq.,  which  can  be  administered  in  the  deltoid  or  gluteal 
muscle  and  can  be  increased  or  decreased  in  the  range  of  25  to  150 mg  eq.  based  on  tolerability 
and/or efficacy in individual patients. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 5/118
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
XEPLION is presented as prolonged release suspension for injection containing 25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 
100 mg  or  150 mg  of  paliperidone,  the  active  substance,  in  form  of  paliperidone  palmitate.  The 
suspension is white to off-white and has neutral pH. 
Excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of  XEPLION  are  well  known  excipients  such  as  polysorbate  20, 
polyethylene  glycol  4000,  citric  acid,  disodium  hydrogen  phosphate,  sodium  dihydrogen  phosphate, 
sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) and water for injections. 
The  suspension  is  supplied  in  pre-filled  syringes  (cyclic-olefin-copolymer)  with  a  plunger  stopper  and 
tip cap (bromobutyl rubber) with a 22G 1½-inch safety needle and a 23G 1-inch safety needle.  
2.2.2.  Active Substance  
Paliperidone  palmitate  is  chemically  designated  as  (±)-3-[2-[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-
piperidinyl]ethyl]-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-2-methyl-4-oxo-4Hpyrido[1,2-a]pyrimidin-9-yl 
hexadecanoate, 
and has the following structure: 
Paliperidone  palmitate  is  a  white  to  almost  white  powder.  It  is  practically  insoluble  in  water  or  in 
aqueous buffer over a broad pH range. The molecule contains one chiral center and is synthesised as a 
racemic mixture. Due to the low solubility in aqueous medium, the partition coefficient P and the ratio 
of partitioning R could not be determined experimentally. 
Paliperidone  palmitate  exists  in  a  single  stable  crystalline  form  designated  as  form  A.  Sufficient 
evidence was provided to prove that the form A is obtained by the utilised manufacturing process. 
Manufacture 
Sufficient information about manufacturing process of paliperidone palmitate has been provided. 
Paliperidone  palmitate  is  manufactured  by  a  five-step  process  which  results  in  a  ‘sterile  grade’ 
substance.  Detailed  description  of  the  route  of  synthesis,  including  starting  materials,  has  been 
provided  and  was  considered  sufficient.  The  synthesis  involves  a  carbon  treatment  followed  by  a 
catalytic hydrogenation in the presence of a catalyst which is removed after completion of the reaction. 
The  residue  is  dissolved  and  the  substance  is  crystallised.  The  crystallised  paliperidone  palmitate  is 
isolated, washed and dried.  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 6/118
 
 
 
 
 
A detailed discussion of the critical steps and critical control points for the synthesis was provided. The 
aseptic manufacturing process was validated. The testing was performed on commercial scale batches 
in accordance with approved batch records, written procedures, and approved protocols. All acceptance 
criteria were met.  
Confirmation of the chemical structure of paliperidone palmitate was provided by elemental analysis (C, 
H and N content) and by spectroscopic methods such as UV, IR, 1H-NMR, 13C-NMR as well as by mass 
spectral  analysis.  The  IR,  NMR  and  MS  spectrum  assignations  were  consistent  with  the  declared 
chemical structure.  
In  addition  the  morphology  of  the  substance  was  studied.  Data  generated  by  scanning  electron 
microscopy (SEM) analysis during the screening studies indicated that the drug substance morphology 
remains  identical  even  when  applying  a  broad  range  of  variables/conditions  and  using  different 
isolation/drying techniques. 
No  polymorphs  were  observed  by  powder  XRD,  Raman  spectroscopy  and  DSC.  Only  one  crystalline 
form has been identified  
Potential  impurities  originating  from  starting  materials,  intermediates,  by-products,  and  degradation 
products have been discussed. The impurity profile of the paliperidone palmitate has been established 
based  on  batches  used  during  toxicological  evaluation,  clinical  studies,  and  drug  substance  stability 
studies and produced during validation of the manufacturing process.  
The possibility for presence of genotoxic impurities has been investigated. Studies were conducted on 
some impurities and their derivatives to ensure their removal by the downstream synthesis process to 
the final “sterile grade” substance.  
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  physical  appearance,  identification  (IR  and  HPLC), 
assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), residual solvents (GC), water content (Karl Fisher), residue 
on ignition, sulphated ash, heavy metals, sterility and bacterial endotoxins. 
A  detailed  description for all  analytical methods  was  provided.  Some  methods  are  in  accordance  with 
the Ph Eur and their validation was not needed. Complete method validation data was provided for the 
non  compendial  (in-house)  analytical  methods,  including  IR  method  for  identification  and  the  HPLC 
method for identification, assay, related substances and the GC method for residual solvents.  
The HPLC method has been validated with regard to specificity, linearity, range, limit of quantification 
(LOQ),  limit  of  detection  (LOD),  accuracy,  precision,  robustness,  system  suitability  and  stability  of 
solutions.  The  results  indicate  that  the  active  substance  and  its  impurities  can  be  determined 
accurately by this method. 
The GC-method used to determine residual solvents has been acceptably validated regarding specificity, 
accuracy,  precision  (repeatability),  stability  of  solution,  and  system  suitability.  It  has  been 
demonstrated  that  the  method  was  capable  of  determining  several  other  solvents  which  are  all  well 
separated from the specified residual solvents.  
In general specification limits and analytical methods proposed are suitable to control the quality of the 
drug substance. 
Batch  analysis  results  were  provided  on  48  commercial  scale  batches.  Furthermore,  information  on 
batches  that  were  used  in  nonclinical  and  clinical  studies  was  also  provided.  All  batches  were 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 7/118
 
 
 
manufactured  by  the  proposed  commercial  manufacturers  according  in  accordance  with  the  proposed 
process. It can be concluded that the batch analysis results indicate that the process is under control. 
Stability 
Paliperidone  palmitate  drug  substance  has  been  subject  to  several  stability  studies,  including  stress 
conditions  and  studies  under  long-term  (25°C 60%RH),  intermediate  (35°C 75%RH)  and  accelerated 
conditions (40°C 75%RH). The studies were performed on the three registration batches from each of 
the proposed manufacturers. 
In addition forced degradation studies on drug substance in solution were performed. The purpose of 
this  stress  study  was  to  identify  the  main  degradation  pathway  and  degradation  compounds  of  the 
“sterile grade” drug substance and to demonstrate that the HPLC method was stability indicating. 
Results generated during the stability program indicated that “sterile grade” paliperidone palmitate was 
physically  and  chemically  stable  during  storage  at  real  time,  accelerated,  and  stress  conditions.  The 
forced  degradation  study  indicated  that  all  major  degradation  compounds  were  separated  and  no 
degradation compounds were found to co-elute with the drug substance. It was demonstrated that the 
HPLC purity method was stability indicating. 
It  has  been  confirmed  that  the  first  three  production-scale  batches  will  be  tested  according  to  the 
protocol.  In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 1 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or 
significant negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product  
Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of pharmaceutical development was to obtain a prolonged release formulation of paliperidone 
with an injection interval of 1 month for the treatment of schizophrenia. It was decided to develop an 
aqueous suspension of the palmitate ester of paliperidone for intramuscular injection, due to the very 
low solubility of this ester. Paliperidone palmitate is practically insoluble in aqueous media over a broad 
pH range. This very low solubility allows formulating a suspension with an extended release profile. A 
required increase in dissolution rate has been obtained by milling step in order to reduce the particle 
size of the active substance. The milled paliperidone palmitate particles in the drug product suspension 
result in a dissolution rate corresponding to an in-vivo release of about 1 month. 
Different  sizes  of  the  suspended  particles  of  the  active  substance  and  different  compositions  of  the 
formulation have been tested and evaluated. Optimization of the formulation focussed on the following 
criteria: 
  a particle size distribution that gives the desired pharmacokinetic profile, 
  a suspension that can be easily resuspended, 
  a physically and chemically stable formulation, 
  a formulation and package that allow for accurate dosing. 
Particle  size  of  the  active  substance  can  influence  the  release  rate.  The  release  characteristics  of  the 
finished  product  are  controlled  by  two  test  methods:  1)  through  in-vitro  release  test  and  2)  by 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 8/118
 
 
 
                                              
 
measuring  the  particle  size  distribution  of  the  suspension  by  means  of  laser  diffraction.  The 
development of both test methods was adequately described and justified. 
The  manufacturing  process  has  remained  equivalent,  with  regard  to  process  flow  and  types  of 
equipment,  throughout  the  formulation  and  process  development  activities.  A  robust  manufacturing 
process was developed and characterised via appropriate characterization studies, such as: 
  process design studies to evaluate different settings of the milling process parameters, 
  process robustness studies to evaluate the impact of input parameters such as the particle size of 
the active substance, 
  product sensitivity studies to evaluate the effect of environmental parameters (light, temperature, 
oxygen,  metal,  etc.)  on  suspension  concentrate,  PEG  4000/buffer  solution,  and  final  bulk 
suspension. 
These studies have led to defining influential and critical process parameters with target settings and 
proven acceptable ranges and critical control points. 
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of human or animal origin are used in the manufacturing process of the finished product. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  sufficiently  described  as  well  as  a  process  flow  diagram  provided.  The 
sterile  finished  product  uses  sterile  active  substance.  The  in-process  controls  and  critical steps  of  the 
manufacturing process have been identified. 
Process  validation  has  been  performed  on  three  production  scale  batches.  The  finished  product 
attributes  and  in-process  controls  were  monitored  for  the  bulk  compounding  and  filling/stoppering 
process. The three bulk batches were entirely filled in the six proposed dosage strengths and packaged 
in the commercial container closure system.  
The  data  shows  consistent  manufacture  and  was  considered  satisfactory.  The  utilised  manufacturing 
process is sufficiently robust and gives the product of consistent quality, complying with the designed 
specification. 
Product Specification  
The drug product specifications include tests for appearance, resuspendability, injectability, identity (IR 
and HPLC), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), particulate matter, pH, particle size distribution, 
uniformity of dosage units, in-vitro release testing, sterility and bacterial endotoxins. 
The proposed specifications at release and shelf life were considered acceptable as they contain all 
tests required for the proposed dosage form. 
Analytical methods have been sufficiently described, some of them are compendial methods described 
in the Ph Eur. Adequate validation data have been provided for non-compendial methods such as HPLC 
method for assay of the active substance used for the uniformity of dose units test, HPLC method for 
assay of used for the in vitro release test, IR method for identification of paliperidone palmitate, HPLC 
method  for  assay  of  the  active  substance,  identity,  impurities  and  degradation  products,  laser 
diffraction test method for particle size distribution and sterility test. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 9/118
 
 
 
Batch  analysis  data  were  provided  for  three  production  scale  batches  of  the  finished  product 
manufactured  at  the  proposed  commercial  facility  according  to  the  manufacturing  process. 
Furthermore,  batch  analysis  data  of  three  stability  batches  of  the  finished  products  manufactured  in 
the pilot manufacturing plant were provided.  
Batch analysis results demonstrated compliance with the proposed specification and confirmed 
consistency and uniformity of the product. The results were consistent from batch to batch and proved 
that the product can be manufactured reproducibly according to the agreed specifications. 
Stability of the product 
Stability  studies  were  performed  on  3  batches  manufactured  at  the  proposed  manufacturing  site  and 
packed in the container closure system proposed for the commercial product.  
Studies  were  carried  out  in  accordance  with  current  ICH/CHMP  guidelines.  Stability  data  submitted 
covered  long-term  (25°C 40%  RH)  intermediate  (30°C 35%RH)  and  accelerated  (40°C ≤25%  RH) 
conditions. 
Furthermore  the  applicant  has  committed  to  place  one batch  upon  scale-up  on  stability.  Also  at  least 
one  production  scale  batch  per  year  packaged  in  the  commercial  packaging  system  will  be  placed  on 
long-term stability.  
The  available  stability  data  demonstrated  that  the  drug  product,  stored  in  prefilled  syringes,  had 
acceptable stability behaviour. The results generated during the stability studies support the proposed 
shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 2 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Sufficient information about the active substance, paliperidone palmitate, has been provided. 
The  drug  substance  has  been  satisfactorily  characterised.  The  synthesis  process  has  been  well 
developed and is well controlled.  
Known and potential impurities have been satisfactorily addressed. The control tests and specifications 
for drug substance product are in line with the requirements of ICH Q6A and Ph Eur requirements for 
substances for pharmaceutical use and considered satisfactory. 
A retest period was supported by satisfactory stability studies. 
The finished product is a prolonged release suspension for injection containing 25 mg, 50 mg, 75 mg, 
100 mg  or  150 mg  of  paliperidone,  the  active  substance,  in  form  of  paliperidone  palmitate.  The 
composition  of  the  finished  product  has  been  described,  and  all  excipients  have  been  fully 
characterised. 
The  development  pharmaceutics  has  been  satisfactorily  described.  The  formulation  development 
focused  on  achieving  an  extended  release  formulation  of  paliperidone  with  an  injection  interval  of 
1 month  for  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia.  Particle  characteristics  of  the  drug  substance  which  may 
affect  the  rate  of  release  of  the  active  substance  have  been  comprehensively  investigated.  The  final 
formulation has been selected based on several formulation and optimization studies. 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 10/118
 
 
 
                                              
 
The  manufacturing  process  uses  aseptic  milling  to  reduce  the  particle  size  of  the  drug  substance. 
Critical  steps  in  the  manufacture  were  identified  and  adequate  in-process  control  and  testing 
procedures were established. Process validation has been performed on three production scale batches.  
The proposed specifications include all tests relevant to this dosage form and the limits are generally 
acceptable. All analytical procedures and test methods have been adequately described and validated. 
The batch data demonstrate consistent manufacture. 
The  stability  programme  is  considered  satisfactory.  The  batches  placed  on  stability  are  considered 
representative  of  the  product  to  be  marketed.  The  results  generated  during  the  stability  studies 
support the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as defined in the SmPC. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The  drug  substance  and  the  drug  product  have  been  appropriately  characterised  and  generally 
satisfactory  documentation  has  been  provided.  The  results  indicate  that  the  drug  substance  and  the 
drug  product  can  be  reproducibly  manufactured  and  therefore  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory 
and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Pivotal toxicology studies were performed according to Good Laboratory Practices (GLP), as stated by 
the applicant. 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Following  i.m.  injection,  the  paliperidone  palmitate  pro-drug  is  hydrolysed  to  its  active  compound 
paliperidone. The systemic exposure to paliperidone palmitate was found to be very low in humans and 
was measured at levels below or marginally higher than the lower limit of quantification. Consequently, 
systemic  effects  are  predominantly  mediated  through  paliperidone.  Paliperidone  palmitate  is  thus 
expected  to  exhibit  the  same  pharmacological  properties  as  paliperidone  as  described  below.  No 
specific pharmacology studies in animal models for paliperidone palmitate have been conducted. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Paliperidone (R076477 or 9-OH-risperidone) is a receptor monoaminergic antagonist that exhibits the 
characteristic  dopamine  type  2  (D2)  and  serotonin  (5-hydroxytryptamine  [5-HT]  type  2A  [5-HT2A]) 
antagonism of antipsychotic drugs. Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of risperidone which is a 
widely  used  atypical  antipsychotic  approved  for  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  and  other  psychiatric 
disorders. 
The binding profiles for paliperidone, its enantiomers R078543(+) and R078544(−) and risperidone are 
comparable.  Paliperidone  is  also  an  antagonist  at α1-  and  α2-adrenergic  receptors  and  the  histamine 
H1-receptor in vitro and in vivo.  
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
Paliperidone displays high affinity for 5-HT2A (Ki 0.22-0.25 nM) and D2 (Ki 4.6 nM) receptors, and is 
also  active  as  an  antagonist  at  the  α1-and  α2-adrenergic  receptors  and  the  H1-receptor.  Binding 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 11/118
 
 
 
affinities and profiles for all investigated receptor sites are similar for paliperidone, its enantiomers and 
risperidone. Several in vivo studies were performed in rats and dogs. In rats, paliperidone was slightly 
less  potent  than  risperidone  at  early  time  intervals,  but  became  equipotent  at  later  time  intervals, 
probably  reflecting  a  slower  rate  of  brain  penetration.  In  dogs,  paliperidone,  its  enantiomers  and 
risperidone were roughly equipotent against apomorphine-induced emesis.  
Overall, paliperidone induced the expected effects (activity in functional pharmacology models) and the 
investigated in vivo effects were qualitatively and quantitatively similar for paliperidone and risperidone. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Dopamine secreted in the portal hypophyseal circulation inhibits prolactin release. By antagonizing this 
tonic inhibitory action of endogenous dopamine, D2 receptor antagonists elevate prolactin release. The 
suppressive effect of dopamine on prolactin release in rat anterior pituitary cells was dose-dependently 
antagonized by paliperidone, risperidone and haloperidol. Both paliperidone and risperidone were less 
potent  than  haloperidol  in  this  in  vitro  assay,  (2  and  3  times  less  potent,  respectively).  Paliperidone 
was equipotent to risperidone in reversing the dopamine-induced suppression of prolactin release from 
anterior  pituitary  cells.  Both  compounds  provoked  more  pronounced  plasma  prolactin  levels  than 
haloperidol when measured 1 h after identical i.p. or oral doses.  
Overall,  secondary  pharmacodynamic  effects  and  side  effect  (pre-clinical)  profile  of  paliperidone  are 
very  similar  to  those  of  risperidone.  Anti-adrenergic  and  anti-histaminergic  effects  are  suspected  to 
elicit  hypotensive  and  sedative  effects.  Hyperprolactinemia  is  expected  due  to  the  D2-receptor 
antagonism. 
Safety pharmacology programme  
In  in-vitro  studies  paliperidone  at  concentrations  of  >  1  μM  inhibited  both  HERG  currents  and  native 
membrane  potassium  current  (IKr),  prolonged  the  action  potential  duration  (APD),  occasionally 
induced  early  after  depolarisation  (EADs),  instability,  triangulation  and  Torsade  de  Pointes  (TdP) 
arrhythmias, which are all markers for a torsadogenic potential. Therefore, the slight inhibitory effects 
of paliperidone on both inward rectifier potassium (Ina) and L type calcium current (ICa,L), which were 
observed  at  a  concentration  of  10  μM,  did  not  seem  to  be  protective  against  the  induction  of  TdP 
arrhythmias  by  paliperidone  at  micromolar  concentrations.  Therapeutically  effective  free  plasma 
concentrations of paliperidone in humans are about 20 nM. A 30-fold margin between free therapeutic 
plasma concentrations and half maximum inhibitory concentration (IC50) values for the block of HERG 
currents  appears  to  be  a  line  of  demarcation  between  the  majority  of  drugs  associated  with  TdP 
arrhythmias and those which are not. Therefore, when the paliperidone concentrations effective in in-
vitro electrophysiological studies are compared to therapeutically effective free plasma concentrations, 
paliperidone seems to have a low torsadogenic potential. 
In-vivo studies performed in guinea-pigs and dogs did not show marked effects of paliperidone on QTc 
at  micromolar  plasma  concentrations,  which  might  question  the  relevance  of  these  in-vivo  models. 
However, in the Carlsson model, paliperidone did demonstrate effects on the QTc. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were carried out with paliperidone palmitate, pro-drug of 
paliperidone. The CHMP considered this acceptable since there is an extensive clinical and non clinical 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 12/118
 
 
 
experience  with  risperidone  and  also  taking  into  account  that  administration  of  risperidone  results  in 
significant paliperidone exposure. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic profile of paliperidone palmitate was studied to specifically characterise the absorption 
and  distribution  of  the  product  using  different  formulations  and  several  species  (dogs,  rats,  minipigs 
and  pigs).  Given  the  systemic  exposure  to  paliperidone  palmitate  is  low  (due  to  extensive  hydrolysis 
into paliperidone and palmitic acid), no ex vivo induction and inhibition studies, or in vivo metabolism 
studies  were  performed.  Furthermore,  no  studies  on  plasma  protein  binding and  distribution  to  blood 
cells  were  conducted,  nor  excretion  studies  or  studies  on  placental  transfer.  Available  studies  are 
derived from oral paliperidone and/or risperidone. 
Paliperidone showed a high bioavailability after i.m dosing of paliperidone palmitate. The shape of the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  of  paliperidone  after  intramuscular  or  intralipomatous  administration  was 
similar,  but  paliperidone  plasma  concentrations  after  intralipomatous  dosing  were  on  average  28% 
lower  as  compared  to  intramuscular  administration.  An  intravenous  administration  of  paliperidone 
palmitate,  did  not  produce  an  immediate  release  of  paliperidone,  but  resulted  in  measurable 
paliperidone  plasma  concentrations  for  a  period  of  9-41  days.  Maximum  plasma  concentrations  were 
reached within one to two weeks across species. Elimination half-lives appeared to be similar between 
rats and dogs (3-6 and 2-4 days, respectively) but longer in pigs and minipigs (7-15 days). Although 
the relative bioavailability over the dosing interval of 1 month was highly variable among species and 
tested formulations, the overall paliperidone palmitate pro-drug exposure was low. 
Two  in vitro  studies  investigated  the  hydrolysis  of  paliperidone  palmitate  to  paliperidone  and  palmitic 
acid.  Hydrolysis  can  take  place  in  several  matrices  and  appeared  to  be  highest  in  liver  samples  and 
occurring  to  a  lower  extent  in  muscle  tissue  and  blood.  Based  on  inhibition  studies,  serine  esterases 
seemed  to  be  involved  in  the  hydrolysis  of  paliperidone  palmitate,  but  other  esterases  may  also 
contribute.  Since  in vitro  results  indicated  that  paliperidone  palmitate  can  be  hydrolysed  in  several 
matrices  and  by  several  esterases,  the  hydrolysis  capacity  in  vivo  is  expected  to  be  high.  In  the 
carcinogenicity  study  in  rat,  the  fraction  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  plasma  was  maximally  2.9  to 
6.7% of the paliperidone AUC. There was a stereoselectivity in hydrolysis of the ester favouring more 
towards release of the R078543(+) –enantiomer.  
In  a  quantitative  whole  body  autoradiography  in  rats,  an  agglomerate  of  paliperidone  palmitate 
nanoparticles was formed in the muscle after intramuscular injection. This agglomerate  functioned as 
the depot from where the drug substance was released. High levels of 14C-labelled paliperidone and its 
metabolites  were  found  in  intestinal  and  urinary  contents  and  distributed  extensively  in  a  declining 
order to the following organs: salivary glands > prostate and liver > kidney, spleen and adrenal glands. 
After  6 months  of  dosing  in  dogs,  highest  tissue  to plasma  (T/P)  ratios  of  paliperidone  were  found  in 
the lymph nodes (= 119) and in muscle at the injection site (up to 91). Lower T/P ratios between 4.8 
and  9.5  were  determined  for  liver, lung  and  kidney,  whereas  concentration  in  brain  and  non-injected 
muscle was equivalent to plasma. After 12 months, highest concentrations of paliperidone were found 
in muscle at the injection site (mean T/P-ratio= 78) compared to lower levels in kidney, lymph nodes, 
lung and liver (mean T/P-ratio = 6). Concentrations in brain and in non-injected muscle were similar or 
lower than in plasma. 
After single dosing in minipigs, T/P-ratios of paliperidone in the injection site muscle ranged from 71 to 
489 between 1 week and 5 months after administration. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 13/118
 
 
 
In plasma protein binding studies it was shown that in all species tested, including human, paliperidone 
was  bound  to  a  maximum  of  85  %.  Plasma  protein  binding  of  the  enantiomers  exhibited  species-
dependent  stereoselectivity,  with  higher  protein  binding  seen  with  R078543(+)  than  with  R078544(-) 
in  dog  and  human  plasma.  In  human  plasma,  paliperidone  was  predominantely  bound  to  the α1-acid 
glycoprotein.  
Paliperidone  crossed  the  blood-brain  barrier.  Available  data  with  risperidone  indicated  that  placental 
transfer was limited in rats.  In addition, Paliperidone and/or its metabolites were excreted into milk in 
rats. 
In  rats,  paliperidone  was  extensively  metabolized  and  the  excretion  of  unchanged  paliperidone 
accounted  for  3.19  (male)  and  6.42%  (female)  of  the  dose.  The  urine  and  faeces  obtained  from  rats 
contained  unchanged  paliperidone  and  seven  metabolites,  M1,  M6,  M7,  M8,  M9,  M10,  M11,  (each 
accounting for more than 1% of the dose), and four minor metabolites (each accounting for less than 
1% of the dose). In rat plasma, paliperidone was the major compound (50-68%). In rats, paliperidone 
was mostly metabolized by alicyclic hydroxylation, oxidative N-dealkylation and benzisoxazole scission.  
In  dogs,  the  excretion  of  total  radioactivity  in  urine  and  faeces  were  slower  than  in  the  rat:  at  168 
hours  after  dosing,  59.8%  the  dose  was  excreted  in  urine  and  32.4%  of  the  dose  was  excreted  in 
faeces. Metabolism was limited and after 48 hours the unchanged paliperidone accounted for 32.4% in 
the urine and none in faeces. The urine and faeces obtained from dogs contained also five metabolites, 
M8,  M9,  M10,  M11,  M12,  M16  (accounting  each  for  1.2-6.5%  of  the  total  radioactivity).  Unchanged 
paliperidone accounted for 82% of the total radioactivity in plasma (0-24h sample). In dog plasma only 
paliperidone  and  the  M9  metabolite  were  detected  (M9  accounting  for  up  to  5%  of  plasma  total 
radioactivity).  In  the  excreta  of  dogs,  biotransformation  products  resulted  from  oxidative  N-
dealkylation, alcohol dehydrogenation and benzisoxazole scission, whether or not in combination with 
glucuronidation, alicyclic mono-hydroxylation or di-hydroxylation.  
In vitro results revealed the possible involvement of CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 in the overall metabolism of 
paliperidone, and in the formation of M11via benzisoxazole scission. No ex vivo induction and inhibition 
studies  have  been  performed.  However,  the  effect  of  risperidone  on  hepatic  enzyme  activity  was 
examined  in  an  ex  vivo  study,  in  which  male  Wistar  rats  were  administered  risperidone  as  repeated 
daily  p.o.  doses  for  1  week.  Risperidone  exhibited  no  effects  in  vivo  on  any  of  the  cytochrome  P450 
isoenzyme activities measured, or on UDP-glucuronosyltransferase activity. In vitro studies with Caco-
2  cells  indicated  that  paliperidone  appears  to  have  a  weak  P-gp  inhibitory  effect.  No  in  vivo  studies 
were performed and the clinical relevance is unknown.   
In rats, most of the paliperidone-related radioactivity (86%) was excreted with the faeces. In dogs and 
humans,  the  most  important  excretion  route  was  urine.  In  humans  the  cumulative  excretion  in  the 
urine amounted to 79.6% of the dose.  
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The  following  toxicology  studies  were  performed  with  different  paliperidone  palmitate  drug  product 
formulations (F001, F004, F007, F008, F009, F010, F011 and F013): 1) single-dose toxicity studies in 
dogs, pigs and minipigs, 2) repeat-dose toxicity studies up to 6 months in rats, 12 months in dogs, and 
3  months  in  minipigs  3)  in  vitro  genotoxicity  studies,  4)  a  rat  carcinogenicity  study  and  5)  a  rat 
embryo-fetal developmental toxicity study. The single- and repeat-dose toxicity studies (including the 
carcinogenicity study) addressed both systemic toxicity and local tolerance. 
F011 and F013 formulations are considered in principle similar and F013 is the formulation intended to 
be marketed (see section 3.4.2). 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 14/118
 
 
 
Single dose toxicity  
Following single i.m. injection of paliperidone palmitate (F013) in minipigs (dose up to 20 mg eg/kg), 
dose-dependent granulomatous inflammation was observed in the injected muscle of all animals, which 
was  rated  massive  on  days 8  and  29  after  administration. At  the  same  time  points,  minimal  to  slight 
muscular  necrosis  and  concomitant  regeneration  were  noted.  These  changes  decreased  over  time. 
Regeneration was also detected in the vehicle group. In dogs, most notable findings were anaphylactic 
reactions  and  more  pronounced  injection  site  reactions.  Signs  of  CNS  toxicity  (e.g  sedation,  tremors, 
abnormal behaviour) were observed in all animal species.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
Studies  were  performed  in  rats  (up  to  6  months  and  160  mg  eq./kg),  dogs  (up  to  12  months  and 
80/40  mg  eq./kg)  and  minipigs  (up  to  3  months  and  20  mg  eq./kg).  Toxicity  findings  were  mainly 
related to exaggerated pharmacology, particularly due to dopamine D2 antagonism. Treatment-related 
sedation  and  ptosis  were  consistently  observed  in  all  species.  In  addition,  enhanced  prolactin  release 
was  associated  with  changes  in  the  pituitary  gland,  mammary  gland,  endocrine  pancreas,  female 
genital  tract,  male  accessory  sex  organs  and  adrenal  glands.  Changes  in  body  weight,  body  weight 
gain and food consumption were also noted. Treatment related changes due to anti-adrenergic activity 
were also seen as an increased accumulation of red blood cells in the red pulp of the spleen.  
Furthermore, toxicity at the injection site was observed. These lesions occurred at all dose levels and 
across all animal species tested with tendency to be dose dependent. The most sensitive species was 
the dog. Across all tested species independent of the formulation (F004, F011) inflammatory reactions 
were observed in the repeat-dose toxicity studies with focal necrosis in the 6- and 12-month dog and 
in the 6-month rat study. Abscess formation occurred in the 6- and 12-month dog studies and was also 
found  in  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study.  The  lowest  dose  (5  mg  eq./kg)  and  the  smallest  injection 
volume  (0.05  ml/kg),  where  abscesses  and/or  focal  necrosis  were  seen  in  dogs,  exceeded  the 
maximum  recommended  human  dose  (MRHD,  approximately  2.5  mg  eq./kg)  and  the  maximum 
recommended injection volume (approximately 0.025 ml/kg) in 60 kg patients of 2-fold.  
In the 3 month minipig study, in which the formulation intended for marketing (F013) has been tested 
a dose-related local reaction was found at the injection site after repeated  dosing of approximately 5 
and 20 mg eq./kg/month. Deposit of test article formulation was observed in the subcutaneous tissue 
and/or  fat,  and/or  the  injection  site  muscle.  Histologically  a  dose-related  (fibro)  histiocytic 
inflammatory reaction, often with granuloma formation especially in the high-dose group, was found . 
Since injection site lesions occurred at all dose levels, No observed adverse effect levels (NOAEL) could 
not  be  established.  Altogether,  the  toxicity  studies  consistently  demonstrated  a  pronounced  irritation 
potential  of  aqueous  suspensions  of  paliperidone  palmitate  at  the  injection  site  across  all  animal 
species tested.  
Genotoxicity 
Paliperidone  palmitate  was  not  genotoxic in  the  Ames  bacterial  gene  mutation  test  and  in  the  mouse 
lymphoma assay. No specific in vivo genotoxicity test has been performed with paliperidone palmitate 
which  was  considered  acceptable  taking  into  account  that  oral  paliperidone  showed  no  genotoxic 
potential in the rat micronucleus test. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 15/118
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of paliperidone palmitate was assessed in a 24-month study in rats following 
intramuscular  administration  at  doses  of  10,  30  or  60  mg  eq./kg/month.  Pituitary  hyperplasia  was 
reported  resulting  in  hyperprolactinemia-related  non-neoplastic  changes  in  the  mammary  gland,  and 
male and female genital tract. Mammary gland adenocarcinomas were observed in the female rats at 
all dose levels. At 30 and 60 mg eq./kg/month, the incidence of mammary gland adenoma/carcinoma 
was increased also in male rats. All these findings were expected and in accordance with those seen in 
the dietary carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats using risperidone with dosages of 0, 0.63, 2.5, or 
10  mg/kg  bw/day.  At  the  injection  site,  a  deposit  was  found  at  all  dose  levels  and  abscesses  were 
additionally seen in a few high dose animals. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No  specific  fertility  and  early  embryonic  developmental,  pre-  and  postnatal  developmental  toxicity 
studies  or  juvenile  animal  studies  were  conducted  with  paliperidone  palmitate  to  the  exception  of  an 
embryo-foetal toxicity study performed with intramuscular paliperidone palmitate with doses up to 160 
mg eq./kg. This was considered acceptable taking into account that these studies were performed for 
oral  paliperidone  and  risperidone.  Both  of  these  compounds  had  no  influences  on  male  fertility  up  to 
2.5 mg/kg/day  in  rats.  Higher  dosages  were  impeded  by  the  prolactin-mediated  decreases  in  mating 
behaviour  and  copulation  rate.  In  female  rats,  hyperprolactinaemia  prolonged  oestrus  cycles  resulted 
in pseudopregnancies and an elongation of pre-coital intervals. Moreover, pre-implantation losses were 
increased at the maternally toxic top dose level of 2.5 mg/kg/day. 
No  foetotoxicity  or  malformations  were  observed  following  i.m.  injection  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in 
pregnant  rats  and  similar  findings  were  observed  with  risperidone  or  oral  paliperidone  even  at 
maternally  toxic  dose  levels  (up  to  10 mg/kg/day).  In  rabbits,  maternal  toxicity  was  found  at  doses 
 1.25 mg/kg/day  for  risperidone  or  paliperidone  culminating  in  post-implantation  losses  and  foetal 
death at 5 mg/kg/day. 
Both  risperidone  and  oral  paliperidone  did  not  reveal  any  teratogenic  potential  in  rats  and  rabbits.  A 
decrease  in  survival  of  rat  pups  was  observed  only  at  the  maternally  toxic  dose  of  2.5 mg/kg/day  or 
higher.  At  lower  dosages,  no  adverse  effects  on  growth  or  reproductive  performance  of  the  offspring 
were  detected.  In  juvenile  rats  treated  orally  from  day 12  to  day 50  of  age  (equivalent  to  a  human 
paediatric  population  of  5  to  16 years  of  age)  with  up  to  1.25 mg/kg/day  of  risperidone,  sexual 
maturation  was  not  affected.  However,  body  weight  gain,  motor-coordination,  activity  as  well  as 
learning  and  memory  were  impaired.  Apart  from  the  latter  finding  in  males,  these  events  were 
reversible.  When  juvenile  rats  were  administered  with  p.o.  paliperidone  from  days 24  to  73  of  age 
(corresponding  to  adolescents  of  12  to  17 years  of  age),  effects  on  learning  and  memory  were  only 
determined in females of the 2.5 mg/kg/day high dose group, whereas no adverse findings were noted 
in males or at lower doses. In juvenile dogs treated orally risperidone for 40 weeks commencing just 
after  weaning,  sexual  maturity  was  delayed  consequent  to  reduced  testosterone  and  progesterone 
levels  but  was  in  progress  during  the  12 months  recovery  period,  the  NOAEL  was  therefore  set  at 
1.25 mg/kg/day. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic data were collected from the toxicology, carcinogenicity and reproductive toxicity studies 
specifically conducted with paliperidone palmitate. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 16/118
 
 
 
In rats, two Cmax-values were observed. The first peak occurred within 24 h after dosing, then plasma 
concentrations  declined  until  one  or  two  days  after  dosing.  Thereafter,  the  plasma  concentrations 
gradually  increased  towards  a  second  Cmax,  peaking  within  one  week  after  the  first  administration. 
Finally,  paliperidone  plasma  levels  slowly  declined  until  the  next  injection.  The  AUC-values  increased 
approximately  dose-  proportionally.  In  the  carcinogenicity  study  in  rats,  the  maximum  plasma 
concentrations  of  paliperidone  were  observed  on  Day  7  post-dose.  AUC-  and  Cmax-values  increased 
approximately dose-proportionally and were higher in females than in males. 
In  dogs,  plasma  concentrations  increased  until  7  or  14  days  after  dosing.  Thereafter  they  remained 
approximately  stable  until  3  or  4  weeks  post-dose.  Cmax-  and  AUC0-  21  days-values  appeared  to 
increase dose proportionally in the dosing interval. 
Local Tolerance 
The  single-  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  (including  the  carcinogenicity  study)  addressed  local 
tolerance (see above). 
Other toxicity studies 
No  other  toxicity  studies  were  specifically  performed  with  paliperidone  palmitate.  Available  studies 
derived from oral paliperidone and/or risperidone. 
No  immunotoxicity  was  evident  in  repeated-dose  toxicity  studies  with  either  risperidone  or  oral 
paliperidone.  Furthermore,  no  effect  of  paliperidone  treatment  on  primary  T-cell-dependent  antibody 
response was found in a specific study conducted in immunised rats. Anaphylactic-like reactions seen 
in repeated-dose toxicity studies with paliperidone palmitate were considered dog-specific response to 
polysorbate 20. 
No antigenicity studies have been performed with either oral paliperidone or the paliperidone palmitate 
in the light of the non-peptidogenic nature of the compounds and the absence of immunotoxicity upon 
repetitive dosing in toxicity studies. 
In  an  in  vitro  phototoxicity  study,  paliperidone  had  previously  been  shown  to  be  devoid  of  any 
phototoxic  potential  in  mouse  3T3  cells  in  the  presence  of  UV  light.  In  addition,  paliperidone  did  not 
reveal  any  photo-mutagenic  activity  in  an  Ames  test  using  the  S.  typhimurium  tester  strains  TA98, 
TA1537,  TA100  and  TA1535  (DNA  repair-deficient  strains)  and  in  the  TA102  strain  (DNA  repair-
proficient strain), paliperidone did not induce any photo mutagenic activity. A positive effect was only 
observed in the tryptophan-requiring and DNA repair-deficient bacterial strain E. coli WP2 uvrA which 
was  attributed  to  a  "feeding  effect"  (increase  in  reversion  rates  in  the  absence  of  a  mutational  event 
caused  by  photo-excitation  that  lead  to  tryptophan  biosynthesis  in  auxotroph  E.  coli  WP2  uvrA 
bacteria).  
The  structurally-related  impurities  R206474,  R206475,  R207919,  R208224  and  R208225  have  been 
adequately qualified. The two genotoxic impurities T002006 and T002026 and the oxidative degradants 
formaldehyde and acetaldehyde were also satisfactorily specified. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
An  ERA  according  to  CHMP  guideline  on  the  environmental  risk  assessment  of  medicinal  products  for 
human  use  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00,  June  2006)  and  available  studies  are  derived  from  oral 
paliperidone.  Based  on  estimated  sale  forecast  for  2016  in  the  European  Union,  the  total  Predicted 
Environmental  Concentration  in  surface  water  PECSURFACE  WATER  was  0.0027  μg/L  (<0.01  μg/L)  for 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 17/118
 
 
 
paliperidone and paliperidone palmitate, so no further testing was required and no additional impact to 
the environment is expected with the use of paliperidone palmitate. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
No  pharmacological  studies  were  specifically  conducted  with  paliperidone  palmitate  in  animals. 
Paliperidone palmitate is hydrolysed into paliperidone and palmitic acid and is thus expected to exhibit 
the same pharmacological properties as paliperidone. Paliperidone is the major active metabolite of the 
atypical  neuroleptic  risperidone.  It  is  a  racemic  substance  that  exists  in  two  configurations. 
Interconversion  of  the  enantiomers  occurs  extensively  in vivo,  favouring  the  (+)-conformation. 
Therefore, primary and secondary pharmacodynamic studies were in part performed with the racemate 
and  the  individual  enantiomers  and  have  been  compared  to  the  pharmacodynamics  of  risperidone. 
Pharmacodynamic  profiles  were  very  similar  for  all  compounds,  both  qualitatively  and  quantitatively 
with  prominent  antagonism  at  serotonin  5-HT2A-  and  dopamine  D2-receptors.  Secondary 
pharmacodynamic  effects  of  the  compounds  were  related  to  anti-adrenergic  and  anti-histaminic 
activity  and  to  hyperprolactinaemia  elicited  by  D2-receptor  antagonism.  Side  effects  of  paliperidone 
closely  resemble  to  those  of  risperidone.  Hence  cardiac  effects  (e.g  torsade  de  pointes,  arrhythmias) 
were  reflected  in  the  product  information  for  XEPLION  including  a  warning  in  patients  using  other 
medications known to prolong the QT interval. 
The  results  of  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  animals  showed  that  the  systemic  exposure  to  paliperidone 
palmitate is  low  due  to  high  hydrolysis  into  paliperidone  and  palmitic  acid. Hence  the  majority  of  the 
pharmacokinetic  profile  for  paliperidone  palmitate  has  already  been  characterised  with  oral 
paliperidone  and/or  risperidone  (crossed  the  blood  brain  barrier,  limited  placental  transfer,  maximum 
of 85% plasma protein binding; excretion into faeces, urine and notably milk). Paliperidone showed a 
high bioavailability after i.m dosing of paliperidone palmitate. The shape of the pharmacokinetic profile 
of  paliperidone  after  intramuscular  or  intralipomatous  administration  was  similar,  but  paliperidone 
plasma  concentrations  after  intralipomatous  dosing  were  on  average  28%  lower  as  compared  to 
intramuscular administration. An intravenous administration of paliperidone palmitate, did not produce 
an  immediate  release  of  paliperidone,  but  resulted  in  measurable  paliperidone  plasma  concentrations 
for a period of 9-41 days. High tissue distribution (forming anagglomerate) was observed in the muscle 
at the injection sites in all studied species. 
The  majority  of  the  findings  in  the  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  with  paliperidone  palmitate  were 
related  to  the  exaggerated  pharmacological  activity  of  paliperidone,  particularly  due  to  dopamine  D2 
antagonism.  Treatment-related  sedation  and  ptosis  were  consistently  observed  in  all  species.  In 
addition,  enhanced  prolactin  release  was  associated  with  changes  in  the  pituitary  gland,  mammary 
gland,  endocrine  pancreas,  female  genital  tract,  male  accessory  sex  organs  and  adrenal  glands. 
Changes in body weight, body weight gain and food consumption were also noted. Treatment related 
changes due to anti-adrenergic activity were also seen as an increased accumulation of red blood cells 
in the red pulp of the spleen.  
Toxicity at the injection site was also observed. Since injection site lesions occurred at all dose levels, 
NOAELs  could  not  be  established.  Altogether,  the  toxicity  studies  consistently  demonstrated  a 
pronounced  irritation  potential  of  aqueous  suspensions  of  paliperidone  palmitate  at  the  injection  site 
across all animal species tested.  The issue is further discussed under the clinical aspects (see section 
3.4). Furthermore, anaphylactic-like reactions seen in repeated-dose toxicity studies with paliperidone 
palmitate were considered dog-specific response to polysorbate 20. 
In the carcinogenicity study specifically conducted with paliperidone palmitate, a significant increase in 
mammary gland adenocarcinomas in female rats at 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg/month was observed. Male 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 18/118
 
 
 
rats  showed  a  significant  increase  in  mammary  gland  adenomas  and  carcinomas  at  30  and 
60 mg /kg/month.  These  tumours  can  be  related  to  prolonged  dopamine  D2  antagonism  and 
hyperprolactinemia. All these findings were expected and in accordance with those seen in the dietary 
carcinogenicity  studies  in  mice  and  rats  using  risperidone  with  dosages  of  0,  0.63,  2.5,  or  10  mg/kg 
bw/day.  The  relevance  of  these  tumour  findings  in  rodents  in  terms  of  human  risk  is  considered 
unknown. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  genotoxic  potential  with  paliperidone  palmitate.  This  finding  was  further 
supported by in vivo genotoxic study performed with oral paliperidone. 
No  foetotoxicity  or  malformations  were  observed  following  i.m.  injection  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in 
pregnant  rats  and  similar  findings  were  observed  with  risperidone  or  oral  paliperidone  even  at 
maternally  toxic  dose  levels  (up  to  10 mg/kg/day).  In  rabbits,  maternal  toxicity  was  found  at  doses 
 1.25 mg/kg/day  for  risperidone  or  paliperidone  culminating  in  post-implantation  losses  and  foetal 
death at 5 mg/kg/day. 
Both risperidone and oral paliperidone did not reveal any teratogenic potential in rats and rabbits and 
no specific study was conducted with paliperidone palmitate in this regard. 
Based  on  estimated  sale  forecast  for  2016  in  the  European  Union,  the  total  Predicted  Environmental 
Concentration  in  surface  water  PECSURFACE  WATER  was  <0.01  μg/L  for  paliperidone  and  paliperidone 
palmitate,  and  no  additional  impact  to  the  environment  is  expected  with  the  use  of  paliperidone 
palmitate. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
Overall, the non-clinical aspects of paliperidone palmitate have been adequately documented and meet 
the requirements to support this application. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
However, some GCP and/or protocol compliance deficiencies were encountered in the following clinical 
phase  II/III  studies:  SCH-201,  PSY-3003  and  PSY-3002.  GCP  issues  led  to  the  closure  of  2  sites  in 
both  studies  PSY-3001  and  -3002  and  included  errors  occurring  with  the  Interactive  Voice  Response 
System  (IVRS).  On  the  basis  of  sensitivity  analyses  performed  by  the  applicant,  the  CHMP  concluded 
that these data could be used for the evaluation of the present application. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  Phase  I  clinical  pharmacology  program  has  been  conducted  in  patients  with  schizophrenia  using 
different paliperidone palmitate product drug formulations. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 19/118
 
 
 
In  addition  to  the  Phase  I  studies,  pharmacokinetics  data  have  been  collected  from  the  Phase  III 
studies  for  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  An  in vitro-in vivo  correlation  (IVIVC)  study  for 
paliperidone  palmitate  was  also  performed.  Finally,  pharmacokinetic  characteristics  derived  from 
studies with oral paliperidone, were also considered. 
Plasma  concentration  of  papliperidone  palmitate,  paliperidone  and  analysed  metabolites  was 
determined 
firstly  using  radioimmunassay  (RIA)  and  thereafter  LC/MS/MS  methods  in  the 
pharmacokinetic (PK) studies. Pharmacokinetic parameters were determined using non compartmental 
models.  IVIC  and  Population  PK  analysis  were  conducted  using  nonlinear  mixed  effects  modeling 
methodology (NONMEM). 
Absorption   
Bioavailability 
Following  a  single  im  dose  of  paliperidone  palmitate,  plasma  concentrations  of  paliperidone  gradually 
rise to reach maximum plasma concentrations at a median tmax of 14 days (12-16 days). The release 
of the drug starts as early as Day 1, and the apparent half-life for paliperidone following i.m. injection 
of paliperidone palmitate is approximately 25 days for a dose of 25 mg eq., 30 days for a dose of 50 
mg  eq.,  44  days/40  days  (deltoid/gluteal)  for  a  dose  of  100  mg  eq.,  and  40  days/49  days 
(deltoid/gluteal) for a dose of 150 mg eq.  
The  absolute  bioavailability  of  paliperidone  using  i.m.  administration  of  paliperidone  palmitate  was 
estimated to be complete based on the comparison between i.m. routes of paliperidone palmitate and 
immediate  release  (IR)  paliperidone.  Relative  bioavailability  of  paliperidone  palmitate  compared  to 
intramuscularly  administered  IR  paliperidone  ranged  from  57%  to  135%,  depending  on  the  tested 
formulations.  A  direct  comparison  with  i.v.  paliperidone  has  not  been  performed  and  was  not 
considered necessary. 
An effect of the particle size on the release rate was observed suggesting a slower release rate when 
the particle sizes were increased (decreased median Cmax , increased median tmax). 
Relative  bioavailability  of  the  formulations  used  in  Phase  III  studies,  F011  and  F013  (intended  to  be 
marketed)  showed  that  point  estimates  for  AUC  and  Cmax  were  close  to  100%.  However  the  90% 
confidence intervals did not fall within acceptable limits to demonstrate bioequivalence. 
A  Level  A  IVIVC  model  has  been  established  for  paliperidone  palmitate,  confirming  the  biological 
relevance  of  the  in  vitro  dissolution  method  and  that  this  model  can  be  further  used  to  justify  bio 
relevant release rate specifications for formulation intended to be marketed (F013). 
Effect of injection site (deltoid versus gluteal muscle) 
Initiation of treatment in the deltoid muscle resulted in higher initial exposure as compared to initiation 
of  treatment  in  the  gluteal  muscle,  suggesting  more  rapid  achievement  of  therapeutic  concentration. 
This  is  likely  explained  by  the  different  distribution  of  muscle  and  adipose  tissue  between  the  two 
injection  sites,  which  may  affect  the  uptake  of  paliperidone  in  the  circulation  at  the  site  of  injection. 
The effect seemed greater at initiation of treatment, while after multiple injections, the fluctuations in 
paliperidone plasma concentrations were less pronounced, and a difference between deltoid and gluteal 
injections were less apparent. 
Effect of injection volume 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 20/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After  single  im  administration  of  paliperidone  palmitate  at  different  doses,  apparent  half-life  of 
paliperidone was estimated to be longer at the higher doses compared with the lower doses, reflecting 
a slower absorption. This may be caused by the increased injection volume from 0.25 to 1.5 mL over 
the dosing range of 25 to 150 mg eq.  
Effect of body mass index (BMI) 
At  initiation  of  treatment,  a  21%  to  32%  lower  exposure  on  Days  8  and  15  in  the  overweight  and 
obese groups was observed as compared to the normal BMI group. After the 8th and 14th injections, 
there was no major difference in AUCτ or Cmax between the normal BMI and overweight groups and 
some difference compared with the obese subjects.  
Comparison of exposure with oral paliperidone 
No  direct  comparison  of  plasma  concentrations  between  oral  paliperidone  (Invega)  and  the  proposed 
dose  regimen  for  paliperidone  palmitate  has  been  performed.  However,  pharmacokinetic  data  from 
study SCH-201 were presented. Study SCH-201 included an open label oral dosing regimen (6 mg or 
12  mg    Invega  ,  2  mg  or  4mg    immediate  release  oral  paliperidone  once  daily  for  7  days)  and 
thereafter  compared  2  fixed  doses  of  paliperidone  palmitate  (50  mg  and  100  mg  eq)  versus  placebo 
administered  at  day  1,8  and  36.  Based  on  dose-normalised  comparisons,  comparable  exposure  for 
Invega  6  mg/day  (recommended  dose)  and  paliperidone  palmitate  75  mg  eq./month  (recommended 
monthly  maintenance  dose)  was  observed  with  an  8%  higher  estimated  exposure  with  paliperidone 
palmitate  versus  Invega.  In  addition,  simulations  based  on  PK  population  analyses  were  further 
discussed  by  the  applicant.  In  these  simulations,  plasma  concentrations  of  paliperidone  after 
administration  of  150  mg  eq.  paliperidone  palmitate  on  day  1  are  slightly  below  the  concentrations 
after  administration  of  Invega  6 mg/day  during  the  first  days,  but  4-5  days  after  administration  the 
concentrations were very similar. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 21/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  1.  Simulated  Paliperidone  Concentration-Time  Profiles  for  the  First  Week  of 
Treatment  for  Paliperidone  PR  vs.  Paliperidone  Palmitate  Recommended  Loading  Dose 
Injection on Day 1. The white and black lines represent plasma paliperidone concentrations 
after administration of Paliperidone PR and Paliperidone Palmitate respectively. The shaded 
and  hatched  areas  represent  the  90%  prediction  interval  based  on  the  population  PK 
simulation. 
Figure  2.  Simulated  Paliperidone  Concentration-Time  Profiles  for  the  First  5  Weeks  of 
Treatment  for  Paliperidone  PR  vs.  Paliperidone  Palmitate  Recommended  Dosing  Initiation 
Regimen 150 mg eq. on Day 1 and 100 mg eq. on Day 8. The white and black lines represent 
plasma paliperidone concentrations after administration of Paliperidone PR and Paliperidone 
Palmitate respectively. The shaded and hatched areas represent the 90% prediction interval 
based on the population PK simulation. 
Observed  paliperidone  concentration  data  from  several  studies  and  plasma  concentrations  during  the 
first  week  of  treatment  were  also  presented.  In  comparison  with  oral  paliperidone  6 mg/day,  the 
plasma  concentrations  of  paliperidone  are  slightly  lower  only  during  the  first  48 hours  after 
administration  of  paliperidone  palmitate  according  to  the  proposed  dosing  schedule.  Paliperidone 
palmitate exposure was similar to 3 mg oral paliperidone (Invega) by 4 hours after injection (Figure 3). 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 22/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  3.  Paliperidone  Plasma  Concentrations  on  Day  1  to  Day  7  After  Injection  of 
Paliperidone  Palmitate  150  mg  eq.  in  the  Deltoid  Muscle  vs.  Oral  Administration  of 
Paliperidone PR 3 mg or 6 mg 
Comparison of exposure with risperidone/paliperidone 
A number of simulations were provided to support the following dosing recommendation (not requiring 
the  initial  one  week  initiation  dosing  at  day  1  and  8)  for  switching  from  risperidone  long  acting 
injectable to paliperidone palmitate (see Table 1): 
Table1. Proposed doses of RISPERDAL CONSTA and paliperidone palmitate needed to attain 
similar paliperidone exposure at steady-state 
Previous RISPERDAL CONSTA Dose 
25 mg every 2 weeks 
XEPLION Injection 
50 mg monthly 
37.5 mg every 2 weeks 
50 mg every 2 weeks 
75 mg monthly 
100 mg monthly 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 23/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The simulation for the highest dose (switch from 50 mg every 2 weeks of Risperdal consta to 100 mg 
monthly of paliperidone palmitate) is presented in Figure 4.  
Figure  4:  Switching  From  Risperdal  consta  to  paliperidone  palmitate  (High  Dose  Scenario). 
Lines and shaded areas represent medians and 90% prediction intervals. 
Distribution  
No specific study has been performed with paliperidone palmitate and this was considered acceptable 
taking into account that the distribution profile of paliperidone has already been characterised with oral 
paliperidone studies. 
Paliperidone distributed well into the brain, as evidenced by displacement of 11C-racloprine measured 
using  PET  imaging  in  healthy  subjects.  Within  therapeutically  relevant  concentrations  of  50  to  250 
ng/mL,  the  plasma  protein  binding  was  74%  for  paliperidone,  82%  for  (+)-paliperidone  and  65%  for  
(-)-paliperidone,  and  was  not  influenced  by  sex,  age,  or  renal  function.  Paliperidone  and  its 
enantiomers  were  predominately  bound  to  α1-acid  glycoprotein  and  albumin.  In  patients  with 
moderate  hepatic  impairment,  plasma  protein  binding  was  reduced,  mainly  because  of  a  reduction  in 
α1-acid glycoprotein and albumin plasma concentrations. 
Following  im  administration,  the  volume  of  distribution  after  administration  of  paliperidone  palmitate 
was  391 L,  based  on  population  PK  modelling.  The  observed  clearance  was  nearly  identical  to  the 
observed clearance after iv administration of paliperidone with 4.95L/h and 4.99 L/hr, respectively.  
Elimination  
No specific study has been performed with paliperidone palmitate and this was considered acceptable 
taking into account that the elimination profile of paliperidone has already been characterised with oral 
paliperidone studies. The plasma clearance of paliperidone (about 80 ml/min) is low relative to hepatic 
plasma  flow  (about  700  ml/min),  and  therefore  paliperidone  can  be  considered  as  a  drug  with  a  low 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 24/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
hepatic extraction ratio. The half-life of paliperidone is 20-25 hours and is independent of dose, route 
of  administration  and  formulation.  Paliperidone  was  mainly  excreted  in  urine  (80%  of  a  radiolabelled 
dose), while only a small part was excreted in faeces (11%). Almost 60% of the dose was excreted as 
unchanged drug in urine. Renal clearance of unchanged paliperidone was on average 53 ml/min. About 
50%  of  the  renal  clearance  of  unchanged  paliperidone  was  by  means  of  filtration  (average  CLGFR: 
25.9 ml/min), the other half occurred by active processes (average CLact: 27.2 ml/min). 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies  
Dose proportionality 
After a single-dose injection of paliperidone palmitate 25, 50, 100, or 150 mg eq using im route, total 
paliperidone  exposure  increased  proportionally  in  both  tested  injection  sites  (deltoid  and  gluteal 
muscles).  The  increase  in  the  observed  maximum  plasma  concentration  (Cmax)  of  paliperidone  was 
less than dose proportional for doses above 50 mg eq and the t1/2 was prolonged. 
Time dependency 
The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  paliperidone  palmitate  did  not  appear  to  be  time  dependent.  After 
repeated-dose injection of paliperidone palmitate of 150 mg eq (maximum recommended dose) using 
im route, steady state was not reached until after 230-260 days (approximately 8 to 9 months). Actual 
accumulation ratios for Cmax and AUC after multiple dose were in the same range as those predicted 
in the single-dose administration.  
Inter and Intra-individual variability 
The  inter-individual  variability  for  paliperidone  after  administration  of  paliperidone  palmitate  is  in  the 
range  40-50%,  and  thus,  similar  to  the  variability  for  orally  administered  paliperidone.  No  data  on 
intra-individual  variability  have  been  presented.  In  the  population  PK  model,  the  inter-occasion 
variability  was  lower  than  the  inter-individual  variability  for  clearance  and  volume,  but  for 
bioavailability, the inter-occasion and inter-individual variability terms were equally large. 
Special populations  
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  evaluating  renal  function  and  a  number  of  parameters  including 
the  effect  of  race,  gender,  age  was  conducted.  The  effect  of  body  mass  index  (BMI)/needle  length, 
injection site and volume was also investigated. No studies in paediatric population with schizophrenia 
have been performed in accordance with the waiver granted for all subsets of this population. 
In subjects with mild renal impairment (renal clearance: 50-80 mL/min) a 75 mg eq. dose resulted in a 
similar  exposure  as  a  100  mg  eq.  dose  in  subjects  with  normal  renal  function  (renal  clearance  >  80 
mL/min). 
Hepatic  function  was  not  evaluated  in  the  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  Available  information 
derived  from  a  study  conducted  in  healthy  volunteers  with  oral  paliperidone.  The  exposure  to 
paliperidone  was  decreased  in  patients  with  moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child  Pugh  class  B) 
compared  with  healthy  subjects.  However,  the  protein  levels  were  lower  and  the  unbound  fraction 
higher  in  the  hepatically  impaired  group  while  the  unbound  exposure  was  similar  in  both  groups.  No 
dose  adjustment  is  required  in  patients  with  mild  or  moderate  hepatic  impairment.  Severe  hepatic 
impairment has not been studied with oral paliperidone. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 25/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  did  not  reveal  any  clinically  significant effect  of  race,  gender  nor 
age. When comparing the paliperidone exposure in subjects in the age range of 18-60 years with that 
in  subjects  >60  years,  small  differences  in  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  were  observed  between  both 
age groups, however the older population showed a decline in renal function. 
Population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  showed  that  using  a  1.5-inch  needle  for  deltoid  injection  in 
subjects with a body weight over 90 kg (corresponding to a BMI of approximately 30 kg/m2) resulted 
in  plasma  concentration-time  profiles  that  were  comparable  to  those  obtained  when  using  a  1-inch 
needle  for  deltoid  injection  in  subjects  with  a  body  weight  of  less  than  90  kg,  suggesting  to  use  a 
longer  needle  for  obese  patients  to  achieve  adequate  exposure  to  paliperidone.  Compared  to  deltoid 
injections, repeated administration in the gluteal muscle resulted in a delayed time to achieve steady-
state (approximately 4 weeks longer), but did not influence the overall exposure (in terms of steady-
state  concentrations)  to  paliperidone.  Deltoid  injections  resulted  in  a  faster  rise  in  initial  plasma 
concentrations. Additional data from phase III studies confirmed these findings.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  pharmacokinetic  interaction  studies  were  performed  with  paliperidone  palmitate.  Available 
information derived from studies with oral paliperidone. However, according to CHMP scientific advice, 
the  potential  for  hydrolysis-mediated  reactions  and  the  effect  of  various  esterase  inhibitors  on 
paliperidone palmitate were investigated in vitro (see section 3.3.3).  
Two in vitro studies in human liver microsomes showed that paliperidone does not substantially inhibit 
the  metabolism  of  drugs  metabolized  by  CYP  isozymes,  including  CYP1A2,  CYP2A6,  CYP2C8/9/10, 
CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4 and CYP3A5. Therefore, paliperidone is not expected to inhibit clearance of 
drugs that are metabolized by these metabolic pathways in a clinically relevant manner. The effect of 
paliperidone on induction of metabolic enzymes has not been investigated. In line with observations in 
clinical  studies  where  paliperidone  displayed  time-independent  pharmacokinetics,  paliperidone  is  not 
expected  to  cause  enzyme  induction  or  inhibition.  As  such,  paliperidone  is  not  expected  to  inhibit  P-
glycoprotein-(P-gp)-mediated  transport  of  other  drugs  in  a  clinically  meaningful  manner.  An  in  vitro 
study  showed  that  paliperidone  may  be  a  substrate  and  a  weak  inhibitor  of  P-gp.  No  in  vivo  studies 
have been performed and the clinical relevance is unknown.  
Paliperidone  binds  primarily  to  α1-acid  glycoprotein  and  albumin.  In  vitro,  high  therapeutic 
concentrations  of  diazepam  (3  μg/mL),  sulfamethazine  (100  μg/mL),  warfarin  (10  μg/mL)  and 
carbamazepine  (10  μg/mL)  (all  bound  to  albumin)  caused  a  slight,  though  statistically  significant 
increase  in  the  free  fraction  of  paliperidone  (at  50  ng/mL),  with  a  maximum  increase  of  12%  (by 
carbamazepine, from 22.9 to 25.7%). Based upon these data, drug interaction at the level of protein 
binding is considered unlikely.  
The  main  elimination  route  of  paliperidone  is  renal  excretion  and  about  half  of  this  is  through  active 
secretion  in  the  renal  tubule.  Only  one  in  vivo  interaction  study  was  performed  with  paliperidone, 
addressing  the  potential  interaction  with  trimethoprim  on  the  renal,  secretory  level.  Trimethoprim, 
which was chosen due to its inhibitory effect on the organic cation transporter, had only small effects 
on  the  PK  of  paliperidone,  e.g.  an  increase  in  Cmax  and  decreased  AUC  of  total  paliperidone,  and 
unbound CL/F and AUC were not different. In the Caco-2 study described above, trimethoprim had no 
effect  on  the  transport  of  paliperidone  either.  Furthermore,  there  was  no  indication  that  paliperidone 
affected the PK of trimethoprim at steady state, and a drug interaction at the level of renal secretion is 
considered unlikely.  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 26/118
 
 
 
Factors  potentially  affecting  solubility,  i.e.  temperature  and  pH,  were  studied  in vitro  and  no  relevant 
increase  in  solubility  for  paliperidone  palmitate  was  observed,  suggesting  that  higher  exposure  to 
paliperidone and faster release were unlikely to occur . No in vivo data are available in this regards. 
Multiple dosing with paroxetine caused increases in Cmax and AUC of a single dose of paliperidone by 
10-15%. This increase was not considered clinically relevant.  
In a published study, the effect of the P-gp inhibitor verapamil on the PK of risperidone was evaluated 
in  Japanese  subjects,  and  the  exposure  to  risperidone  and  paliperidone  increased  61%  and  30%, 
respectively,  while  the  half-lives  were  not  affected.  Effects  of  P-gp  inhibitors  directly  on  paliperidone 
are difficult to predict based on these data. No in vivo data are available and the clinical relevance was 
considered unknown.  
In an interaction study with carbamazepine, plasma concentrations of paliperidone were reduced by a 
mean  of  approximately  37%.  The  induction  effect  was  variable  and  suggested  to  be  associated  with 
induction  of  renal  P-gp.  Urinary  excretion  was  slightly  decreased,  while  renal  CL  of  paliperidone 
increased about 35%. 
In  a  study  with  patients  stabilised  on  valproate  (VPA)  therapy,  multiple  dosing  with  oral  paliperidone 
12 mg/day did not affect the pharmacokinetics of VPA. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Paliperidone 
is  a  monoaminergic  antagonist  with  a  high  affinity 
for  serotoninergic  (5-
hydroxytryptamine  [5-HT]  type  2A  [5HT2A])  and  dopaminergic  D2  receptors.  Paliperidone  binds  also 
to α1-adrenergic receptors, and, with lower affinity, to H1-histaminergic and α2-adrenergic receptors. 
It has no affinity for cholinergic, muscarinic, or β1- and β2-adrenergic receptors. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Primary  and  secondary  pharmacology  have  already  been  characterised  with  studies  with  oral 
paliperidone or risperidone and no specific study with paliperidone palmitate was conducted. 
Notably, the correlation of plasma concentrations of paliperidone with the incidence of extrapyramidal 
symptoms  (EPS)  was  analysed  using  a  hazard  model.  The  hazard  model  relates  the  EPS-incidence  to 
average  steady  state  paliperidone  plasma  concentrations  during  a  6-week  oral  treatment  with  oral 
paliperidone.  Steady  state  plasma  concentrations  up  to  20  ng/ml  were  not  associated  with  an 
increased risk for EPS as EPS-incidences below that plasma concentration are similar to placebo (about 
10%). For plasma concentrations between 20 and 40 ng/ml, the risk to develop EPS increased with a 
factor of 2.8 until it reaches a plateau of approximately 30%. The EC50 was estimated to be 24 ng/ml. 
It has been suggested that D2-receptor occupancies above 80% are associated with an increased risk 
for  EPS.  An  average  steady  state  plasma  concentration  of  paliperidone  of  24  ng/ml  corresponds  to  a 
D2-receptor  occupancy  of  approximately  83%  (KDapp:  mean  ±  SD:  4.9  ±  0.53  ng/ml).  This  is 
consistent  with  other  reports  in  the  literature  that  suggest  that  increased  risk  to  develop  EPS  is 
associated with D2-receptor occupancies of > 80%.  
Based on the in vitro and in vivo PK properties of paliperidone, the probability of drug-drug interactions 
is  low.  However,  considering  the  drug’s  primary  effects  on  the  CNS,  paliperidone  should  be 
administered  with  caution  in  combination  with  other  centrally  active  drugs.  Paliperidone  may 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 27/118
 
 
 
antagonize the effects of levodopa and other dopamine agonists. Due to its alpha>-adrenergic receptor 
antagonism, paliperidone has the potential to enhance the effect of certain antihypertensive agents. 
No data are available on genetic differences in pharmacodynamic response. A review of publications on 
paliperidone (as metabolite of risperidone) indicated that exposure to paliperidone in diverse groups of 
subjects that included subjects with genetic polymorphisms was generally tolerated. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The  absorption  and  distribution  profile  of  paliperidone  palmitate  has  been  adequately  characterised. 
Available  information  on  the  metabolism  and  elimination  derived  from  studies  with  oral  paliperidone 
and this is considered acceptable taking into consideration that the systemic exposure to paliperidone 
palmitate  is  low,  due  to  extensive  hydrolysis  into  paliperidone  and  palmitic  acid.  In  several  studies, 
concentrations  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  plasma  was  detectable  in  a  limited  number  of  samples 
(2.5% of the samples analyzed).  
Following  a  single  im  dose  of  paliperidone  palmitate,  plasma  concentrations  of  paliperidone  gradually 
rise to reach maximum plasma concentrations at a median tmax of 14 days (12-16 days). The release 
of  the  drug  starts  as  early  as  Day  1  and  the  apparent  half-life  for  paliperidone  ranged  from  25-49 
days, depending on the doses. The absolute bioavailability of paliperidone using i.m. administration of 
paliperidone palmitate was estimated to be complete based on the comparison between i.m. routes of 
paliperidone  palmitate  and  immediate  release  (IR)  paliperidone.  Following  im  administration,  the 
volume of distribution after administration of paliperidone palmitate was 391 L, based on population PK 
modelling.  The  observed  clearance  was  nearly  identical  to  the  observed  clearance  after  iv 
administration  of  paliperidone  with  4.95L/h  and  4.99 L/hr,  respectively,  supporting  the  complete 
bioavailability of paliperidone after paliperidone palmitate injection. 
However,  effects  of  injection  site/volume,  BMI  on  absorption  were  observed.  On  this  basis,  specific 
recommendations  for  the  site  of  administration  (injection  at  the  deltoid  muscle)  and  the  use  of  the 
needle length (longer needle required for patient 90 kg) were proposed by the applicant. These were 
questioned by the CHMP in light of the data from phase III studies (see section 3.5). 
Furthermore,  no  direct  comparison  with  exposure  to  oral  paliperidone  was  performed  and  this  was 
raised by the CHMP in light of the broad indication applied for “treatment of schizophrenia in adults”. 
Pharmacokinetic  data  on  oral  paliperidone  and  paliperidone  palmitate  collected  from  study  SCH-201, 
suggested  comparable  exposure  for  Invega  6  mg/day  and  paliperidone  palmitate  75  mg  eq./month. 
However;  the  study  design  was  not  reflecting  the  proposed  dosing  schedule  for  XEPLION:  a  dose  of 
150 mg on initial treatment day 1 and a dose of 100 mg on day 8 thereafter a monthly recommended 
maintenance dose of 75 mg. Furthermore, the design included an oral run-in period with paliperidone 
for 7 days without a washout-phase, therefore allowing an overlap of plasma levels from oral and i.m-
treatment  and  the  formulation  intended  to  be  marketed  (F013)  was  not  used  in  this  study. 
Nonetheless,  the  CHMP  considered  the  PK  simulations  provided  by  the  applicant  and  concluded  that 
these were valid. Both simulated and observed plasma concentration data showed that for paliperidone 
palmitate,  plasma  concentrations  of  paliperidone  that  appeared  lower  only  during  the  first  days  of 
treatment in comparison with oral administration of Invega 6 mg/day were achieved with the proposed 
dosing regimen.  
Regarding  switching  from  risperidone  long  acting  injectable  (Risperdal  consta)  to  paliperidone 
palmitate,  the  CHMP  considered  that  adequate  simulation  were  provided  to  support  the  proposed 
dosing recommendation (not requiring the one week initiation regimen at day 1 and 8). This is further 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 28/118
 
 
 
supported  by  the  maintenance  of  the  steady-state  concentrations  after  the  last  injection  of  Risperdal 
consta for 4–5 weeks and decline thereafter with a mean plasma half-life of 4–6 days.  
In accordance with the CHMP scientific advice, no specific phase I studies were conducted in the elderly 
population  and  information  related  to  hepatic  impairment  reflected  in  the  SPC  derived  from  oral 
paliperidone. No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment and 
caution is recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment in the absence of data. 
Population pharmacokinetic analysis with paliperidone palmitate did not indicate differences regarding 
renal  function  and  effects  of  race,  nor  age  between  paliperidone  palmitate  and  oral  paliperidone.  No 
clinically significant differences were observed between men and women. Similarly to oral paliperidone, 
no  dose  adjustment  is  recommended  in  patients  with  mild  renal  impairment.  However  paliperidone 
palmitate  is  not  recommended  in  patients  with  moderate  or  severe  renal  impairment  (creatinine 
clearance < 50 ml/min). 
In  accordance  with  the  CHMP  scientific  advice,  no  specific  interaction  studies  were  performed  with 
paliperidone palmitate apart from those related to esterase-mediated hydrolysis (see section 3.3.3). 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall,  the  pharmacological  profile  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  human  studies  has  been  adequately 
characterised. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
The initial indication applied for is: treatment of adult patients with schizophrenia.  
The clinical development included short term and long term studies. Short-term efficacy was studied in 
four placebo controlled, dose-finding, fixed dose studies as well as in two flexible dose, non-inferiority 
studies (versus Risperdal Consta, without a placebo group). Maintenance of effect was studied in one 
placebo controlled, flexibly dosed, relapse prevention study and one flexible dose, non-inferiority study 
(versus Risperdal Consta without a placebo control). The injection site and the needle size have varied 
between the studies. 
A tabulated summary of the studies are presented in Table 2. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 29/118
 
 
 
Table 2. Efficacy studies 
Study 
SCH-201 
PSY-3003 
PSY-3004 
PSY-3007 
PSY-3006 
PSY-3008 
Objective 
Short-term 
efficacy, dose-
response 
Short-term 
efficacy, dose-
response 
Short-term 
efficacy, dose-
response 
Short-term 
efficacy, dose-
response 
Short-term 
efficacy, non-
inferiority vs 
Risperdal 
Consta every 2 
weeks 
Short-term 
efficacy, non-
inferiority vs 
Risperdal 
Consta every 2 
weeks 
PSY-3001  Maintenance of 
effect, relapse 
prevention 
PSY-3002  Maintenance of 
effect, non-
inferiorirty vs 
Risperdal 
Consta every 2 
weeks 
DB: double blind 
Dosing  
50 or 100 mg 
at day 1, 8 and 
36 
50, 100 or 150 
mg at day 1, 8, 
36 and 64 
25, 50 or 100 
mg at day 1, 8, 
36 and 64 
150 mg day 1 
followed by 25, 
100 or 150 mg 
day 8, 36 and 
64 
150 mg day 1, 
100 mg day 8, 
50 or 100 mg 
day 36, 50, 100 
or 150 mg day 
64 
150 mg day 1, 
100 mg day 8, 
50 or 100 mg 
day 36, 50, 100 
or 150 mg day 
64 
Injection site 
Gluteal muscle 
Duration 
9 weeks 
Gluteal muscle 
13 weeks 
Gluteal muscle 
13 weeks 
13 weeks 
13 weeks 
13 weeks 
First injection in 
deltoid muscle, 
following injections 
in deltoid or 
gluteal muscle 
First two injections 
in deltoid muscle, 
following injections 
in deltoid or 
gluteal muscle 
First two injections 
in deltoid muscle, 
following injections 
in deltoid or 
gluteal muscle 
Design 
DB, placebo, 2 
fixed doses 
DB, placebo, 3 
fixed doses 
DB, placebo, 3 
fixed doses 
DB, placebo, 3 
fixed doses 
DB, double 
dummy, flexible 
doses 
Open label, 
rater blinded, 
flexible doses 
Risperdal consta 
flexible dose 25-
50 mg plus oral 
supplementation 
risperidone 
DB, placebo, 
flexible dose 
Gluteal muscle 
25-100 mg 
during 
maintenance 
and DB phase 
33 weeks 
open label, 
variable DB 
phase, 52 
weeks open 
label 
extension 
53 weeks 
DB, flexible 
dose 
25-100 mg 
every 4 weeks 
Gluteal muscle 
Risperdal consta 
flexible dose 25, 
37.5 or 50 mg 
2.5.1.  Dose response study 
Dose-response was evaluated in the short term studies (phase II/III: SCH-201, phase III: PSY-3003, -
3004, -3007). The results of the dose-response are presented in section 3.5.2. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 30/118
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
2.5.2.1.  Short term studies 
2.5.2.1.1.  Methods 
The short-term studies were designed as follows: 
- SCH- 201: a phase II/III 9 week randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the 
efficacy  and  safety  of  50  and  100  mg  eq.  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  subjects  with  schizophrenia, 
conducted in Poland, Bulgaria, Russia, Ukraine, the United States,India. 
-  PSY-3003:  a  phase  III  13  week  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  fixed 
dose study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 50, 100 and 150 mg eq. of paliperidone palmitate in 
subjects with schizophrenia, conducted in Ukraine, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and the  United States. 
-  PSY-3004:  a  phase  III  13  week  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  fixed 
dose study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 25, 50 and 100 mg eq. of paliperidone palmitate in 
subjects with schizophrenia, conducted Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, South Africa and the United States. 
-  PSY-3007:  a  phase  III  13  week  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel  group  ,  fixed 
dose, study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 25, 50 and 100 mg eq. of paliperidone palmitate in 
subjects  with  schizophrenia,  conducted  in  Romania,    Serbia,  Montenegr  Ukraine,    Russia,Korea, 
Malaysia, Taiwan and the United States. 
-  PSY-3006:  a  phase  III  13  week  randomised,  double-blind,  active-controlled,  parallel  group  study  to 
evaluate the efficacy and safety of paliperidone palmitate versus risperidone long acting intramuscular 
injection  in  subjects  with  schizophrenia  ,conducted  in  Austria,  Czech  Republic,  Estonia,  France, 
Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, Poland, Spain Bulgaria, Ukraine, Russia,  India and the United States 
-  PSY  3008:  a  phase  III  13  week  open  label,  parallel  group,  fixed  dose  study  to  evaluate  efficacy  of  
Paliperidone Palmitate (50, 100, or 150 mg eq.) and Risperidone Long Acting Injection (25, 37.5, or 50 
mg)  in  subjects  with  schizophrenia  (The  approximate  length  of  the  study  for  each  subject  was  14 
weeks,  including  a  screening  period  of  no  more  than  7  days  and  a  13-week  open-label  treatment 
period. This study was conducted in China. 
Study participants  
Main inclusion criteria 
Male or female, 18 years of age or older, fulfilling the DSM-IV criteria for schizophrenia since at least 
one  year,  and  have  a  screening/baseline  PANSS  score  of  at  least  60  or  70  and  a  maximum  score  of 
120.  
Main exclusion criteria 
Exclusion  criteria  mainly  included:  any  primary  active  DSM-IV  diagnosis  other  than  schizophrenia, 
patients  treated  with  long  acting  injectable  (LAI)  antipsychotics,  Electroconvulsive  therapy  (ECT), 
monoamine oxydase (MAO)-inhibitors, any other anti depressants (unless on a stable dose for at least 
30 days), oral antipsychotics or mood stabilizers within different specified time limits; a decrease of at 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 31/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
least 25% in PANSS total score between screening and baseline; a significant risk of suicidal or violent 
behavior. 
Treatments 
In all short term studies, paliperidone palmitate was administered at day 1 and 8 and every 4 weeks 
thereafter and included a screening period up to 5 days for wash-out of psychotropic medications other 
than  allowed  antidepressants.  Prior  to  entering  the  double  blind  treatment  phase,  there  was  a  7  day 
oral  run  in  period  in  study  SCH-201(6  mg  or  12  mg  extended  release  paliperidone  or  2  mg  or  4  mg 
immediate  release  paliperidone)    and  a  4  day  tolerability  testing  was  performed  for  subjects  not 
previously exposed to risperidone or paliperidone in the other short term studies. 
In studies SCH-201, PSY-3003, PSY-3004, the allocated dose was administered at all time points and 
exclusively  in  a  gluteal  muscle.  In  study  PSY-3007,  all  actively  dosed  patients  started  with  150  mg 
administered  in  a  deltoid  muscle  followed  by  deltoid  or  gluteal  muscle  injections  (at  the  discretion  of 
the investigator) of different doses. In studies PSY-3006 and -3008, the first two doses, 150 and 100 
mg,  respectively,  were  administered  in  a  deltoid  muscle  followed  by  flexible  doses  (50-150  mg) 
administered as deltoid or gluteal injections. In studies PSY-3007, -3006 and -3008, the needle length 
was additionally weight adjusted for the deltoid muscle injections. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was change from baseline in total score on the Positive And Negative Syndrome 
Scale  (PANSS).  Main  secondary  endpoints  included  the  Personal  and  Social  Performance  (PSP)  scale, 
and Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) and the responder rate (defined as a 30% or more 
reduction from Day 1 in the total PANSS score to endpoint). 
Sample size 
In placebo controlled studies, the sample size calculation was 90% power to detect a difference of at 
least  10  points  (except  study  PSY-3007  which  used  a  difference  of  at  least  9  points)  in  change  from 
baseline in total PANSS at a two-sided significance level of 0.10. In non-inferiority studies, the margin 
was set to a difference of 5 to 5.5 points. The power was specified to 80 % at a one-sided significance 
level of 0.025. 
Randomisation 
In study SCH-201, at day -7 predose, eligible subjects were sequentially assigned within each site to 
one  of  the  4  oral  run  opel  label  groups.  Sequential  medication  code  numbers  were  printed  on  the 
single-panel study drugs labels, and subject numbers were inserted at the time of dispensing. 
In all short term studies, eligible subjects were randomly assigned at baseline in a specified ratio and 
according to a computer-generated randomisation schedule prepared by the sponsor prior to the study. 
Randomisation  was  balanced  by  using  permuted  blocks  and  was  stratified  by  center.  Central 
randomisation was used via interactive voice response system (IVRS). 
Blinding (masking) 
Placebo  and  active  drug  differed  in  appearance.  To  keep  the  blinding,  double  dummy  technique  was 
used (when applicable) and treatment was administered  by a dedicated staff who was not allowed to 
take part in any other study activities or study related discussions with other study personnel. Prolactin 
levels  were  not  available  to  investigator  or  the  sponsor  during  the  study  period.  In  study  PSY-3008 
(open  label),  efficacy  assessment  was  performed  with  independent  evaluator  at  each  site  who  were 
blinded to treatment assignment. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 32/118
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical methods 
In placebo controlled studies, efficacy was evaluated in the Intention-To-Treat (ITT) population defined 
as all randomised patients who had received at least one dose of study medication, and who had both 
a baseline and at least one post baseline efficacy evaluation. In study PSY-3003, it was also required 
that the allocated dose was not changed during the study, in contrast to the other studies in which a 
change  of  dose  was  not  disqualifying  for  inclusion  in  the  ITT  population.    In  non-inferiority  studies, 
efficacy was evaluated in the ITT population as well as in a Per Protocol (PP) population. For inclusion 
in the PP population at least 36 days of double blind treatment (i.e. at least 3 injections) was required.  
In all short term studies, the PANSS score was analysed using an ANCOVA model with study centre or 
country  and  baseline  value  as  covariates.  The  CGI  score  used  an  ANCOVA  analysis  based  on  ranks. 
Categorical variables were analysed with the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test controlling for study centre 
or  country.  In  non-inferiority  studies,  the  95  %  confidence  intervals  were  based  on  the  ANCOVA 
analyses.  Dunnett’s  test  or  a  Dunnett-Bonferroni  procedure  was  used  to  adjust  for  multiple 
comparisons  of  different  doses  against  placebo.  The  Last  Observation  Carried  Forward  (LOCF) 
approach was used for missing values for the efficacy variables.   
2.5.2.1.2.  Results 
Results from placebo controlled studies (SCH-201, PSY-3003,-3004 and -3007) and non inferiority 
studies (PSY-3006, -3008) are presented separately. 
2.5.2.1.2.1.  Placebo controlled short term studies 
Participant flow 
This is presented in Tables 3, 4 and 5. 
Table 3 Completion and withdrawal in Study SCH-201. All randomised subjects. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 33/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4 Completion and withdrawal in Study PSY-3003 and PSY-3004. All randomised subjects 
Table 5 Completion and withdrawal in Study PSY-3007. All randomised subjects. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 34/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
These are presented in Tables 6, 7 and 8. 
Table 6 Diagnosis and psychiatric history at baseline in Study SCH-201. ITT set. 
Table 7 Diagnosis and psychiatric history at baseline in Study PSY-3003 and PSY-3004. ITT set. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 35/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 36/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 Diagnosis and psychiatric history at baseline in Study PSY-3007. ITT set. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study SCH-201 
Table 9 Primary and key secondary results in Study SCH-201. ITT set (excluding six sites), LOCF 
Placebo 
Endpoint 
N=66 
R092670 50 mg 
N=63 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo* 
Responders (%), >30% improvement 
P-value vs placebo* 
CGI-S, % with at least marked severity 
P-value vs placebo*# 
*) Unadjusted for multiplicity, #) ANCOVA analysis based on ranks 
-5.2 
0.001 
33.3 
0.007 
37 
0.004 
13.6 
6.2 
50 
R092670 100 
mg 
N=68 
-7.8 
<0.0001 
36.8 
0.002 
32 
<0.001 
Due  to  an  incorrect  use  of  the  IVRS,  patients  at  six  study  sites  were  not  given  the  appropriate 
paliperidone  palmitate  dose.  Prior  to  data  base  lock  and  unblinding  it  was  decided  to  exclude  these 
sites from the primary analysis. The results for the primary and key secondary endpoints are given in 
Table  E8.  In  sensitivity  analysis  including  the  six  study  sites  excluded  from  the  primary  analysis 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 37/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consistent  result  were  shown.  Similarly,  consistent  results  were  demonstrated  in  the  worst  case 
analysis. 
Study PSY-3003 
Table 10 Primary and key secondary results in Study PSY-3003. ITT set, LOCF 
Placebo 
Endpoint 
N=132 
R092670 50 
mg 
N=93 
-7.9 
0.193 
34.4 
R092670 100 
mg 
N=94 
-11.0 
0.019 
39.4 
R092670 150 
mg 
N=30 
-5-5 
NS 
23.3  
-4.1 
23.5 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo* 
Responders (%), >30% 
improvement 
P-value vs placebo§ 
PSP, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo§ 
CGI-S, % with at least marked 
severity 
0.069 
P-value vs placebo§# 
*) Adjusted for multiplicity, §) Unadjusted for multiplicity, #) ANCOVA analysis based on ranks, NS: 
non significant 
0.012 
4.8 
<0.001 
37.2 
0.076 
4.2 
0.004 
35.5 
NS 
0.6 
NS 
40.0 
0.010 
46.7 
-1.2 
NS 
Statistically  significant  (p<0.10)  treatment-by-country  and  treatment-by-  baseline  PANSS  score 
interactions were seen in the primary efficacy model (Figure 5).  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 38/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 Forest plot for sub-groups based on baseline characteristics in Study PSY-3003 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 39/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study PSY-3004 
Table 11 Primary and key secondary results in Study PSY-3004. ITT set, LOCF 
Placebo 
Endpoint 
N=125 
R092670 50 mg 
N=128 
R092670 25 
mg 
N=130 
-13.6 
0.015 
45.7 
R092670 100 
mg 
N=131 
-16.1 
<0.001 
51.9 
-7.0 
31.2 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo* 
Responders (%), >30% 
improvement 
P-value vs placebo§ 
PSP, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo* 
CGI-S, % with at least marked 
severity 
P-value vs placebo§# 
*) Adjusted for multiplicity, §) Unadjusted for multiplicity, #) ANCOVA analysis based on ranks 
<0.001 
7.4 
0.110 
26.0 
0.015 
6.5 
0.154 
30.2 
0.271 
6.8 
0.189 
25.8 
-13.2 
0.017 
37.5 
0.003 
0.002 
0.006 
38.4 
3.6 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 40/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Forest plot for sub-groups based on baseline characteristics in Study PSY-3004 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 41/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study PSY-3007 
Table 12 Primary and key secondary results in Study PSY-3007. ITT set, LOCF 
Placebo 
Endpoint 
N=160 
R092670 25 
mg 
N=155 
-8.0 
0.034 
33.5 
R092670 100 
mg 
N=161 
-11.6 
<0.001 
41.0 
R092670 150 
mg 
N=160 
-13.2 
<0.001 
40.0 
-2.9 
20.0 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo* 
Responders (%), >30% 
improvement 
P-value vs placebo§ 
PSP, Change from baseline 
P-value vs placebo* 
CGI-S, % with at least marked 
severity 
P-value vs placebo§# 
*) Adjusted for multiplicity, §) Unadjusted for multiplicity, #) ANCOVA analysis based on ranks 
<0.001 
6.1 
0.007 
24.8 
<0.001 
8.3 
<0.001 
23.1 
0.007 
2.9 
0.509 
31.2 
<0.001 
0.140 
0.005 
40.6 
1.7 
Figure 7 Change from baseline in total PANSS score by baseline BMI and region in Study PSY-3007. 
ITT set. 
In  normal  weight  patients,  treatment  effect  was  significant  in  all  dose  groups  (25,  100  and  150  mg) 
increasing with  dose.  In  overweight  patients,  there were  only  significant  treatment  effects in  the  100 
and  150  mg  dose  groups,  increasing  with  dose,  whereas  in  obese  patients  there  were  no  significant 
treatment effects. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 42/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.1.2.2.  Non inferiority short term studies 
Participant flow 
This is presented in Tables 13 and 14. 
Completion and withdrawal data are given in Tables 13 and 14.  
Table 13 Completion and withdrawal data in Study PSY-3006. PP analysis set. 
Table 14 Completion and withdrawal data in Study PSY-3008. PP analysis set. 
Baseline data 
These are presented in Tables 15 and 16 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 43/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Diagnosis and psychiatric history at baseline in Study PSY-3006. PP analysis set. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 44/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16: Diagnosis and psychiatric history at baseline in Study PSY-3008. PP analysis set. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study PSY-3006 (non inferiority study versus Risperdal consta) 
Table 17 Change from baseline in total PANSS score in Study PSY-3006. PP analysis set. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 45/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 Non-inferiority results in Study PSY-3006.  
Figure 9 Responder results in Study PSY-3006. Cumulative distribution plot of percent change in total 
PANSS score. ITT analysis set. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 46/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 PSP results in Study PSY-3006. Cumulative distribution plot of change in PSP category. ITT 
analysis set. 
Figure 11 CGI-S results in Study PSY-3006 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 47/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12 Change from baseline in total PANSS score by baseline BMI in study PSY-3006. 
Study PSY-3008 
Table 18 Primary and secondary results in Study PSY-3008 
Endpoint 
Risperdal Consta 
R092670 50 
mg 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
PP-set 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
ITT set 
Responders (%), >30% 
improvement, PP set 
PSP, Change from baseline 
PP set 
CGI-S, % with at least marked 
severity, PP set 
-23.6 
-20.9 
64 
16.8 
19.0 
-26.9 
-25.6 
75 
18.6 
15.4 
Difference (95% CI) 
-2.3 [-5.20; 0.63] 
-4.0 [-7.17;-0.89] 
-11 [2.15; 19.85]  
0.5 [-2.14; 3.12] 
3.6 [-3.6; 10.8] 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 48/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13 Results of the non-inferiority analyses in Study PSY-3008 
Figure 14 Box.Plots for change from baseline in total PANSS score by baseline BMI in Study 
PSY-3008. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 49/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.2.2.  Long term studies 
2.5.2.2.1.  Methods 
The long-term studies were designed as follows: 
- 
PSY-3001  (relapse  prevention  study):  a  phase  III,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled, parallel group fixed dose study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 25, 50 or 100 
mg  eq  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  preventing  recurrence  in  subjects  with  schizophrenia.  This 
study  was  extended  to  a  52  week  open  label  phase.  PSY-3001  was  conducted  in  Ukraine, 
Romania, Russia, South Africa, Taiwan,  Korea, Costa Rica, Mexico and the United States. 
- 
PSY-3002  (non  inferiority  study  versus  Risperdal  consta):  a  phase  III,  54  week, 
randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel group, flexible dose study to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of 25, 50, 75 or 100 mg eq of paliperidone palmitate versus 25, 37.5 or 50 
mg risperidone long acting injectable in subjects with schizophrenia. PSY-3002 was conducted 
in Europe, Switzerland, New Zealand and the United States. 
Study participants  
Main inclusion and and exclusion criteria were similar to the criteria for the short-term studies, with the 
exception that in study PSY-3001, stable patients could also be included i.e. there was no lower bound 
for the baseline PANSS score. 
In study PSY-3001, additional eligibility criteria for the different phases included the following: 
-  maintenance  phase:    subjects  had  to  show  tolerance  for  the  treatment  and  have  control  of 
acute symptoms, defined as PANSS total score of equal or less than 75 at week 9. 
- 
double blind recurrence phase: 1) PANSS score equal or less than 75 and 2) scores of equal or 
less than 4 for PANSS items P1 (delusions), P2 (conceptual disorganisation), P3 (hallucinatory 
behaviour),  P6  (suspiciousness/persecution),  P7  (hostility),  G8  (uncooperativeness)  and  G14 
(poor impulse control). 
- 
extension  phase:  subjects  who  experienced  a  recurrence,  or  completed  the  double  blind 
recurrence  phase  or  who  had  received  at  least  1  injection  of  paliperidone  palmitate  when 
enrolment in the study was stopped. 
Treatments 
In  all  long  term  studies,  paliperidone  palmitate  was  administered  at  day  1  and  8  and  every  4  weeks 
thereafter, exclusively in a gluteal muscle.  
Study PSY-3001 
The  study  consisted  of  5  phases:  a  screening/wash  out/tolerability  period  (up  to  7  days),  a  9  week 
open-label  transition  phase,  a  24  week  open  label  maintenance,  a  placebo  controlled  recurrence 
prevention phase of variable duration and an optional 52 week open label extension. 
The  9  week  open  label  transition  phase  allowed  for  switching  from  oral  or  long  acting  injectable 
antipsychotics  to  paliperidone  palmitate  and  included  2  complete  4  week  intervals  between 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 50/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administrations of paliperidone palmitate. The treatment dose was flexible (25mg, 50 mg or 100 mg eq) 
based on clinical need. 
The  24  week  open  label  maintenance  phase  allowed  for  identification  of  subjects  who  maintained 
control of their symptoms on a stable dosing regimen. In the first 12 weeks, the treatment dose was 
flexible  (25mg,  50  mg  or  100  mg  eq)  based  on  clinical  need.  In  the  last  12  weeks  of  the  phase,  no 
further adjustments of the dose were allowed. 
The double blind recurrence phase had a variable duration due to a randomized withdrawal design, ie. 
patients 
remained 
in 
this  phase  until 
they  experienced  a 
recurrence  event  or  met 
discontinuation/withdrawal  criteria  or  predefined  study  conclusion  criteria.  Subjects  were  randomly 
assigned  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  receive  either  a  fixed  dose  of  paliperidone  palmitate  (starting  at  the  final 
dose used in the maintenance phase) or placebo. 
In  the  52  week  open  label  extension,  subjects  received  paliperidone  palmitate  every  4  weeks.  Oral 
supplementation was allowed during the first 8 weeks given it was not possible to administer an initial 
dose for placebo treated subject without breaking the blinding. 
Study PSY-3002 
The  study  consisted  of  a screening/wash  out/tolerability  period (up  to  7  days)  and  a  53 week  double 
blind  treatment  period.  Subjects  were  randomly  assigned  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  either  a  flexible  dose  of 
paliperidone  palmitate  (25,50,75  or  100  mg  eq)  or  long  acting  injectable  risperidone  (25,  37.5  or  50 
mg), starting in both groups at 25 mg dose. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
In study PSY-3001, the primary endpoint was time to first relapse, with relapse defined as one of the 
following: 
- 
Psychiatric  hospitalization  (involuntary  or  voluntary  admission  to  a  psychiatric  hospital  for 
decompensation of the subject’s schizophrenic symptoms), or 
- 
For  PANSS:  increase  of  25%  in  the  total  PANSS  score  from  randomization  for  2  consecutive 
assessments  separated  by  3  to  7  days  if  the  score  at  randomization  was  >40,  or  a  10-point 
increase in the total PANSS score from randomization for 2 consecutive assessments separated 
by 3 to 7 days if the score at randomization was ≤40, or 
-  Deliberate  self-injury  and/or  violent  behaviour  resulting  in  suicide  or  in  clinically  significant 
injury to the subject or another person or property damage, or 
-  Suicidal  or  homicidal  ideation  and  aggressive  behaviour  that  was  clinically  significant  (in 
frequency and severity) in the investigator’s judgment, or 
- 
For PANSS items P1 (delusions), P2 (conceptual disorganization), P3 (hallucinatory behaviour), 
P6  (suspiciousness/persecution),  P7  (hostility)  or  G8  (uncooperativeness):  a  score  ≥5  after 
randomization  for  2  consecutive  assessments  separated  by  3  to  7  days  on  any  of  the  above 
PANSS items if the maximum score for the above PANSS items was ≤ 3 at randomization, or a 
score ≥6 after randomization for 2 consecutive assessments separated by 3 to 7 days on any 
of  the  above  PANSS  items  if  the  maximum  score  for  the  above  PANSS  items  was  4  at 
randomization. 
In  study  PSY-3002,  the  primary  endpoint  was  the  same  as  in  the  short  term  studies:  change  from 
baseline in PANSS total score. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 51/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
In study PSY-3001, the sample size calculation was 90% power to detect a relative risk for relapse of 
0.56 at a two-sided significance level of 0.05. In study PSY-3002, the non-inferiority margin was set to 
a difference of 5 points. The power was specified to 80 % at a two-sided significance level of 0.05. 
Randomisation 
Eligible subjects were randomly assigned prior entering the double blind recurrence phase (study PSY-
3001)  or  at  baseline  (study  PSY-3002)  in  a  specified  ratio  and  according  to  a  computer-generated 
randomisation  schedule  prepared  by  the  sponsor  prior  to  the  study.  Randomisation  was  balanced  by 
using  permuted  blocks  and  was  stratified  by  center.  Central  randomisation  was  used  via  interactive 
voice response system (IVRS). 
Blinding (masking) 
Placebo  and  active  drug  differed  in  appearance..  To  keep  the  blinding,  double  dummy  technique  was 
applied  (when  applicable)  and  treatment  was  administered  by  a  dedicated  study  staff  who  was  not 
allowed  to  take  part  in  any  other  study  activities  or  study  related  discussions  with  other  study 
personnel. Prolactin levels were not available to investigator or the sponsor during the study period.  
Statistical methods 
The primary endpoint in study PSY-3001 was analysed using the log-rank test and the survival curves 
were  estimated  with  the  Kaplan-Meier  method.  Alternative  analyses  were  performed  with  Cox 
proportional  hazards  regression  analysis.  An  interim  analysis  was  also  performed  and  defined  as  the 
date when the 68th recurrence event was observed (50% of the planned recurrence events). 
In  study  PSY-3002,  the  statistical  approach  for  primary  and  secondary  analyses  was  similar  to  the 
methods used in the short-term studies. 
2.5.2.2.2.  Results 
Participation flow 
This is presented in Figure 15 and Table 19. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 52/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 15 Patient disposition in Study PSY-3001 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 53/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19 Completion and withdrawal in Study PSY-3002. All randomised patients. 
Baseline data 
There were no major imbalances between treatment groups with respect to demographic and baseline 
characteristics. In Study PSY-3001 EU patients were exclusively enrolled in Romania while Western as 
well as Eastern Europe was well represented in Study PSY-3002. 
The  dominating  schizophrenia  subtype  was  paranoid  (about  80%  in  both  studies)  According  to  the 
CGI-S ratings severity less in Study PSY-3002 (36% with at least marked severity) compared to Study 
PSY-3001 (54%). On the other hand more patients had been hospitalised three times or more in Study 
PSY-3002  (55%)  compared  to  Study  PSY-3001  (46%)  and  the  average  baseline  PANSS  score  was 
higher in Study PSY-3002. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 54/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
Study PSY-3001 (relapse prevention study) 
Figure 16 Results of the final primary analysis in Study PSY-3001. Time to relapse. ITT analysis set. 
Table 20 Cause for relapse in Study PSY-3001. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 55/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Relapses  prevention  was  similar  in  the  two  dominating  regions  US  and  Eastern  Europe.  Neither  was 
there  any  difference  in  effect  depending  on  baseline  BMI.  Statistical  significance  was  reported  for 
normal, overweight as well obese patients. At double-blind end point, there were more subjects in the 
paliperidone palmitate group (75%, 152/203) than in the placebo group (56%, 114/202) with severity 
scores  of  “mild”,  “very  mild”,  or  “not  ill”.  Ratings  of  “marked”  or  “severe”  (i.e.,  rating  of  ≥5)  were 
reported  for  29  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  compared  with  10  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate  group. 
Other secondary results are summarised in Table 21. 
Table 21 Secondary results in Study PSY-3001. 
R092670 50 
Endpoint 
mg 
Placebo 
Difference (95% CI) 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
ITT final set 
PSP, Change from baseline 
ITT final set 
2.5 
-1.5 
11.1 
-7.2 
-8.6 [-11.41;-5.70] 
5.3 [2.99; 7.67] 
Study PSY-3002 (non inferiority study versus Risperdal consta) 
Table 22 Primary and secondary results in Study PSY-3002. 
Endpoint 
R092670 50 
mg 
Risperdal Consta 
Difference (95% CI) 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
PP-set 
PANSS, Change from baseline 
ITT set 
Responders (%), >30% 
improvement, ITT set 
PSP, Change from baseline 
PP set 
CGI-S, % with at least marked 
severity, PP set 
-11.6 
-9.5 
44.3 
3.7 
19.0 
-14.4 
-13.0 
54.4 
5.2 
15.4 
-2.6 [-5.84; 0.61] 
-3.8 [-6.96;-0.74] 
-11.1 [3.51; 18.59]  
1.7 [-0.61; 3.97] 
6.7 [-0.3; 13.7] 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 56/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 17 Non-inferiority results in Study PSY-3002. 
Figure 18 Change from baseline in total PANSS score by region in Study PSY-3002 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 57/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 19 Non-inferiority results by baseline BMI in Study PSY-3002 
2.5.2.3.  Ancillary analyses 
In  the  short-term  placebo  controlled  studies,  the  magnitude  of  effect  varied  across  doses  and  age 
groups  (probably  due  to  small  patient  numbers)  but  there  was  no  consistent  pattern  suggesting  that 
any particular age groups should benefit more or less from paliperidone palmitate treatment. Similarly, 
there was no consistent pattern in the non-inferiority studies favouring any of the active treatments in 
a  particular  age  subgroup.  In  total,  there  were  only  17  patients  above  65  years  of  age  in  the  short-
term studies. 
In  the  short-term  placebo  controlled  studies,  effect  of  race  on  paliperidone  palmitate  efficacy  was 
observed. However, no differences were observed in non inferiority studies and the number of patients 
analysed was small. 
Overall,  there  were  no  major  differences  on  efficacy  between  patients  with  a  baseline  PANSS  score 
below and above the median value. 
2.5.2.4.  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A pooled analysis across all placebo controlled short term studies was performed to support the dose-
response relationship for paliperidone palmitate (see Figure 20). 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 58/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 20 Standardised differences of total PANSS score in the short-term placebo controlled studies. 
Pooled analyses. 
2.5.2.5.  Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Onset of efficacy 
Exposure to paliperidone 
Figure  25  presents  the  2  most  common  dosing  regimens  used  in  Study  PSY-3006  (paliperidone 
palmitate  injections  of  150  mg  eq.  on  Day  1,  followed  by  100  mg  eq.  on  Day  8,  and  then  either  2 
monthly  injections  of  100  mg  eq.  or  of  100  mg  eq.  and  150  mg  eq.).  The  graphs  show  that  the 
majority  of  subjects  receiving  the  recommended  initiation  regimen  achieved  a  therapeutic 
concentration  of  paliperidone  (>7.5  ng/mL)  by  Day  4.  Similar  results  are  presented  in  PSY  3007 
(Figure  26)  A  paliperidone  concentration  of  7.5  ng/mL  was  associated  with  a  central  D2-receptor 
occupancy  of  approximately  60%,  which  is  typically  considered  as  the  threshold  for  potential  efficacy 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 59/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Pani  20073).There  was  no  evidence  of  a  rapid  decline  in  paliperidone  plasma  levels  between  Day  1 
and Day 8, in contrast with the exposure changes observed in earlier studies (ie, SCH-201). 
Figure 21 
The dashed line indicates a plasma paliperidone concentration of 7.5 ng/mL 
3 Pani L, Pira L, Marchese G (2007). Antipsychotic efficacy: Relationship to optimal D2-receptor occupancy. 
European Psychiatry 22: 267-275. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 60/118
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
Figure 22 
Primary endpoint – Change from baseline in PANSS total score 
For  studies  in  patients  with  schizophrenia,  the  earliest  measurement  of  onset  of  efficacy  has  been 
variously defined. Both a large non-placebo-controlled meta-analysis of oral antipsychotic agents (Agid 
2003 4 )  and  a  pooled  analysis  of  7  double-blind  placebo-controlled  studies  of  amisulpride  (Leucht 
2005 5)  demonstrated  incremental  improvements  over  baseline  in  PANSS  total  score  or  define  BPRS 
4 Agid O, Kapur S, Arenovich T, Zipursky RB (2003) Delayed-onset hypothesis of antipsychotic action: a hypothesis tested 
and rejected. Arch Gen Psychiatry 60:1228-1235. 
5 Leucht S, Busch R, Hamann J, Kissling W, Kane JM (2005); Early-onset hypothesis of antipsychotic drug 
action: a hypothesis tested, confirmed and extended. Biol Psychiatry 57: 1543-1549. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 61/118
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
 
within the first 1 to 2 weeks of therapy. These data have been generally viewed as supporting an early 
onset of effect for oral agents (Agid 20066). 
In studies SCH-303, SCH-304, and SCH-305 submitted as part of the application for oral paliperidone 
(Invega),  onset  of  therapeutic  effect  was  assessed  by  determining  the  earliest  time  point  at  which 
active  treatment  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant  improvement  over  placebo,  maintained  at  all 
subsequent time points, for the change from baseline in PANSS total score. Based on the mean change 
from  baseline  to  each  visit  for  PANSS  total  score,  statistically  significant  differences  compared  to 
placebo were first observed on Day 4 for the paliperidone PR 3 mg, 6 mg, 9 mg, and 12 mg groups, 
and on Day 8 for the 15 mg group, and these improvements were maintained for the duration of the 6-
week double-blind phase. In study PSY-3007 with paliperidone palmitate i.m, using the same definition 
of onset of efficacy, statistically significantly greater improvement over placebo on mean PANSS total 
score was observed some days later at Day 8 (change from baseline: -8.21 [0.87] versus -5.79 [1.20], 
p=0.027).  Although  not  statistically  significant,  improvement  in  PANSS  total  score  over  placebo  was 
noted as early as Day 4. Numerically greater improvements in both the Clinical Global Improvement-
Severity CGI-S and PSP scores were noted on Day 8 onwards as compared to placebo (see Table 23). 
Table 23 
Secondary endpoint – Responder rate 
In studies PSY-3007 and -3006, onset of therapeutic effect  was, alternatively, defined as the time 
point at which a significant separation from placebo is detected with respect to responder rate. 
6 Agid O, Seeman P, Kapur S (2006) The “delayed onset” of antipsychotic action — an idea whose time has 
come and gone J Psychiatry Neurosci 31(2):93-100 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 62/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
 
 
 
In study PSY-3007, paliperidone palmitate (150 mg eq. on Day 1, followed by 25, 50, or 150 mg eq. 
on Days 8, 36 and 64) was associated with significantly more responders than placebo at Days 22 (p≤
0.05) and 36 (p≤ 0.036) where a response was defined as a ≥ 20% or ≥ 30% improvement in PANSS 
total  score,  respectively.  Regardless  of  the  criteria  for  response,  it  is  noteworthy  that  at  every  time 
point,  beginning  at  the  earliest  post-treatment  assessment  (Day  4),  there  was  a  numerically  higher 
responder  rate  in  each  of  the  paliperidone  palmitate  treatment  groups  compared  to  placebo  (8.3 
versus 5.2 %). 
In study PSY-3006, a numerically higher responder rate (defined as a decrease in PANSS total score of 
at  least  30%)  was  detected  at  every  time  point,  beginning  as  early  as  Day  4  (3.1  versus  1.5%),  for 
paliperidone  palmitate  when  compared  with  Risperdal  consta.  There  was  no  difference  between  the 
paliperidone palmitate and Risperdal consta treatment groups with regard to the LS mean change from 
baseline in PANSS total score during the first 36 days of treatment; the 95% confidence intervals (CIs) 
for  the  2  treatment  groups  overlapped  at  each  time  point.  Furthermore,  during  the  first  36  days  of 
treatment,  the  mean  changes  from  baseline  for  the  secondary  efficacy  variables  (CGI-S  and  PSP 
scores)  were  similar  for  the  paliperidone  palmitate  and  Risperdal  consta  groups  (Table  24).  No 
statistical  difference  between  paliperidone  palmitate  and  Risperdal  consta  (requiring  oral 
supplementation  for  the  first  3  weeks)  treatment  groups  were  observed  with  regard  to  change  from 
baseline  in  PANSS  total  score  during  the  first  36  days  of  treatment,  suggesting  that  oral 
supplementation was not required for paliperidone palmitate. 
Table 24 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 63/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use in maintenance treatment 
The applicant provided information on long term studies (PSY-1008 and -3005) and short term studies 
(SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  PSY-3004,  and  PSY-3007)  to  support  the  use  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the 
maintenance treatment of schizophrenia to patients currently stabilised with oral antipsychotics.  
PSY-1008  was  designed  as  an  open-label,  long-term,  multiple-dose  study  to  evaluate  the  safety, 
tolerability  and  phamacokinetics  of  150  mg  eq  paliperidone  palmitate  in  subjects  with  schizophrenia. 
PSY  3005  was  a  randomised  cross  over  study  to  evaluate  the  overall  safety  and  tolerability  of 
paliperidone palmitate injected in the deltoid or gluteal muscles in subjects with schizophrenia. 
In studies PSY-1008 and PSY-3005, subjects were required to be symptomatically stable prior to entry 
based  on  a  PANSS  total  score  below  60.  Information  regarding  antipsychotic  use  prior  to  study  are 
presented in Figure 23. 
Figure 23: Antipsychotic Medications Used Prior to Study Entry in Studies PSY-1008 and PSY-3005 
In  the  acute  efficacy  studies  SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  PSY-3004,  and  PSY-3007,  the  majority  of  subjects 
received  an  atypical  antipsychotic  prior  to  study  entry.  The  proportion  of  subjects  who  received 
risperidone  prior  to  paliperidone  palmitate  treatment  ranged  from  29%  to  38%  across  these  studies; 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 64/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the corresponding proportion of subjects who received other atypical antipsychotics ranged from 27% 
to 47% (Table 25). 
Table 25 
Use in initiation of treatment without prior stabilisation 
The  applicant  provided  information  on  short  term  studies  (SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  PSY-3004,  and  PSY-
3007) to support the use of paliperidone palmitate on initiation of treatment of schizophrenia without 
prior stabilisation to patients with mild to moderate psychotic symptoms and previous responsiveness 
to paliperidone or risperidone. 
In  studies  SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  PSY-3004,  and  PSY-3007,  subjects  were  required  to  be  experiencing 
an  acute  exacerbation  of  schizophrenia  as  evidenced  by  a  PANSS  total  score  between  60  and  120  at 
entry. These subjects received a broad range of antipsychotics prior to entry, including oral and depot 
formulations. All subjects without prior documented exposure to risperidone or paliperidone underwent 
a  tolerability  testing  (2  to  7  days),  after  which  they  were  randomly  assigned  to  receive  either 
paliperidone  palmitate  or  placebo.  No  supplementation  with  oral  paliperidone  was  allowed.  Since 
subjects  were  required  to  be  experiencing  an  acute  exacerbation  at  the  time  of  entry,  it  was  not 
possible to clinically stabilise them on oral paliperidone prior to randomisation. 
In a post-hoc analysis of study PSY-3007 results, the mean change from baseline on the PANSS total 
score numerically favoured treatment with paliperidone palmitate regardless of whether subjects were 
previously  receiving  atypical  antipsychotics.  With  the  exception  of  the  25  mg  eq  group  with  no  prior 
antipsychotic  use,  paliperidone  palmitate  is  effective  regardless  of  whether  subjects  were  previously 
receiving atypical antipsychotics (Figure 24).  Results of this post-hoc analysis performed for individual 
antipsychotics,  including  risperidone,  aripiprazole,  quetiapine,  and  olanzapine,  were  consistent  with 
these findings. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 65/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 24 
Summary of main studies 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 66/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26: Summary of Efficacy for trial SCH 201 
Title: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of 2 
Fixed doses (50 and 100 mg eq.) of Paliperidone Palmitate in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-SCH-201 
Design 
Run in phase included an open label dosing regimen as follows: 6 mg ER 
OROS paliperidone, 12 mg ER OROS paliperidone, 2 mg IR paliperidone, or 4 
mg IR paliperidone, once daily for 7 days. 
Duration of main phase: 
64 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
7 days 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq 
Day 1,8 and 36: 50 mg eq i.m 
79 randomised 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq 
Placebo 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Day 1,8 and 36: 100 mg eq i.m 
84 randomised 
Day 1,8 and 36: matching placebo  i.m 
84 randomised 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period.  
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description  Primary Analysis 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Intent to treat at day 64 (excluding six sites) 
Treatment group 
Placebo  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 50 mg 
eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 100 
mg eq  
Number of 
subjects 
66 
63 
68 
Page 67/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S score, 
median change 
6.2 (18.25) 
-5.2 (21.52) 
-7.8 (19.40) 
0  
0  
-1  
Min, max 
-2;2 
-4,2 
-3,2 
Number of 
Responders (%) 
9(13.6)  
21 (33.3)  
25 (36.8)  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
PANSS total 
score 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 
50 mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
90%CI 
P-value 
-11.2 (3.41) 
(-16.85;-5.57) 
0.001 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
90%CI 
P-value 
CGI-score 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
Responder rate 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Paliperidone palmitate 
100 mg eq versus 
Placebo 
-14.0 (3.31) 
(-19.51;-8.58) 
<0.0001 
Paliperidone palmitate 
50 mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.004 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq 
Placebo 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 
50 mg eq versus 
Placebo  
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 
100 mg eq versus 
Placebo 
<0.001 
Notes 
ER OROS paliperidone: Invega, IR paliperidone: immediate release 
paliperidone 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 68/118
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3003 
Title:  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled,  Parallel-Group,  Dose-Response  Study  to 
Evaluate  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  3  Fixed  Doses  (50  mg  eq.,  100  mg  eq.,  and  150  mg  eq.)  of 
Paliperidone Palmitate in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3003 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (up to 4 days): paliperidone ER OROS 3mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Duration of main phase: 
92 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: 50 mg eq i.m 
94 randomised 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq 
Placebo 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: 100 mg eq i.m  
97 randomised 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: 150 mg eq i.m  
30 randomised 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: matching placebo i.m 
135 randomised 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period. 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat at day 92 
Treatment 
group 
Placebo  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 50 
mg eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 
100 mg eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 150 
mg eq  
Page 69/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, 
mean change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, median 
change 
Min, max 
Number of 
Responders 
(%) 
PANSS total 
score 
132 
93 
94 
30 
-4.1(21.01)   -7.9 (18.71)   -11.0 (19.06)  -5.5 (19.78) 
1.2 (16.26)  4.2 (13.21) 
4.8 (15.35) 
0.6 (15.52) 
0.0  
-1.0   
1.0  
 (-4;3) 
 (-3;2)  
(-3;3) 
31(23.5) 
32(34.4) 
37(39.4) 
0.0  
(-4;1) 
7(23.3) 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
-3.5 (2.67) 
(-8.73;1.77) 
0.193 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
-6.9 (2.65) 
(-12.12;-1.68) 
P-value 
0.019 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
PSP-score 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
- 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
5.7 (1.99) 
(1.80;9.64) 
0.004 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Page 70/118
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
6.8 (2.00) 
(2.81;10.70) 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
P-value 
- 
CGI-score 
Comparison groups 
Responder 
rate 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.069 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
0.010 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
- 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.076 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
0.012 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
0.864 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 71/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3004 
Title:    A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled,  Parallel-Group,  Dose-Response  Study  to 
Evaluate  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  3  Fixed  Doses  (25  mg  eq.,  50  mg  eq.,  and  100  mg  eq.)  of 
Paliperidone Palmitate in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3004 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (up to 4 days): paliperidone ER OROS 3mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Duration of main phase: 
92 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: 25 mg eq i.m 
131 randomised 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq 
Paliperidone palmitate 
100mg eq 
Placebo 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: 50 mg eq i.m 
129 randomised 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: 100 mg eq i.m 
131 randomised 
Day 1,8 and 36 and 64: Matching placebo i.m  
127 randomised 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period. 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat at day 92 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 72/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Treatment 
group 
Placebo  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 25 
mg eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 50 
mg eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 100 
mg eq  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, 
mean change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, median 
change 
Min, max 
Number of 
Responders 
(%) 
PANSS total 
score 
125 
130 
128 
131 
-7.0 
(20.07) 
-13.6 
(21.45) 
-13.2 (20.14)  -16.1 (20.36) 
3.6 (17.07)  6.5 (15.64) 
6.8 (15.37) 
7.4 (14.58) 
0.0   
-1.0   
-1.0  
 -1.0  
(-3;2)  
(-5;2)  
(-3;2)  
 (-4;2) 
39(31.2) 
59 (45.7) 
48 (37.5) 
68 (51.9) 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
-6.6 (2.46) 
(-11.40;-1.73) 
0.015 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
-5.9 (2.47) 
(-10.76;-1.07) 
0.017 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
(-14.07;-4.43) 
-9.2 (2.45) 
<0.001 
PSP-score 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 73/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
2.7 (1.92) 
(-1.03;6.51) 
P-value (ANCOVA, 
Dunnett) 
Pvalue (ANCOVA, 
Bonferroni-Holm step-
down) 
Comparison groups 
0.262 
0.154 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value (ANCOVA, 
Dunnett) 
Pvalue (ANCOVA, 
Bonferroni-Holm step-
down) 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value (ANCOVA, 
Dunnett) 
Pvalue (ANCOVA, 
Bonferroni-Holm step-
down) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
2.5 (1.91) 
(-1.25;6.28) 
0.262 
0.189 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
3.1 (1.92) 
(-0.70;6.85) 
0.257 
0.110 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.003  
Paliperidone palmitate50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
0.006 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq 
Placebo 
0.002 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.015 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
Page 74/118
CGI-score 
Responder 
rate 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
0.271 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
<0.001 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 75/118
 
 
 
 
Table 29: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3007 
Title:  A  Randomized,  Double-Blind,  Placebo-Controlled,  Parallel-Group,  Dose-Response  Study  to 
Evaluate  the  Efficacy  and  Safety  of  3  Fixed  Doses  (25  mg  eq.,  100  mg  eq.,and  150  mg  eq.)  of 
Paliperidone Palmitate in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3007 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (4 to 6 days): paliperidone ER OROS 6mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Duration of main phase: 
92 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq 
Paliperidone palmitate 
150mg eq 
Placebo 
Primary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Day 1:Paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq 
Day 8 and 36 and 64: 25 mg eq i.m 
160 randomised 
Day 1:Paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq 
Day 8 and 36 and 64: 50 mg eq i.m 
165randomised 
Day 1:Paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq 
Day 8 and 36 and 64: 150 mg eq i.m  
163 randomised 
Matching placebo i.m at day 1,8, 36 and 64 
164 randomised 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period. 
Results and Analysis  
Primary Analysis 
Intent to treat at day 92 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 76/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Treatment 
group 
Placebo  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 25 
mg eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 50 
mg eq  
Paliperidone 
palmitate 150 
mg eq  
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, 
mean change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, median 
change 
Min, max 
Number of 
Responders 
(%) 
PANSS total 
score 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
160 
155 
161 
160 
-2.9 
(19.26) 
-8.0 (19.90) 
-11.6 (17.63)  -13.2 (18.48) 
1.7 (15.60) 
2.9 (15.29) 
6.1 (13.59) 
8.3 (14.69) 
0.0  
-1.0  
-1.0  
(-3;2) 
(-3;2) 
(-4;2) 
32(20) 
52(33.5) 
66(41) 
-1.0 
(-4;3) 
64(40) 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
-5.1 (2.01) 
(-9.01;-1.10) 
0.034 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
-8.7 (2.00) 
(-12.62;-4.78) 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
-9.8 (2.00) 
(-13.71;-5.85) 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq 
-3.6 (2.01) 
(-7.60;0.31) 
0.071 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 77/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
PSP-score 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq 
-4.7 (2.02) 
(-8.69;-0.77) 
0.019 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 100 
mg eq 
-1.1 (2.00) 
(-5.01;2.85) 
0.588 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value  
1.0 (1.50) 
(-1.96;3.95) 
0.509 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value  
4.4 (1.50) 
(1.43;7.31) 
0.007 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
Least square means of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value (ANCOVA, 
Dunnett) 
Pvalue (ANCOVA, 
Bonferroni-Holm step-
down) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
6.2 (1.49) 
(3.26;9.12) 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.140 
Paliperidone palmitate50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
0.005 
Page 78/118
CGI-score 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Responder 
rate 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(ANCOVA on ranks) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Comparison groups 
P-value 
(Generalized Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel test) 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 25 
mg eq versus 
Placebo  
0.007 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
<0.001 
Paliperidone palmitate 150 
mg eq versus 
Placebo 
<0.001 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 79/118
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3006 
Title:    A Randomized, Double-Blind, Parallel-Group, Comparative Study of of Paliperidone Palmitate 
Flexible doses (50 mg eq., 100 mg eq., and 150 mg eq.) and Risperidone  Long Acting Intramuscular 
Injection Flexible doses (25, 37.5 and 50 mg) in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3006 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (4 to 6 days): paliperidone ER OROS 6mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Duration of main phase: 
92 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Non Inferiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate  
Risperdal consta  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Day1: Paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq 
Day 8:Paliperidone palmitate 100 mg eq  
Day 36:Paliperidone palmitate 50-100 mg eq  
Day 64: Paliperidone palmitate 50-150 mg eq  
607 randomised 
Day 8 and 22:Risperidone 25 mg 
Day 36: Risperidone 25-37.5 mg 
Day 50: same dose as day 36 
Day 64: Risperidone 25-50 mg 
Day 78: same dose as day 64 
Oral risperidone supplement: 
-Day 1- week 4: 1-6 mg/day 
-Week 5-8: If an increase in risperidone 
dosage is necessary, oral risperidone (1-2 
mg/day) needs to be added for 3 weeks 
-Week 9-12: If an increase in risperidone 
dosage is necessary, oral risperidone (1-2 
mg/day) needs to be added for 3 weeks 
613 randomised 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 80/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis (PP) 
Per Protocol at day 92 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Risperdal consta 
389 
376 
-18.6 (15.45) 
-17.9(14.24) 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary 
endpoint 
Comparison groups 
Weighted difference 
(standard error) 
95%CI 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate  
0.4(1.02) 
(-1.62,2.38) 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Intention to treat at day 92 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, 
mean change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation) 
Number of 
Responders 
(%) 
Primary 
endpoint 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Risperdal consta 
453 
460 
-17.1(16.37) 
-16.2 (15.41) 
8.5(11.82) 
8.8(11.65) 
-0.9(0.97) 
-0.9(0.93) 
240(53) 
223(48.5) 
Comparison groups 
Weighted difference 
(standard error) 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
1.2 (1.0) 
Page 81/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PSP-score 
95%CI 
Comparison groups 
-0.78, 3.16 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
0.2(0.74) 
-1.22,1.69 
CGI-score 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
Comparison groups 
Responder 
rate 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
0.0(0.06)  
(-0.07,0.17) 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Relative risk ratio  
95%CI 
1.1  
(0.97, 1.25) 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 82/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 31: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3008 
Title:  A  Randomized,  Open-Label,  Parallel-Group  Comparative  Study  of  Paliperidone  Palmitate 
Flexible  doses  (50,  100,  or  150  mg  eq.)  and  Risperidone  Long  Acting  Injection  Flexible  doses  (25, 
37.5, or 50 mg) in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3008 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (4 to 6 days): paliperidone ER OROS 6mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Duration of main phase: 
92 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Non Inferiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate  
Risperdal consta  
Day 1: Paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq 
(deltoid only) 
Day 8: Paliperidone palmitate 100 mg eq 
(deltoid only) 
Day 36: Paliperidone palmitate 50 or 100 mg 
eq (deltoid or gluteal) 
Day 64: Paliperidone palmitate 50 or 100 or 
150 mg eq 
229 randomised 
Day 8 and 22: Risperidone 25 mg (gluteal 
only) 
Day 36: Risperidone 25-37.5 mg(gluteal 
only) 
Day 50: same dose as day 36 
Day 64: Risperidone 25-50 mg 
Day 78: same dose as day 64 
Oral risperidone supplement: 
-Day 1- week 4: 1-6 mg/day 
-Week 5-8: If an increase in risperidone 
dosage is necessary, oral risperidone (1-2 
mg/day) needs to be added for 3 weeks 
-Week 9-12: If an increase in risperidone 
dosage is necessary, oral risperidone (1-2 
mg/day) needs to be added for 3 weeks 
223 randomised 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary endpoint 
PANSS 
total 
score 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP 
score 
CGI-S 
score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 83/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Respon
der 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the open-
label treatment period. 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis (PP) 
Per Protocol at day 92 
Treatment group 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Risperdal consta 
Number of subjects  205 
208 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
PANSS total score, 
mean change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, mean 
change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, mean 
change (standard 
deviation) 
Number of 
Responders (%) 
Primary endpoint 
-23.6(16.28) 
-26.9(15.43) 
16.8(14.76) 
18.6(13.92) 
-1.5(1.24) 
-1.7(1.16) 
145 (70.7) 
163 (78.4) 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard 
error) 
95%CI 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
-2.3(1.48) 
(-5.20;0.63) 
PSP-score 
Comparison groups 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard 
error) 
0.5(1.34) 
95%CI 
CGI-score 
Comparison groups 
-2.14;3.12 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard 
error) 
-0.1(0.11) 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 84/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95%CI 
Responder rate 
Comparison groups 
(-0.33; 0.10) 
Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Relative risk ratio  
0.9 
95%CI 
(0.81;1.01) 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Intention to treat at day 92 
Treatment group 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Risperdal consta 
Number of subjects  228 
218 
PANSS total score, 
mean change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, mean 
change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, mean 
change 
Number of 
Responders (%) 
Primary endpoint 
PSP-score 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
-20.9(18.33) 
-25.6(16.51) 
14.8(16.07) 
17.9(14.64) 
-1.4(1.32) 
147 (64.5) 
-1.6(1.22) 
164(75.2) 
Comparison groups  Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
-4 (1.59) 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard 
error) 
95%CI 
Comparison groups  Risperdal Consta versus 
-7.13;-0.89 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard 
error) 
95%CI 
1.8(1.42) 
(-1.04;4.55) 
CGI-score 
Comparison groups  Risperdal Consta versus 
Paliperidone palmitate 
- 0.2(0.11) 
Least square mean 
of difference 
(standard error) 
95%CI 
Comparison groups  Risperdal Consta versus 
(-0.44; 0.01) 
Responder rate 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Relative risk ratio  
95%CI 
0.9  
 (0.76;0.97) 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 85/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 32: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3001 
Title:  A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel-Group Study Evaluating Paliperidone 
Palmitate in the Prevention of Recurrence in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3001 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (up to 4 days): paliperidone ER OROS 3mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Open label transition phase (9 weeks):  
Paliperidone palmitate 50 mg eq at day 1 and 8 
Paliperidone palmitate flexible dosing from week 5 (25, 50, or 100 mg eq) 
Open label maintenance phase (24 weeks): Paliperidone palmitate 12 weeks 
of flexible dosing followed by 12 weeks of fixed dosing based on the dose 
established during the first half of maintenance phase. 
Double blind recurrence prevention phase (variable): see Treatments groups. 
Extension Phase (52 weeks):  
Oral supplementation (3-12 mg/day) was allowed during Week1-8 
Paliperidone palmitate 50 mg eq at day 1 (not administered until 4 weeks 
after the last double blind phase injection)  
Paliperidone palmitate flexible dosing from week 2 (25, 50, 75 or 100 mg eq) 
Duration of main phase: 
variable 
Duration of 
transition/maintenance 
phase: 
Duration of Extension phase:  52 weeks 
33 weeks 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate  
Paliperidone palmitate fixed dose every 4 
weeks (equivalent to the final dose used in 
the maintenance phase) 
206 randomised 
Placebo  
Matching placebo every 4 weeks (equivalent 
to the final dose used in the maintenance 
phase) 
204 randomised 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 86/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Time to 
recurrence 
Time between subject randomization to 
treatment and the first documentation of a 
recurrence event during the double-blind 
recurrence prevention phase. Subjects who 
meet at least 1 of the criteria for recurrence 
while on double-blind treatment at the time 
of study completion for the primary analysis 
are considered to have had a recurrence 
event. All other subjects without a recurrence 
at the end of study for the primary analysis 
will be considered censored at the end of 
study. 
- 
- 
Relapse is defined as one of the following : 
Psychiatric hospitalization 
(involuntary or voluntary admission 
to a psychiatric hospital for 
decompensation of the subject’s 
schizophrenic symptoms), or 
For PANSS: increase of 25% in the 
total PANSS score from randomization 
for 2 consecutive assessments 
separated by 3 to 7 days if the score 
at randomization was >40, or a 10-
point increase in the total PANSS 
score from randomization for 2 
consecutive assessments separated 
by 3 to 7 days if the score at 
randomization was ≤40, or 
-  Deliberate self-injury and/or violent 
behaviour resulting in suicide or in 
clinically significant injury to the 
subject or another person or property 
damage, or 
- 
-  Suicidal or homicidal ideation and 
aggressive behaviour that was 
clinically significant (in frequency and 
severity) in the investigator’s 
judgment, or 
For PANSS items P1 (delusions), P2 
(conceptual disorganization), P3 
(hallucinatory behaviour), P6 
(suspiciousness/persecution), P7 
(hostility) or G8 (uncooperativeness): 
a score ≥5 after randomization for 2 
consecutive assessments separated 
by 3 to 7 days on any of the above 
PANSS items if the maximum score 
for the above PANSS items was ≤ 3 
at randomization, or a score ≥6 after 
randomization for 2 consecutive 
assessments separated by 3 to 7 days 
on any of the above PANSS items if 
the maximum score for the above 
PANSS items was 4 at randomization. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 87/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period. 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis  
Intention to Treat (Interim analysis) 
Paliperidone palmitate 
placebo 
156 
156 
 15(9.6) 
53 (34.0) 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subjects 
Number (%) 
of Subjects 
Experiencing 
Recurrence 
and Time to 
Recurrence  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Time to 
recurrence 
Comparison groups 
Chisquare 
Paliperidone palmitate 
versus 
Placebo 
29.411 
<0.0001 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Intention to treat (All subjects through the time of study termination) 
P-value (Log rank test) 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Placebo 
205 
203 
36 (17.6) 
97 (47.8) 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subjects 
Number (%) 
of Subjects 
Experiencing 
Recurrence 
and Time to 
Recurrence  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 88/118
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, 
mean change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
2.5 (12.16) 
11.1 (16.60) 
-1.5 (11.53) 
-7.2 (13.03) 
CGI-S, 
median 
change 
Min, max 
0.0  
(-1;3) 
0.0  
(-1;4) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Time to 
recurrence 
Comparison groups 
Chisquare  
PANSS total 
score 
P-value (Log rank test) 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value  
PSP-score 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value  
CGI-score 
Comparison groups 
P-value (ANCOVA on ranks) 
Paliperidone palmitate 
versus 
Placebo 
48.362 
<0.0001 
Paliperidone palmitate 
versus 
Placebo 
-8.6 (1.45) 
(-11.41;-5.70) 
<0.0001 
Paliperidone palmitate 
versus 
Placebo 
 5.3 (1.19) 
(2.99;7.67) 
<0.0001 
Paliperidone palmitate 
versus 
Placebo 
<0.0001 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 89/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 33: Summary of Efficacy for trial PSY-3002 
Title:  A Randomized, Double Blind, Parallel-Group Comparative Study of Flexibly Dosed Paliperidone 
Palmitate (25, 50, 75, or 100 mg eq.) Administered Every 4 Weeks and Flexibly Dosed RISPERDAL® 
CONSTA® (25, 37.5, or 50 mg) Administered Every 2 Weeks in Subjects With Schizophrenia 
Study identifier 
R092670-PSY-3002 
Design 
Oral tolerability testing (up to 4 days): paliperidone ER OROS 3mg/day for 
subjects without evidence of prior exposure to risperidone or paliperidone 
Duration of main phase: 
372 days 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
7 days 
Duration of Extension phase:  not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Non Inferiority 
Treatments groups 
Paliperidone palmitate  
Risperdal consta  
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
PANSS total 
score 
Baseline (Day 1) : 50 mg eq i.m. 
Week 1 (Day 8): 50 mg eq i.m. 
Week 3: Placebo i.m. 
Weeks 5 to 51: Flexible dosing with 25, 50, 
75, or 100 mg eq i.m.  During the first 4 
weeks of the double-blind treatment period, 
oral placebo tablets will be taken once daily. 
379 randomised 
Baseline (Day 1): Placebo i.m. risperdal 
consta 25 mg i.m. 
Week 1: risperdal consta 25 mg i.m 
Week 3: risperdal consta 25 mg i.m 
Weeks 5 to 51: risperdal consta 25, 
37.5, or 50 mg i.m 
Oral risperidone supplement 
During the first 4 weeks of the double-blind 
treatment period, oral risperidone 1 to 6 
mg/d will be taken once daily. 
370 randomised 
Change in the total of the imputed Positive 
and Negative Syndrome Scale for 
Schizophrenia (PANSS) score from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
PSP score 
Change in the Personal and Social 
Performance Scale (PSP) from baseline to 
endpoint 
Secondary 
 endpoint 
CGI-S score  Change in the Clinical Global Impression of 
Severity (CGI-S) score from baseline to 
endpoint. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Responder 
rate 
Percentage of responders defined as those 
who show a 30% or more reduction from 
baseline in the total PANSS score at the last 
post-randomisation assessment in the 
double-blind treatment period. 
Results and Analysis  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 90/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Primary Analysis (PP) 
Per Protocol at day 372 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Risperdal consta 
288 
282 
-11.6 (21.22)  
14.4 (19.76) 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
PANSS total 
score 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate  
Risperdal Consta 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
-2.6 (1.64) 
(-5.84;0.61) 
Analysis population 
and time point 
description 
Descriptive statistics 
and estimate 
variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Intention to treat at day 372 
Treatment 
group 
Number of 
subjects 
PANSS total 
score, mean 
change 
(standard 
deviation)  
PSP score, 
mean change 
 (standard 
deviation)  
CGI-S, mean 
change 
Number of 
Responders 
(%) 
Primary 
endpoint 
Paliperidone palmitate 
Risperdal consta 
343 
331 
-9.5 (21.95)  
-13.0 (20.63) 
3.7 (16.39)  
5.2 (15.13) 
-0.4 (1.25)  
152(44.3) 
-0.6 (1.24) 
179(54.4) 
Comparison groups 
Risperdal Consta 
Versus  
Paliperidone palmitate 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
-3.8 (1.59) 
(-6.96;-0.74) 
PSP-score 
Comparison groups 
Paliperidone palmitate  
Risperdal Consta 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 91/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
1.7 (1.17) 
95%CI 
(-0.61;3.97) 
CGI-score 
Comparison groups 
Least square mean of 
difference (standard error) 
95%CI 
P-value 
Comparison groups 
Responder 
rate 
Risperdal Consta 
Versus  
Paliperidone palmitate 
-0.2 (0.09) 
(-0.41;-0.06) 
Risperdal Consta 
Versus  
Paliperidone palmitate 
Relative risk ratio  
95%CI 
0.8 
( 0.70; 0.95) 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Short term studies 
In  placebo  controlled  studies  (SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  3004  and  3007),  the  treatment  groups  were  well 
balanced  with  respect  to  diagnosis  (80  to  90%  of  paranoid  subtype  across  studies),  severity  (about 
50% with at least marked severity), and prior hospitalisation for psychosis (about 60% with 3 or more 
prior  hospitalisations).  Overall,  these  studies  have  demonstrated  short  term  efficacy  for  paliperidone 
palmitate in patients with schizophrenia.  
In  study  SCH-201,  statistically  significant  and  clinically  relevant  effects  were  shown  for  the  primary 
and  secondary  endpoints  (changes  from  baseline in  PANSS  total  score,  CGI-S  and  responder  rate)  at 
both 50 and 100 mg doses versus placebo.  
In  study  PSY-3003,  results  were  less  compelling.  In  this  study,  statistically  significant  result  for  the 
primary efficacy endpoint was obtained for the 100 mg dose only (p=0.019). A minimal effect on the 
PANSS total score was observed for the 150 mg dose (-5.5) together with high withdrawal rate due to 
lack  of  efficacy  (43%).  Furthermore,  statistically  significant  treatment-by-country  and  treatment-by- 
baseline PANSS score interactions (p<0.10) were observed in the primary efficacy model (Figure 5). In 
the  CHMP’s  view,  the  treatment-by-country  interaction  seemed  to  be  due  to  lack  of  effect  in  US 
patients. A trend towards a treatment-by-baseline BMI interaction was also observed.  
Results  from  PSY-3004  also  suggested  a  treatment-by-country  interaction  that  was  potentially 
confounded  by  a  treatment-by-baseline  BMI  interaction  (Figure  6).  In  this  study,  all  tested  doses 
demonstrated  statistical  significance  for  the  changes  from  baseline  in  PANSS  scores  and  CGI-S. 
However,  changes  from  baseline  in  PSP  score  failed  to  demonstrate  statistical  significant  difference 
(p=0.154  for  25  mg;  p=0.189  for  50  mg  and  p=0.110  for  100  mg).  In  addition,  difference  in  the 
percentage of responder rate was not statistically significant for the 50 mg dose (p=0.271). 
In  study  PSY-3007,  a  new  dosing  regimen was introduced  in  order  to  increase  the  initial  exposure  to 
paliperidone palmitate in overweight/obese patients using a weight adjusted needle length. As a result, 
no  significant  treatment-by  country interaction  was observed  although  the  differences  versus  placebo 
were  less  pronounced  in  US  patients  for  the  primary  endpoint  (-2.5,  -3.6,  and  -6.6  for  the  25,  100, 
and 150 mg groups, respectively). Similarly to studies PSY-3003 and 3004, the distribution of baseline 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 92/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BMI  differed  across  countries  and  effect  in  obese  US  patients  was  not  demonstrated  (Figure  7).  In 
normal  weight  patients,  treatment  effect  was  significant  in  all  dose  groups  (25,  100  and  150  mg) 
increasing with  dose.  In  overweight  patients,  there were  only  significant  treatment  effects in  the  100 
and  150  mg  dose  groups,  increasing  with  dose,  whereas  in  obese  patients  there  were  no  significant 
treatment effects. Nonetheless, in this study, significant effects were demonstrated over placebo for all 
doses on the PANSS total score analysis (p=0.034 for 25 mg eq, p<0.001 for both 50 and 100 mg eq), 
supported  by  results  for  secondary  endpoints  (changes  from  baseline  in  CGI-S,  PSP  and  responder 
rates)  for  the  two  higher  doses  (100  mg  and  150  mg).  In  addition,  a  clear  dose  response  was 
observed.  
In  the  two  non-inferiority  studies  (PSY-3006  and  -3008),  there  were  no  major  imbalances  between 
treatment  groups.  Overall,  PSY-3006,  a  double  blind  study,  has  demonstrated  non  inferiority  of 
paliperidone  palmitate  versus  Risperdal  consta  for  the  short  term  efficacy  in  patients  with 
schizophrenia whereas PSY-3008, an open-label study has failed to demonstrate this non inferiority. In 
study PSY-3006 using initial doses of 150 mg eq at day 1 and 100 mg eq at day 8 (final recommended 
enhance dosing regimen), non inferiority was demonstrated for the primary endpoint in the PP and ITT 
analyses:  0.4  [-1.62-2.38]  and  1.2  [-0.78-3.16],  respectively.  This  was  supported  by  the  secondary 
analyses of responder rates, change in PSP and CGI-S scores (Figures 9, 10 and 11).  
Furthermore,  there  was  no  treatment-by-country  interaction  and  there  were  no  differences  between 
the treatments in all countries with a substantial number of subjects enrolled (including US). However, 
the  non-inferiority  could  not  formally  be  concluded  for  obese  patients  (Figure  12),  with  lower  97.5% 
confidence limit of -3.13, -0.76, and -6.93, respectively as opposed to patients with normal weight and 
overweight patients, suggesting that paliperidone palmitate could be less effective in obese patients at 
the tested doses. The tendency for a lower efficacy of paliperidone palmitate in obese patients was also 
observed in the failed study PSY-3008 (Figure 14) as opposed to Risperdal consta. 
In  light  of  the  above,  the  CHMP  requested  the  applicant  to  further  discuss  the  results  in  short  term 
efficacy for obese patients. Both pharmacokinetic data and efficacy data indicated a lower exposure to 
paliperidone and poorer efficacy outcomes in this population suggesting an inadequacy of the proposed 
dosing regimen tested in PSY-3007.  
The applicant provided the following argumentation: 
- 
Pharmacokinetic  results  from  earlier  studies  with  gluteal  injections  conducted  with  the  older 
dosing  regimen  showed  a  difference  in  initial  plasma  exposure  in  the  obese  and  overweight 
subgroup  as  compared  to  subjects  in  the  normal  BMI  subgroup.  This  difference  was  more 
pronounced  in  the  early  part  of  treatment  (i.e.,  prior  to  the  third  injection)  and  was  less 
relevant at steady-state. The results of a population PK analysis confirmed that subjects with a 
higher body weight/BMI have a decreased F2 parameter, which is the fraction of dose reaching 
the  systemic  circulation  relatively  quickly.  This  results  in  lower  concentrations  early  after 
injection, and a slower attainment of steady state. 
- 
The effect of BMI on PK is most pronounced at initiation of treatment and diminishes over time 
once  steady  state  is  achieved.  Population  PK  analysis  also  suggested  that  deltoid  dosing  and 
drug  administration  with  a  longer  needle  in  the  deltoid  muscle  is  associated  with  a  higher  F2 
parameter. Therefore, results of population PK simulations indicated that initiating dosing with 
paliperidone  palmitate  at  a  dose  of  150  mg  eq.  into  the  deltoid  muscle  (with  a  longer  needle 
for  heavier  individuals)  would  be  sufficient  to  alleviate  the  influence  of  BMI  on  the  initial 
plasma  concentrations  of  paliperidone.  This  expectation  has  been  realised  in  recently 
conducted  Phase  3  studies  utilizing  the  recommended  dosing  regimen  (PSY-3007  and  PSY-
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 93/118
 
 
 
 
3006). The differences in paliperidone plasma concentration during the early part of treatment 
(prior to the third dose) between the different BMI subgroups were found to be negligible. 
- 
Pharmacokinetic  results  from  the  open-label  phase  I  safety  long-term  study  PSY-1008 
suggested  a  small  difference  in  median  plasma  concentration  for  subjects  in  the  obese  BMI 
category  as  compared  to  normal-BMI  subjects.  However,  when  PANSS  total  score  changes 
from baseline were compared in these 3 subgroups, no statistical difference was found. 
- 
Earlier  Phase  3  studies  conducted  with  paliperidone  palmitate  showed  a  notable  difference  in 
treatment effect between normal and overweight/obese subjects. This difference was reduced 
in  the  more  recent  set  of  studies  conducted  with  the  revised  dosing  regimen.  Although  the 
magnitude of effect was numerically smaller in obese and overweight subjects as compared to 
normal-weight  subjects,  the  effect  was  still  statistically  significantly  in  favour  of  paliperidone 
palmitate across all 3 BMI categories. 
- 
In the long-term relapse prevention Study PSY-3001, a significant treatment effect in favour of 
paliperidone  palmitate  was  observed  in  all  3  BMI  subgroups,  suggesting  that  once  a 
therapeutic response is achieved, the influence of BMI is negligible. 
On  the  basis  of  the  applicant’s  response,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  current  proposed  dosing 
regimen  within  adjustments  within  the  range  of  25  to  150  mg  eq.  was  acceptable,  provided  that  a 
statement in the SPC is included to reflect that overweight or obese patients may require doses in the 
higher dose range.  
Long term studies 
The  relapse  prevention  study  (PSY-3001)  was  stopped  at  a  pre-planned  interim  analysis  when  68 
patients  had  experienced  a  relapse,  34.0%  in  the  placebo  group  and  9.6%  in  the  paliperidone 
palmitate group showing superiority over placebo (p<0.0001).  
This  was  confirmed  by  the  final  analysis  (including  relapses  between  the  interim  analysis  and  study 
termination,  Figure  16).  For  all  causes  for  relapse,  there  were  more  relapses  on  placebo  treatment 
(Table 20). In addition, the primary time to relapse analysis was supported by highly significant results 
in  favour  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the  analysis  of  the  secondary  efficacy  endpoints:  change  in 
PANSS  total  score,  CGI-S  and  PSP  scores.  Relapse  prevention  was  similar  in  the  two  dominating 
regions US and Eastern Europe. Neither was there any difference in effect depending on baseline BMI. 
Statistical significance was reported for normal, overweight as well obese patients.  
In  study  PSY-3002,  non-inferiority  could  not  be  concluded,  the  lower  confidence  limit  was  below  the 
pre-specified non-inferiority margin of 5 points in both PP and ITT analyses (Table 22 and Figure 17). 
The  tendency  towards  a  better  effect  of  Risperdal  consta  was  supported  by  the  results  for  the 
secondary  endpoints,  particularly  a  significant  difference  in  responder  rates  (44.3%  versus  54.4%). 
There was no treatment-by-region interaction (p=0.580) and the observed regional differences might 
be due to random fluctuations. Despite the primary analysis was inconclusive, results in patients from 
Western  Europe  could  be  considered  valuable  for  the  extrapolation  of  the  overall  results  to  the 
intended  EU  population  (Figure  18).  The  treatment-by-baseline  BMI  interaction  approached  statistical 
significance  at  the  pre-specified  10%  significance  level  (p=0.108)  suggesting  a  suboptimal  effect  of 
paliperidone  palmitate  in  obese  patients  (Figure  19).  In  addition,  no  relevant  differences  between 
paliperidone palmitate and risperidone consta were observed for non obese patients. 
Dose response 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 94/118
 
 
 
In  pooled  analyses  performed  across  all  placebo-controlled  short-term  studies  (Figure  20),  significant 
effects  versus  placebo  were  demonstrated  for  the  dose  range  25-150  mg  with  an  increased  effect 
above 50 mg suggesting that the recommended maintenance dose range 25-150 was appropriate. 
Use of depot formulation 
The indication initially applied for was: treatment of adult patients with schizophrenia.  
According  to  the  Appendix  to  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  clinical  investigation  of  medicinal  products  in 
the  treatment  of  schizophrenia  –  Methodology  of  clinical  trials  concerning  the  development  of  depot 
preparations  of  approved  medicinal  products  in  schizophrenia  (CPMP/EWP/49/01,  2003),  “Depot 
preparations are meant for maintenance treatment, once a patient is stabilised satisfactorily on an oral 
preparation.  Therefore  a  patient  usually  will  continue  on  the  product  that  has  been  shown  to  be 
effective for him. It would be very rare to start a patient on a depot preparation, as e.g. dose titration 
is  not  possible,  an  acute  effect  may  be  needed  or  undesirable  effects  may  occur,  in  which  case  the 
preparation cannot be withdrawn”. The CHMP therefore requested the applicant to further discuss the 
proposed indication which included the possibility to start treatment without prior stabilisation on oral 
treatment.  Importantly,  in  the  absence  of  a  direct  comparative  biovailability  study  of  paliperidone 
palmitate  versus  oral  paliperidone  (Invega),  the  switching  from  oral  treatment  without  a  need  to 
supplement with oral dosing and the onset of efficacy of paliperidone palmitate versus oral paliperidone 
should  be  addressed.  Therefore,  the  CHMP  agreed  to  convene  the  Central  Nervous  System  Scientific 
Advisory Group (CNS SAG) to discuss the clinical role of long-acting injectable antipsychotic treatment 
used in schizophrenia. 
The CNS SAG was held on 13 July 2010 and the main conclusions were the following: 
- 
Long-acting  injectable  antipsychotic  treatment  without  prior  stabilisation  on  oral  treatment 
should not be used in treatment-naive patients or in acutely disturbed schizophrenia patients;  
- 
Long-acting  injectable  antipsychotic  treatment  without  prior  stabilisation  on  oral  treatment 
could,  however,  depending  on  the  physician’s  judgement,  be  considered  in  a  restricted  group 
of patients with an established diagnosis, consisting of patients with mild to moderate relapses 
of  disease,  patients  with  compliance  difficulties,  and  patients  who  have  a  preference  for 
treatment with injectable depot formulations. 
- 
- 
The timeframe for onset of action would depend on the clinical situation as described above; 
Initial  coverage  (e.g.  for  the  first  week  of  treatment),  might  be  an  acceptable  approach, 
however,  no  clinical  data  have  been  presented  on  simultaneous  administration  of  oral  and 
intramuscular paliperidone palmitate; 
- 
The  possibility  of  tight  dose  titration  when  initiating  therapy  relate  to  the  acuteness  of  the 
clinical  situation.  It  is  clear  that  injectable  depot  formulations  do  not  provide  the  same 
flexibility for dose titration as oral formulations or short-acting injectable formulations; 
- 
It  is  not  considered  acceptable  to  administer  a  depot  preparation  to  patients  without  prior 
experience  regarding  tolerability  of  the  active  substance.  The  dosage  and  the  interval  of  the 
initial  exposure  to  the  oral  preparation  prior  to  initiation  of  a  depot  preparation  is  a  crucial 
factor that has to be specified. 
- 
The  design,  including  study  population,  of  the  studies  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate  is 
considered  appropriate  for  use  in  a  restricted  population  as  discussed  above.  In  general, 
clinical trials need to address different treatment settings and patient populations with different 
compliance. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 95/118
 
 
 
To  support 
the 
indication 
initially  applied 
for, 
the  applicant’s  argumentation  related 
to 
pharmacokinetics and efficacy aspects can be summarised as follows: 
- 
In  contrast  to  older  oil-based  depot  antipsychotics,  which  were  more  appropriate  for 
maintenance  treatment  due  to  the  delayed  attainment  of  therapeutic  plasma  drug 
concentrations, paliperidone palmitate was formulated as an aqueous suspension, allowing for 
immediate  and  sustainable  release  of  paliperidone  and  providing  therapeutic  plasma  drug 
concentrations  as  rapidly  as  the  oral  paliperidone  formulation.  Thus,  the  clinical  rationale  for 
stabilising  patients  on  oral  therapy  prior  to  switching  to  the  injectable  antipsychotic  was 
anticipated not to apply to paliperidone palmitate; 
-  Clinical  data  for  paliperidone  palmitate  based  on  the  enhanced  dosing  regimen  (including  a 
loading  dose  of  150  mg  eq.  in  the  deltoid  muscle  on  Day  1)  showed  statistically  significant 
improvement  over  placebo  with  regard  to  PANSS  total  score  that  occurred  as  early  as  Day  8 
and is maintained at subsequent time points. 
- 
There  was  no  statistical  difference  between  paliperidone  palmitate  and  Risperdal  consta 
treatment groups in study PSY-3006 with regard to change from baseline in PANSS total score 
during  the  first  36  days  of  treatment.  Given  that  the  data  from  the  Risperdal  consta  group 
during  this  period  effectively  reflects  treatment  with  oral  risperidone  due  to  the  delay  in  the 
release  of  risperidone  from  its  LAI  formulation,  this  indicates  that  paliperidone  palmitate 
achieves and maintains a treatment effect similar to that of oral risperidone. 
- 
Thus,  time  to  onset  of  efficacy  achieved  with  paliperidone  palmitate  is  comparable  to  that 
achieved  with  oral  paliperidone  PR,  as  well  as  other  marketed  oral  antipsychotics,  including 
risperidone,  and  appears  to  be  within  clinically  acceptable  limits  in  the  management  of  acute 
schizophrenia without requiring oral stabilisation. 
-  A bioavailability study directly comparing orally administered paliperidone PR and paliperidone 
palmitate  using  a  cross-over  design  was  not  conducted  due  to  the  availability  of  comparative 
PK data from Study SCH-201 and the difficulties related to conducting a crossover study (long 
wash-out  required).  It  was  not  the  intent  to  bridge  to  efficacy  from  the  oral  formulation,  and 
hence  a  full  Phase  3  development  programme  was  conducted.  Instead,  the  relative 
bioavailability of oral paliperidone and paliperidone palmitate was evaluated at steady state in 
SCH-201  and  by  means  of  a  meta-analysis,  supported  by  population  modeling.  The  results 
consistently  confirmed  that  paliperidone  palmitate  25,  75,  and  150  mg  eq.  provide  sustained 
steady-state  paliperidone  plasma  concentrations  within  the  simulated  exposure  window  for  2, 
6, and 12 mg doses of paliperidone PR, respectively. 
-  Because  injection  site  and  administered  dose  significantly  affect  the  initial  release,  the  initial 
exposure  (Day  1-8)  observed  in  SCH-201  did  not  reflect  the  initial  exposure  following  the 
recommended  dosing  regimen  and,  therefore,  did  not  allow  to  draw  any  conclusions  with 
respect to need for oral coverage. Alternatively, a meta analysis was conducted, which showed 
that  within  24  to  48  hours  upon  injection  of  the  first  deltoid  loading  dose  of  paliperidone 
palmitate (150 mg eq.), plasma paliperidone concentrations are comparable to those obtained 
upon initiation of the recommended dose of paliperidone PR (6 mg). 
On  the  basis  of  the  SAG  recommendations  and  applicant’s  responses,  the  CHMP  considered  the 
following: 
- 
The  onset  of  efficacy  for  oral  paliperidone  was  by  day  4  and  for  paliperidone  palmitate  some 
days later by day 8. Statistical significant effects compared to placebo have been shown from 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 96/118
 
 
 
 
day  8  onwards  for  paliperidone  palmitate,  which  is  considered  comparable  to  other  available 
antipsychotics;  
- 
The  oral  supplementation  is  not  required  for  paliperidone  palmitate.  There  was  no  statistical 
difference between paliperidone palmitate and Risperdal consta (requiring oral supplementation 
for the first 3 weeks) treatment groups in study PSY-3006 with regard to change from baseline 
in  PANSS  total  score  during  the  first  36  days  of  treatment.  In  addition  a  numerically  higher 
proportion of responders for paliperidone palmitate was observed at every time point from day 
4 as compared to Risperdal consta. 
- 
The  treatment  without  prior  oral  stabilisation  should  be  restricted  to  selected  patients  with 
schizophrenia  and  previous  responsiveness  to  oral  paliperidone  or  risperidone,  if  psychotic 
symptoms are mild to moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed. 
Therefore, the CHMP initially recommended the following indication: 
“Xeplion  is  indicated  for  maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  patients  stabilised  with  oral 
paliperidone or risperidone. 
In selected patients with schizophrenia and previous responsiveness to oral paliperidone or risperidone, 
Xeplion may be used without prior stabilisation with oral treatment if psychotic symptoms are mild to 
moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed." 
During  an  oral  explanation  held  on  13  December  2010,  the  applicant  argued  that  the  maintenance 
treatment  should  also  be  indicated  for  the  patients  stabilised  on  other  antipsychotics  if  prior 
responsiveness  to  paliperidone  or  risperidone  has  been  established.  The  applicant’s  view  can  be 
summarised as follows: 
- 
The majority of the clinical program (9 out of 10 studies) did not require oral stabilisation prior 
to entry in short or long term studies; 
-  Results  from  studies  PSY-1008  and  PSY-3005  (allowed  stable  patients  to  enter)  were 
supportive  of  efficacy  following  stabilisation  on  a  diversity  of  antipsychotics  including 
conventional and atypical agents other than risperidone or paliperidone (43%); 
- 
In  pooled  short  term  studies  (SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  -3004  and  -3007),  treatment  effects 
favored paliperidone regardless of prior antipsychotic use; 
- 
In  pooled  double  blind  studies,  the  incidence  of  EPS  related  events  such  as  akhatisia  and 
parkinsonism  was  comparable  in  patients  with  and  without  prior  exposure  to  risperidone  or 
paliperidone ;  
-  Switching from various oral antipsychotics to depots is generally effective and well tolerated7 
Having considered the oral explanation provided by the applicant, the CHMP considered that there is a 
lack  of  evidence  to  support  the  proposed  initial  dose  of  paliperidone  palmitate  (150  mg  at  day  1  and 
100 mg at day 8)  to ensure safe and effective use for paliperidone palmitate in patients stabilised on 
other antipsychotics than risperidone and paliperidone.  
Considering  the  above  and  possible  switch  from  risperidone  long  acting  injectable  to  paliperidone 
palmitate, the CHMP recommended the following final indication: 
7 Moller HJ et al, Int Clin Psychopharmacol. 20(3):121-30,2005. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 97/118
 
 
 
                                              
 
 
 
 
“XEPLION is indicated for maintenance treatment of schizophrenia in adult patients stabilised with 
paliperidone or risperidone. 
In selected adult patients with schizophrenia and previous responsiveness to oral paliperidone or 
risperidone, XEPLION may be used without prior stabilisation with oral treatment if psychotic 
symptoms are mild to moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed.” 
The applicant agreed with the above final wording for the indication. The applicant has also proposed 
to  perform  a  drug  utilisation  study  to  assess  the  usage  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the  approved 
indication  (schizophrenia)  in  Europe.  A  protocol  outline  has  been  provided  as  part  of  the  risk 
management plan and final protocol is intended to be submitted as part of a follow up measure. 
During  the  evaluation,  the  proposed  legal  status  “medicinal  product  subject  to  medical  prescription” 
was also discussed by the CHMP, in view of the pharmaceutical characteristics of the depot formulation 
and  potential  consideration  to  reserve  the  treatments  for  hospital  environment.  The  CHMP  concluded 
that the proposed legal status for paliperidone palmitate was adequate considering its pharmaceutical 
properties  and  safety  profile  including  the  lack  of  evidence  of  risk  of  post  injection  delirium  and 
somnolence syndrome which would require follow up in hospital setting. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  CHMP  concluded  that efficacy in  reducing  symptoms  of  schizophrenia  (using  the  standard  PANSS 
total  score)  and  preventing  occurrence  of  new  symptoms  was  demonstrated  in  the  proposed  dosing 
regimen for Xeplion (paliperidone). 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The  safety  database  presented  in  the  dossier  included  the  following  datasets:  population  Phase  2/3 
short  term  trials  (SCH-201,  PSY-3003,  -3004,  -3007),  long  term  trials  (PSY-3001,  PSY-3005), 
non inferiority short and long term trials (PSY-3006, -3008 and -3002), clinical pharmacology trials 
in patients with schizophrenia. 
In addition to these datasets, study PSY-1008 was an open-label, long-term, multiple-dose to primarily 
evaluate  the  pharmacokinetic  of  150  mg  eq.  paliperidone  palmitate  and  the  safety  and  tolerability  of 
flexible  doses  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the  treatment  of  subjects  with  schizophrenia  and  safety 
results  of  this  phase  I  study  are  also  presented.  The  study  consisted  of  2  phases,  a  screening  and 
washout phase of up to 21 days and a 53-week open-label treatment phase including an end-of-study 
or early withdrawal visit. There were 2 treatment groups in this study, treatment A and treatment B. 
Treatment  A  represented  subjects  who  received  paliperidone  palmitate  150  mg  eq.  throughout  the 
study  and  who  participated  in  intensive  PK  sampling.  Treatment  B  represented  subjects  who  were 
unable to tolerate the 150 mg eq. dose or who were unwilling to continue with intensive PK sampling. 
Subjects  in  treatment  group  B  received  flexible  doses  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the  range  of  50  to 
150  mg  eq.  All  subjects  were  initially  assigned  to  treatment  A  and  received  the  first  dose  of 
paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq. in the deltoid muscle. One week later, subjects in treatment group 
A  received  a  second  injection  in  the  deltoid  muscle  while  subjects  in  treatment  group  B  received  the 
second  injection  in  either  the  deltoid  or  gluteal  muscle.  The  12  subsequent  i.m.  injections  were 
administered every 4 weeks in either the deltoid or gluteal muscle (Treatment A and Treatment B). 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 98/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
A total of 3605 subjects with schizophrenia received at least one dose of paliperidone palmitate in the 
9  completed  phase  2/3  studies,  713  received  placebo,  and  1199  received  Risperdal  consta.  The 
combined  exposure  to  paliperidone  palmitate  in  all  completed  Phase  2/3  studies  was  1559.8  patient-
years. Of the 3605 subjects treated with paliperidone palmitate, 203 subjects received treatment with 
paliperidone  palmitate  during  the  open-label  transition/maintenance  phases  of  study  PSY-3001  and 
subsequently  were  randomly  assigned  to  placebo  in  the  double-blind  phase  of  this  study.  Of  the  713 
placebo-treated subjects, 510 subjects received placebo throughout the entire study in the short term 
trials PSY-3003, PSY-3004, PSY-3007, and SCH-201. 
In  study  PSY-1008,  212  subjects  received  at  least  one  dose  of  paliperidone  palmitate  150  mg  eq. 
Combined cumulative exposure to paliperidone palmitate in the 9 Phase 2/3 studies and the long-term 
safety study PSY-1008 was 1704.8 patient-years, based on 3817 subjects who received at least 1 dose. 
Adverse events  
In  pooled  studies  PSY-3003  and  -3004,  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  occurred  at  similar  rates 
for  paliperidone  palmitate  25  to  100  mg  eq.  (70%  to  75%)  and  placebo  (74%)  groups.  Treatment-
emergent adverse events occurred at higher rates in subjects receiving paliperidone palmitate 150 mg 
eq.  (83%),  although  the  number  of  subjects  in  this  treatment  group  (n=30)  was  small.  Many  of  the 
common  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (adverse  events  in  the  Nervous  System  and  Psychiatric 
Disorders System Organ Classes, especially schizophrenia and psychotic disorder), were reported at a 
higher incidence in placebo-treated subjects. 
In  study  PSY-3007,  the  frequency  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  in  this  study  was  slightly 
lower than for the pooled PSY-3003, -3004 studies for paliperidone palmitate 50 to 150 mg eq. (60% 
to  63%)  and  placebo  (65%),  and  was  consistent  with  results  of  study  SCH-201.  The  safety  profile  of 
the 150 mg eq. dose in study PSY-3007 was similar to that of the lower doses. 
In  study  PSY-1008,  87%  (184/212)  experienced  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  during  the 
long-term open-label study period. Most adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. The most 
frequently  reported  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (>10%),  in  subjects  receiving  only 
paliperidone  palmitate  150  mg  eq.  for  at  least  1  year  were  nasopharyngitis  (19.2%),  tachycardia 
(19.2%),  injection  site  pain  (14.4%),  headache  (12.5%),  insomnia  (11.5%),  and  weight  increased 
(10.6%)  (see  table  S5).The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  in  subjects  who  required  dose 
adjustment included dystonia, asthenia, sluggishness, and orthostatic hypotension.    
In  study  PSY-3001,  reporting  rates  for  the  transition/maintenance  (67%)  and  double-blind  phases 
(44%)  suggested  that  subjects  who  continue  to  receive  paliperidone  palmitate  following  a  period  of 
stabilization  may  have  a  lower  incidence  of  newly  occurring  adverse  events  after  stabilization 
compared  to  subjects  for  who  treatment  is  newly  initiated.  Overall,  adverse  events  were  reported  at 
similar rates for paliperidone palmitate and placebo (44% versus. 45%) during the double-blind phase. 
For most of the common adverse events, reporting rates were similar between the 2 treatment groups. 
A  notable  exception  was  weight  increased,  which  was  more  common  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate 
group than the placebo group (7% versus. 1%). There was no evidence of a withdrawal syndrome or 
rebound  phenomenon  in  subjects  who  abruptly  discontinued  paliperidone  palmitate  treatment  (ie, 
switched  to  placebo).  In  the  open-label  extension  phase,  the  pattern  of  newly  occurring  adverse 
events, as well as serious adverse events, was consistent with that in the double-blind phase. During 
this phase, adverse events were reported for 56% of subjects. The most common adverse event terms 
were consistent with those reported during the earlier phases of the study. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 99/118
 
 
 
In  study  PSY-3005,  the  incidence  and  severity  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  was  similar 
across  dose  groups  and  injection  site-sequence  groups  for  gluteal  and  deltoid  injections.  Reporting 
rates  for  common  adverse  events  were  similar  to  those  for  25  to  100  mg  eq.  doses  of  paliperidone 
palmitate in the pooled PSY-3003/PSY-3004 studies. As observed for study PSY-3001, reporting rates 
for many common adverse events tended to be lower through long-term treatment. 
In  study  PSY-3006,  adverse  events  occurred  at  similar  rates  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate  and 
Risperdal consta groups (58% versus. 53%). The most common adverse events (occurring in ≥5% of 
the  subjects)  were  insomnia,  headache,  somnolence,  and  injection  site  pain  for  the  paliperidone 
palmitate group and insomnia and headache for the Risperdal consta group. 
In  study  PSY-3008,  the  incidence  of  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  in  the  open-label    was 
generally  comparable  to  that  in  other  studies  and  was  similar  between  paliperidone  palmitate  and 
Risperdal groups (73% versus. 75%). 
In  study  PSY-3002,  the  overall  reporting  rates  for  adverse  events  were  similar  for  subjects  receiving 
paliperidone palmitate and Risperdal consta (76% versus 79%). The most common adverse events in 
study  PSY-3002  were  psychiatric  disorders,  for  which  the  incidence  was  similar  between  treatment 
groups  (50%  versus.  52%);  however,  a  larger  proportion  of  subjects  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate 
group  (18%  versus.  14%  for  Risperdal  consta)  had  a  severe  psychiatric  adverse  event  (mainly 
psychotic disorder and schizophrenia).  
Adverse Drug Reactions reported by at least 2% of paliperidone palmitate-treated Subjects in the key 
studies are presented in Table 34. 
Table 34. Adverse Drug Reactions Reported by at Least 2% of Paliperidone Palmitate-
Treated Subjects in Key Studies (Studies R092670-SCH-201, PSY-3001, PSY-3002, PSY-3003, 
PSY-3004, PSY-3005, PSY-3006, PSY-3007, PSY-3008, and PSY-1008) 
 Body System or Organ Class 
Dictionary-derived Term 
 Cardiac disorders 
 Tachycardia 
 Gastrointestinal disorders 
 Constipation 
 Diarrhoea 
 Nausea 
 Vomiting 
 General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
 Injection site reactions 
Frequency 
Categorya 
 Common 
 Common 
 Common 
 Common 
 Common 
 Common 
 Infections and infestations 
 Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
 Common 
 Investigations 
 Weight increased 
 Common 
 Nervous system disorders 
 Psychiatric disorders 
 Akathisia 
 Dizziness 
 Headache 
 Somnolence 
 Tremor 
 Agitation 
 Insomnia 
 Common 
 Common 
 Very common 
 Common 
 Common 
 Common 
 Very common 
Note: The following preferred terms were combined: Administration site pain, Administration site 
reaction, Injection site induration, Injection site nodule, Injection site pain, and Injection site pruritus 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 100/118
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
combined into Injection Site Reactions and Sedation and Somnolence combined into Somnolence 
Note: The adverse events were coded using the MedDRA version 12.0 
a  The frequency category is based on all subjects who received at least 1 dose of paliperidone 
palmitate in these studies (N=3817), where ‘very common’ is a frequency ≥1/10 and ‘common’ is a 
frequency ≥1/100 (CIOMS 1999). 
rlst_adr_ge2perc_t1.rtf generated by rlst_adr_ge2perc.sas. 
ADR terms that occurred in  less than 2% of subjects treated with paliperidone palmitate 
in the key studies were the following: 
-  Cardiac disorders: atrioventricular block first degree, bradycardia, conduction 
disorder, palpitations, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, sinus 
tachycardia 
-  Ear and labyrinth disorders: vertigo 
-  Endocrine disorders: hyperprolactinaemia 
-  Eye disorders: eye movement disorder, eye rolling, oculogyric crisis, vision 
blurred 
-  Gastrointestinal disorders: abdominal discomfort/abdominal pain upper, dry 
mouth, salivary hypersecretion, toothache 
-  General disorders and administration site conditions: asthenia, fatigue 
- 
- 
Immune system disorders: hypersensitivity 
Investigations: blood cholesterol increased, blood glucose increased, blood 
triglycerides increased, electrocardiogram QT prolonged, electrocardiogram 
abnormal 
-  Metabolism and nutrition disorders: decreased appetite, hyperglycaemia, 
hyperinsulinaemia, increased appetite 
-  Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders: back pain, joint stiffness, 
muscle rigidity, muscle spasms, muscle tightness, muscle twitching, 
musculoskeletal stiffness, myalgia, nuchal rigidity, pain in extremity 
-  Nervous system disorders: bradykinesia, cerebrovascular accident, convulsion, 
dizziness postural, drooling, dysarthria, dyskinesia, dystonia, extrapyramidal 
disorder, hypertonia, lethargy, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, oromandibular 
dystonia, parkinsonism, psychomotor hyperactivity, syncope, tardive dyskinesia 
-  Psychiatric disorders: nightmare, restlessness 
-  Reproductive system and breast disorders: amenorrhoea, breast discharge, 
erectile dysfunction, galactorrhoea, gynaecomastia, menstrual disorder, 
menstruation delayed, menstruation irregular, sexual dysfunction  
-  Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders: drug eruption, pruritis, pruritus 
generalized, rash, urticaria 
-  Vascular disorders: hypertension, orthostatic hypotension 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Table 35 lists all on study deaths, except for one death in study PSY-3005, which was due to aspiration 
of  stomach  contents  before  receiving  any  study  drug,  and  the  three  post-study  deaths  of  subjects 
receiving paliperidone palmitate. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 101/118
 
 
 
 
Table 35. Deaths reported in completed studies with paliperidone palmitate 
A total of 12 on-study deaths have been reported in subjects treated with paliperidone palmitate (11 
deaths  in  the  9  Phase  2/3  studies  and  study  PSY-1008  and  1  death  in  the  10  other  Phase  1  studies. 
One additional on-study death was reported in a subject who was randomly assigned to treatment but 
died before receiving any injections of the study drug in Study PSY-3005. Three post-study deaths in 
subjects  treated  with  paliperidone  palmitate  were  recorded,  including  2  cases  in  study  PSY-3001  and 
one  in  Study  PSY-3004  (not  included  in  Table  27).  There  was  1  death  among  subjects  who  received 
placebo  and  2  on-study  deaths  among  subjects  treated  with  Risperdal  consta.  One  post-study  death 
was reported in a subject who received Risperdal consta in study PSY-3006. 
There  were  no  deaths  in  studies  PSY-3003,  SCH-201,  PSY-1008,  or  in  the  double-blind  recurrence 
prevention phase or the open-label extension phase of PSY-3001. 
The  occurrence  of  serious  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  was  similar  or  slightly  lower  in  the 
paliperidone  palmitate  group  (5%  to  13%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (7%  to  18%)  across  placebo-
controlled  double-blind  studies.  Across  the  Phase  2/3  studies  and  study  PSY-1008,  treatment-
emergent serious adverse events other than psychiatric disorders were reported in isolated cases only. 
There  was  a  slightly  higher  rate  in  serious  adverse  events  in  studies  PSY-3002  and  PSY-3006  for 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 102/118
 
 
 
 
 
paliperidone palmitate treatment compared to Risperdal consta treatment (29% versus 22% and 6.8% 
versus  4.8%).  There  was  a  higher 
incidence  of  serious  psychiatric  disorders 
in 
the 
paliperidonepalmitate group compared to the Risperdal consta group (PSY-3002: 25% vs. 20%; PSY-
3006:  6.6%  versus  4.1%)  in  these  two  studies.  Psychiatric  disorders  as  serious  adverse  events  were 
among the most frequent reason for discontinuation of paliperidone palmitate therapy. 
Laboratory findings 
Paliperidone palmitate caused a slight increase in fasting insulin levels from baseline to endpoint. The 
overall increase in fasting insulin levels was more pronounced in Risperdal consta-treated subjects. In 
study PSY-3002, plasma fasting insulin levels were elevated by a mean (SD) of 11.6 (157.38) pmol/L 
relative  to  a  baseline  of  120.1  (124.37)  pmol/L  for  paliperidone  palmitate-treated  subjects,  and  by  a 
mean  (SD)  of  15.2  (151.45)  pmol/L  relative  to  a  baseline  of  110.7  (104.76)  pmol/L  for  Risperdal 
Consta-treated  subjects.  Elevations  in  mean  insulin  levels  were  evident  by  Day  176  for  paliperidone 
palmitate subjects and by Day 36 for Risperdal Consta subjects. In study PSY-3006, a mean increase 
of 7.4 pmol/L for fasting insulin levels was observed in the paliperidone palmitate group as compared 
to 18.1 pmol/L in the Risperdal Consta group. This is a well known effect of atypical antipsychotics. 
Mean  platelet  counts  decreases  were  observed  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate  groups,  whereas  none 
could be detected in the placebo groups. In study PSY-3001, a small mean [SD] reduction from open-
label  baseline  (-6.7  [46.13]  giga/l  to  -16.8  [45.40]  giga/l  across  treatment  groups)  and  a  slightly 
larger reduction from transition baseline (-20.5 [47.53] giga/l to –28.4 [45.64] giga/l across treatment 
groups)  in  mean  platelet  counts  was  observed  at  endpoint.  In  study  PSY-1008,  decreases  in  platelet 
count  values  of  >25%  from  baseline  were  recorded  for  20  subjects  (11%)  on  Treatment  A,  and  3 
subjects  (12%)  on  Treatment  B.  Nonetheless,  no  unexpected  adverse  events  with  paliperidone 
palmitate  suggestive  of  thrombocytopenia  or  bleeding-related  adverse  events  were  reported  in  the 
clinical studies. 
The incidence of elevated prolactin concentrations was higher in the paliperidone palmitate groups for 
subjects of both gender (higher in females than in males) compared to the placebo group with a dose-
related pattern in pooled studies PSY-3003, PSY-3004 but not in study PSY-3007. Studies PSY-3006, -
3008  and  -3002  revealed  similar  mean  increases  of  prolactin  concentrations  in  the  paliperidone 
palmitate and the Risperdal consta groups. Observed increases in serum prolactin concentrations were 
mostly asymptomatic and infrequently associated with reported adverse events in controlled phase 2/3 
studies. 
The vital sign abnormality with the highest frequency observed throughout studies was standing pulse 
rates of ≥100 bpm with an increase of ≥15 bpm.  Study PSY-1008 revealed the highest percentage of 
vital sign abnormalities, resulting from intensive vital sign measurement during the study.  
Mean  body  weight  and  mean  BMI  increased  from  baseline  to  endpoint  in  a  dose-dependent  manner 
across most of the studies. Abnormal increase in body weight of 7% or above was detected in a higher 
percentage  of  subjects  treated  with  paliperidone  palmitate  during  long-term  exposure  (study  PSY-
1008, 27%; long-term relapse prevention study PSY-3001, 23%) due to intensive monitoring, whereas 
occurrence across all other studies was from 6-16%. 
Other safety findings 
Extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 103/118
 
 
 
 
The overall incidence of EPS-related adverse events in studies PSY-3003, PSY-3004, and PSY-3007 was 
similar  for  the  placebo  and  paliperidone  palmitate  treatment  groups  (10%  to  12%),  except  for  the 
paliperidone  palmitate  150 mg eq.  group  for  which  the  incidence  was  higher  (20%).  There  were  6 
reports  of  tardive  dyskinesia  of  the  subjects  treated  with  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the  9  phase  2/3 
studies and study PSY-1008: four subjects had a previous history of EPS and/or a previous long-term 
use of antipsychotics; two other cases of tardive dyskinesia – one in either study PSY-3001 and PSY-
1008  –  could  be  possibly  related  to  the  study  drug.  One  mild  but  persisting  case  was  also  reported 
within the Risperdal Consta group. 
In  study  PSY-1008,  24%  of  subjects  who  received  paliperidone  palmitate  at  doses  up  to  150 mg  eq. 
reported  EPS-related  adverse  events,  most  of  which  were  of  mild  severity.  The  most  common  EPS-
related  adverse  events  were  akathisia  (9%),  tremor  (5%),  parkinsonism  (3%),  and  dystonia  (2%). 
Four  subjects  experienced  EPS-related  serious  adverse  events  of  akathisia,  parkinsonism,  muscle 
rigidity, tremor, and/or dystonia, and 4 subjects were discontinued due to restlessness, muscle rigidity, 
musculoskeletal  stiffness,  and/or  tremor.  In  study  PSY-3005,  the  incidence  of  treatment-emergent 
EPS-related adverse events was similar across doses and was not markedly different between injection 
sites  (gluteus,  8%;  deltoid,  5%).  In  studies  PSY-3002,  PSY-3006,  and  PSY-3008,  the  incidences  of 
most treatment-emergent EPS-related adverse events were similar between the paliperidone palmitate 
and Risperdal consta groups. Long-term studies with paliperidone palmitate revealed no increased risk 
of EPS compared to oral paliperidone (Invega). EPS-related adverse reactions were reported at rates of 
7% to 20% in the 6-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies with Invega. 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome (NMS) 
There  was  a  single  reported  event  of  NMS  among  the  paliperidone  palmitate-treated  subjects  in  the 
Phase 2/3  studies  and  study  PSY-1008.  This  event  presented  on  Day 15  following  2  injections  of 
paliperidone  palmitate  50  mg  eq.  in  study  PSY-3002,  and  was  accompanied  by  elevated  creatine 
kinase  and  increased  liver  enzymes.  The  investigator  assessed  the  event  as  mild,  and  there  was  no 
documented evidence of admission to an intensive care unit or treatment with a muscle relaxant. The 
Applicant’s  assessment  was  that  drug  causality  was  possible  but  confounded  by  the  presence  of  the 
LAI antipsychotic flupenthixol, which was discontinued 22 days before study drug administration. 
Suicidality 
Suicidality-related adverse events (completed suicide, suicidal behaviour, suicide attempt) occurred at 
a  slightly  higher  incidence  during  study  PSY-3003  and  PSY-3004  compared  to  placebo  (14  subjects 
versus  9  subjects).  Suicidal  ideation  appeared  in  slightly  higher  rates  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate 
groups compared to Risperdal Consta during studies PSY-3002 and PSY-3006. 
Seizures 
Seizure-related  adverse  events  were  reported  at  incidences  below  1%  across  studies,  which  is 
consistent with clinical and nonclinical data for risperidone. 
Cardiovascular related adverse events 
There  was  no  notable  difference  between  paliperidone  palmitate  and  placebo,  consistent  with  the 
findings for oral paliperidone (Invega) concerning occurrence of cardiovascular related adverse events 
(including severe cardiac arrhythmias and ischemia-related events). The incidence of these events did 
not appear to increase with longer exposure to paliperidone palmitate. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 104/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cerebrovascular events in subjects treated with paliperidone palmitate included 2 confirmed reports of 
cerebrovascular  accident,  one  of  which  resulted  in  death,  and  1  case  of  cerebral  infarction.  In  an 
additional case, the death of the subject was attributed by the investigator to “natural causes - most 
likely from stroke,” although no clinical evidence was found. In each of these cases, the subjects had 
pre-existing risk factors for stroke. There were no reports of the adverse event term “sudden death,” 
and  no  cases  of  ventricular  tachycardia,  ventricular  fibrillation,  ventricular  flutter,  or  torsades  de 
pointes among subjects treated with paliperidone palmitate.  
Treatment-emergent  abnormal  ECG  parameters  (PR,  QRS,  and  QT  intervals)  were  observed  at 
incidences  not  exceeding  2%  in  paliperidone  palmitate-treated  subjects.  The  frequency  of  “abnormal 
and  clinically  significant”  ECG  interpretation  at  endpoint  was  low  in  the  pooled  studies  PSY-3003 
and -3004 dataset (7% to 10% for paliperidone palmitate versus. 10% for placebo), in study PSY-3007 
(7%  across  paliperidone  palmitate  dose  groups  versus.  4%  in  the  placebo  group),  and  in  study 
PSY-3002  (9%  for  paliperidone  palmitate  versus.  7%  for  RISPERDAL  CONSTA).  Overall,  paliperidone 
palmitate  treatment  was  not  associated  with  an  increased  risk  of  clinically  significant  ECG 
abnormalities. 
Orthostatic hypotension 
In  the  Phase  2/3  studies,  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  of  orthostatic  hypotension  were 
uncommon. None of these events was severe, serious, or led to discontinuation of study treatment in 
paliperidone palmitate-treated subjects. These findings were consistent with the observations based on 
orthostatic  changes  in  blood  pressure  and  pulse  rate,  the  incidence  of  orthostatic  hypotension  being 
≤2%  in  either  paliperidone  palmitate  or  placebo  groups.  In  study  PSY-1008,  mostly  mild  orthostatic 
hypotension  was  reported  for  8.5%  of  the  subjects,  no  cases  of  which  were  serious  or  led  to 
discontinuation of treatment. Higher reported rates of orthostatic hypotension in study PSY-1008 were 
likely  associated  with  the  more  frequent  vital  sign  measurements  during  the  course  of  this  study, 
compared to the Phase 2/3 studies. In study PSY-3001, among paliperidone palmitate-treated subjects, 
the  incidence  of  orthostatic  hypotension  during  the  open-label  transition/maintenance  and  extension 
phases  (1%  for  both)  was  similar  to  that  during  the  double-blind  phase.  In  study  PSY-3005,  rates  of 
orthostatic  changes  were  similar  between  injection  sites  (5%  for  deltoid,  4%  for  gluteus).  In  study 
PSY-3002,  the  rate  of  orthostatic  changes  in  blood  pressure  and  pulse  rate  was  comparable  for 
paliperidone  palmitate  and  Risperdal  consta  groups  (3%  each).  In  studies  PSY-3006  and  -3008, 
orthostatic hypotension or syncope was reported by only 1 subject in each treatment group. 
Weight gain 
Mean body weight (actual values and percent changes) and mean BMI increased from baseline to end 
point  in  each  of  the  paliperidone  palmitate  groups  across  studies  and  in  each  of  the  Risperdal  consta 
groups  in  the  comparator  studies.  In  study  PSY-1008,  mean  body  weight  and  mean  BMI  increased 
from  baseline  to  end  point  by  2.5  kg  and  0.9  kg/m2,  respectively,  in  subjects  receiving  long-term 
treatment  with  paliperidone  palmitate  at  doses  up  to  150  mg  eq.  The  mean  percent  change  in  body 
weight  from baseline  to  end  point  was  3.9%.  Clinically  significant  (≥7%)  increases  in  body  weight  at 
end point were reported for 27% of the subjects. 
Local injection site reactions 
Although  paliperidone  palmitate  injections  were  typically  more  painful  than  placebo,  general  local 
injection site tolerability was good in all Phase 2/3 studies and study PSY-1008.  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 105/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  pooled  studies  PSY-3003  and  -3004,  induration  and  swelling  were  observed  at  low  rates  for 
paliperidone palmitate and placebo (both 1%) and were generally mild. In study PSY-3007, in which a 
higher initiation dose was administered in the deltoid, the frequency of injection site pain was higher in 
the paliperidone palmitate groups (8% overall, with no dose-related trend) than with placebo (4%). In 
study PSY-3005, which compared the tolerability of deltoid and gluteal injection sites, symptom scores 
for  the  residual  injection  site  were  similar  between  deltoid  and  gluteal  sites  of  administration. 
Switching between injection sites, regardless of the direction (ie, deltoid to gluteus or vice versa) was 
well tolerated. 
In study PSY-1008, the overall tolerability of multiple injections of paliperidone palmitate 150 mg eq. 
in the long-term, open-label safety study was good. Induration, swelling, and redness were observed 
in  no  more  than  10%  of  subjects  throughout  the  study.  Investigators  reported  that  25%  of  subjects 
experienced  pain  at  the  start  of  the  study  and  14% experienced  pain  at  endpoint.  Injection  site  pain 
was  generally  classified  as  mild.  Investigator-rated  injection  site  pain  was  more  frequent  following 
deltoid compared to gluteal injections. 
In study PSY-3002, injection site pain was the most commonly reported adverse event associated with 
drug administration and was reported at similar rates for paliperidone palmitate and Risperdal consta 
(3%  versus  2%)  in  that  study.  In  study  PSY-3006,  the  incidence  of  injection  site-related  adverse 
events was higher for the paliperidone palmitate group than for the Risperdal consta group: injection 
site  pain  (5.1%  versus.  0.8%);  injection  site  induration  (1.5%  versis.  0.3%);  and  injection  site 
swelling (1.0% versus. 0.2%). None of these events was serious or led to study discontinuation, and 
most  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  In  study  PSY-3008,  the  incidence  of  injection  site-related 
adverse events was low for both treatment groups: injection site pain (2.6% vs. 0.4%); injection site 
induration (0.9% vs. 0%); and injection site swelling (1.7% vs. 0%). In studies PSY-3002, PSY-3006, 
and  PSY-3008,  rating  scores  for  pain,  redness,  induration,  and  swelling  at  the  injection  site  were 
generally similar for the paliperidone palmitate and Risperdal consta groups. 
Safety in special populations 
Subgroup  analyses  by  gender  and  age  revealed  inconsistent  results  concerning  the  safety  profile. 
Some  studies  suggested  a  higher  overall  adverse  event  rate  in  females  compared  to  males.  An  age-
related  pattern  could  not  be  detected.  The  examination  of  differences  in  incidences  between  racial 
cohorts also showed inconsistent results. These may be related to the disproportionate distribution of 
subjects  by  race.  Furthermore  no  conclusion  could  be  drawn  on  the  comparison  of  the  safety  profile 
between  subjects  from  EU-sites  versus  subjects  from  non-EU-sites,  since  most  of  the  study  subjects 
were from non-EU-sites with the exception of study PSY-3002.  
There were  14 pregnancies in subjects who received paliperidone palmitate across all clinical studies, 
12 of which occurred in the Phase 3 studies; 4 subjects had normal deliveries, 5 had elective abortions, 
2  had  spontaneous  abortions,  and  in  the  other  cases  no  further  information  was  available.  Based  on 
the  available  data,  paliperidone  palmitate  should  only  be  used  during  pregnancy  after  careful 
assessment of the benefit-to-risk profile. 
Paliperidone  palmitate  has  not  been  studied  in  the  paediatric  population  and  no  safety  data  are 
available according to the waiver granted for all subsets of this population. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 106/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No human metabolic drug-drug interaction studies (CYP-450 inhibition studies) have been conducted 
with paliperidone palmitate. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  highest  discontinuation  rate  was  seen  during  long-term  exposure  in  study  PSY-1008  (12.7%). 
More  subjects  in  Treatment  B  discontinued  from  the  study  due  to  adverse  events  as  compared  to 
subjects  in  Treatment  A  (19.2%  versus  11.8%).  In  all  other  short-term  and  long-term  phase  2/3 
studies, discontinuation rates due to adverse events did not exceed 8% in any paliperidone palmitate 
dosing  group.  More  subjects  in  the  placebo  group  discontinued  study  SCH-201due  to  TEAE  compared 
to subjects in the paliperidone palmitate group (10% vs. 2%). There was no clear dose related pattern 
of  discontinuation  due  to  adverse  events,  except  for  a  slightly  higher  rate  in  the  150  mg  eq.  dosing 
groups  across  studies.  Studies  PSY-3002,  PSY-3006,  and  PSY-3008  revealed  higher  incidences  of 
psychiatric adverse events leading to discontinuation in the paliperidone palmitate groups compared to 
Risperdal consta groups. There was an overall similar pattern of discontinuation adverse events due to 
psychiatric disorders across all studies, which were consistent with the underlying disease. 
Post marketing experience 
No  post-marketing  data  for  paliperidone  palmitate  were  initially  submitted  by  the  applicant.  At  the 
CHMP  request,  cumulative  reviews  of  post-marketing  spontaneous  cases  in  the  elderly  population  as 
well as cases related to injection site reactions were performed. 
Local injection site reactions 
Sixty  four  cases  of  administration  site  reactions  were  reported  in  the  worldwide  company  safety 
database  and  relate  to  six  countries.  The  reporting  rate  of  injection  site  reactions  for  paliperidone 
palmitate  was  4.6  per  1,000  person-years.  Of  these  cases,  97%  were  non  serious;  25%  were 
associated with treatment discontinuation or treatment interruption. The reporting rate of injection site 
reactions  with  risperidone  LAI  during  a  comparable  period  after  launch  was  21  per  1,000  person 
years,. Only 27 cases involving paliperidone palmitate had been entered into the FDA AERS database 
cumulatively through the fourth quarter of 2009.  
Elderly population 
This cumulative review included both oral paliperidone (Invega) and paliperidone palmitate. 
Ninety-six  cases  valid  cases  reporting  119  unique  preferred  terms  during  the  use  of  paliperidone  PR. 
Unlisted  preferred  terms  that  were  reported  2  or  more  times  included:  confusional  state,  dyspnoea, 
abasia,  anxiety,  blood  creatine  phosphokinase  increased,  catatonia,  drug  administration  error,  fall, 
myocardial infarction, and restless legs syndrome. Six cases reported a fatal outcome.  
Four  cases  were  retrieved  reporting  6  unique  preferred  terms  and  use  of  paliperidone  palmitate. 
Unlisted  preferred  terms  included  Anxiety  and  Hostility.  None  of  these  reports  reported  fatalities, 
events suggestive of a cardiovascular event, or events suggestive of a cerebrovascular event. In 3 of 
the 4 cases, the patients received a dose lower than recommended in the Company Core Data Sheet.  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 107/118
 
 
 
 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  database  for  paliperidone  palmitate  was  considered  extensive  and  did  not  reveal  any  new 
safety concern as compared to the safety profile of oral paliperidone (Invega) or risperidone with the 
exception  of  the  local  injection  site  reactions.  This  safety  concern  was  also  reported  as  preclinical 
finding. Injection site pain was the most common adverse event following treatment with im injection 
of  paliperidone  palmitate,  which  is  to  be  expected  considering  the  irritant  effect  of  the  compound.  In 
study PSY-1008, 25% of the patients experienced pain at the beginning of the study and 14% at the 
end of the study, indicating increased tolerance to injection site pain over time. The im injection also 
induced induration and swelling at fairly low rates. There is no or very slight difference in local injection 
site  reactions  between  deltoid  and  gluteal  sites  of  administration  and  from  this  point  of  view,  dose 
administration in both muscles could be supported. In study PSY-3006, the incidence of injection site-
related  adverse  events  was  higher  for  the  paliperidone  palmitate  group  than  for  the  Risperdal  consta 
group:  injection  site  pain  (5.1%  versus.  0.8 %);  injection  site  induration  (1.5%  versus.  0.3 %);  and 
injection site swelling (1.0% versus. 0.2%). 
Many  of  the  common  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  in  the  placebo-controlled  double-blind 
studies  occurred  at  similar  rates  among  the  paliperidone  palmitate  and  placebo  groups.  A  slightly 
higher incidence of adverse events was noted at the highest dose of 150 mg eq. compared to 50-100 
mg eq. The low number of subjects treated with 150 mg eq. (n=30) in pooled studies PSY-3003 and 
PSY 3004) did not clearly contribute to the number of TEAEs in this dosing group. Discontinuation due 
to a lack of efficacy was reported to be higher in this group compared to any other dosing groups or 
placebo (43%). In study PSY-1008, the most frequently reported treatment-emergent adverse events 
(>10%),  in  subjects  receiving  only  paliperidone  palmitate  150  mg  eq.  for  at  least  1  year  were 
nasopharyngitis  (19.2%),  tachycardia  (19.2%),  injection  site  pain  (14.4%),  headache  (12.5%), 
insomnia  (11.5%),  and  weight  increased  (10.6%).The  most  frequently  reported  adverse  events  in 
subjects  who  required  dose  adjustment  included  dystonia,  asthenia,  sluggishness,  and  orthostatic 
hypotension.   
The most common adverse events in all treatment groups except for local injection site reactions were 
related to nervous system and psychiatric disorders which were reported at a higher incidence in the 
placebo group as compared to the paliperidone palmitate groups. Many of these events  were assumed 
to  be  associated  with  the  underlying  psychotic  disorder  and  no  concerns  were  raised  in  this  regard. 
With  respect  to  very  common  TEAEs,  headache  and  insomnia  occurred  at  higher  incidences  in 
paliperidone  palimtate-treated  subjects  compared  to  placebo.  Adverse  events  such  as  tachycardia, 
gastrointestinal  disorders,  increased  weight,  akathisia,  dizziness  and  agitation  were  also  among 
commonly reported events, more frequently seen in paliperidone palimitate treated groups.  
The  incidences  and  types  of  serious  adverse  events  reported  in  subjects  treated  with  paliperidone 
palmitate  in  the  9  phase  2/3  clinical  studies,  study  PSY-1008,  and  clinical  pharmacoloy  studies  were 
consistent  with  those  reported  for  oral  paliperidone  (Invega).  Serious  treatment-emergent  adverse 
events  occurred  at  similar  or  slightly  lower  rates  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate-treated  subjects 
compared to placebo-treated subjects in the completed placebo-controlled Phase 3 studies. Most of the 
serious  adverse  events  that  resulted  in  discontinuation  of  paliperidone  palmitate  therapy  were 
psychiatric disorders. 
Overall,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  safety  profile  of  paliperidone  palmitate  did  not  raise  any  new 
concern with the exception of the local injection sites reactions and this is reflected accordingly in the 
SPC. However, the applicant was requested to further discuss the safety profile of the highest proposed 
dose of 150 mg paliperidone palmitate and provide further safety data for the elderly population. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 108/118
 
 
 
 
Use of the highest dose of paliperidone 150 mg eq 
The applicant referred to data from studies PSY-1008 and PSY-3008 to support the safety profile of the 
highest  dose  of  150  mg  eq  paliperidone  palmitate.  In  study  PSY-1008,  the  highest  proposed  dose  of 
150 mg paliperidone palmitate was administered to 212 subjects. Most (88%) of 212 subjects enrolled 
in the study were in treatment A (150 mg eq paliperidone palmitate). Twenty six out of 212 subjects 
switched  to  treatment  B  (flexible  dosing  50-150  mg  eq)  ,  while  7  subjects  of  these  26  continued  to 
receive  paliperidone  palmitate  150  mg  eq.  One  hundred  and  fifty  one  subjects  (71.2%)  received  150 
mg  eq  as  both  the  3rd  and  4th  injections.  Reasons  for  switching  were  not  available  due  to  a  lack  of 
systematic  data  collection.The  open-label  comparator  study  PSY-3008  also  evaluated  150  mg  eq. 
paliperidone palmitate mainly as an initial dose on day 1, the second injection on day 8 was a dose of 
100 mg. Only 7 subjects received 150 mg eq. dosing three times during the initial four injections. 46 
subjects  received  150  mg  eq.  dosing  two  times  during  the  initial  four  injections.  Study  PSY-3007 
revealed similar rates of TEAEs in all dosing groups (25 mg eq., 100 mg eq., 150 mg eq.) except for 
EPS-related  events,  prolactin  concentration,  weight  increase,  body  mass  index,  and  abnormal  weight 
increase  of  7%  or  more,  which  were  dose-dependent  and  were  highest  in  the  150  mg  eq.  dosing 
group. On the basis of the applicant’s responses, the CHMP considered that the use of the highest dose 
of  150  mg  paliperidone  palmitate  can  be  recommended,  taking  into  account  that  the  risks  did  not 
outweigh the benefit in the targeted population. 
Elderly population 
The paliperidone palmitate clinical studies included 63 elderly subjects (5 subjects received placebo, 38 
subjects  were  on  paliperidone  palmitate  and  20  subjects  on  Risperdal  Consta).  Electrocardiogram  QT 
prolonged  was  detected  with  3%  in  the  paliperidone  palmitate  group  versus  0%  in  the  other  groups 
and musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders were only detected in the paliperidone palmitate 
group  (18%).  One  cerebrovascular  accident  and  one  complex  partial  seizure  were  reported  in  the 
paliperidone palmitate group.  
On  the  basis  of  the  available  data  (including  post-marketing  experience),  the  CHMP  considered 
acceptable that information derived from risperidone is reflected in the SPC in addition to a statement 
in section 4.2 that the efficacy and safety in elderly > 65 years have not been established. The CHMP 
noted the single cerebrovascular accident reported during clinical studies and considered that this issue 
should be closely monitored as post marketing surveillance and identified as important potential risk in 
the  risk  management  plan.  In  this  respect,  the  applicant  proposed  to  perform  a  post-authorisation 
safety  study  of  the  risk  of  cardiovascular  and  cerebrovascular  events  in  elderly  patients,  including 
those with dementia, treated with paliperidone palmitate. A protocol outline has been provided as part 
of  the  risk  management  plan  and  final  protocol  is  intended  to  be  submitted  as  part  of  a  follow  up 
measure. 
Local injection sites reactions 
The  CHMP  agreed  to  convene  CNS  SAG  to  discuss  the  risk  of  reduced  compliance  and  potentially 
increased risk for relapse/recurrence associated with the local adverse events. 
The CNS SAG was held on 13 July 2010 and the main conclusions were the following: 
- 
Follow-up  data  on  implications  for  compliance  are  needed,  and  further  clarification  of  the 
pathological  nature  of  the  local  adverse  reactions  is  necessary.  Additional  information  is 
needed about post-marketing data related to local adverse reactions.  
Based  on  the  SAG  recommendations,  the  applicant  provided  additional  information  as  summarised 
below: 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 109/118
 
 
 
-  Based  on  the  blinded  categorical  ratings  by  the  investigator,  scores  for  pain,  redness, 
induration,  and  swelling  at  the  injection  site  were  generally  similar  for  paliperidone  palmitate 
and Risperdal consta in the comparator studies. 
- 
The ratings of injection site pain as measured by subjective Visual Analog Scale (VAS) indicate 
that  the  paliperidone  palmitate  injections  were  slightly  more  painful  than  placebo.  Subject 
evaluations of injection site pain based on the VAS tended to lessen in frequency and intensity 
over  time  in  all  Phase  2  and  3  studies.  As  expected,  injection  into  the  deltoid  were  slightly 
more  painful  than  corresponding  gluteal  injections.  Over  time,  however,  VAS  ratings  for 
injections in both the deltoid and gluteus decrease to the same extent. 
- 
In comparison with Risperdal consta, mean subject evaluations of injection site pain based on 
the VAS over time were very similar. 
-  Across  studies,  local  injection  site  reactions  reported  as  adverse  events,  with  isolated 
exceptions,  were  non-serious,  generally  mild  to  moderate  in  intensity,  and  were  associated 
with  a  very  low  incidence  of  discontinuation.  Reports  of  induration  and  nodule  and  mass 
formation  were  isolated  and  showed  a  similar  pattern  between  paliperidone  palmitate  groups 
as  compared  to  placebo  and  Risperdal  consta.  Based  on  adverse  event  reporting  and 
outcomes, the local injection site reactions are unlikely to confer any increased risk of relapse 
due to withdrawal from treatment. 
- 
Evaluation  of  local  injection  tolerability  across  paliperidone  palmitate  formulations  with 
different  particle  sizes  did  not  yield  any  evidence  of  clinically  significant  differences  in  the 
incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events in 142 subjects in Study PSY-1002. 
-  Based  on  the  evaluation  of  post-marketing  cases,  injection  site  reactions  with  paliperidone 
palmitate are reported rarely, and the reporting rate for paliperidone palmitate (4.6 per 1,000 
person-years)  is  lower  compared  with  that  observed  for  a  similar  period  after  launch  for 
risperidone  LAI  (21  per  1000  patient  years).  Of  the  64  cases  retrieved  for  paliperidone 
palmitate,  the  vast  majority  was  non  serious,  and  25%  were  associated  with  treatment 
discontinuation  or  interruption.  Disproportionality  analysis  of  cases  in  the  FDA  AERS  and  SRS 
databases  yielded  inconclusive  results  for  the  injection  site  reactions  associated  with 
paliperidone  palmitate  compared  to  other  i.m.  injectable  antipsychotics  marketed  in  the  US. 
Due  to  the  limitations  inherent  to  spontaneous  postmarketing  adverse  event  reports,  no 
definitive  conclusion  can  be  made  regarding  injection  site  reactions  and  compliance  with 
paliperidone palmitate therapy. 
On the basis of the applicant’s responses, the CHMP considered that a reduced compliance with study 
medication or an increased risk of relapse or recurrence cannot be completely ruled out considering the 
increased  number  of  reported  adverse  events  related  to  injection  site  reactions  compared  to  either 
placebo  or  Risperdal  consta.  This  conclusion  could  also  be  drawn  from  the  available  post-marketing 
data in six countries. The applicant was asked to elaborate on how the risk of reduced compliance to 
study  medication  can  be  minimised.  Sections  4.2  and  4.8  of  the  SPC  were  consequently  updated  to 
reflect on possible switch of injection site and detailed description of the adverse reactions. Information 
in the Package Leaflet was also included accordingly. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Based  on  the  data  collected  to  date,  the  safety  profile  of  paliperidone  palmitate  appeared  favourable 
and  similar  with  that  of  oral  risperidone.  Adequate  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 110/118
 
 
 
 
concerning the injection site reactions. From the safety database, all the adverse reactions reported in 
clinical trials and post-marketing have been included in the Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system has deficiencies that should be addressed as 
part of a follow up measure, these deficiencies (outstanding information on timelines for the flow chart 
and frequencies of the internal audits) do not prevent the granting of the marketing authorisation.  
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 111/118
 
 
 
Table 36 Summary of the risk management plan. 
Proposed  
Pharmacovigilance Activities 
Proposed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
Safety Concern 
Important identified risks:  
(routine and additional) 
(routine and additional) 
 
Prolactin-related 
adverse events 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
Increase in QTcLD 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
  Orthostatic 
hypotension 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.    
 
Extrapyramidal 
symptoms/Tardive 
dyskinesia 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
Labelling as outlined in Section 4.8 of 
the paliperidone palmitate SPC where 
hyperprolactinaemia and potentially 
prolactin-related adverse events 
(eg, amenorrhoea, galactorrhoea, 
gynaecomastia) are identified as ADRs. 
The paliperidone palmitate SmPC 
identifies QT prolongation as a special 
warning/precaution (Section 4.4) and 
states that caution should be exercised 
in patients with known cardiovascular 
disease or family history of QT 
prolongation or in concomitant use with 
other medicines thought to prolong the 
QT interval. Caution is advised when 
prescribing paliperidone palmitate with 
medicines known to prolong the QT 
interval (Section 4.5). Electrocardiogram 
QT prolongation is listed as an ADR with 
paliperidone palmitate, INVEGA, 
risperidone, and other drugs in the 
antipsychotic class (Section 4.8) and is 
identified as a risk from overdose 
(Section 4.9) 
The paliperidone palmitate SPC identifies 
Orthostatic hypotension as a special 
warning/precaution (Section 4.4), 
stating that paliperidone may induce 
orthostatic hypotension in some patients 
based on its α-blocking activity. 
Paliperidone palmitate should be used 
with caution in patients with known 
cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular 
disease, or conditions that predispose 
the patient to hypotension. The potential 
for an additive effect on orthostatic 
hypotension when paliperidone palmitate 
is administered with other therapeutic 
agents that have this potential is also 
stated (Section 4.5). Orthostatic 
hypotension is identified as an ADR 
(Section 4.8). 
The paliperidone palmitate SmPC 
identifies Tardive dyskinesia as a special 
warning/precaution (Section 4.4) in the 
use of medicines with dopamine receptor 
antagonistic properties, and identifies 
patients with Parkinson’s Disease or 
Dementia with Lewy Bodies at 
potentially increased risk for 
extrapyramidal symptoms. 
Extrapyramidal symptoms and tardive 
dyskinesia are listed as ADRs 
(Section 4.8). Extrapyramidal symptoms 
are also identified in overdose 
(Section 4.9).  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 112/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neuroleptic 
malignant syndrome 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
Hyperglycaemia and 
glucose-related 
adverse effect 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
  Weight gain 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
Seizures 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
Somnolence 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
Priapism 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
 
Injection site 
reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
Cerebrovascular 
accident 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
study. Routine pharmacovigilance 
as outlined in the RMP.   
Important potential risks:  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
The paliperidone palmitate SPC identifies 
Neuroleptic malignant syndrome as a 
special warning/precaution 
(Section 4.4), stating that all 
antipsychotics, including paliperidone 
palmitate, should be discontinued if a 
patient develops signs or symptoms 
indicative of NMS. Patients with 
Parkinson’s Disease or Dementia with 
Lewy Bodies are also identified as being 
at a potentially increased risk of NMS. 
NMS is listed in as an ADR (Section 4.8). 
The paliperidone palmitate SmPC 
identifies Hyperglycaemia as a special 
warning/precaution (Section 4.4), and 
states that rare cases of glucose-related 
ADRs have been reported in clinical trials 
with paliperidone palmitate. Appropriate 
monitoring is advisable in diabetic 
patients and in patients with risk factors 
for the development of diabetes mellitus. 
Hyperglycaemia is listed as an ADR 
(Section 4.8). 
The paliperidone palmitate SPC identifies 
weight increased as an ADR, and Weight 
gain is noted as dose-related 
(Section 4.8). 
The paliperidone palmitate SmPC 
identifies Seizures as a special 
warning/precaution (Section 4.4), and 
states that paliperidone palmitate should 
be used cautiously in patients with a 
history of seizures or other conditions 
that potentially lower the seizure 
threshold. Caution is advised if 
paliperidone palmitate is combined with 
other medicines known to lower the 
seizure threshold (Section 4.5). 
Convulsion is identified as an ADR and 
grand mal convulsion is identified as 
ADR reported for oral paliperidone 
(Section 4.8). 
The SPC states that paliperidone 
palmitate should be used with caution in 
combination with other centrally acting 
medicinal products (Section 4.5). 
Paliperidone can have minor or 
moderate influence on the ability to 
drive and use machines, and patients 
should be advised not to drive or 
operate machines until their individual 
susceptibility to paliperidone is known 
(Section 4.7). Somnolence is listed as an 
ADR (Section 4.8). Additionally, 
drowsiness and sedation are identified in 
Section 4.9 (Overdose). 
The paliperidone palmitate SmPC 
identifies Priapism as a special 
warning/precaution, and states that 
medicines with α-adrenergic blocking 
effects have been reported to induce 
priapism (Section 4.4). Priapism is also 
identified as an ADR for oral paliperidone 
(Section 4.8).  
The paliperidone palmitate SPC identifies 
Injection site reactions as an ADR 
(Section4.8) 
The paliperidone palmitate SmPC 
identifies Cerebrovascular accident as an 
ADR (Section 4.8). 
Page 113/118
 
 
 
 
Pituitary adenomas 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.  .   
 
Endocrine pancreas 
tumours 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
Breast cancer 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
 
 
 
Increased mortality 
in elderly patients 
with dementia 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP.   
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
study. Routine pharmacovigilance 
as outlined in the RMP.   
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
Cerebrovascular 
adverse events in 
elderly patients with 
dementia 
Increased sensitivity 
to antipsychotics in 
patients with 
Parkinson’s disease 
or dementia with 
Lewy Bodies 
 
Cognitive and motor 
impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
 
Antiemetic effect 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
 
Venous 
thromboembolism 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
 
Body temperature 
dysregulation 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
 
 
Leukopenia 
Neutropenia 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
The potential risk of Pituitary adenomas 
is addressed in Section 5.3 (Preclinical 
Safety Data) of the paliperidone 
palmitate SPC.  
The potential risk of Endocrine pancreas 
tumours is addressed in Section 5.3 
(Preclinical Safety Data) of the 
paliperidone palmitate SmPC.   
The potential risk of Breast cancer is 
addressed in Section 5.3 (Preclinical 
Safety Data) of the paliperidone 
palmitate SPC. 
The potential risk of Increased mortality 
in elderly patients with dementia is 
addressed in Section 4.4 (Special 
Warnings and Precautions For Use) of 
the paliperidone palmitate SmPC. 
The potential risk for Cerebrovascular 
adverse events in elderly patients with 
dementia is addressed in Section 4.4 
(Special Warnings and Precautions For 
Use) of the paliperidone palmitate SPC. 
The increased risk of NMS and Increased 
sensitivity to antipsychotics in patients 
with Parkinson’s disease or dementia 
with Lewy Bodies are addressed in 
Section 4.4 (Special Warnings and 
Precautions For Use) of the paliperidone 
palmitate SmPC. 
The potential risk for Cognitive and 
motor impairment is addressed in 
multiple sections of the paliperidone 
palmitate SPC. Section 4.7 (Effects on 
Ability to Drive and Use Machines) of the 
paliperidone palmitate SmPC. 
Somnolence is listed as an ADR (Section 
4.8). Additionally, drowsiness and 
sedation are identified in Section 4.9 
(Overdose). 
The potential risk of an Antiemetic effect 
is addressed in Section 4.4 (Special 
Warnings and Precautions For Use) of 
the paliperidone palmitate SPC. 
The potential risk of Venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) is addressed in 
Section 4.4 (Special Warnings and 
Precautions For Use) of the paliperidone 
palmitate SmPC. Since patients treated 
with antipsychotics often present with 
acquired risk factors for VTE, all possible 
risk factors for VTE should be identified 
before and during treatment with 
paliperidone palmitate and preventative 
measures undertaken. 
The paliperidone palmitate SPC identifies 
body temperature dysregulation as a 
special warning/precaution, and states 
that disruption of the body’s ability to 
reduce core body temperature has been 
attributed to antipsychotic medicinal 
products (Section 4.4). Care is advised 
when prescribing paliperidone palmitate 
to patients who will be experiencing 
conditions which may contribute to an 
elevation in core body temperature or 
being subject to dehydration. 
None 
None 
Page 114/118
 
 
 
 
 
Agranulocytosis 
Suicidality 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
None 
None 
Important missing information:  
Use in paediatric 
patients 
 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
Important missing information : 
 
 
Use in elderly 
patients 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
study. Routine pharmacovigilance 
as outlined in the RMP.   
Use in haemodialysis 
patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
 
Use in pregnancy 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
 
Use in nursing 
mothers 
Routine pharmacovigilance as 
outlined in the RMP 
  Drug utilisation in 
patients with 
schizophrenia 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
study. Routine pharmacovigilance 
as outlined in the RMP.   
Safety has not been established in 
paediatric patients and this is 
appropriately indicated in Section 4.2 
(Posology and Method of Administration) 
of the paliperidone palmitate SmPC.  
Safety has not been established in 
elderly patients and this is appropriately 
indicated in Section 4.2 (Posology and 
Method of Administration) of the 
paliperidone palmitate SPC. 
Safety has not been established in 
patients with renal impairment and this 
is appropriately indicated in Section 4.2 
(Posology and Method of Administration) 
of the INVEGA SmPC. 
Safety has not been established in 
pregnancy and this is appropriately 
indicated in Section 4.6 (Pregnancy and 
Lactation) of the paliperidone palmitate 
SPC.  
Safety has not been established in 
nursing mothers and this is appropriately 
indicated in Section 4.6 (Pregnancy and 
Lactation) of the paliperidone palmitate 
SmPC. 
As stated in the SPC, paliperidone 
palmitate is approved for the 
maintenance treatment of schizophrenia 
in patients stabilised with antipsychotic 
medicine. It may be initiated without 
prior stabilisation in patients with mild to 
moderate psychotic symptoms and with 
previous responsiveness to paliperidone 
or risperidone. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
User consultation 
No full user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet has been performed on the 
basis  of  a  bridging  report  making  reference  to  Invega  (paliperidone)  and  Doribax  (doripenem).  The 
bridging report submitted by the applicant has been found acceptable. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
Paliperidone palmitate was developed with the aim to achieve an injectable product that would provide 
fast  attainment  of  plasma  concentrations  above  a  minimum  concentration  for  efficacy  (primarily 
measured by the mean change from baseline in PANSS total score), but remaining below a maximum 
concentration  for  safety.  A  reasonable  dosing  interval  between  injections,  good  local  injection  site 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 115/118
 
 
 
 
tolerability  and  ease  of  administration  were  also  important  factors  that  were  taken  into  account.  A 
monthly dosing interval was considered appropriate.  
Clinical pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated the slow release profile of paliperidone palmitate, 
with  maximum  concentrations  of  paliperidone  reached  within  12-16  days  after  administration.  The 
apparent half-life of paliperidone has ranged from 25-49 days, reflecting the release rate, i.e. flip-flop 
pharmacokinetics. In pharmacokinetic models, both simulated and observed plasma concentration data 
showed that for paliperidone palmitate, plasma concentrations of paliperidone that appeared lower only 
during  the  first  days  of  treatment  in  comparison  with  oral  administration  of  Invega  6  mg/day  were 
achieved with the proposed dosing regimen.  
The  efficacy  of  paliperidone  palmitate  has  been  studied  in  an  extensive  clinical  programme,  in  which 
the dosing regimen was changed during the development course.  
In  phase  II/III  study  SCH-201,  doses  of  50  and  100  mg  of  paliperidone  palmitate  were  tested  and 
demonstrated statistically significant difference over placebo with a change from baseline at day 64 in 
PANSS total score of -5.2 and -7.8, respectively.  
In study PSY-3007, a new enhanced dosing regimen was introduced with 150 mg at day 1 followed by 
25,  50,  100  or  150  mg  eq  paliperidone  palmitate.  In  this  study,  significant  short  term  effects  were 
demonstrated  over  placebo  for  all  doses  on  the  PANSS  total  score  analysis  (p=0.034  for  25  mg  eq, 
p<0.001  for  both  50  and  100  mg  eq),  supported  by  results  for  secondary  endpoints  (changes  from 
baseline in CGI-S, PSP scores and responder rates) for the two higher doses (100 mg and 150 mg). In 
addition, a clear dose response was observed.  
In  study  PSY-3006  using  the  finally  recommended  enhanced  dosing  regimen  of  150  mg  eq  at  day  1 
and 100 mg eq at day 8, non inferiority was demonstrated in this short term study in the PP and ITT 
analyses:  0.4  [-1.62-2.38]  and  1.2  [-0.78-3.16],  respectively  .  This  was  supported  by  the  secondary 
analyses of change in PANSS total score over time, responder rates, change in PSP and CGI-S scores. 
In  study  PSY-3001,  placebo  controlled  relapse  prevention  study,  maintenance  of  effect  was 
demonstrated.  
Despite the absence of an in vivo direct comparison with exposure to oral paliperidone, available data 
from clinical studies with paliperidone palmitate and oral paliperidone showed that the onset of efficacy 
for  oral  paliperidone  was  by  day  4  and  for  paliperidone  palmitate  some  days  later  by  day  8.  In 
addition,  no  statistical  difference  between  paliperidone  palmitate  and  Risperdal  consta  (requiring  oral 
supplementation  for  the  first  3  weeks)  treatment  groups  were  observed  with  regard  to  change  from 
baseline  in  PANSS  total  score  during  the  first  36  days  of  treatment,  suggesting  that  oral 
supplementation was not required for paliperidone palmitate. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
In short term study PSY-3003 testing 50, 100, 150 mg eq (at day 1,8, 36 and 64), results were less 
compelling  than  study  SCH-201.  In  this  study,  statistically  significant  result  for  the  primary  efficacy 
endpoint was obtained for the 100 mg dose only (p=0.019). A minimal effect on the PANSS total score 
was  observed  for  the  150  mg  dose  (-5.5)  together  with  high  withdrawal  rate  due  to  lack  of  efficacy 
(43%).  
In short term and long term studies PSY-3008 and -3002, non inferiority versus Risperdal consta could 
not be concluded.  
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 116/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No in vivo direct comparison with exposure to oral paliperidone was performed.  
Uncertainties  in  the  dosing  recommendation  for  obese  patients  subject  to  lower  exposure  and  poorer 
efficacy outcome were identified and have been requested to be adequately addressed in the SPC. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
No new safety issues have been identified in preclinical studies conducted with paliperidone palmitate 
as compared to oral paliperidone or risperidone to the exception of local injection site reactions. These 
were also observed during clinical studies with a higher frequency versus placebo and Risperdal consta 
groups. 
Study PSY-3007 revealed similar rates of TEAEs in all dosing groups (25 mg eq., 100 mg eq., 150 mg 
eq.)  except  for  EPS-related  events,  prolactin  concentration,  weight  increase,  body  mass  index,  and 
abnormal weight increase of 7% or more, which were dose-dependent and were highest in the 150 mg 
eq. dosing group. 
Limited  data  on  the  elderly  population  (n=63)  was  available.  One  cerebrovascular  accident  in  this 
population was reported during clinical studies. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects. 
A  reduced  compliance  with  study  medication  or  an  increased  risk  of  relapse  or  recurrence  cannot  be 
completely ruled out considering the increased number of reported adverse events related to injection 
site reactions compared to either placebo or Risperdal consta.  
Further data in elderly patients are intended to be collected via a post-authorisation safety study of the 
risk  of  cardiovascular  and  cerebrovascular  events  in  elderly  patients,  including  those  with  dementia, 
treated with paliperidone palmitate. This is part of the risk management plan. 
 A  drug  utilisation  study  to  assess  the  usage  of  paliperidone  palmitate  in  the  approved  indication 
(schizophrenia) in Europe is also intended to be performed as part of the risk management plan. 
Benefit-Risk Balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The  effects  demonstrated  versus  placebo  as  well  as  the  active  comparator  Risperdal  Consta  were 
considered clinically relevant. No need for initial oral coverage and the prolonged dosing interval (one 
month) were considered to be of particular benefit.  Besides, the possibility to administer paliperidone 
palmitate  without  prior  stabilisation  on  oral  treatment  in  selected  patients  with  mild  to  moderate 
symptoms and with prior established responsiveness to paliperidone or risperidone was also considered 
of important added value. 
The  only  new  safety  issues  as  compared  to  oral  paliperidone  of  importance  were  the  injection  site 
reactions.  Although  these  might  affect  the  adherence  to  treatment  they  were  considered  to  be 
manageable with routine pharmacovigilance and adequate labelling. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 117/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Benefit-risk balance 
Having considered the benefits of this new depot formulation (paliperidone palmitate) over the limited 
new  risks  identified  as  compared  to  the  oral  formulation  (paliperidone),  already  approved  in  the 
treatment of schizophrenia, the CHMP concluded that the benefit risk balance for Xeplion is positive for 
the following indication: 
"XEPLION  is  indicated  for  maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in  adult  patients  stabilised  with 
paliperidone or risperidone. 
In  selected  adult  patients  with  schizophrenia  and  previous  responsiveness  to  oral  paliperidone  or 
risperidone,  XEPLION  may  be  used  without  prior  stabilisation  with  oral  treatment  if  psychotic 
symptoms are mild to moderate and a long-acting injectable treatment is needed.” 
Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
Phamacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns. 
No additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information. 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by  majority 
decision  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Xeplion  in  the  “maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  in 
adult  patients  stabilised  with  paliperidone  or  risperidone.  In  selected  patients  with  schizophrenia  and 
previous  responsiveness  to  oral  paliperidone  or  risperidone,  Xeplion  may  be  used  without  prior 
stabilisation  with  oral  treatment  if  psychotic  symptoms  are  mild  to  moderate  and  a  long-acting 
injectable  treatment  is  needed.”  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the 
marketing authorisation. 
Xeplion 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
EMA/60983/2011  
Page 118/118
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
