Summary of risk management plan for Xerava (eravacycline) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Xerava. The RMP details 
important risks of Xerava, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Xerava’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Xerava’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Xerava should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Xerava should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all of 
which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Xerava’s RMP. 
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
Xerava is authorised for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI) in 
adults (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains eravacycline as the active substance and 
it is given intravenously (through a drip into a vein).  
Further information about the evaluation of Xerava’s benefits can be found in Xerava’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/xerava 
II.  Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks of Xerava, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Xerava’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Xerava is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Xerava are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Xerava. Potential risks are concerns 
for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but 
this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
None 
Important potential risks 
Permanent teeth discolouration and a delay in ossification processes 
(foetal exposure in pregnancy during the 2nd and 3rd trimester, 
exposure to the breast-fed infant, and exposure in children under 8 
years of age) 
Pseudomembranous colitis   
Emergence of resistance 
Missing information 
None  
II.B 
Summary of important risks 
Important potential risk: Permanent teeth discolouration and a delay in ossification processes 
(foetal exposure in pregnancy during the 2nd and 3rd trimester, exposure to the breast-fed infant, 
and exposure in children under 8 years of age) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Permanent teeth discolouration and a delay in ossification processes 
may occur in the foetus, breast-fed infant and child following maternal 
eravacycline treatment during the 2nd or 3rd trimester of pregnancy, 
through exposure to eravacycline through breast milk and in children 
under the age of 8 years, the time when the teeth and the bones are 
developing. These effects have not been observed with eravacycline in 
clinical studies but are known to occur with other tetracycline 
antibiotics through published studies in the medical literature1, 2, 3, and 
therefore are expected to occur with eravacycline. Animal studies have 
shown that eravacycline can cross the placenta similarly to other 
tetracycline antibiotics, can cause a delay in ossification in the 
offspring of exposed animals and that eravacycline is excreted in breast 
milk. 
Infants whose mothers were taking eravacycline during the 2nd or 
3rd trimester of pregnancy or who breast-feed from mothers taking 
eravacycline are at risk of permanent teeth discolouration and a delay 
in ossification processes. Children under the age of 8 years who take 
eravacycline are also at increased risk of these permanent effects. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
 
 
 
SmPC section 4.1 where the indication for use in adult patients is 
presented 
SmPC section 4.2 where advice is given on use in children and 
adolescents 
SmPC section 4.2 where advice is given not to use in children under 
8 years because of teeth discolouration 
SmPC section 4.4 where the risk of permanent teeth discolouration 
during the 2nd and 3rd trimester of pregnancy and in children under 
8 years is highlighted 
SmPC section 4.6 where advice is given on risks associated with use 
during pregnancy and considerations for use  
SmPC section 4.6 where advice is given on risks associated with use 
during breast-feeding and considerations for use 
SmPC section 5.3 where information on non-clinical findings are 
provided 
PL section 1 where information is given on what Xerava is used for in 
adult patients 
PL section 2 where advice is given on use in children and the 
permanent effects on teeth caused by tetracycline class antibiotics 
PL section 2 where advice is given on risks associated with use during 
pregnancy including permanent staining of teeth and a delay in natural 
bone formation 
PL section 2 where advice is given on risks associated with use during 
breast-feeding including permanent staining of teeth 
Legal status (prescription only medicine) 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
 
Important potential risk: Pseudomembranous colitis   
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Pseudomembranous colitis (Clostridioides difficile-associated 
diarrhoea) was not observed in patients treated with eravacycline in the 
clinical studies. However pseudomembranous colitis has been reported 
with nearly all antibacterial agents including the tetracyclines4 and 
therefore is expected to occur in a small number of patients treated 
with eravacycline in clinical practice.  
Risk factors for pseudomembranous colitis include taking antibiotics, 
hospitalisation or residing in a nursing home, increasing age 
(especially over 65 years), a weakened immune system, a colon 
disease, such as inflammatory bowel disease or colorectal cancer, 
undergoing intestinal surgery and receiving chemotherapy treatment 
for cancer5. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on the recommended action in 
case of pseudomembranous colitis 
Listed as a class adverse reaction of antibiotics in SmPC section 4.8  
PL section 2 where advice is given on the recommended action if 
symptoms occur  
Diarrhoea is listed as a side effect in PL section 4 
Legal status (prescription only medicine) 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important potential risk: Emergence of resistance 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Antimicrobial resistance is one of the most serious global public health 
threats in this century6. The appropriate use of antibiotics is essential 
for reducing and preventing antimicrobial resistance. As a novel, 
synthetic, broad-spectrum fluorocycline antibiotic, eravacycline is not 
expected to carry the same resistance as other widely used antibiotics, 
but as this may change, resistance levels need to be monitored through 
surveillance for resistance patterns. 
Antimicrobial resistance occurs naturally over time, usually through 
genetic changes but the misuse and overuse of antimicrobials in both 
humans and animals accelerates this process7. Poor infection control, 
inadequate sanitary conditions and inappropriate food-handling can 
encourage the spread of antimicrobial resistance7. Factors that may 
affect the development of antimicrobial resistance include dose, 
duration of treatment and class of antibiotic, disease transmission and 
exposure rates, host susceptibility (e.g., vaccination status), and 
transmissibility of the pathogen8. 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 5.1 where guidance is provided on the mechanism of 
resistance 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance activities 
Legal status (prescription only medicine) 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: 
Surveillance of the activity of Eravacycline against bacteria collected 
from USA, European and Asia-pacific hospitals from 2018 to 2022   
Study NC-IHMA-2018-01: See section II.C of this summary for an 
overview of the post-authorisation development plan. 
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Xerava. 
II.C.2 
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Surveillance of the activity of Eravacycline against bacteria collected from USA, 
European and Asia-pacific hospitals from 2018 to 2022   
Study NC-IHMA-2018-01 
Purpose of the study: Antimicrobial resistance is recognised as a global public health concern 
that requires surveillance for resistance patterns to various antimicrobials. 
The 5-year study is evaluating antimicrobial resistance to eravacycline in Europe, USA and 
Asia/Pacific regions annually. 
The objective of the study is the characterisation of the in vitro activity of eravacycline 
against a collection of currently circulating bacteria using minimum inhibitory concentration 
(MIC) determination according to the Clinical & Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) 
methodology. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References for the Summary of the risk management plan     
1Watts A, Addy M. Tooth discolouration and staining: a review of the literature. Br Dent J.  
2001 Mar 24;190(6):309-16. 
2Cheng W, Yue Y, Fan W, et al. Effects of tetracyclines on bones: an ambiguous question needs to be 
clarified. Pharmazie. 2012 May;67(5):457-9. 
3Conchie JM, Munroe JD, Anderson DO. The incidence of staining of permanent teeth by the 
tetracyclines. Can Med Assoc J. 1970 Aug 15;103(4):351-6. 
4Treloar AJ, Hamlyn AN. Drug points: Pseudomembranous colitis and tetracycline. Br Med J  
(Clin Res Ed). 1987 Oct 17;295(6604):1001. 
5Mayo Clinic. Pseudomembranous colitis. Symptoms and causes, Risk factors, Complications. 1998-
2017 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (MFMER). 
6Prestinaci F, Pezzotti P, Pantosti A. Antimicrobial resistance: a global multifaceted phenomenon.  
Pathog Glob Health. 2015;109(7):309-18. 
7World Health Organization (WHO). Antimicrobial resistance. Fact sheet September 2016. 
8Friedman CR, Whitney CG. It's time for a change in practice: reducing antibiotic use can alter 
antibiotic resistance. J Infect Dis. 2008 Apr 15;197(8):1082-3. 
 
