EMA/471777/2017  
EMEA/H/C/003937 
EPAR summary for the public 
Xermelo 
telotristat 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Xermelo. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Xermelo. 
For practical information about using Xermelo, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Xermelo and what is it used for? 
Xermelo is a medicine used to treat adults with severe diarrhoea associated with a condition called 
carcinoid syndrome. Carcinoid syndrome occurs when certain tumours produce and release too much 
of a substance called serotonin into the blood. The excess serotonin can cause severe diarrhoea as well 
as other symptoms such as flushing of the face and cramps. Xermelo is used together with other 
medicines, called somatostatin analogues, when those medicines are not sufficient on their own to 
control the diarrhoea. 
Because the number of patients with carcinoid syndrome is low, the disease is considered ‘rare’, and 
Xermelo was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) on 8 October 2009. 
Xermelo contains the active substance telotristat. 
How is Xermelo used? 
Xermelo can only be obtained with a prescription. It is available as tablets containing 250 mg of 
telotristat and the recommended dose is one tablet three times a day. Doses may need to be reduced 
in patients with mildly or moderately reduced liver function. Doctors may consider stopping treatment 
if patients do not benefit after 12 weeks. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Xermelo work? 
The active substance in Xermelo, telotristat, blocks the action of enzymes called L-tryptophan 
hydroxylases. These enzymes are needed for the production of serotonin. By blocking the enzymes, 
telotristat reduces the production of serotonin in patients with carcinoid syndrome, and so relieves the 
symptoms of the condition. 
What benefits of Xermelo have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of adding Xermelo to treatment have been shown in one main study involving 135 
patients with carcinoid syndrome whose diarrhoea had not been fully controlled with somatostatin 
analogues alone. Xermelo was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) and the main measure of 
effectiveness was the change in average number of daily bowel movements over the 12 weeks of the 
study.  
At the start, patients given Xermelo had an average of 6.1 bowel movements per day, and this went 
down over the 12 weeks to an average of 4.7 per day, a reduction of 1.4 movements. Patients taking 
placebo were having an average of 5.2 bowel movements daily at the start, which fell to an average of 
4.6 movements daily, a fall of 0.6 movements. The effects of Xermelo were seen from about 3 weeks 
after starting treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Xermelo? 
The most common side effects with Xermelo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
abdominal (belly) pain, increases in the liver enzyme gamma-glutamyl transferase, and tiredness, and 
are usually mild or moderate. The commonest side effect severe enough to cause treatment to be 
stopped is abdominal pain. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Xermelo, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Xermelo approved? 
Xermelo has been shown to produce a reduction in the number of bowel movements suffered by 
patients with carcinoid syndrome not fully controlled with other medicines. Although small, this 
reduction was considered significant given that patients view the frequency of bowel movements as a 
symptom with an important impact on their quality of life. The side effects that were seen, which 
mainly affected the gut, did not raise major concerns and were considered mild and manageable. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Xermelo’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xermelo? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Xermelo have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Xermelo 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Xermelo on 18 September 2017. 
Xermelo  
EMA/471777/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Xermelo can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Xermelo, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Xermelo can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2017. 
Xermelo  
EMA/471777/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
