ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
XGEVA 
International non-proprietary name: denosumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002173 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction ................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active Substance............................................................................................. 8 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .............................................................................. 12 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects............................. 13 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ..................... 14 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 14 
2.3.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 14 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 15 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 21 
2.3.4. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 23 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment........................................................ 30 
2.3.6. Discussion on non-clinical aspects.................................................................... 30 
2.3.7. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects .............................................................. 34 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 34 
2.4.1. Introduction ................................................................................................. 34 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics .......................................................................................... 36 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 42 
2.4.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ................................................................. 45 
2.4.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology ............................................................... 47 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 47 
2.5.1. Dose response study(ies) ............................................................................... 48 
2.5.2. Main study(ies) ............................................................................................. 48 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 72 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 73 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 74 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 83 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 84 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 84 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 98 
2.8.1. Discussion on the benefit-risk balance .............................................................103 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................103 
2
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Amgen Europe B.V. submitted on 4 June 2010 an application for Marketing Authorisation 
to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  XGEVA,  through  the  centralised  procedure  falling  within 
the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 27 November 2008. 
The legal basis for this application refers to: 
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / Known active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  a  complete  dossier  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete 
quality  data,  non-clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: “Prevention of skeletal related events in adults with 
advanced malignancies involving bone”.  
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/14/2010 for the following conditions:  
  Bone loss associated with sex hormone ablative therapy 
  Bone metastases 
  Rheumatoid arthritis 
 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
  Giant cell tumour of bone 
on the agreement of a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) 
The PIP is not yet completed. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
3
 
 
Information relating to (Extended) Data / Market Exclusivity 
As part of this Marketing Authorisation Application, the applicant requested the extension by 1 year of 
the  10-year  period  of  marketing  protection  for  denosumab,  according  to  Articles  10(1)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  and  Article  14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004.  The  grounds  for  this 
request  are  that  the  applicant  considers  the  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  in  adults  with 
advanced cancer involving bones to represent a new therapeutic indication for denosumab, compared 
to  the  authorised  indications  for  Prolia  (EU/1/10/618/001-004),  and  a  significant  clinical  benefit  in 
comparison with existing therapies for this indication. Both Prolia and the present MAA for XGEVA fall 
under the concept of a “global marketing authorisation” within the meaning of Article 6(1) of Directive 
2001/83/EC, as amended. 
Scientific Advice: 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  14  December  2005.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
XGEVA has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the USA on 18 November 2010 and in Canada on 
10 May 2011. 
A  new  application  was  filed  in  the  following  countries:  Switzerland,  Japan,  Mexico,  Russia  and 
Australia. 
4
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Tomas Salmonson 
Co-Rapporteur: Christian Schneider 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 4 June 2010. 
The procedure started on 23 June 2010.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  10  September 
2010.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  10 
September 2010.  
  During the meeting on 21 October 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the  applicant  on  25 
October 2010. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  17 January 
2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 25 February 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 17 March 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 20 April 2011. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  preliminary  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses 
to the list of outstanding issues on 30 April 2011. 
 
Following the CHMP request, a Scientific Advisory Group (SAG) meeting took place on 3 May 2011 
to provide advice on the list of questions adopted by the CHMP at its March 2011 meeting. 
 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  updated  Joint  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to 
the list of outstanding issues on 13 May 2011. 
  During the meeting on 19 May 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  XGEVA  on  19  May  2011.  Furthermore,  the  CHMP  reviewed  the  clinical  data 
submitted by the applicant, taking into account the provisions of Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) 
No  726/2004,  and  considered  the  therapeutic  indication  to  be  new  for  denosumab  and  that  it 
brings  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  existing  therapies  for  this  indication.  The 
applicant  provided  the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the    follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-
authorisation on 19 May 2011. 
5
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Bone  metastases  occur  in  more  than  1.5  million  patients  with  cancer  worldwide  and  can  result  in 
severe  clinical  sequelae  such  as  pathological  fracture,  radiation  to  bone,  spinal  cord  compression,  or 
surgery  to  bone.  These  events  are  collectively  defined  as  skeletal-related  events  (SREs).  At  present, 
several bisphosphonates are approved on indications related to prevention of skeletal related events or 
treatment of osteolytic lesions in patients with advanced cancer and skeletal metastasis: pamidronate, 
clodronate,  ibandronic  acid  and  zoledronic  acid  (ZOL).  Of  these  drugs,  ibandronic  acid  and  ZOL  have 
been approved via the centralised procedure. Bisphosphonates are associated with an increased risk of 
renal  impairment  and  are  not  recommended  for  patients  with  a  glomerular  filtration  rate  below  30 
ml/min.  Further,  the  most  potent  bisphosphonates  used  for  this  indication  are  administered  as  an 
intravenous infusion. 
Denosumab  is  a  fully  human  monoclonal  antibody  of  IgG2  subtype,  capable  to  inhibit  the  receptor 
activator of nuclear factor-κB (RANK) Ligand on bone cells. This antibody binds with high affinity and 
specificity to RANKL, thereby neutralising the ligand and inhibiting the differentiation of immature cells 
into osteoclasts. RANKL is a member of the tumour necrosis (TNF) group of proteins and is an essential 
factor  for  formation,  activation  and  survival  of  osteoclasts.  Osteoclasts  are  the  cells  responsible  for 
bone  resorption  while  osteoblasts  are  bone  forming  cells.  Osteoprotegrin  (OPG)  is  the  naturally 
occurring  soluble  decoy  receptor  that  binds  to  and  blocks  the  action  of  RANKL.  OPG  binding  to  and 
blocking  the  action  of  RANKL  leads  to  an  increase  in  bone  mass.  Inhibition  of  RANKL  is  a  possible 
intervention point to interfere with conditions with increased bone resorption. See figure 1. 
Figure 1. Mechanism of action for denosumab 
BMP = bone morphogenetic proteins, Ca2+ = calcium, CFU-M = macrophage colony-forming unit; ET1 = endothelin-1, 
FGF  =  fibroblast  growth  factors,  IGF  =  insulin-like  growth  factors,  IL-1  (IL-6,  IL-8)  =  interleukin-1  (-6,  -8),  M-CSF  = 
macrophage  colony-stimulating  factor,  PDGF  =  platelet-derived  growth  factor;  PGE2  =  prostaglandin  E2,  PTHrP  = 
parathyroid hormone-related peptide, RANKL = RANK ligand, TGF b = transforming growth factor b, TNFa = tumour 
necrosis factor a; VEGF = vascular endothelial growth factor; WNT = wingless-type protein-1 
6
 
 
 
There are no regulatory guidelines specific to the proposed indication within the EU, however relevant 
sections of the current EMA CHMP guideline on the evaluation of anticancer medicinal products in man 
(CPMP/EWP/205/95/Rev.3)  were  considered  during  the  evaluation.  The  study  designs  were  also 
consistent  with  the  underlying  principles  outlined  in  FDA’s  recently  issued  draft  guidance  document 
entitled  “Guidance  for  Industry:  Non-Inferiority  Clinical  Trials”  (FDA,  2010).  Scientific  advice  was 
received from EMA in 2005 and in 2009, see table 1 below. 
Table 1. Summary of key interactions with health authorities for the denosumab clinical program 
Scientific advice was also received from Health Canada, from the FDA and from Japanese authorities. 
Previously, a separate stand alone marketing authorisation application (MAA) was submitted in January 
2009 via the Centralised Procedure and the corresponding Commission decision was granted on 26 
May 2010 for the use of denosumab (Prolia) in the following indications: 
 
 
Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures.  
Treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  at 
increased  risk  of  fractures  (see  section  5.1).  In  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving  hormone 
ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the risk of vertebral fractures. 
The  current  denosumab  (XGEVA)  MAA  concerns  another  indication  (wording  applied  for  by  the 
applicant):  
 
Prevention of skeletal related events in adults with advanced malignancies involving bone 
which is submitted as a complete stand alone application via the centralised procedure, under Article 8 
(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC of regulation (EC) No 726/2004, as amended. The application concerns a 
biotech medicinal product according to Article 3(1), Annex 1 of regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 
Further,  as  part  of  the  XGEVA  MAA,  the  Applicant  requested  the  extension  by  1  year  of  the  10-year 
period of marketing protection for denosumab, according to Articles 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as 
amended, and 14(11) of Regulation (EC) 726/2004. The grounds for this request are that the Applicant 
considers the prevention  of skeletal related events  in adults with advanced  cancer involving bones to 
represent  a  new  therapeutic  indication  for  denosumab,  compared  to  the  authorised  indications  for 
Prolia,  and  a  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  existing  therapies  for  this  indication.  Both 
Prolia  and  the  present  MAA  for  XGEVA  fall  under  the  concept  of  a  “global  marketing  authorisation” 
within the meaning of Article 6(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
According  to  Article  8  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  given  that  the  XGEVA  MAA  falls  under  a 
“global  marketing  authorisation”  with  Prolia,  a  paediatric  investigation  plan  for  denosumab  for  this 
actual  indication  in  all  age  subsets  of  the  paediatric  population  has  been  agreed.  In  accordance  with 
the  requirements  of  Article  23  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006  and  the  EMA  Procedural  Advice  for 
Validation of New Marketing Authorisation Application-Extension/Variation Application and Compliance 
Check  with  an  Agreed  PIP  (EMEA/553631/2007),  a  PIP  Decision  with  number  (P/14/2010)  has  been 
issued.  PDCO  Compliance  Report  and  cover  letter  referred  to  are:  EMA/153223/2010  and 
EMA/184624/2010.  The  indications  of  treatment  of  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  and  treatment  of 
multiple myeloma fall within the scope of the decision on class waivers (EMEA/245439/2008). 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Denosumab  is  a  full-length  human  monoclonal  antibody  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO) 
cells. Denosumab targets the RANK Ligand (RANKL), which stimulates osteoclast differentiation. 
XGEVA  drug  product  is  supplied  as  a  sterile,  preservative-free  solution  for  administration  by 
subcutaneous  injection.  Three  drug  product  presentations  of  denosumab  have  been  developed  to 
support  different  indications  and  posology:  two  for  the  Bone  Loss  program,  i.e.  a  60  mg  vial  (60 
mg/mL 1.0 mL) and a 60 mg PFS (60 mg/mL 1.0 mL) presentations and one 120 mg (70 mg/mL 1.7 
mL  deliverable  volume)  for  the  advanced  cancer  program.  The  presentations  for  bone  loss  were 
subject  of  an  independent  Marketing  Authorisation  under  the  invented  name  of  Prolia.  The  120mg 
presentation  corresponds  to  the  current  marketing  authorisation  application.  All  presentations  are 
based on the same acetate-sorbitol formulation, which has been used throughout development.   
The  commercial  manufacturing  process  is  identical  between  the  Bone  Loss  and  Advanced  Cancer 
programs.  As  a  result,  a  significant  overlap  exists  within  the  Chemistry,  Manufacturing  and  Controls 
Module  between  the  two  independent  applications.  Some  minor  corrections  and  changes  have  been 
implemented  within  the  drug  substance  sections  of  the  Advanced  Cancer  application  and  the  drug 
product sections are new, because of a higher strength compared to Prolia.    
Since both vial presentations, 60 and 70 mg/mL, and the 60 mg/mL PFS presentation, were developed 
in parallel and share common features, studies performed with the 60 mg/mL (1.0 mL) presentations 
provide data considered supportive of the approval of the 70 mg/mL (1.7 ml) vial presentation. For this 
reason, certain data (eg, Formulation Development) generated from the 60 mg/mL (1.0 mL) vial and 
60  mg/mL  (1.0  mL)  PFS  presentations  are  provided  within  the  application,  in  addition  to  full 
manufacturing and quality information for the 70 mg/mL vial presentation.  
Most of the formal CMC quality commitments/follow-up measures (FUMs) resulting from the review of 
the Bone Loss MAA (Prolia) are equally applicable for the advanced cancer application. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance Manufacture 
Description of the drug substance 
The  same  drug  substance  is  used  for  both  the  bone  loss  marketing  authorisation  (Prolia)  and  the 
advanced  cancer  application  (XGEVA),  and  the  drug  substance  sections  of  the  two  dossiers  are 
essentially identical, except for some updates that are acceptably addressed. 
8
 
 
Denosumab  is  a  full-length  human  monoclonal  antibody  of  the  IgG2  subclass,  consisting  of  2  heavy 
chains, and 2 light chains of the kappa subclass. Denosumab contains 36 total cysteine residues, which 
are involved in both intrachain and interchain disulfide bonds. 
Each  heavy  chain  contains  an  N-linked  glycan  at  the  consensus  glycosylation  site  at  asparagine  298. 
Each light chain contains 215 amino acids, with 2 intramolecular disulfides. Each heavy chain contains 
448 amino acids, with 4 intramolecular disulfides.  
Manufacture 
The manufacture of the drug substance takes place at two sites: Amgen Inc. (ACO) located in Boulder, 
Colorado and Boehringer Ingelheim Pharma GmbH & Co. Kg (BI Pharma or BIP in Biberach an der Riss, 
Germany).  
Denosumab is manufactured by a batch-wise cell culture process in the production bioreactor followed 
by a harvest process using conventional unit operations (centrifugation and membrane filtration), and 
a    purification  process  employing  several  chromatography  steps  (protein  A,  cation  exchange  and 
hydrophobic interaction), a viral inactivation step and a viral removal step. Finally, formulation is made 
by means of ultrafiltration/diafiltration.  
Cell line development 
Denosumab  is  a  full-length  human  monoclonal  antibody  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary  (CHO) 
cells. 
Development genetics 
Lymph  node  cells  from immunized  animals  were  fused  to  create  hybridomas.  The  hybridoma  cell line 
was identified and subcloned. The cDNA encoding the light chain and the variable portion of the heavy 
chain  was  generated  and  used  to  construct  intermediate  vectors,  which  were  transfected  into  CHO 
cells. After subsequent rounds of subcloning, a clone was chosen as the manufacturing cell line and a 
Master Cell bank (MCB) was established. 
The generation of the cell substrate has been sufficiently described.  
Cell bank system 
A tiered cell bank system of Master Cell Bank (MCB) and Working Cell Bank (WCB) was developed and 
maintained in accordance to GMP and ICH Q5D guidelines. 
The  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB)  was  prepared  from  a  single  vial  of  MCB  according  to  an  established 
manufacturing procedure and is used for manufacture in both manufacturing sites. 
Procedures followed in the preparation of MCB and WCB have been appropriately described. Validation 
was  accomplished  through  an  evaluation  of  performance  parameters  for  the  operations  in  the  cell 
culture and harvest process. The cell banks are well tested with regards to safety and identity.  
Cell culture, harvest and recovery 
The  CHO  cell  culture  expansion  process  includes  vial  thaw,  primary,  secondary,  and  maintenance 
shake  flasks,  and  consecutive  cell  expansion  steps.  The  cell  culture  process  in  the  production 
bioreactor  proceeds  as  a  batch  culture,  one  cell-culture  batch  constitutes  the  basis  for  one  drug 
substance batch. There are no components of animal origin in the cell culture medium. 
Cell  culture  conditions  and  in-process  controls  including  viable  cell  density,  culture  viability  and 
microscopic  examination  are  tested  during  the  culture  expansion  and  at  the  end  of  the  production. 
Each harvest is sampled for bioburden, mycoplasma testing, adventitious virus and titre of denosumab.  
9
 
Purification process 
The purification process of the cell harvest consists of the following chromatographic, viral inactivation 
and  filtration  steps:  Protein  A  chromatography,  low  pH  viral  inactivation,  Cation  exchange 
chromatography, 
Viral 
filtration, 
Hydrophobic 
interaction 
chromatography, 
and 
Ultrafiltration/Diafiltration. 
There are no formal control steps for intermediates in the drug substance manufacturing process, since 
the current validated product pool hold times are within the acceptable hold times established through 
process  characterization.  Clarifications  on  the  different  designs  of  hold  time  studies  between  the  two 
sites (ACO versus BI Pharma) have been provided and the description of the manufacturing process is 
thereby acceptable. 
There  are  minor  differences  (equipment  and  medium  component  related)  between  the  ACO  and  BIP 
versions of the processes. The applicant has committed to amend the ACO process in line with the BIP 
process  specifications  as  regards  certain  differences,  as  further  addressed  in  relation  to  the 
Comparability assessment. 
To  evaluate  the  robustness  of  the  process  and  to  develop  a  comprehensive  understanding  of  the 
process  to  support  process  validation  and  in-process  controls,  the  applicant  has  developed  a  design 
space, classified as “Characterization Range”, “Acceptable Range” and “Operational Range”, along with 
a control strategy, including a risk analysis of the process (Failure Modes and Effects Analysis; FMEA), 
by 
large 
in 
line  with 
ICH  Topic  Q8,  step  4  Annex 
to  Pharmaceutical  Development 
(EMEA/CHMP/ICH/518819/2007).  Amgen  is  not  requesting  registration  based  on  a  design  space 
concept, but the “design space” was identified for the purpose of process characterisation. The process 
conditions will remain within the “Operational range”, and any departure from this range will trigger a 
variation.  
Reprocessing  is  allowed  at  some  unit  operations  during  the  drug  substance  manufacturing  process.. 
Reprocessing is not allowed in response to a failing adventitious virus or bioburden result. 
Manufacturing process development and validation 
The  drug  substance  manufactured  to  support  the  initial  phase  1  and  phase  2  clinical  trials  was 
produced  at  the  clinical  manufacturing  site.  A  process  suitable  for  commercial  production  of 
denosumab and used used in all pivotal clinical trials (Phase 3) was subsequently developed.  
Extensive  comparability  exercises  comparing  the  different  materials  showed  minor  quantitative 
differences in the glycosylation, size and charge profiles with no impact on the in-vitro potency of the 
drug substance and the comparative non-clinical PK/PD study in cynomolgus monkeys. 
During  scale-up  of  the  process  and  transfer,  minor  changes  to  the  process  related  to  up-scaling  and 
facility/equipment  related  have  been  made.    As  regards  the  process  as  performed  at  the  two 
authorised  manufacturing  sites,  comparability  was  demonstrated  by  comparison  of  IPC  data,  batch 
data on drug substance, additional characterisation data and data of forced degradation.  
According to most of the analytical results, the materials derived from the two sites were comparable. 
However, a difference in charge profile was found in the extended biochemical characterisation in the 
comparability analysis. The root cause was found to relate to a component of the culture medium. The 
variant forms are clinically qualified, because the clinical experience of the C-terminal variants, spans 
the range of the observed variability. Nevertheless, the applicant has committed to further harmonize 
the process, as performed at the two sites. 
10
 
The manufacturing process has been validated using data from consecutive commercial manufacturing 
scale lots at the two authorised manufacturing sites. The process validation studies include validation 
of purification operations, .and drug substance fill.  
The  results  of  the  process  validations  performed  at  the  two  authorised  manufacturing  sites,  provide 
evidence  that  the  cell  culture,  recovery  and  harvest,  and  purification  processes  consistently  produce 
denosumab  drug  substance  that  meets  pre  defined  specifications.  Some  minor  issues  remaining  as 
concerns process validation are agreed to be solved by follow-up measures post-approval.  
Characterisation 
The  biochemical  characterisation,  conducted  using  commercial  scale  material,  has  been  performed 
using state-of-the art methods.  
The primary, secondary and tertiary structures of denosumab were analysed by various techniques and 
conformed to that expected from the IgG2 antibody construct.  
The  primary  peptide  structure  of  denosumab  was  characterized  through  the  application  of  orthogonal 
methods  including  Edman  N-terminal  sequence  analysis,  peptide  mapping  studies  and  mass 
spectrometry.  
The  secondary  and  tertiary  structures  were  analysed  by  far  and  near  UV  circular  dichroism 
spectroscopy respectively. 
Characterisation  of  glycosylation  indicated  that  denosumab  is  N-glycosylated  at  a  single  site  in  each 
heavy  chain  Asn299.  The  N-linked  structures  consist  of  biantennal,  core-fucosylated  species  with 
galactose and sialic acid heterogeneity.  
The structures of minor product-related variants were also determined to an acceptable extent.  
Data demonstrate that process-related impurities are adequately controlled and cleared to acceptable 
levels  by  the  commercial  manufacturing  process.  The  applicant  has  demonstrated  here  (and  also  by 
batch  analysis  data)  that  process  related  impurities  can  constantly  be  reduced  below  the  detection 
levels.  
Biological  characterisation  and  immunological  characterisation,  including  antigen  specificity,  has  been 
made using adequate methods. The mechanism of action of denosumab is to bind RANKL outside the 
cell, and prevent it from associating with the RANK receptor.  
Different potency assays have been used in the biological characterization of denosumab. The potency 
assay has been shown to be stability indicating. 
In  conclusion,  the  characterisation  is  considered  acceptable  and  in  line  with  the  guideline  on 
monoclonal antibodies, EMEA/CHMP/BWP/157653/2007.  
Control of drug substance 
The  methods  used  for  routine  control  are  deduced  from  the  characterisation  studies,  and  the 
specification limits are set in line with batch data, including batches used in clinical trials.  
The  drug  substance  specifications  include  tests  for  appearance,  identity,  purity,  adventitious  agents, 
potency, and quantity. 
The  applicant  justified  not  to  include  specifications  for  some  impurities  based  on  1)  the  process 
characterisation  and  validation  data,  showing  consistent  reduction  of  these  impurities  to  levels  below 
or  comparable  with  the  drug  substance  material  used  in  clinical  trials,  and  2)  the  action  or  alert  in-
process controls in place for these impurities.  
11
 
 
Stability 
The design of the stability program, including the testing intervals and storage temperature conditions 
are in accordance with current ICH guidelines. The tests chosen are a subset of tests from the release 
specifications selected for stability indicating properties. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product  
Composition, pharmaceutical development   
The Xgeva drug product is supplied as a sterile, preservative-free solution, intended for delivery by 
subcutaneous injection. The strength is 120 mg (70 mg/mL, 1.7 mL deliverable volume).  
The qualitative composition of the drug product includes: denosumab, sorbitol, glacial acetic acid, 
sodium hydroxide and water for injection. 
In  order  to  develop  the  proposed  commercial  formulations,  screening  studies  were  conducted  to 
evaluate  drug  product  attributes  at  accelerated  temperatures  as  a  function  of  pH,  protein 
concentration,  buffer  type,  buffer  concentration,  excipient  type  (polar  or  non  polar)  and  excipient 
concentration.  
Translucent  particles  have  been  found  in  aged  containers  in  the  inventory  of  the  clinical  material,  as 
was  also  identified  and  described  in  the  Bone  loss  MAA.  Isolated  denosumab-derived  particles  and 
microbubbles  were  identified.  Since  the  visible  particles  have  been  observed  in  a  majority  of  the 
denosumab  vial  lots  inspected,  there  is  a  high  probability  that  denosumab-treated  subjects  in  clinical 
studies have been exposed to visible particles. 
In  addition  to  the  100%  inspection  of  vials  made  at  manufacture,  further  control,  using  semi-
quantitative  criteria,  are  in-place  for  evaluation  of  particle  content.  Moreover,  the  applicant  has  also 
committed,  as  for  the  Bone  loss  MAA,  to  further  characterise  the  effect  of  formulation  parameters, 
including  polysorbate  addition,  on  the  propensity  for  low-level  particle  formation,  this  both  in  the  60 
mg/mL  and  the  70  mg/ml  vial  formulations,  and  to  undertake  further  studies  on  alternative 
formulations.  
Throughout the development, process changes and introduction of new manufacturing sites have been 
made as was already addressed in the Bone loss MAA. The higher concentration and larger fill volume 
used for the Advanced cancer program is the major difference between the two quality dossiers of both 
marketing authorisations and is the primary subject of the comparability exercise in this application. 
The  overall  strategy  for  demonstrating  drug  product  comparability  was  based  on  the  requirements 
outlined  in  ICH  guideline  Q5E,  Comparability  of  Biotechnological/Biological  Products.  Comprehensive 
studies  were  conducted  to  demonstrate  drug  product  comparability  between  1)  sourcing  of  drug 
substance,  2)  the  two  strengths  and  3)  the  manufacturing  sites  for  drug  product.  The  comparability 
program  included  the  assessment  of  process  comparability,  batch  analyses,  forced  degradation  and 
stability studies, and clinical outcomes.  
In  addition  to  establishing  analytical  comparability  for  the  formulation  modification,  Amgen  has 
conducted  open-label  randomized  single-dose  bioequivalence  studies.  Clinical  comparability  between 
the  administration  of  a  70  mg/mL  vial  and  two  60  mg/mL  vials  was  demonstrated  in  bioequivalence 
Study  20060446.  Additional  clinical  experience  with  the  different  presentations  was  conducted.  The 
results met the predefined criteria for bioequivalence. 
In conclusion, the comparability was satisfactory demonstrated. 
12
 
 
 
 
Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  aseptic  process.  The  containers  of  drug  substance  are 
thawed,  filtered  and  filled  into  vials.  Critical  parameters  and  in-process  controls  are  acceptably 
described and justified, and the manufacturing process is acceptably validated.  
Drug product lots that do not meet the established release specification cannot be reprocessed. 
Control of drug product 
The  proposed  specification  limits  are  the  same  as  for  the  Bone  loss  MAA  (Prolia).  They  are  primarily 
based  on  the  batch  and  stability  data  derived  from  the  batches  derived  from  a  drug  substance 
manufacturing  process.  This  is  considered  acceptable,  taking  into  account  that  the  applicant  has 
committed  to  reconsider  and  propose  narrower  limits,  as  appropriate,  when  maore  batch  data  is 
gathered. This is in line with the commitments made for the Bone loss MAA.  
The strategy of setting specifications is considered acceptable. 
Stability 
Stability studies were performed per the ICH Guidelines Stability Testing of Biotechnological/ Biological 
Products (Q5C) and Stability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products (Q1A). Stability studies at 
elevated temperatures have also been conducted in order to assess the effect of these conditions and 
to compare relative degradation rates. Furthermore, stability to light exposure has been studied. The 
stability  protocol 
includes  stability 
indicating  specifications,  as  based  on 
the  biochemical 
characterisation. 
The stability program currently consists of 10 Vial lots (primary, commercial and supporting lots) of the 
70  mg/mL  strength  stored  at  the  recommended  storage  temperature  of  5C.  Data  supporting  a 
proposed 36 month shelf life for 70 mg/mL vials stored at the recommended storage condition of 5C 
has been submitted. 
Safety as regards adventitious agents 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  complete  assessment  of  the  TSE  risk  for  raw  and  starting  materials  of 
animal  origin,  including  associated  Certificates  of  Suitability.  The  approach  taken  by  the  applicant  is 
therefore considered acceptable. The mycoplasma testing is also deemed adequate. 
The  applicant  has  demonstrated  that  the  scale-down  models  used  in  the  execution  of  the  virus 
validation  studies  are  applicable  to  commercial  purification  process  operations.  All  chromatography 
steps  were  evaluated  in  the  viral  spiking  studies.  The  virus  validation  studies  are  deemed  well 
performed  with  adequate  design  of  interference  and  cytotoxicity  studies.  The  in  vitro  adventitious 
agent testing is found adequate. 
The overall viral clearance capacity was found to be high for the enveloped viruses and medium high 
for the non-enveloped viruses. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have  been 
presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  different  aspects  of  the  chemical,  pharmaceutical  and 
biological documentation are in compliance with existing guidelines.  
13
 
 
The manufacture of the drug substance have been adequately described, controlled and validated. The 
drug  substance  has  been  well  characterised  with  regard  to  its  physicochemical  and  biological 
characteristics and appropriate specifications have been set.  
The  manufacturing  process  of  the  drug  product  has  been  satisfactorily  described  and  validated.  The 
results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  quality 
characteristics.  The  quality  of  the  drug  product  is  controlled  by  adequate  test  methods  and 
specifications.  
The  viral  safety  and  the  safety  concerning  other  adventitious  agents  including  TSE  have  been 
sufficiently assured. 
The  applicant  is  recommended  to  undertake  some  minor  quality  issues  having  no  impact  on  the 
benefit-risk balance of the product. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Based on the review of the data on quality, the application for XGEVA is considered approvable.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Denosumab  represents  an  antiresorptive  therapy  for  osteoporosis  targeting  the  ligand  for  receptor 
activator for nuclear factor-B (RANKL). RANKL is together with its receptor RANK and osteoprotegerin 
the  key  mediator  in  the  pathway  involved  in  regulating  bone  resorption.  Denosumab’s  binding  to 
RANKL  prevents  the  RANKL-RANK  interaction,  inhibiting  osteoclast  formation,  function  and  survival. 
Denosumab  is  a  fully  human  IgG2  mAb  and  does  not  recognise  rodent  RANKL  but  recognizes  and 
neutralizes  RANKL  in  non-human  primates,  and  the  cynomolgus  monkey  was  identified  as  a  relevant 
non-clinical  species.  The  main  studies  in  relation  to  the  indication  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  were 
conducted  in  ovariectomized  animals  and  one  toxicology  study  with  bone  efficacy  endpoints  was 
performed  in  normal  cynomolgus  monkeys,  using  both  males  and  females.  The  pharmacology  of 
denosumab with respect to osteoporosis and treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation 
in men with prostate cancer at increased risk of fractures has been reviewed during the evaluation of 
the first denosumab MAA for Prolia and is only briefly considered in the present report.  
Imbalances  in  the  RANK/RANKL/OPG  system  have  been  implicated  in  a  variety  of  pathophysiological 
conditions  including  osteoporosis,  multiple  myeloma,  and  breast  malignancy.  Osteoclastic  activity  in 
bone  metastasis  is  increased  with  stimulation  of  the  RANK/RANKL  pathway  as  a  main  driver.  Bone 
metastasis  may  be  characterised  as  either  osteoblastic  and/or  osteolytic  and  in  both  cases 
dysregulation  of  normal  bone  remodelling  processes  occurs.  Osteoclast  activity  and  subsequent 
osteolysis  as  central  components  in  metastatic  bone  disease  thus  indicate  a  role  of  therapeutics  that 
target  RANK/RANKL/OPG  system.  Literature  data  is  extensive  with  respect  to  studies  implicating 
RANKL in bone metastasis induced by different tumour types. RANKL may be produced by tumour cells 
themselves and then bind to its cognate receptor, RANK that has been shown to be expressed also at 
the  surface  of  cancer  cells.  In  rodent  models  of  bone  metastasis  representing  osteolytic,  osteoblastic 
and/or  mixed  osteolytic/osteoblastic  lesions,  inhibition  of  RANKL  has  been  shown  to  prevent  tumour 
induced osteolysis and to delay progression of skeletal tumours 
Denosumab  was  granted  an  initial  marketing  authorisation  under  the  invented  name  Prolia  in  May 
2010  for  the  treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures  and 
14
 
treatment of bone loss associated with hormone ablation in men with prostate cancer at increased risk 
of  fractures.  The  recommended  posology  for  these  indications  is  60  mg  subcutaneously  every  6 
months  corresponding  to  approximately  Cmax  values  of  6.94  µg/ml  and  AUC0-6  months  of  10752 
µgxh/ml.  
With reference to the indication applied for as part of the current XGEVA MAA “prevention of skeletal 
related events in adults with advanced malignancies involving bone”, the compound is intended to be 
administered subcutaneously once every 4 weeks at a dose of 120 mg. In a 6-month period this dose 
is 12 times greater that the previously approved dose for osteopososis and corresponds to an AUC  0-
4weeks of 723 µgxday/ml at steady state. The mean Cmax at a dose of 120 mg was approximately 27 
µg/ml. 
The excipients selected for the drug product are not considered to be of any toxicological interest. It is 
stated that the drug product and drug formulation manufactured at different sites have been shown to 
be bioequivalent.  
The  dose  selection  and  the  dosing  schedule  in  the  non-clinical  pharmacology  and  toxicology  studies 
were  based  on  considerations  of  dose-response  activity,  identification  of  systemic  effects  and  a  no-
observed-effect-level  and  were  also  planned  in  view  of  the  circulating  half-life  of  denosumab  and  the 
potential for immunogenicity in the test species.  In studies with a longer duration of treatment doses 
were  adjusted  upwards  to  accommodate  for  the  immune  response  to  the  drug  in  order  to  maintain 
adequate exposure to active drug.   
The majority of non-clinical studies submitted with the XGEVA MAA have already been assessed by the 
CHMP in the context of the osteoporosis indication for Prolia and therefore the present report focuses 
on  the  additional  primary  pharmacology  studies  conducted  in  support  of  the  new  XGEVA  indication. 
These studies used OPG-Fc as an inhibitor of RANK in different murine models of bone metastasis. The 
sections on pharmacokinetics and toxicology are in principle the same as included in the previous non-
clinical report for Prolia with no new data included, but are discussed in relation to the higher dose and 
the increased frequency of dosing relevant for the present indication.  
Pivotal  toxicology  studies,  including  safety  pharmacology  and  studies  on  cross-reactivity  were 
conducted in accordance with GLP principles with some minor deviations. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
In vitro primary pharmacodynamic studies 
In vitro studies have shown that denosumab binds with high affinity to huRANKL (Kd 3x10-12M) but not 
to muRANKL. The binding affinity of denosumab to huRANKL was comparable to that of huOPG-Fc, with 
similar Kd values, thus these data support the use of huOPG-Fc as a surrogate molecule in mechanistic 
studies.  The  relative  affinity  of  denosumab  for  huRANKL  versus  other  TNF  family  members,  TNF-α, 
TNF-β,  TRAIL  and  CD40L,  was  assessed  in  competitive  binding  assays.  Denosumab  did  not  bind  to 
these TNF family members, indicating specificity to target. In vitro osteoclastogenic response in murine 
leukemic monocyte macrophage cell line was inhibited with an IC50 of 1.64 ng/ml. Osteoclastogenesis 
was not inhibited in a system with non-adherent murine bone marrow cells cocultured with murine ST2 
stromal  cells  as  a  source  of  murine  RANKL.  Osteoclastogenesis  in  these  non-adherent  murine  bone 
marrow cells stimulated with recombinant human RANKL was inhibited with denosumab with an IC 50 of 
10-14 M, while no effects were detected on osteoblast proliferation.   
15
 
Endothelial  apoptosis  is  an  important  regulator  of  angiogenesis  and  OPG  has  been  reported  to  block 
endothelial  cell  apoptosis  through  binding  TRAIL.  Increased  tumour  cell  apoptosis  has  also  been 
reported in the literature as a consequence of RANK inhibition. Inhibition of RANKL has been shown to 
reduce skeletal tumour progression in models in which tumour induced neovascularisation is associated 
with  progression  of  the  skeletal  tumour  and  is  responsive  to  anti-angiogenic  therapies.  Contradictory 
effects  of  OPG-Fc  on  angiogenesis  were  reported  in  a  model  of  neovascularisation  in  rat  corneal  disk 
implant model. As multiple signalling pathways, including recruitment of specific proteins, activation of 
transcription factors, cascades of mitogen activated protein kinases and induction of Akt activation, are 
involved  in  RANK/RANKL  system  a  dynamic  dominance  of  one  or  two  systems  may  confound 
identification of a potential angiogenic interaction depending on the model used. 
In vivo primary pharmacodynamic studies 
A fracture healing study in male huRANKL KI mice suggested that treatment with denosumab delayed 
the  removal  of  cartilage  and  remodelling  of  the  fracture  callus  compared  to  control.  Despite  this 
finding, denosumab did not seem to negatively affect the overall biomechanical strength. An increase 
in  torsional  stiffness  compared  to  control  and  an  increase  in  max  torque  compared  to  contralateral 
bones were observed 42 days after fracture.  
In  relation  to  the  indication  postmenopausal  osteoporosis  ovariectomized  cynomolgus  monkeys  were 
used in studies of a somewhat short duration of 16 months which corresponds to 4 remodelling cycles 
in  both  monkeys  and  humans.  A  dose  of  25  or  50  mg/kg/month  for  12  or  16  months  decreased 
biochemical markers of bone turnover compared to ovariectomized or sham controls. These doses also 
prevented  the  ovariectomized  induced  decreases  in  trabecular  and  cortical  bone  mass  at  the  lumbar 
spine,  femur,  proximal  tibia  and  distal  radius  and  showed  positive  gains  in  bone  mass. 
Disproportionate increases in bone strength relative to bone mass were observed at lumbar spine and 
femoral neck, suggesting treatment improved bone quality. The pharmacologic effects of transitioning 
from  a  bisphosphonate,  alendronate,  to  denosumab  were  evaluated  in  a  12-month  study  in 
ovariectomized  cynomolgus  monkeys.  Pretreatment  with  alendronate  for  6  months  did  not  negatively 
modify  the  response  of  denosumab  (25  mg/kg/month).  Transition  to  denosumab  seemed  to  further 
increase  bone  mineral  density  of  the  whole  body,  lumbar  spine  and  distal  radius  compared  to  12 
months of alendronate treatment.  
Since  denosumab  is  a  fully  human  antibody,  an  immunogenic  response  was  expected  in  cynomolgus 
monkeys.  Anti-drug-antibodies  were  detected  more  frequently  at  low  doses  than  at  high doses,  most 
likely due to high serum denosumab concentrations interfering with detection of anti-drug antibodies at 
the higher doses.  
The  pharmacology  of  RANKL  inhibition  in  relation  to  bone  lesions  induced  by  a  range  of  metastatic 
tumours  was  studied  in  rodent  models  (mostly  females)  using  a  recombinant  form  of  OPG  (OPG-Fc) 
and  also  a  recombinant  form  of  RANK-Fc.  The  mechanism  of  action  of  denosumab  is  similar  to 
osteoprotegerin, which is the endogenous soluble decoy receptor that binds to and blocks the action of 
RANKL.  Human  RANKL  appears  to  be  able  to  activate  murine  RANK  resulting  in  increased  bone 
resorption and hypercalcemia and human OPG-Fc was selected to be used as a surrogate in studies of 
pharmacodynamics of denosumab. Inhibition of RANKL reduced bone lesions and delayed formation of 
de novo bone metastasis in these models, but had no effect on non-skeletal tumour burden. The latter 
might have to be interpreted with caution in the light of the use of bone-tropic tumour cell lines. The 
utilized rodent models may therefore not adequately reflect on non-skeletal metastasis. 
Skeletal tumour growth was reduced and the effects appeared additive when combined with anticancer 
therapies such as docetaxel. In a model of hormone and carcinogen induced mammary tumourigenesis 
inhibition of RANKL resulted in reduction of epithelial proliferation and cyclin D1 expression. 
16
 
In  mouse  models  of  bone  metastasis  induced  by  intracardial  injection  of  human  tumour  cells 
representing breast, prostate and lung cancer OPG-Fc administration reduced radiologically detectable 
lesions  and  reduced  skeletal  tumour  burden  assayed  by  hind  limb  bioluminescence  index.  Survival  of 
tumour  bearing  mice  was  prolonged.  Progression  of  mixed  osteolytic/osteoblastic  bone  metastasis  in 
athymic nude mice seemed to be reduced by OPG-Fc either alone or in combination with tamoxifen and 
skeletal  tumour  volume  was  reduced  with  the  combination  resulting  in  a  greater  tumour  growth 
inhibition than with the compounds administered alone.  
In  a  prostate  cancer  bone  metastasis  (PC3)  model  in  mice  primarily  characterised  by  osteolytic 
reaction but with some blastic reaction, OPG-Fc at 3.0 mg/kg subcutaneously 3 times a week with and 
without  docetaxel  at  5  or  10  mg/kg  reduced  radiologically  detectable  osteolytic  lesions.  Osteoclast 
activity as reflected in serum TRAP5b was reduced by OPG-Fc, only. Further, reductions of progression 
of  skeletal  tumours  growth,  skeletal  tumour  area  and  hind  limb  tumour  burden  were  reported  after 
treatment  with  OPG-Fc.  Similar  effects  were  recorded  in  the  non-small  cell  lung  cancer  bone 
metastasis  models  that  included  use  of  H1299  to  produce  osteolytic  lesions.  These  models  mainly 
include  xenograft  but  some  data  are  also  available  in  syngeneic  models.  In  syngeneic  mouse  models 
using  multiple  myeloma  cells  recombinant  OPG  prevented  bone  loss  and  lytic  lesion  likely  due  to 
reduction of tumour induced osteoclast formation. 
Data in the literature reviewed by the applicant is also consistent with surrogate recombinant forms of 
OPG  and  RANK-Fc  having  a  suppressive  effect  on  the  progression  of  tumours  of  bone  such  that 
inhibition  of  osteoclasts  results  in  effects  on  osteolytic,  mixed  osteolytic/osteoblastic  and  osteoblastic 
lesions  in  rodent  models.  While  these  data  taken  together  support  a  role  of  the  system  and  by 
inference  of  denosumab,  in  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events,  no  conclusion  on  the  most 
appropriate dose and frequency of dosing is possible based on non-clinical studies. 
The  influence  of  RANKL  inhibition  on  mammary  tumourgenesis  was  investigated  in  mice,  which 
overexpress  RANK  (introduced  via  MMTV,  murine  mammary  tumour  virus),  and  WT  mice  after 
hormonal  stimulation  and  chemical  tumour-induction.  The  study  results  support  the  assumption  that 
RANKL inhibition opposes mammary tissue proliferation and the development of mammary neoplasia in 
WT mice and RANK overexpressing MMTV mice.  
The  predominant  histotype  of  tumour  in  MMTV-RANK  mice  was  adenocarcinoma,  which  reflected  an 
increase  in  incidence  relative  to  wild  type  mice.  Treatment  of  MMTV-RANK  mice  with  RANK-Fc 
decreased  the  proportion  of  adenocarcinomas  to  wild  type  level,  but  did  not  affect  the  exhibition  of 
other histotypes. In WT mice RANK-Fc reduced tumour burden independent of the histotype. 
Literature  data  reviewed  by  the  applicant  provide  further  support  for  a  preventive  effect  of  RANKL-
blockade  on  non-skeletal  tumour  metastasis.  Those  results  were  obtained  in  spontaneous  metastasis 
models, using either orthotopic injection of tumour cells or transgenic models, and addressed tumour 
entities  relevant  for  the  proposed  indication  of  this  MAA.  Additionally,  reference  is  made  to  in  vitro 
study results indicating an effect of RANKL on several factors involved in migration, angiogenesis and 
invasion  in  studies,  which  utilized  cell  lines  of  breast  cancer,  melanoma,  prostate  and  ostesosarcoma 
origin.  
Table 5. Summary of primary pharmacodynamic studies performed with denosumab 
(method, 
Test 
system 
species/strain) 
Female athymic nude mice, 10/group (OPG-Fc, 
0.3, 3.0 mg/kg 2x/week, SC started day 0) 
Type  of  study 
(Report No) 
MDA231-F11  Luc 
Bone  metastasis 
model 
(R2006160) 
MDA231-F11  Luc  Female athymic nude mice, 10/group (OPG-Fc,  OPG-Fc  (0.3,  3.0  mg/kg)  reduced  tumour 
OPG-Fc  at  3.0  mg/kg  reduction  of  tumour 
burden BLI. OPG-Fc at 0.3 and 3.0 mg/kg 
reduced osteolysis dose-dependently. 
Noteworthy findings 
line, 
cell 
17
 
 
 
Bone  metastasis 
model 
(R2006161) 
Established  bone 
metastasis  model 
mouse 
in 
(R20080161) 
Growth  of  MCF-7 
cells 
Established  bone 
metastasis  model 
in 
mouse 
(R20080162) 
Growth  of  MCF-7 
cells 
MDA231-F11  Luc 
Bone  metastasis 
model 
(R20070953) 
prostate 
bone 
PC-3 
cancer 
metastasis 
(R20080083) 
Bone  metastasis 
of  human  non-
small 
lung 
cell 
(H1975  cell  line) 
(R20070963) 
Bone  metastasis 
of  human  non-
small 
lung 
cell 
(H1299  cell  line) 
(R20080310) 
Bone  metastasis 
of  human  non-
small 
lung 
cell 
(H1299  cell  line) 
(R20080331) 
Bone  metastasis 
of  human  non-
lung 
cell 
small 
(H1299  cell  line) 
(R20080332) 
and 
Hormone 
carcinogen 
induced 
mammary 
tumourigenesis 
(R20090211) 
Neovascularisatio
n  in  rat  corneal 
implant 
disk 
of 
model 
angiogenesis 
(R2002266) 
Neovascularisatio
n  in  rat  corneal 
implant 
disk 
model 
of 
angiogenesis 
(R2002204) 
0.3, 3.0 mg/kg 2x/week, SC started day 7) 
athymic 
nude  mice, 
Female 
10/group 
(Tamoxifen  0.1,  0.5  mg  5x/week  IP,  starting 
day 7 continued to day 32,  OPG-Fc, 3 mg/kg, 
3x/week  SC  starting  day  5  continued  to  day 
31) 
athymic 
nude  mice, 
Female 
10/group 
(Tamoxifen 0.1, mg 5x/week IP, starting day 7 
continued  to  day  32,    OPG-Fc,  3  mg/kg, 
3x/week SC, Combination tamoxifen and OPG-
Fc  5x/week,  starting  day  5  continued  to  day 
39) 
Female athymic nude mice, 20/group (OPG-Fc, 
0.3,  3.0  mg/kg  3x/week,  SC  started  day  -7 
continued until day 21) 
Male athymic nude mice, 8/group (OPG-Fc, 3.0 
mg/kg  3x/week,  SC,  docetaxel  5  or  10  mg/kg 
1x/week  x2  treatments  IP,  combination  OPG-
Fc  and  docetaxel    started  day  11  post  tumour 
implantation) 
Female  athymic  nude  mice,  9-10/group  (OPG-
Fc,  3.0  mg/kg  3x/week,  SC  started  day  1  or 
day  7  of  tumour  cell  inoculation,  animals 
sacrificed day 27) 
burden  BLI  of  bone  metastasis.  OPG-Fc 
(0.3,  3.0 mg/kg) reduced osteolysis dose-
dependent.  OPG-Fc  (3  mg/kg)  prolonged 
survival 
Tamoxifen;  Hind  leg  limb  tumour  burden 
reduced.  OPG-Fc:  histological  skeletal 
tumour  burden  reduced  and  delay  in  hind 
limb  tumour  growth  by  BLI.  Osteolytic 
lesions reduced by OPG-Fc. 
the 
Additive  effects  of 
combination 
in 
tamoxifen  and  OPG-Fc 
significant  reduction  in  hind  limb  tumour 
burden.  OPG-Fc 
significantly 
alone 
reduced osteolytic lesions.  
resulting 
dose 
Pretreatment  at  3  mg/kg  significantly 
delayed  onset  of  bone  metastasis 
induced 
measured  by  B  LI.  Tumour 
osteolysis 
dependently 
was 
prevented. 
Docetaxel  significantly  decreased  hind 
limb BLI and histological tumour burden at 
10  mg/kg.  OPG-Fc 
reduced  skeletal 
tumour  area  and  progression  of  lytic 
lesions. 
OPG-Fc 
docetacxel  significantly  reduced  skeletal 
tumour burden. 
Reduction  of  skeletal  tumour  burden  by 
histology  and  prevention  of  osteolytic 
lesion formation. 
combination 
The 
Female  athymic  nude  mice,  9-10/group  (OPG-
Fc,  3.0  mg/kg  3x/week,  SC  started  day  1  or 
day  7  or  8  of  tumour  cell  inoculation,  animals 
sacrificed day 27) 
OPG-Fc  initiated  either  early  (day  1)  or 
late  (day  7-8)  reduced  skeletal  tumour 
burden  by  histology  and  prevented 
osteolytic lesion formation. 
Female athymic nude mice, 10/group (OPG-Fc, 
3.0  mg/kg  3x/week,  SC,  docetaxel  35  or  50 
mg/kg,  1x/week  x  2 
treatments  IP,  or 
combination  OPG-Fc  and  docetaxel    started 
day  5  post  tumour  implantation,  animals 
sacrificed day 22) 
Female  athymic  nude  mice,  7-8/group  (OPG-
Fc,  3.0  mg/kg  3x/week,  SC,  docetaxel  15 
treatments  IP,  or 
mg/kg,  1x/week  x  2 
combination  OPG-Fc  and  docetaxel    started 
day  7  post  tumour  implantation,  animals 
sacrificed day 23) 
C57BL6  and  MMTV-RANK  female  mice    5-
51/group.  Transgenic  mice  overexpressing 
RANK via  murine  mammary tumour virus  long 
terminal  repeat.  MPA  in  combination  with 
DMBA  used  to  induce  mammary  tumours.  Tg 
and  wild  type  mice    were  treated  with  10 
mg/kg  muRANK-muFc  or  PBS  simultaneously 
with the first DMBA treatment. 
female 
(Sprague-Dawley) 
Rat 
8/group. 
Angiogenesis  induced  by  implanting  a  VEGF 
soaked  nylon  disc  into  the  corneal  stroma. 
OPG-Fc  (4  mg/kg/day,  SC  administered  for  7 
days) 
female 
(Sprague-Dawley) 
Rat 
8/group. 
Angiogenesis  induced  by  implanting  a  VEGF 
soaked  nylon  disc  into  the  corneal  stroma. 
OPG-Fc  (4  mg/kg/day,  SC  administered  for  7 
days) 
18
OPG-Fc  and  docetaxel  alone  or 
in 
combination  significantly  decreased  hind 
limb  BLI  and  histological  skeletal  tumour 
area and progression of lytic lesions. 
OPG-Fc  and  docetaxel  alone  or 
in 
combination  significantly  decreased  hind 
limb  BLI  and  histological  skeletal  tumour 
area and progression of lytic lesions. 
after 
hormone 
mammary 
type  mice.  Reduction 
Inhibition  of  RANKL  (using  RANK-Fc) 
tumour 
attenuated 
development 
and 
carcinogen  treatment  in  both  MMTV  RANK 
and  wild 
in 
mammary  carcinogenesis  preceded  by  a 
reduction in preneoplasia and reduction in 
epithelial  proliferation  and  cyclin  D1 
expression. 
Treatment  with 
increased 
statistically  significantly  the  angiogenic 
response  compared  to  vehicle  treated 
group. No toxicity was evident. 
OPG-Fc 
No  statistically  significant  effects  on  the 
VEGF 
response 
compared  with  PBS  treated  group.  No 
toxicity was evident. 
angiogenic 
induced 
 
Neovascularisatio
n  in  rat  corneal 
implant 
disk 
model 
of 
angiogenesis 
(R2002267) 
Effect  of  OPG-Fc 
or  alendronate  on 
tooth  eruption  or 
density, 
bone 
and 
geometry 
in 
strength 
neonatal 
rats 
(R20090070) 
bone 
in  1 
2  month 
rats 
Long 
geometry 
and 
transgenic 
overexpressing 
RANKL 
soluble 
OPG 
inhibitor 
during 
growth 
and  development 
(R20090069)  
Dose  dependent 
effects  of  OPG-Fc 
on tooth eruption, 
bone  growth  and 
bone  strength  in 
neonatal 
rats 
(R20090282) 
female 
(Sprague-Dawley) 
Rat 
8/group. 
Angiogenesis  induced  by  implanting  a  rHu-
bFGF  soaked  nylon  disc  into  the  corneal 
stroma. 
SC 
administered for 7 days) 
(4  mg/kg/day, 
OPG-Fc 
Rat 
9-
(Sprague-Dawley)  male/female 
11/group. Vehicle or OPGF-Fc (1, 3, 10 mg/kg) 
or alendronate (1 mg/kg) SC once weekly for 6 
weeks, 
weeks 
discontinuation. 
sacrifice 
after 
10 
No effects on the bFGF induced angiogenic 
response  compared  with  PBS  treated 
group. No toxicity was evident. 
10 weeks after discontinuation of a 6 week 
treatment  with  OPG-Fc  evidence  of 
restoration  of  bone  resorption,  partial 
normalization  of  bone  density,  size  and 
strength.  Molar  eruption  (delayed  by 
treatment  with  OPG-Fc)  partial  recovery. 
Alendronate:  Increase  in  bone  volume, 
density  and  strength  unchanged  after 
discontinuation.  Molar  eruption  did  not 
recover  within  this  time  frame.  Bone  size, 
body  weight,  molar  root  development 
reduced  10  weeks  after  discontinuation  of 
OPG-Fc or alendronate.  
Rat (Sprague-Dawley) male/female 3-9/group.   Overexpression  of  OPG  from  a  prenatal 
stage and throughout the first 2 months of 
life  resulted  in  changes  in  bone  density, 
geometry  and  femur  bending  strength 
described  as  neutral  or  favourable,  no 
consistent changes in material properties. 
Rat 
3-
(Sprague-Dawley)  male/female 
10/group.  Vehicle  or  OPG-Fc  at  3,  10  mg/kg 
weekly for 6 weeks SC. 
on 
impaired 
reduction 
Dose-dependent 
bone 
resorption  resulting  in  osteopetrosis-like 
changes  at  10  mg/kg  (increases  in  bone 
density,  reduced  bone  growth  and  weight 
tooth  eruption). 
gain  and 
Structural  parameters  overall  unchanged 
or  improved  whereas  intrinsic  (material) 
strength parameter toughness significantly 
reduced  in  femurs.  OPG-Fc  adm.  resulted 
in thickened and disorganized growth plate 
morphology. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
A study on bone growth and tooth eruption in neonatal pre-weaning rats treated with OPG-Fc (1 and 
10 mg/kg/week) for 6 weeks caused a dose-dependent reduction in long bone growth, suggested to be 
related  to  osteoclast  inhibition. High-dose  OPG-Fc  significantly inhibited incisor  growth  and  prevented 
the  eruption  of  all  3
rd 
molars  and  84%  of  2
nd 
molars.  In  a  recovery  study  effects  of  OPG-Fc  (1,  3,  10 
mg/kg)  and  alendronate  (1  mg/kg)  were  compared.  Although  discontinuation  resulted  in  some 
reversibility of effects, the delay in molar eruptions was coupled to malocclusion and bone size, body 
weight and molar root development were significantly reduced after 10 weeks.  
Studies  on  immunomodulatory  effects  have  been  incorporated  in  some  pharmacology  and  toxicology 
studies  in  cynomolgus  monkeys.  These  studies  did  not  reveal  any  major  differences  compared  to 
controls.  The  applicant  also  refers  to  published  literature  and  abstracts  from  Amgen  on  the  role  of 
RANKL on immune functions using OPG-TG mice and rats and OPG-Fc treated WT mice. The relevance 
of  using  these  models  instead  of  denosumab  in  studies  on  immunomodulatory  effects  is  uncertain. 
Considering  the  mechanism  of  action  of  denosumab,  potential  effects  on  immunomodulation  and 
immunosuppression cannot be ruled out, see further conclusion on toxicology below.  
19
 
 
 
 
 
 
RANK/RANKL have been shown to be involved in the control of body temperature at several key brain 
regions  (Hanada  et  al,  2009),  with  impairment  of  the  RANK/RANKL  system  leading  to  ablation  of  the 
fever  response  to  infection  in  rodents  and  in  humans.  Since  denosumab  is  a  monoclonal  antibody,  it 
would not be expected to cross the blood brain barrier and mediate a central effect. This may however 
be  different  in  advanced  tumour  patients,  where  some  tumours  with  bone  involvement  may  also 
develop  metastasis  in  the  brain  leading  leakage  of  the  blood-brain-barrier.  In  addition,  the  target 
population  can  be  expected  to  experience  a  higher  degree  of  infections,  which  may  first  become 
clinically apparent through fever.  
Safety pharmacology programme  
The safety pharmacology package included two studies on cardiovascular endpoints, one of these was 
incorporated in a toxicology study in accordance with ICH S6 and ICH S7A. Also, visual observations of 
respiration  rate  and  cage  observations  of  general  appearance  and  behaviour  were  performed. 
According  to  the  guideline,  clinical  observation  of  animals  is  generally  not  adequate  to  assess 
respiratory 
function, 
thus 
these  parameters  should  have  been  quantified  by  appropriate 
methodologies.  However,  since  no  indication  of  denosumab  to  affect  respiratory  function  was  noted, 
the current study is considered sufficient. A small amount of denosumab is shown to pass the blood-
brain barrier but no denosumab-related behavioural changes were observed during cage observations. 
Some  findings  of  isolated  cases  of  slight  bradycardia,  fused  P-T  wave,  tachycardia  and  a  run  of  four 
ventricular premature complexes were noted, but not considered to be treatment related. There is also 
some clinical data that address these aspects. 
Table 6. Summary of safety pharmacology studies performed with denosumab  
Type 
study 
of 
Effects 
of 
denosumab  on 
blood 
pressure, 
heart  rate  and 
ECG activity  
Test  System  (method, 
cell 
line, 
species/strain) 
Male  cynomolgus  monkey 
(n=3/group,  single  SC 
injection,  0,  0.3,  3,  and 
30 mg/kg 
Effects 
of 
denosumab  on 
blood  pressure 
and ECG 
and 
female 
Male 
cynomolgus 
monkey 
(n=3/group,  3  months 
recovery  n=2/group,  SC 
injection, 0, 1, 10 and 50 
mg/kg  once/month  for  6 
or 12 months) 
of 
Effects 
denosumab  on 
respiration 
rate 
Male  cynomolgus  monkey 
(n=3/group,  single  SC 
injection,  0,  0.3,  3,  and 
30 mg/kg 
Noteworthy finding 
One  animal  (3  mg/kg)  had  a  run  of  4  ventricular 
premature complexes (VPCs) approximately 45 minutes 
postdose. Stress was not considered as the cause. The 
absorption  of  denosumab  is  very  slow  (expected  peak 
plasma  levels  occurring  between  48  and  72  hours 
following  sc  administration).  The  exposure  of  this 
animal  to  denosumab  was  expected  to  be  very  low  at 
45 minutes postdosing. Therefore, the single episode of 
VPCs that occurred in this animal was not considered to 
be related to treatment with denosumab. 
There  was  no  ECG  evidence  of  cardiotoxicity  after  53 
weeks  of  treatment  with  denosumab.  Isolated  cases  of 
slight bradycardia, fused P-T wave or slight tachycardia 
were  observed  in  single  animals.  These  findings  were 
not  considered  to  be  related  to  the  administration  of 
the  test  material,  as  there  were  similar  findings 
observed  pre-dose,  during  treatment  and  during  the 
recovery  period  and  in  control  animals.  However,  one 
male  animal  showed  a  bradycardia  and  a  fused  P-T 
wave  in  Week  25  of  study.  Since  this  animal  at  this 
time  generally  showed  poor  physical  condition 
(diarrhea, low food consumption, body weight loss, low 
body  temperature),  this  finding  was  considered  to  be 
due  to  the  general  health  status  of  the  animal  rather 
than being compound related. Two male animals died in 
the high dose  group. One of  these animals  had among 
other  findings,  cardiac  pathology.  According  to  the 
Applicant  these  deaths  were  not  related  to  treatment. 
See further the toxicology section. 
No  treatment  related  changes  in  respiration  rate  were 
observed.  There  were  similar  variations  in  respiration 
rates across all groups and over time. 
Report 
No 
101606 
102090  
(tox 
study) 
101606 
20
 
 
signs 
Clinical 
(cageside 
observations)  
Male  cynomolgus  monkey 
(n=3/group,  single  SC 
injection,  0,  0.3,  3,  and 
30 mg/kg 
No  treatment  related  cageside  observations  were 
observed. 
101606 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  specific  preclinical  studies  have  been  conducted  addressing  drug  interactions,  which  is  considered 
acceptable. In the switch study performed in ovariectomized cynomolgus monkeys pretreated with the 
bisphosphonate alendronate no adverse effects on the pharmacodynamic activity were noted. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Analysis 
Denosumab in serum was quantified by ELISA methods. The limit of quantification was approximately 
0.78  and  the  analytical  range  from  0.781  to  10  ng/ml.  The  method  in  principle  measured  free 
denosumab, i.e. not bound to RANKL.  
Absorption  
Table 7. Single dose pharmacokinetic parameters of denosumab in different species 
Study 
Species (n)  Dose 
Cmax,  C 0 
(µg/ml) 
0-inf 
AUC 
(µgxh/ml) 
CL, 
CL/F 
(ml/h/kg) 
Vss 
(ml/kg) 
101494 
101002 
101398 
101606 
Rat  (M/F) 
Mouse (M) 
Monkey (F) 
(mg/kg)/Rou
te 
1,        SC 
0.1,     IV 
1,        IV 
10,      IV 
1               SC 
O.0628     IV 
1               IV 
10             IV 
0.0016      SC 
0.0053      SC 
0.0848      SC 
1.0            SC 
3.0            SC 
0.0016      IV 
0.0053      IV 
0.0848      IV 
1.0            IV 
3.0            IV 
Monkey (M/F)  0.3            SC 
3               SC 
30             SC 
23.1 
3.91 
31.9 
511 
6.87 
1.97 
22.9 
318 
0.00433 
0.0229 
0.728 
16.5 
35.8 
0.0625 
0.243 
3.72 
35.9 
105 
2.89 
29.2 
291 
Human (M/F)  120 mg      SC  27 
NA =not applicable. a)  AUC 0-4 weeks µxday/ml 
15600 
1680 
18100 
128000 
1970 
201 
3580 
41800 
0.301 
1.64 
126 
3940 
8790 
0.763 
4.77 
189 
3590 
12400 
NA 
NA 
NA 
7232a) 
0.0642 
0.0594 
0.0553 
0.0778 
0.507 
0.318 
0.287 
0.242 
10.6 
6.15 
0.808 
0.298 
0.353 
4.40 
2.10 
0.542 
0.310 
0.277 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
43.5 
40.2 
48.6 
NA 
98.6 
107 
97.2 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
51.4 
45.1 
38.4 
30.7 
31.2 
NA 
NA 
NA 
Tmax 
(h) 
72 
NA 
NA 
NA 
72 
NA 
NA 
NA 
10.7 
18.7 
56 
96 
64 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
96 
96 
96 
7-10 d 
t 1/2 (h) 
444 
420 
463 
461 
106 
240 
270 
290 
41.9 
35.8 
24.1 
28.9 
29.5 
8.37 
14.3 
36.9 
19.3 
27.5 
NA 
NA 
NA 
In mouse and rat non-linear pharmacokinetics of denosumab were evident after intravenous doses. In 
mouse  and  rat  the  terminal  half-life  ranged  from  19  to  11  days.  In  monkey  non-linear 
pharmacokinetics  both  after  subcutaneous  and  intravenous  administration  were  reported  over  a  dose 
range of 0.0016 to 1 mg/kg, but approximately linear at 1 to 3 mg/kg. The volume of distribution was 
similar  to  plasma  volume  indicating  limited  distribution.  At  doses  of  0.0848  mg/kg  and  above  almost 
all  animals  developed  antibodies  to  the  test  substance  and  this  was  not  route  dependent.  Early 
development of antibodies correlated with increased clearance at doses above 0.0848 mg/kg. 
21
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8. Single dose pharmacokinetic parameters of denosumab in mouse 
Study 
Species (n)  Dose 
0-inf 
Cmax,  C 0 
(µg/ml) 
AUC 
(µgxh/ml) 
CL, 
(ml/h/kg) 
CL/F 
106893 
Mouse  (M/F), 
neonatal 
Fc(FcRn)KO 
Wild-type 
106892 
Mouse  (M/F), 
huRANKL 
(mg/kg)/Rou
te 
0.1,     IV 
1.0      IV 
0.1     IV 
1.0     IV  
0.1 
IV 
2.55 
21.7 
2.21 
20.8 
2.19 
48.5 
455 
685 
6910 
127 
2.06 
2.20 
0.146 
0.145 
0.786 
Vss 
(ml/kg) 
t 1/2 z (h) 
52.3 
58.6 
39.3 
46 
56.9 
18.1 
20.2 
489 
506 
34.2 
Wild-type 
0.1            IV 
2.6 
839 
0.119 
70.7 
371 
KO=knock-out 
In  both  FcRn  KO  and  wild-type  mice  approximate  dose-proportionality  (from  0.1  to  1  mg/kg)  was 
recorded. The results indicated that elimination and distribution is influenced by FcRn. 
Denosumab  does  not  cross-react  with  mouse  or  rat  receptor  activator  for  nuclear  factor  кB  ligand 
(RANKL), but is stated to bind and inactivate  the cynomolgus monkey RANKL. Pharmacokinetics were 
also  determined  in  transgenic  mouse  expressing  a  chimeric  form  of  RANKL.  In  these  mice  an 
accelerated  rate  of  elimination  was  evident  compared  to  wild-type  mice  also  consistent  with  that 
binding of denosumab to huRANKL plays a significant role in the elimination of the antibody. 
Distribution  
Distribution  of  125I-denosumab  was  determined  by  quantitative  whole  body  autoradiography  in 
cynomolgus monkey (104105) given a single subcutaneous dose of 0.1 or 1 mg/kg.  Radioactivity was 
quantifiable  in  almost  all  analyzed  tissues  at  12  and  120  hours  post-dose.    Highest  levels  were 
detected  at  the  dose  site  and  thyroid  at  both  dose  levels  and  in  both  genders.  At  the  1  mg/kg  dose, 
highest levels, excluding dose site and the thyroid, were reported in the gastric mucosa, blood, lung, 
liver and cervical lymph nodes in males and females and in males also stomach contents, mesenteric 
lymph  nodes,  prostate  and  stomach.  Further,  in  females  high  levels  were  detected  in  axillary  lymph 
nodes,  ovary  and  nasal  turbinates.  Radioactivity  was  detected  in  testis  suggesting  that  drug  derived 
radioactivity may cross the blood-testis barrier. Low levels were also detected in cerebrum, cerebellum 
and  medulla  indicating  that  very  low  levels  may  cross  blood/brain  barrier.  No  specific  uptake  or 
sequestration in bone was reported. 
In  a  study  in  female  monkeys  (104192)  given  single  subcutaneous  doses  of  0.1  or  1  mg/kg  of  125I 
denosumab, a wide distribution of radioactivity was evident. Highest levels were detected at dose site 
skin,  thyroid/parathyroid,  serum,  axillary  lymph  nodes,  inguinal  lymph  nodes,  blood,  spleen  and 
ovaries. At the dose of 1 mg/kg, radioactivity was quantifiable in all tissues analyzed at 672 hours post 
dose  and  in  half  of  tissues  at  1344  hours  postdose.  Highest  label  was  found  at  injection  site, 
thyroid/parathyroid,  axillary lymph nodes, serum, blood, ovaries and lungs.  
Systemic  exposure  increased  greater  than  dose  proportional  so  that  for  a  10-fold  increase  in  dose  a 
26-fold increase in systemic exposure was noted. 
In  the  embryo-fetal  development  study  fetal  serum  samples  collected  at  the  cesarean  section  had 
quantifiable levels of denosumab indicating that the substance crosses the placental barrier. 
22
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
Denosumab  is  a  monocloncal  antibody.  Current  knowledge  concerning  the  clearance  of  antibodies 
indicates  that  metabolism  may  be  mediated  through  internalization  followed  by  intracellular 
degradation  to  small  peptides  and  amino  acids.  Antibodies  may  be  protected  from  lysosomal 
degradation  through  binding  to  the  Fc  region  of  the  neonatal  receptor  FcRn,  at  acidic  pH  in  the 
endosome prior to releasing the antibody at the cell surface. The role of FcRn was studied using FcRn 
knock-out mice. Compared with wild-type mice a much shorter elimination half-life, that was similar to 
the half-life reported for a murine antibody, was recorded in FcRn knock-out mice and data indicated 
that FcRn protects denosumab from elimination and so influences tissue distribution. 
Excretion 
Table 9.  Excretion of total  
Study 
Species 
104192 
Monkey 
(F) 
(cynomolgus) 
Dose/Route 
(mg/kg) 
0.1   SC 
1.0   SC 
Urine (%) 
(0-672 h) 
80-95 
76-79* 
Faeces (%) 
(0-672 h) 
1.8-3.1 
1.1-2.8* 
Total  
(0-672 h) 
92-106 
83-89* 
 * values refer to 1344 hours post dose 
All animals in study 104192 developed antibodies. In the 0.1 mg/kg group Cmax values ranged form 
487 to 847 ng/g equivalents 125I-denosumab and from 4670 to 8330 ng/g equivalents 125I-denosumab 
in  the  1  mg/kg.    Radioactivity  was  slowly  excreted  and  acid-precipitable  radioactivity  in  urine  ranged 
from 3.4 to 25% and generally from 20 to 60% in faeces. Data indicate that drug derived radioactivity 
was excreted mainly as free iodide or small iodinated peptide fragments. 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
No specific studies were conducted, which is acceptable. 
Other pharmacokinetic studies 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  manufactured  by  2  different  processes  (CP1  and  CP2)  were 
determined in monkey (cynomolgus females) given subcutaneous doses of 0.1 mg/kg. Of 16 monkeys 
13  developed  antibodies.  In  the  subset  (3-5  monkeys  at  336  hours)  that  did  not  develop  antibodies, 
mean Cmax and AUC 0-336h values were less than 23 and 16% different, respectively. Changes in bone 
turnover markers were similar with denosumab manufactured by the 2 different processes. 
In a 12 month monkey study (106564) it was concluded that previous treatment with alendronat did 
not markedly affect the pharmacokinetics of denosumab. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity  
No specific single dose toxicity was conducted which is consistent with ICH guidance. A cardiovascular 
safety pharmacology study evaluated single subcutaneous doses of up to 30 mg/kg in the cynomolgus 
monkey. No evidence of toxicity was reported (see further safety pharmacology section above). 
23
 
 
Repeat dose toxicity  
Table 10.  Overview of monkey studies 
Study ID 
Species/Sex/ 
Number/Group 
101447 
(SBL  39-
50) 
Monkey 
(cynomolgus),  
(6 M+6F) 
Dose 
(mg/kg)/ 
Route 
0,  0.1,  1,  10, 
SC 
10, IV 
Once per week 
4 
(total 
doses) 
of 
1  month 
(3M+3F)+
13  week 
recovery 
(3M+3F) 
Duration  Major Findings 
102090 
(1052-
011) 
Monkey 
(cynomolgus) 
(8M+8F) 
0,  1,  10,  50, 
SC 
Once 
month 
(total  of  13 
doses) 
per 
6  or  12 
months  13 
week 
recovery 
(2M+2F)  
intake, 
ophthalmology, 
No  sign.  effects  on  clinical  signs,  body  weight, 
food 
hematology,  
urinalysis  or  histopathology.  Dose-dependent 
osteocalcin. 
≥0.1 mg/kg: ALP↓. Serum NTx ↓ 
≥1  mg/kg:  serum  Ca++↓  (M),  total+cortical 
BMD proximal tibia ↑ (M), distal radius BMD ↑ (M 
during recovery) 
10  mg/kg:  serum  Ca++  (M),  thyroid  w.  ↑  (IV, 
F),  cortical  BMD  distal  radius  ↑  (IV,  M-during 
recovery) 
All  groups:  Clinical  signs:  Occasional  diarrhea, 
low food intake, hair loss, sticky fur, soft faeces.  
≥10 mg/kg: ALP↓, enlarged epiphyseal growth 
plate,  decreased  chondroclasis,  decreases  of 
osteoclasts  and  osteoblasts.  Trabecular  and 
total  bone  mineral  density  –radius,  total  bone 
mineral  content-tibia  ↑.  OSCL,  NTx/UCRT,  SCRL 
↓ from week 13. 
50  mg/kg:  2  deaths  (M),  inorganic  P↓,  Ca++↓ 
(slightly  M),    bone  mass  ↑  (by  DXA  and/or 
pQCT), 
spine 
diaphysis, 
femur 
biomechanical strength ↑ 
lumbar 
The decreases in total alkaline phosphatase and serum calcium (males) in the 1 month study (101447) 
were  in  accordance  with  the  pharmacological  activity.  In  addition  to  changes  included  in  the  table 
above, one high dose male and high dose female in the intravenous group had occult blood in urine at 
week 4. This was also reported for one low dose female. A slight decrease in erythrocytes, hematocrit 
value  and  haemoglobin  values  was  noted  in  the  treated  groups,  but  changes  were  small  and  judged 
toxicologically  insignificant.    In  males,  at  the  10  mg/kg  intravenous  dose  an  increase  in  CPK  was 
recorded during recovery while there was a general trend for a decrease in females. At the high dose 
in males reticulocytes seemed increased during treatment and then subsequently decreased during the 
recovery period. A slight equivocal trend for an increase in platelets at the high doses was noted.  
Histopathological examinations showed an apparent increased incidence of mononuclear cell infiltration 
in  kidney  in  high  dose  treated  males  and  females,  but  changes  were  slight  or  very  slight.  Bone 
parameters  assessed  in  the  study  showed  a  tendency  for  increases  in  total and  cortical bone  mineral 
density  (measured  by  peripheral  quantitative  computed  tomography)  at  the  proximal  tibia  in  males 
given  1  mg/kg  or  higher.  Bone  mineral  density  at  the  distal  radius  was  increased  at  1  mg/kg 
subcutaneously  in  males  during  recovery.  Cortical  bone  mineral  density  at  the  distal  radius  was 
increased at 10 mg/kg intravenously in males during recovery. Bone resorption as reflected by serum 
cross-linked N-telopeptides was decreased (60 to 80%) at all dose levels. Osteocalcin levels were 15 to 
45% below baseline values from day 3 to day 56. Serum osteocalcin and NTx levels were decreased in 
all  treatment  groups  dose-dependently.  Decreases  in  NTx  levels  occurred  before  decreases  in 
osteocalcin  and  this  was  taken  to  indicate  that  denosumab  is  predominantly  an  inhibitor  of  bone-
resorption. 
In  the  high  dose  intravenous  group  one  female  had  bilateral  ovarian  cysts  subsequently  identified  as 
oviduct cysts. The microscopic changes were overall within the background range and not considered 
toxicologically significant. Overall denosumab produced expected pharmacological effects, increases in 
bone  mineral  density  in  males  together  with  a  decrease  in  serum  alkaline  phosphatase,  Ca,  NTx  and 
osteocalcin levels. The NOAEL was considered 10 mg/kg. 
24
 
 
On  day  28,  antibody  positive  animals  were  100%,  67%,  33%  and  25%  for  the  0.1,  1,  10  mg/kg 
subcutaneous  and  10  mg/kg  intravenous  groups,  respectively.  On  day  14,  58%  (7  animals)  were 
antibody  positive  in  the  0.1  mg/kg  group  and  1  animal  in  the  1  and  10  mg/kg  groups  SC.  During 
recovery 100% of treated animals were positive except in the 10 mg/kg intravenous group where 67% 
were  antibody  positive.  Antibody  incidence  increased  during  the  recovery  period.  Following  the  first 
subcutaneous dose the maximum plasma levels were 1.51, 14.0 and 155 at the dose of 0.1, 1 and 10 
mg/kg and occurred at 72, 92 and 108 hours post-dose respectively. 
Table 11. Plasma level estimates week 4  
AUC (0-168) 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
(µgxhr/ml) 
349 
0.1 (SC) 
3410 
1    (SC) 
42000 
10  (SC) 
10  (IV) 
68600 
There was no evidence of exposure in control animals. 
11.3 
27.5 
302 
663 
AUC (0-
168)/D(µgxhr/ml/µg/kg)) 
3490 
3410 
4200 
6860 
Tmax (hr) 
26.9 
30.7 
35 
4 
Exposure decreased during recovery in animals that developed antibodies. 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
Table 12. Plasma level estimates day 21 in antibody positive and antibody negative animals  
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
10 (SC) pos 
10 (SC) neg 
10 (IV) pos 
10 (IV) neg 
33000 
60000 
54800 
82500 
25.7 
30.7 
59.7 
72.9 
AUC (0-t)(µgxhr/ml) 
A  total  of  8 males  and  8  females  per  group  were  used  in  the  6  and  12  month  study  (102090)  and  3 
animals/sex/group  were  necropsied  week  25  and  week  53  of  study.  The  recovery  group  included  2 
animals/sex/group  and  these  were  sacrificed  week  66.  Administration  was  once  per  month.  Clinical 
signs, body weight, food intake, ophthalmology, cardiovascular parameters or clinical pathology did not 
seem affected by treatment. Incidences of diarrhea occurred, apparently at a higher incidence than the 
overall  incidence  at  the  testing  facility,  but  were  comparable  across  groups.  At  interim  kill  as  well  as 
terminal kill there was a trend for increased heart organ weight in males (statistically significant), but 
not females.  
One  male  (403)  exhibited  bradycardia  and  a  fused  P-T  wave  week  25  of  study,  but  as  signs  of  poor 
physical  condition  were  also  noted  this  change  was  not  judged  related  to  treatment.  Evaluation  of 
sperm motility or morphology indicated no relevant effects of denosumab. Total white blood cell count 
was  significantly  higher  in  high  dose  females  week  52  and  there  was  a  trend  for  higher  values  at 
earlier  timepoints.    In  addition,  there  were  statistically  significant  changes  in  a  few  haematology  and 
clinical chemistry parameters, e.g. calcium levels were slightly decreased at the high dose in males. No 
dose  response  was  evident  and  may  be  difficult  to  define  also  in  view  of  development  of  antibodies.  
Denosumab  did  not  appear  to  have  any  effect  on  the  immune  system,  but  inter  animal  variations  in 
immunoglobulin  levels  and  lymphocyte  subset  occurred.  Lymphocytes  (%)  exhibited  a  trend  for 
decrease  in  the  high  dose  group  compared  with  predose  values.  Immunogenicity  of  denosumab  was 
reflected  in  100%,  50%  and  13%  of  monkeys  having  binding  antibodies  in  the  1,  10  and  50  mg/kg 
group,  respectively.  Corresponding  numbers  for  neutralizing  antibodies  were  81%,  50%  and  47%. 
Immunophenotyping  indicated  a  tendency  in  high  dose  females  for  elevated  CD4+  T-helper  cells  at 
week  25,  but  this  finding  was  not  confirmed  later.  The  change  was  ascribed  a  minor  relevance,  but 
could be consistent with a potential of denosumab to interfere with the immune system under certain 
circumstances.  Determination  of immunoglobulin levels  indicated  a  decrease  in  IgM  in  males  at  week 
25  and  52,  but  changes  were  not  statistically  significant  and  were  not  evident  in  females.  Also  in 
males, NK/B cell determination week 25, both CD3- CD16+ (also week 52) and CD3+ CD16+,  exhibited 
an increase, but this was not statistically significant and a slight decrease were noted in females.  
25
 
 
 
 
Bone  turnover  markers  in  serum  and  urine  were  decreased  by  denosumab  and  returned  to  near 
baseline at the end of the 3 month non-treatment period. The marker OSCL was decreased from doses 
of  at  10  mg/kg  and  from  week  13.  The  bone  resorption  marker  SCRL  and  NTx/UCRT  ratio  was 
decreased  from  week  13  from  doses  of  10  mg/kg.  Histopathological  investigations  of  tibia,  sternum 
and femur showed decreases in osteoblasts and osteoclasts, decreased chondroclasis at the epiphyseal 
growth plate with increased thickness of the epiphysis at doses of 10 mg/kg or higher in the 6 month 
study. 
Two  males  in  the  high  dose  group  died,  one  on  day  76  and  the  other  on  day  289.  The  weight  of 
evidence  suggested  the  cause  of  death  being  unrelated  to  treatment  with  denosumab.  Haematology 
parameters  did  not  suggest  immunosuppression.  Histopathology  showed  evidence  of  cardiac 
inflammation in the male monkey that died on day 76, but similar changes were also noted in a control 
monkey.  The  monkey  that  was  euthanized  day  289  was  diagnosed  with  intestinal  inflammation  and 
signs  were  indicative  of  an  acute  exacerbation  of  pre-existing  parasitic  intestinal  infection.  Overall  it 
cannot be excluded that treatment created favourable conditions for an adverse progression of a sub-
symptomatic existing disease. 
The NOAEL for the study was considered 50 mg/kg. 
Table  13.  Plasma  level  estimates  in  Anti-AMG162  antibody  positive  animals  following  the  13 
subcutaneous dose 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
1 
10 
50 
Number of animals in parenthesis. ND=not determined 
AUC(0-τ) 
(µgxhr/ml) 
ND (0) 
75.7 (2) 
2660 (1) 
ND (0) 
1.79 (2) 
32.8 (1) 
AUC(0-
τ)/D(µgxhr/ml/mg/kg)) 
ND (0) 
0.00757 (2) 
0.0531 (1) 
Tmax (hr) 
ND (0) 
36 (2) 
24 (1) 
Table  14.  Plasma  level  estimates  in  Anti-AMG162  antibody  negative  animals  following  the  13 
subcutaneous dose 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
1 
10 
50 
Number of animals in parenthesis. ND=not determined 
AUC(0-τ) 
(µgxhr/ml) 
ND (0) 
48200 (4) 
268000 (7) 
ND (0) 
115 (4) 
666 (7) 
AUC(0-
τ)/D(µgxhr/ml/mg/kg)) 
ND (0) 
4.82 (4) 
5.37 (7) 
Tmax (hr) 
ND (0) 
24 (4) 
48 (7) 
At the dose of 1 mg/kg all animals had antibodies. Development of anti AMG162 antibodies correlated 
with a marked reduction in serum levels and systemic exposure. With increasing dose the incidence of 
animals  with  anti-AMG  162  antibodies  decreased.  Neutralizing  antibodies  were  detected  in  23  of  47 
dosed  animals  in  week  12  but  of  the  23  animals  followed  to  week  52,  15  maintained  neutralizing 
antibodies. Denosumab exhibited thus immunogenicity in the cynomolgus monkey. 
No specific toxicity of denosumab was reported in the monkey studies. In the 12 month study the most 
common histopathological finding was listed as inflammatory cell foci in various organs such as kidney, 
liver  as  well  as  brain.  In  addition  at  the  terminal  kill  that  included  3  animals/sex/group,  there  was  2 
cases  of  brain  inflammation,  one  male  at  1  mg/kg  and  1  female  at  10  mg/kg.  Further,  there  were 
occurrences  of  haemorrhages  in  various  organs,  primarily  the  liver  and  caecum,  at  the  interim  and 
terminal kill, respectively. The relation to treatment of these findings is difficult to assess also due to 
differences  in  site,  the  magnitude  (sligtht,  moderate  etc)  and  possible  relation  to  production  of 
antibodies.  It  may  be  noted  that  the  2  deaths  at  the  high  dose  were  males  while  no  deaths  were 
reported  in  the  16  month  monkey  bone  study  that  included  female  animals  although  similar  doses 
were used.  
26
 
 
 
 
 
 
Binding  antibodies  in  the  1,  10  and  50  mg/kg  groups  were  reported  to  100%,  50%  and  13%  and 
corresponding incidences of neutralizing antibodies to 81%, 50% and 47%, respectively. This pattern 
is a confounding factor in the interpretation of data. 
Toxicokinetics 
Toxicokinetic data is presented in relation to relevant studies.  
Interspecies comparison 
Table 15. Interspecies comparison  
Species/Study 
Monkey (cynomolgus)  
(102090)-12 month 
Monkey (cynomolgus)  
(103981)-16 month 
Monkey (cynomolgus)  
(102842)-Embryo-fetal toxicity 
Dose* 
(mg/kg) 
10 
Cmax 
(µg/ml) 
115 
AUC 0-tau 
(µgxh/ml) 
48200 
50 
25 
50 
12.5 
666 
222 
413 
282 
268000 
101000 
171000 
41000 
C max animal/C max human 
AUC animal/AUC human 
4 
- 
25 
- 
8 
- 
15 
- 
10 
- 
*  The  proposed  human  dose  is  120  mg  subcutaneously/4  weeks  and  the  corresponding  AUC 0-4  weeks  723 
µgxday/ml and the Cmax 27 µg/ml. The AUC for a 6 month interval was approximated by multiplying by 26 and 
6 for weekly (102842) and monthly (102090 and 103981) dosing, respectively. 
The Applicant proposes that the NOAEL in monkey toxicology studies is 50 mg/kg. This is questionable 
also  in  view  of  the  2  deaths  at  the  high  dose,  both  males,  and  the  level  of  confidence  that  can  be 
attributed  to  such  a  NOAEL  seems  uncertain.  Nothwithstanding,  it  seems  that  monkeys  were 
sufficiently exposed in toxicology studies.  Comparison based on AUC values has not been included in 
the  table  above  as  the  unit  (day)  in  the  cited  human  AUC  0-4  weeks  of  723  µgxday/ml  is  immediately 
comparable or translated into the 6 month data.  
Genotoxicity 
No specific studies were conducted. Denosumab is a recombinant protein and contains no inorganic or 
synthetic organic linkages or other non-protein portions. Regulatory guidance is consistent with studies 
on genotoxicity not being necessary for this type of product. 
Carcinogenicity 
No  specific  carcinogenicity  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  available  regulatory  guidance. 
Ovariectomized  monkey  treated  for  up  to  16  months  with  denosumab  showed  no  evidence  of  pre 
neoplastic lesions. 
The multiple signalling pathways involved in OPG effects, and by analogy possibly also relevant in the 
case of denosumab, indicate a potential for dysregulation of functions related to  altered immunolopgy 
that could be critical in cancer pathogenesis.     
27
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Table 16. Summary table of performed studies. 
Species; 
Study type/ 
Number/ 
Study ID / GLP 
sex/group 
Monkey 
(cynomolgus) (6 F) 
early 
SC,  0,  2.5,  5, 
12.5 mg/kg  
Route & dose 
Fertility 
embryonic 
development 
(1052-013) 
Embryo-foetal  
(102842) 
Monkey 
(cynomolgus)  (16 
F) 
SC,  0,  2.5,  5, 
12.5 mg/kg 
Study design 
Major findings 
Once/week  through 
2  menstrual  cycles 
until  day  20  post-
mating  
Once/week, 
gestation  day  20  to 
50 
No  effect  on  fertility.  Control, 
low  and  mid  dose,  2  of  6 
animals mated. At high dose, 5 
of 6 animals pregnant.  
No  effect  clinical  sign,  body 
weight.  No  effect  fetal  organ, 
external, 
placental  weight, 
visceral 
skeletal 
examinations of foetuses. 
or 
Fertility and early embryonic development 
After multiple doses a decrease in exposure was noted in 4/6, 3/6 and 2/6 animals in the low, mid and 
high dose groups, respectively, likely due to development of antibodies. The low dose was selected to 
provide  approximately  x3  exposure  margins  to  expected  clinical  exposure  and  was  considered  the 
lowest dose possible to give and maintain exposure. 
A specific male fertility study was not conducted, but male fertility parameters, including assessment of 
sperm concentration and morphology, were monitored in the 12 month monkey study. No evidence of 
an effect on testes was reported. 
Table 17. Mean toxicokinetic parameters for denosumab in fertility study 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
2.5 
AUC(0-τ) (mgxhr/ml) 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
48.8    (after 1st dose) 
26.5    (prior to 1st mating) 
121     (prior to 2nd mating) 
6.77    (after 1st  dose) 
4.22    (prior to 1st mating) 
17.6    (prior to 2nd mating) 
5 
12.5 
79       (after 1st  dose) 
115     (prior to 1st mating) 
163     (prior to 2nd mating) 
11.7     (after 1st  dose) 
16.4     (prior to 1st mating) 
16.9     (prior to 2nd mating) 
186     (after 1st  dose) 
476     (prior to 1st mating) 
727     (prior to 2nd mating) 
26.9    (after 1st  dose) 
67.8     (prior to 1st mating) 
85.5     (prior to 2nd mating) 
tmax (hr) 
72   (after 1st  dose) 
24   (prior to 1st mating) 
64          (prior  to  2nd 
mating) 
72     (after 1st  dose) 
24          (prior  to  1st 
mating) 
24          (prior  to  2nd 
mating) 
72     (after 1st  dose) 
24          (prior  to  1st 
mating) 
8              (prior  to  2nd 
mating) 
The  dose  number  prior  to  first  mating  was  11,  9  and  10 for  the  low,  mid  and  high  dose  groups  respectively.  The 
dose number prior to the second mating was 18, 17 and 20 for the low, mid and high dose groups respectively. 
Embryo-fœtal development 
A  study  in  pregnant  cynomolgus  monkey  was  conducted  to  evaluate  the  potential  embryonic  and 
teratogenic  effects  of  denosumab.  Treatment  was  not  associated  with  any  signs  of  histopathological 
alterations (thymus, spleen and Peyer’s patches examined histologically in fetuses). Fetal spleen mean 
weight  showed  a  trend  for  a  decrease  with  increasing  dose,  however,  no  statistically  significant 
differences  were  evident.  There  was  no  evidence  of  toxicity  in  maternal  animals.  The  incidence  of 
prenatal loss was 3 of 16 in control and 1 of 16 in the low dose group. There were 3 abortions in the 
control group between days 25 and 66 of gestation and 1 in the low dose group between days 33 and 
38  of  gestation.  One  fetal  death  occurred  day  86  in  the  mid  dose  group.  This  was  considered 
incidental.  
Toxicokinetics indicated a moderate accumulation over the 5 weekly doses. Denosumab was detected 
in  70%  of  fetal  serum  samples  (collected  at  cesarean  section)  indicating  the  compound  crosses  the 
28
 
 
  
 
placental barrier. Anti-denosumab antibodies developed in 66% of treated animals and 34% developed 
neutralizing antibodies. Neutralizing antibodies were found in 53%, 38% and 13% of serum samplesf 
rom  low,  mid  and  high  dose,  respectively.  Non-neutralizing  (35%)  and  neutralizing  (16%)  antibodies 
were  detected  in  fetal  samples  also  indicating  that  denosumab  crossed  the  placental  barrier.  One 
monkey in the control group had quantifiable serum denosumab concentrations. 
Table 18. Mean toxicokinetic parameters for denosumab in embryotoxicity study 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
2.5 
AUC(0-τ) (mgxhr/ml) 
Cmax (µg/ml)   
Tmax (hr) 
1-25.9        
5-42.7              (5-58.8(-),  28.5 
(+)) 
1-56.6        
5-94.1              (5-114  (-),  61.2 
(+)) 
1-122         
5-291                (5-282  (-),  356 
(+)) 
1-3.59          
5-5.78                  (5-8.8  (-),  3.14 
(+)) 
1-7.46          
5-11.9                  (5-15.5  (-),  5.95 
(+)) 
1-16.7          
5-41.4                  (5-41  (-),  43.9 
(+)) 
1-120        
5-24         (5-24 (-), 48 
(+)) 
1-120        
5-24         (5-16 (-), 24 
(+)) 
1-120        
5-24         (5-24 (-), 24 
(+)) 
5 
12.5 
Values  are  following  the  first  (1-)  and  5th  (5-)  subcutaneous  dose  and  corresponding  values  for 
neutralizing antibody negative (-) and positive (+) monkey are in parenthesis). 
Reproduction toxicology studies were conducted in the monkey, only. This is acceptable in view of the 
species  selectivity  of  denosumab.  Further,  literature  data  are  in  line  with  the  fact  that  deficiency  of 
RANK/RANKL  has  an  impact  on  the  development  of  the  lactating  mammary  gland.  While  constitutive 
deficiency  of  RANK/RANKL  and  inhibition  of  the  same  may  not  be  directly  comparable,  the  issue  has 
been adequately addressed in section 4.6 of the SmPC.  
Prenatal and postnatal development, including maternal function 
No specific studies were conducted and this is acceptable in view of considerations on use of animals 
and  there  being  no  cause  of  concern  identified  in  other  studies.  A  study  (R220080340)  in  the 
preweaning rat may though have been considered in this context. 
Studies in which the offspring (juvenile animals) are dosed and/or further evaluated  
No  specific  studies  were  conducted  and  this  is  justified  with  reference  to  the  indication  not  including 
patients less than 9 years old and the age of monkeys used in the toxicology programme. 
Local Tolerance 
No  specific  studies  were  conducted.  Evaluation  in  repeated  dose  toxicity  studies  did  not  indicate  any 
relevant  irritation  at  the  site  of  application.  Incidences  of  haemorrhages  at  the  injection  site  were 
noted in the denosumab treated monkey, but not in control monkeys in the 12 months study. 
Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
No  specific  studies  were  conducted.  Antigenicity  was  assessed  in  the  general  toxicity  studies.  At  all 
doses  a  high  incidence  of  binding  and/or  neutralizing  antibodies  were  detected.  Denosumab  was 
associated with  immunogenicity in monkey. In humans very low incidence of production of anti drug 
antibodies has been reported (see clinical section).   
Immunotoxicity 
No specific studies were conducted. Under the conditions in chronic toxicity studies and in the chronic 
bone  quality  pharmacology  studies  no  significant  adverse  effects  on  immunology  parameters 
29
 
monitored  were  recorded.  However,  the  potential  for  unwanted  effects  of  denosumab  on  immune 
function  is  not  clear.  Also  based  on  theoretical  considerations  on  the  role  of  OPG/RANKL  in 
osteoimmunology,    dysregulation,  modulation,  toxicity  cannot  be  ruled  out  and  collectively  the  data 
indicate  that  a  concern  for  interference  with  immune  pathways  of  regulatory  importance  cannot  be 
dismissed.   
Dependence 
No specific studies were conducted. Denosumab has not been shown to interact with receptors known 
to be involved in dependence. 
Metabolites 
No specifc studies have been conducted, which is considered acceptable.  
Studies on impurities 
No specific studies have been conducted, which is considered acceptable.  
Other studies 
Three studies addressing the potential for cross-reactivity were conducted. 
Table 19. Cross-reactivity studies with denosumab  
Study ID 
101758 
Study type   
Cross-reactivity  with  cynomolgus  monkey 
and  human  tissues.  1,  10  µg/ml.  Spleen, 
lymph node, thymus, tonsil, bone marrow, 
thyroid, bone, human bone, human lymph 
node 
Cross-reactivity  with  normal  human 
tissues 1, 10 µg/ml. 
101348 
102700 
Cross-reactivity  with  monkey,  rat  and 
rabbit  tissue,  3  animals/species.  5,  25 
µg/ml. 
Noteworthy findings 
Membrane  staining  of  lymphocytes  lining  the 
periphery  of  the  paracortex  in  monkey.  Human 
fetal  bone  and  human  lymph  nodes  positive. 
Non-specific staining in multiple tissues. 
of 
lining 
staining 
the  periphery  of 
Immunoreactivity  in  lymph  node  from  1  donor. 
few-moderate 
Weak-moderate 
lymphocytes 
the 
paracortex. Unconclusive. 
Monkey: Lymph nodes, spleen and GALT. 
Rat:  Light  to  moderate  staining  in  chrondrocytes 
and  the  margins  of  the  surrounding  lacunae  in 
the auricular cartilage. 
Rabbit: Lymph nodes, spleen and GALT 
Studies were conducted according to principles of GLP with some exceptions. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody with an approximate molecular weight of 147 kilodaltons. 
It  is  a  sequence  of  amino  acids  and  a  protein  and  in  accordance  with  the  CHMP  guideline  on  the 
environmental  risk  assessment  (EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00)  is  exempt  from  testing  because  of  the 
chemical structure. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
The  additional  pharmacology  studies  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  provide  evidence  that  denosumab  has 
expected effects relevant to the indication prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fracture, 
radiation  to  bone,  spinal  cord  compression  or  surgery  to  bone)  in  adults  with  bone  metastases  from 
solid tumours. The dosing schedule for this indication differs from that in osteoporosis in that a higher 
frequency and a higher dose is employed.  Safety pharmacology studies revealed no major cause for 
30
 
 
concern. Considering the  mechanism of action of denosumab, potential effects on immunomodulation 
and immunosuppression cannot be ruled out. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Levels of denosumab in serum from mouse, rat and monkey were measured by an ELISA method that, 
in  principle,  determined  free  (not  bound  to  RANKL)  denosumab.  Pharmacokinetics  and  disposition 
following subcutaneous or intravenous administration of single and multiple (only in monkey) doses of 
denosumab were investigated in mouse, rat and cynomolgus monkey, species also used in toxicology 
studies.  Denosumab  does  not  bind  to  RANKL  in  mouse  and  rat  and  this  could  be  related  to  linear 
pharmacokinetics  evident  after  intravenous  doses  of  0.1  to  10  mg/kg.  Subcutaneous  doses  were 
associated with a good bioavailability in all species. Further, clearance was low in rodents and volume 
of  distribution  similar  to  plasma  volume.  In  contrast,  clearance  was  6  to  15  fold  higher  in  knock-in 
mice  that  express  a  chimeric  form  of  RANKL  and  in  knock-out  mice  that  lack  expression  of  the  Fc 
neonatal receptor. The terminal half-lifes were 19 days in mouse and 11 days in rat.  
In  the  cynomolgus  monkey  pharmacokinetics  were  linear  over  an  intravenous  dose  range  of  1  to  3 
mg/kg, but were non-linear at doses below 1 mg/kg. Values for volume of distribution indicated lack of 
extravascular  distribution.  Following  subcutaneous  doses  of  0.0016  to  1  mg/kg,  non-linearity  was 
evident while approximately linear pharmacokinetics were recorded at a dose range of 1 to 3 mg/kg. 
The  non-linearity  in  monkeys  may  reflect  that  binding  of  denosumab  to  RANKL  leads  to  accelerated, 
but  saturable,  elimination  and  that  elimination  also  involves  the  neonatal  receptor  Fc  (FcRn)  and  the 
reticuloendothelial system. A 50% effective concentration of 464 ng/mL and an Emax of 77.6% were 
calculated  using  pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic  modelling  and  bone  resorption  marker  N-
telopeptide of type I collagen in serum data. 
Denosumab labelled with 125I was widely distributed in monkey after subcutaneous doses with most of 
the  circulating  radioactivity  being  intact  antibody  as  indicated  by  acid-precipitation.  No  particular 
sequestration to bone was reported.  Levels of radioactivity declined to non-quantifiable levels by 672 
hours  at  a  dose  of  0.1  mg/kg,  but  levels  were  measurable  at  the  injection  site,  eye  (cornea),  large 
intestine (males) contents, lymph nodes, spleen, stomach contents (males) and thyroid. No obvious or 
remarkable differences in pattern of distribution between genders were evident, but the  highest dose 
used  was  1  mg/kg  and  animals  developed  antibodies  to  denosumab.  There  were  indications  that 
denosumab  has  the  potential  to  cross  the  blood/brain  barrier,  the  blood/testis  barrier  as  well  as  the 
placental barrier. In this context the distribution of RANKL could be of interest and RANKL protein and 
mRNA  expression  has  been  reported  in  bone,  brain,  heart,  kidney,  liver,  lung,  intestine,  skeletal 
muscle,  mammary  tissue,  placenta,  spleen,  thymus  and  testis.  However,  data  on  the  specific 
distribution  of  various  forms  of  RANKL  (e.g.  membrane,  soluble)  does  not  appear  to  be  available. 
Literature  data  indicate  that  RANKL  may  be  produced  by  tumour  cells  themselves,  for  example  in 
multiple  myeloma,  prostate  cancer,  or  human  neuroblastoma.  Further,  osteosarcoma  cells  have  been 
reported to express the functional receptor RANK at the cell surface. 
Denosumab  is  a  monocloncal  antibody  and  current  knowledge  concerning  the  clearance  of  antibodies 
indicates  that  metabolism  may  be  mediated  through  internalization  followed  by  intracellular 
degradation  to  small  peptides  and  amino  acids.  Antibodies  may  be  protected  from  lysosomal 
degradation  through  binding  to  the  Fc  region  of  the  neonatal  receptor  FcRn  and  data  from  studies  in 
FcRn knock-out mice were consistent with that FcRn protects denosumab from elimination and so may 
influence tissue distribution. 
Radioactivity was primarily excreted in urine with only 1 to 3% recovered in faeces.  
31
 
The  monkey  was  determined  to  be  the  most  suitable  species  to  use  in  toxicology  studies  based  on 
pharmacology and pharmacokinetics. Toxicokinetic data showed no significant differences in exposure 
in  male  and  female  animals.  After  repeated  subcutaneous  doses  of  0.1  to  50  mg/kg  in  monkey 
approximately linear pharmacokinetics were reported. Anti-denosumab antibodies were recorded in the 
majority of non-clinical studies, however exposures achieved in toxicology studies still corresponded to 
high multiples in comparison with expected clinical levels.  
Toxicology 
Denosumab  is  a  fully  human  monoclonal  antibody  (IgG2)  with  affinity  and  specificity  for  the  human 
receptor  activator  of  nuclear  factor  кB  ligand  that  may  bind  and  inactivate  RANKL  similarly  to  the 
endogenous  osteoprotegerin.  The  potential  for  toxicity  of  denosumab  after  repeated  administrations 
and  monitoring  of  standard  parameters  was  evaluated  in  monkey  as  denosumab  only  recognizes 
RANKL  in  nonhuman  primates.  In  addition  some  data  from  knock-out  mice  are  also  considered  from 
the  toxicological  point  of  view.  OPG/RANKL  interactions  have  been  implicated  in  a  variety  of  disease 
activities also including liver and vascular systems. 
In  monkey,  subcutaneous  doses  up  to  10  mg/kg  once  weekly  and  50  mg/kg  given  once  per  month 
were  administered  for  durations  up  to  12  months.  No  specific  single  dose  toxicity  studies  were 
conducted,  but  no  remarkable  observations  were  recorded  after  the  first  dose  in  the  repeated  dose 
toxicity  studies.  The  intended  human  dose  is  120  mg  given  subcutaneously  every  4  weeks 
corresponding to an AUC  0-4 weeks of 752 µg*day/ml and in most cases doses used in toxicology studies 
represented  high  multiples  of  expected  human  exposure.  However,  the  development  of  neutralizing 
and/or  binding  antibodies  in  subsets  of  animals,  resulting  in  greatly  reduced  exposure,  was  a 
confounding factor. There were no remarkable changes in clinical parameters, serum biochemistry, or 
histopathological  effects  in  any  of  the  studies,  but  bone  turnover  markers  in  serum  and  urine  were 
decreased as were calcium levels (in males). Clinical data indicate cataracts as common eye disorders, 
but  no  treatment  related  ocular  changes  were  reported  after  ophthalmological  examinations  in 
monkey.  In  the  12  month  monkey  study,  2  deaths  at  the  high  dose  occurred.  The  overall  conclusion 
was that deaths were not related to treatment, one diagnosed with possibly cardiac inflammation and 
the  other  death  linked  to  acute  exacerbation  of  pre-existing  parasitic  intestinal  infection.  However,  it 
does not seem completely justified to exclude a possibility of involvement of an induced dysregulation 
of  immune  function  in  these  findings.  Of  note  is  that  the  2  deaths  were  both  males.  No  deaths  were 
recorded  in  the  16  month  bone  study  that  utilized  female  animals  only.  Further,  clinical  data  have 
indicated a higher incidence of infections in subsets of denosumab treated patients.  
No specific data on local tolerance is available, but clinical data are expected to be sufficient to assess 
any possible local reactions. 
The  pharmacological  target  of  denosumab  indicates  that  a  potential  for  adverse  effects  may  also 
involve osteoimmunological pathways.  No specific studies on potential for immunotoxicity have been 
conducted.  From  data  in  the  literature  it  appears  that  RANKL  has  no  significant  role  in  the  functional 
responses of an adult animal with an intact immune system while RANKL has a role in the developing 
immune  system.  Data  on  potential  effects  of  RANKL  inhibition  on  the  immune  system  are  though 
conflicting.  In  rodent  models  using  the  endogenous  RANKL  inhibitor  osteoprotegerin,  a  modest 
stimulation  of  production  of  antigen  specific  antibodies  against  T  cell  dependent  and  independent 
antigens  has  been  reported.  Denosumab  and  the  natural  ligand  exhibited  a  similar  range  of  binding 
affinities  in  in  vitro  studies.  In  vitro,  osteoprotegerin  had  modest  T  cell  co-stimulatory  properties.  To 
the  extent  these  results  with  endogenous  inhibition  by  osteoprotegerin  can  be  extrapolated  to 
inhibition  by  denosumab  in  primate/humans  it  would  appear  that  cellular  responses  are  not  affected 
while  antigen  specific  humoral  responses  may  be  stimulated.  Although  no  relevant  effects  were 
32
 
reported in infection models that assessed host response to Bacillus-Calmette-Guerin or influenza virus 
infection,  such  studies  have  limitations  and  an  interference  with  the  immune  response  e.g.  under 
conditions of a pre-altered immune system cannot be fully ruled out. Denosumab may be considered a 
multifunctional molecule in the sense that antibodies have a potential to activate FcR bearing cells as 
well as primary target cells. An antibody can act as a bridge bringing different cells into close contact 
by virtue of engaging an antigen recognizing part and engaging Fc receptors on different cells via its Fc 
part also indicating a potential for additional cellular activation. 
Due to the species specificity of denosumab, toxicity studies in rodents were not conducted, however 
reference is made to data obtained in knock-in mouse as well as rodent studies using osteoprotegerin 
instead of denosumab. Although ablation of RANKL and inhibition of the RANK/RANKL pathway can be 
expected  to  differ,  such  data  may  provide  indications  of  potential  for  undesirable  effects  due  to 
interference  with  this  signalling  system  involving  diverse  pathways.  These  studies  were  focussed  on 
the  primary  pharmacological  effect  and  no  specific  toxicity,  with  the  exception  of  expected  effects 
(defects in tooth eruption, lymph node genesis, mammary gland and lymphocyte development as well 
as disturbances in T cell/dendritic cell interactions), was reported. Denosumab appears thus to include 
several  features  that  preclude  a  reliable  risk  assessment  from  the  non-clinical  point  of  view:  species-
specificity, immunogenicity, immune system target, target in systems with potential for large biological 
amplification in vivo, multifunctional agent (Fc binding domain) and cell associated target. Taking these 
issues  into  consideration  denosumab  toxicity  may  be  accepted  as  sufficiently  investigated  and  at  this 
point of time clinical experience may be expected to be extensive, although with a different posology. 
In similarity to some intravenous bisphosphonates, use of denosumab in the clinic has been associated 
with  incidences  of  osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  (ONJ).  The  mechanism  of  ONJ  has  not  been  established, 
but a role of inhibition of osteoclastic activity has been discussed. Bisphosphonates reportedly alter this 
activity by interfering with osteoblast production of mediators of osteoclastogenesis. There are studies 
indicating  that  some  bisphosphonates  may  alter  production  of  RANKL  and  OPG  contributing  to  a 
microenvironment that favours inhibition of bone resorption and ONJ. Osteoblastic activity is coupled to 
osteoclastic activity and oversuppression of bone turnover may result. Antiangiogenetic properties may 
also  be  involved  in  the  process.  Further,  in  this  context  the  issue  whether  a  similar  “osteolytic 
targeting”  of  denosumab  and  bisphosphonates  (that  may  have  a  prolonged  half-life)  could  also  have 
implications  on  safety  aspects  such  as  ONJ,  in  the  event  bisphosphonate  therapy  is  followed  by 
denosumab administration.  
A cross-reactivity study using a human tissue panel was conducted, but was inconclusive. 
The  potential  for  reproduction  toxicity  of  denosumab  was  evaluated  in  monkeys.  Fertility  and  early 
embryonic development did not appear to be influenced by weekly subcutaneous doses of denosumab 
up  to  12.5  mg/kg.  However,  this  may  be  attributable  to  study  design.  Denosumab  treatment  was 
applied  from  GD20-GD50,  during  the  time  of  organogenesis  when  the  placenta  however  is  not 
permeable  for  monoclonal  antibodies.  With  caesarean  section  being  on  day  100,  there  likely  has  not 
been enough drug exposure of the foetus for an effect to show. Evaluation of sperm motility and flow 
cytometric  data  on  testicular  tissue  in  the  12  month  monkey  toxicity  study  did  not  indicate  adverse 
effects of denosumab. While constitutive deficiency of RANK/RANKL may not be directly comparable to 
situations of exogenously induced inhibition, data that RANK/RANKL are essential for the development 
of  the  lactating  mammary  gland  during  pregnancy  could  be  of  interest  for  assessment  of  use  of 
denosumab during pregnancy and lactation.  
A  further  study  of  reproductive  toxicity  in  an  “enhanced  pre/post  natal  design”  (with  exposure  at  the 
relevant time period) in the Cynomolgus monkey is currently undertaken and the results will become 
available in the end of 2011. These study results should be submitted as a FUM with the consequence 
that in case of safety signals, appropriate changes will be implemented in the SmPC.  
33
 
Studies using various rodent models of RANKL inhibition during early and rapid bone growth concluded 
that  denosumab  administration,  particularly  at  younger  ages,  high  doses  or  prolonged  durations,  has 
the potential to negatively influence long bone growth, geometry or strength in children. 
No specific studies on the potential for genotoxicity and carcinogenicity have been conducted and the 
lack of studies has been justified and is generally consistent with applicable guidelines. Denosumab is 
not  likely  to  have  any  primary  genotoxic/carcinogenic  potential,  but  a  potential  to  interfere  with  the 
immune  system  cannot  be  discounted  and  the  available  studies  that  address  these  issues  seem 
limited. The multiple signalling pathways involved in OPG effects, and by analogy possibly also relevant 
in  the  case  of  denosumab,  indicate  a  potential  for  dysregulation  of  functions  that  could  be  critical  in 
e.g. cancer pathogenesis.  
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The majority of non-clinical studies submitted with the application have already been assessed in the 
context  of  the  osteoporosis  indication  for  Prolia  and  the  present  report  focuses  on  the  additional 
primary pharmacology studies conducted in support of the new indication. These studies used OPG-Fc 
as  an  inhibitor  of  RANK  in  different  murine  models  of  bone  metastasis.  The  sections  on 
pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  are  in  principle  the  same  as  in  the  previous  non-clinical  report  for 
Prolia  with  no  new  data  included,  but  are  discussed  in  relation  to  the  higher  dose  and  the  increased 
frequency  of  dosing  relevant  for  the  present  indication.  In  a  6-month  period  the  dose  is  12  times 
greater than the previously approved dose for osteopososis and  corresponds to an AUC  0-4weeks of 752 
µgxday/ml.  The  Cmax  at  a  dose  of  120  mg  was  approximately  11  µg/ml.  Comparison  of  exposures 
achieved  in  non-clinical  studies  and  the  expected  clinical  values  at  the  new  dose  and  new  dosing 
frequency  indicate  considerable  margins  of  exposure  although  the  development  of  anti  denosumab 
antibodies is a confounding factor.  
The  additional  pharmacology  studies  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  provide  evidence  that  denosumab  has 
expected effects relevant to the indication prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fracture, 
radiation  to  bone,  spinal  cord  compression  or  surgery  to  bone)  in  adults  with  bone  metastases  from 
solid  tumours.  Considering  the  mechanism  of  action  of  denosumab,  potential  effects  on 
immunomodulation and immunosuppression cannot be ruled out. 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  revealed  no  major  cause  for  concern.  RANKL  is  expressed  in  several 
tissues. OPG mRNA is highly expressed in e.g. heart. Secondary pharmacology studies did not indicate 
any specific unwanted activity of inhibition, but studies were focused on immune and bone issues. One 
incidence  of  heart  inflammation  was  an  equivocal  finding  in  a  monkey  study  and  a  trend  for  an 
increase in heart weight in males was noted in earlier studies.  
Based on the review of the non-clinical data provided, the MAA for XGEVA is considered approvable.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody of IgG2 subtype, inhibiting the receptor activator of 
nuclear  factor-κB  (RANK).  Inhibition  of  RANKL  is  a  possible  intervention  point  to  interfere  with 
conditions with increased bone resorption.  
34
 
Previously, a separate stand alone MAA was submitted in January 2009 via the Centralised Procedure 
and  the  corresponding  Commission  decision  was  granted  on  26  May  2010  for  the  use  of  denosumab 
(Prolia) in the following indications: 
 
 
Treatment  of  osteoporosis  in  postmenopausal  women  at  increased  risk  of  fractures.  Prolia 
significantly reduces the risk of vertebral, non vertebral and hip fractures.  
Treatment  of  bone  loss  associated  with  hormone  ablation  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  at 
increased  risk  of  fractures  (see  section  5.1).  In  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving  hormone 
ablation, Prolia significantly reduces the risk of vertebral fractures. 
The current XGEVA MAA concerns another indication (wording applied for):  
 
Prevention of skeletal related events in adults with advanced malignancies involving bone. 
Seventeen  of  the  18  clinical  studies  supporting  this  marketing  application  contributed  data  on  the 
safety,  tolerability,  PK,  and  PD  profiles  for  denosumab  (Figure  2).  The  remaining  study  (20050147) 
also  assessed  these  parameters  but  is  ongoing  and  blinded;  therefore,  PK  and  PD  data  are  not  yet 
available. 
Seven  of  the  18  studies  were  primarily  designed  as  phase  1  clinical  pharmacology  studies  to  assess 
healthy volunteer PK and initial tolerability (Studies 20010124, 20030148, 20030164, and 20030180), 
patient  PK  and  initial  tolerability  (Studies  20010123  and  20040176),  or  intrinsic  factor  PK  (renal 
impairment, Study 20040245). Two of the 18 studies were phase 2 studies designed to assess patient 
PD  and  PK/  PD  (Studies  20040113  and  20040114);  one  (20040114)  was  an  extrinsic  factor  study 
(previous IV bisphosphonate use), and the other (20040113) was a dose-ranging study. The remaining 
9 studies were primarily designed to address other objectives.  
Fig 2. Organogram of denosumab clinical studies in this application 
The phase 2  dose-ranging Study 20040113 forms the rationale for the proposed  dose regime. It was 
designed to evaluate 5 SC denosumab dosing regimens of 30, 120, and 180 mg Q4W and 60 and 180 
mg  Q12W  and  an  IV  bisphosphonate  comparator  in  255  subjects  with  breast  cancer  and  bone 
metastases. The 120 mg Q4W dose was selected as the phase 3 dosing regimen because it was well-
tolerated,  resulted  in  high  serum  denosumab  levels  throughout  the  dosing  interval,  and  achieved 
maximal suppression of uNTx/Cr over the entire dosing interval in a high proportion of subjects. 
35
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The data provided for the PK analysis of this application are mainly identical to those assessed for the 
MAA  for  Prolia  (denosumab).  Since  the  outcome  of  the  assessment  of  these  data  is  still  valid  and 
supported by the CHMP, the relevant studies have not been assessed again and regarding these trials 
the following PK information reflects the previous CHMP assessment of the relevant paragraphs as far 
as applicable for the different dosing regimen proposed in the current application.  
In addition the applicant has provided data from PK substudies in the pivotal phase III trials 20050103, 
20050136,  and  20050244  to  allow  for  an  assessment  of  PK  parameters  of  the  120 mg  Q4W  dosing 
regimen  in  the  target  population.  PK  data  from  Study  20050244  and  Study  20050136  have  been 
included in the population pharmacokinetic model. 
Absorption 
The  only  study  where  denosumab  was  given  both  IV  and  SC  was  a  Phase  1,  dose-escalation  (0.01, 
0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0, and 3.0 mg/kg) study (20010124) in postmenopausal women between the ages of 
40  and  70  years  old.  Twelve  single-dose  cohorts  with  8  subjects  per  cohort  randomized  to  either 
denosumab  or  placebo  (3:1  ratio)  were  evaluated.  Six  cohorts  received  a  single  SC  injection  and  six 
cohorts received a single IV injection. 
Following  both  IV  and  SC  administration,  denosumab  demonstrated  dose-dependent,  nonlinear  PK. 
Mean  SC  CL/F  and  mean  IV  CL  observed  at  0.01  mg/kg  were  9.8-fold  and  4.4-fold  greater, 
respectively, than mean CL/F and CL at 3 mg/kg. 
Table 20. Relative exposure following SC and IV administration. 
Based  on  the  Population  PK  analysis  of  the  120 mg  Q4W  dosing  PK  data  the  absolute  bioavailability 
was estimated to be 62%, in line with the estimate of 61% for the 60 mg/Q6M dosing, findings in the 
Study 109957 population PK analysis for the Q6M dosing, and supported by data on relative exposures 
from  Study  20010124.  Formal  bioavailability,  plasma  protein  binding,  and  other  human  biomaterials 
studies  have  not  been  conducted.  Comparison  of  the  PK,  as  well  as  PD  profiles  of  denosumab 
demonstrated bioequivalence between denosumab from different production sites and in different drug 
product presentations. 
Distribution 
The  volume  of  distribution  was  determined  in  the  dose-escalation  study  20010124.  Mean  volume  of 
distribution  at  steady-state  increased  slightly  across  the  IV  dose  range  from  approximately  29  to 
55 mL/kg  and  were  similar  to  that  for  plasma  (43 mL/kg).  In  the  Population  PK  Analysis  after  IV 
administration, the volume of distribution was also similar to plasma volume (3.96 L/66 kg), indicating 
limited extravascular distribution, as expected for a monoclonalantibody.  
36
 
 
 
 
Elimination 
It is generally accepted that monoclonal antibodies are eliminated by catabolism or receptor-mediated 
processes  and  not  by  hepatic  metabolic  clearance  or  renal  excretion.  Denosumab  is  likely  eliminated 
through  a  non-specific,  linear  pathway  via  the  reticuloendothelial  system  and  a  target-mediated, 
nonlinear pathway. This assumption is supported by the fact that renal function did not affect the PK of 
denosumab. 
The initial phase 1 studies of denosumab in healthy postmenopausal women, healthy men  50 years 
of  age,  and  subjects  with  advanced  cancer  and  bone  metastasis  (Studies 20010123,  20010124, 
20030148,  20030164,  and  20030180)  explored  a  wide  range  of  weight-based  SC  doses  (0.01  to 
3.0 mg/kg). An additional phase 1 study in Japanese subjects (Study 20040176) assessed single fixed 
doses  of  60  and  180  mg  and  3  fixed  doses  of  180  mg  Q4W.  A  phase 2  study,  Study 20040113, 
explored  a  wide  range  of  fixed  SC  doses  (30 to  180 mg)  and  dosing  intervals  (Q4W  and  Q12W)  in 
subjects with breast cancer and bone metastasis.   
The  results  of  these  assessments  consistently  show  that  denosumab  displays  nonlinear  clearance 
across  a  wide  dose  range.  However,  non-linear  clearance  is  observed  primarily  at lower doses  (0.03-
0.3) mg/kg. An indication of less nonlinear PK is seen in doses over 60 mg/kg which is consistent with 
the  proposed  saturation  of  the  target  mediated  elimination.  At  the  1.0-mg/kg  and  the  3.0-mg/kg  SC 
doses, which are in the proximity of the 120-mg dose applied for, CL/F was around 0.07-0.1 mL/h/kg. 
The  corresponding  mean  half-life  value  that  described  the  disposition  of  denosumab  over  a  large 
proportion of exposure (t1/2,β) was approximately 30 days, which is similar to that observed for other 
monoclonal antibodies. 
Consistent with these data which indicate approximately dose-proportional increases in exposure with 
weight-based doses above 1.0 mg/kg, mean C max and AUC 0-tau values increased approximately 3.8- to 
4.0-fold for a 3-fold increase in fixed dose from 60 to 180 mg in Japanese subjects with breast cancer 
and  bone  metastasis  in  Study  20040176  and  increased  approximately  5.8-  to  6.5-fold  for  a  6-fold 
increase  in  fixed  dose  from  30  to  180  mg  in  subjects  with  breast  cancer  and  bone  metastasis  in 
Study 20040113 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality 
The initial phase 1 studies of denosumab in healthy postmenopausal women, healthy men  50 years 
of  age,  and  subjects  with  advanced  cancer  and  bone  metastasis  (Studies 20010123,  20010124, 
20030148,  20030164,  and  20030180)  explored  a  wide  range  of  weight-based  SC  doses  (0.01  to 
3.0 mg/kg)  with  intensive  PK  sampling.  The  results  of  these  assessments  consistently  show  that 
denosumab  displays  nonlinear  PK  across  a  wide  dose  range.  At  doses  at  or  above  a  dose  of  60  mg 
(approximately 1.0 mg/kg), however, an indication of less nonlinear PK is seen.  
Time dependency 
Time  dependency  could  be  assessed  based  on  data  from  study  20040114  which  was  a  phase  2, 
multicenter,  randomized,  open-label,  active-controlled,  parallel-group,  multi-dose  (up  to  week  25) 
study in subjects with advanced cancer. One group received denosumab 180 mg SC Q4W and limited 
PK  sampling  was  performed  after  the  first  dose  up  to  study  week 32.  An  approximate  2-fold 
accumulation  (1.7-  to  2.3-fold)  was  observed  for  the  denosumab  180-mg  Q4W  group  following  the 
third and fifth doses.   
37
 
 
 
 
Denosumab  does  not  seem  to  exhibit  time  dependent  PK.  The  accumulation  ratio  is  in  line  with  the 
expected accumulation ratio based on single dose PK data. 
Intra- and inter-individual variability 
Inter-individual  variability  is  approximately  40%  in  C max  and  AUC.  Data  on  intra-individual  variability 
has not been presented. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
Sparse pharmacokinetic sampling was performed  primarily for POP-PK analysis in the pivotal phase 3 
studies  of  subjects  with  advanced  malignancies  involving  bone  (breast  cancer,  prostate  cancer,  other 
solid tumors, and multiple myeloma) (Studies 20050136, 20050244, and 20050103). These data allow 
comparison  of  trough  denosumab  serum  concentrations  at  1,  3,  and  6  months  (during  120  mg 
denosumab  Q4W  dosing)  between  these  subjects  and  subjects  with  advanced  breast  cancer  in  the 
phase  2  dose-ranging  study  (Study  20040113)  and  healthy  adults  in  Study  20060446.  Study 
20060446  was  considered  appropriate  for  comparison  purposes  (month  1  only;  single  dose)  because 
this study used the proposed clinical dose of 120 mg denosumab and enrolled a relatively large sample 
size (116 healthy adult men and women) for a phase 1 study with intense pharmacokinetic sampling.   
The  advanced  cancer  population  in  Study  20050244  included  subjects  with  multiple  myeloma,  non-
small  cell  lung  cancer,  and  a  range  of  other  solid  tumors  (breast  cancer  and  prostate  cancer  were 
excluded).  Because  of  the  large  number  of  different  solid  tumor  types  and  the  small  number  of 
subjects  per  tumor  type,  comparisons  of  exposure  between  all  individual  tumor  types  in  this  study 
were not performed; only data for subjects with multiple myeloma are assessed separately.   
Median trough serum denosumab concentrations at month 1 after a 120 mg dose  differed by < 52% 
between subjects with solid tumors (breast, prostate, and other solid tumors) and healthy adults (men 
and women), with extensive overlap in the 10th to 90th percentile ranges. In addition, median trough 
serum denosumab concentrations at month 6 differed by < 23%, respectively, between subjects with 
breast  cancer  (Studies  20040113  and  20050136),  subjects  with  prostate  cancer  (Study  20050103), 
and subjects with other solid tumors (Study 20050244), with notable overlap observed in the 10th to 
90th percentile ranges.  
These  results  indicate  that  disease  status  (i.e.,  breast  cancer,  prostate  cancer,  other  solid  tumors) 
does  not  markedly  affect  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  denosumab.  No  conclusion  can  be  drawn 
regarding multiple myeloma in this comparison due to limited patient numbers. 
Population PK model  
The population pharmacokinetic model provided in this application is mainly in line with the population 
PK  Study  109957  for  the  Q6M  dosing  with  the  exception  of  the  addition  of  data  from  the  phase  III 
pivotal  Studies  20050244  and  20050136.  The  primary  objectives  were  to  quantitatively  characterise 
the pharmacokinetics after IV and SC administration to healthy subjects, postmenopausal women with 
low  BMD  or  osteoporosis,  and  subjects  with  cancer,  to  quantify  intra-subject  variability,  and  to 
evaluate  the  influence  of  patient-  and  treatment-related  covariates  on  variability.  The  population  PK 
analysis was performed using NONMEM. 
The  analysis  included  serum  denosumab  concentration-time  data  from  20  clinical  studies,  including 
healthy  subjects,  postmenopausal  women  with  low  BMD  or  osteoporosis,  and  subjects  with  cancer. 
Denosumab  was  administered  as  a  single  IV  dose  (N = 36)  or  as  single  or  multiple  SC  doses 
38
 
(N = 2279) ranging from 0.01 to 3 mg/kg or 6 to 210 mg fixed dose administered Q4W, Q3M, or Q6M 
for up to 48 months. Index and Test data subsets were prepared and used to develop and evaluate the 
model, respectively. The Index data consisted of 9 phase I studies (20010123, 20010124, 20030148, 
20030164,  20040176,  20050227,  20050241,  20060286,  20060446),  6  phase  II  studies  (20010223, 
20040113,  20040114,  20040215,  20050134,  20050172)  and  3  phase  III  studies  (20030216, 
20040132, 20040135) and included 23,857 denosumab serum concentrations from 2158 subjects. The 
Test  data  included  data  from  2  additional  phase  III  studies  (20050244,  20050136)  and  consisted  of 
746  serum  concentrations  from  157  subjects  with  cancer.  The  final  model  was  fit  to  a  combined 
dataset  of  the  Index  plus  Study  20050136  in  order  to  obtain  final  population  estimates  of  PK 
parameters. The final model was fit to the total combined dataset of Index plus Test in order to update 
the  population  estimates  of  clearance  for  subjects  with  solid  tumours  and  multiple  myeloma,  needed 
due  to  addition  of  Study  20050244  to  the  dataset.  The  Final  dataset  included  24603  serum 
concentrations from 2315 subjects, including 495 healthy subjects, 1069 postmenopausal women with 
low BMD or osteoporosis, and 751 subjects with cancer. The mean (range) age and body weight were 
58 (18 to 87) years and 69 (36 to 174) kg, respectively; 361 (15.6%) were male. Most subjects, 1800 
(77.8%),  were  white;  271  (11.7%),  162  (7.0%),  63  (2.7%),  and  19  (0.8%)  were  Asian,  Hispanic, 
black,  and  “other”,  respectively.  Data of  phase  III  Study  20050103  were  not  available  at  the  time  of 
analysis.  A  two-compartment  PK  model  with  linear  distribution  to  the  peripheral  compartment  and 
parallel linear and nonlinear elimination was selected. The non-linear elimination was described by the 
capacity-limited  binding  of  denosumab  to  RANKL  using  the  quasi-steady-state  approximation  of  the 
target-mediated  drug  disposition  model.  The  model  was  parameterised  in  terms  of  clearance  and 
volume  of  distribution,  which  were  allometrically  scaled  on  the  basis  of  body  weight  using  1.0  as 
exponents  for  both  types  of  parameters.  For  SC  dosing,  the  addition  of  absolute  bioavailability  and  a 
first-order  rate  constant  for  absorption  allowed  the  model  to  describe  data  for  this  route  of 
administration. 
The  model  estimate  for  absolute  bioavailability  was  62%  and  for  mean  absorption  half-life  3.14  days 
with rate and extent of absorption being similar across doses evaluated. The volume of distribution was 
similar to blood volume and linear clearance was estimated to be 3.1 mL/hr/66 kg. At doses  60 mg 
or  1 mg/kg pharmacokinetics are essentially linear with dose. With 120 mg Q4W the estimated target 
occupancy at steady state exceeded 98% for a typical subject during the entire inter-dose interval. No 
evidence  of  time-dependent  kinetics  was  found  for  up  to  48  months.  Simulation  predicted  a  186% 
accumulation at steady state with 120 mg Q4W.  
In the covariates analyses gender and previous bisphosphonate treatment had no relevant impact on 
PK  parameters.  Body  weight  was 
identified  as  the  covariate  with  the 
largest  effect  on 
pharmacokinetics. The between-subject variability ranged from 34% to 53%. 
39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21: Population Pharmacokinetic Parameters of Denosumab 
Units 
Typical Value 
Factor b 
95%CI 
Parameters 
Linear Clearance (CL) a 
-  Multiple Myeloma 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Breast Cancer 
Aromatase Inhibitors Therapy 
Prostate Cancer 
Giant Cell Tumor 
Other Solid Tumors 
Black 
Hispanic 
mL/hr/66kg 
3.08 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Central Volume (V c) a  
- 
Black  
mL/66kg 
2660 
Inter-compartmental Clearance (Q) a 
mL/hr/66kg 
mL/66kg 
39.5 
1300 
Peripheral Volume (V p) a 
Absorption Rate (k a) a 
- 
- 
Age power c 
Reference Age c (AGE ref) 
Bioavailability (F SC) 
Baseline RANKL Concentration (R max) 
Quasi-Steady-State Constant (K SS) 
RANKL Degradation Rate (k deg) 
Complex Internalization Rate (k int) 
Between Subject Variability 
(Variance [CV%]) 
Linear Clearance (ω2
CL) 
Clearance-Volume Correlation [R] 
(ω CL ω Vc) 
Central Volume (ω2
Vc)  
Baseline Target Concentration 
(ω2
Rmax) 
Absorption Rate (ω2
Ka) 
Residual Variability:  
1/hr 
0.00921 
years 
% 
ng/mL 
ng/mL 
1/hr 
1/hr 
-0.556 
69.8 
62.1 
590 
185 
0.00148 
0.00651 
0.115 
[CV=34.0%] 
0.0857 
[R=0.559] 
0.204 
[CV=45.2%] 
0.19 
[CV=43.6%] 
0.279 
[CV=52.8%] 
1.71 
1.15 
2.97 - 3.18 
1.68 - 1.74 
1.11 - 1.2 
0.795 
0.714 - 0.876 
1.30 
1.28 
1.39 
1.21 
1.24 
1.14 - 1.46 
1.15 - 1.41 
1.38 - 1.39 
1.12 - 1.3 
1.17 - 1.31 
2540 – 2770 
0.91 
0.792 - 1.03 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
37.8 - 41.2 
1280 – 1330 
0.00859 - 0.00982 
-0.658 – (-0.454) 
60.4 - 79.1 
60.5 - 63.7 
564 – 617 
173 – 198 
0.00142 - 0.00153 
0.00618 - 0.00684 
0.108 - 0.123 
0.0763 - 0.0951 
0.188 - 0.22 
0.172 - 0.209 
0.257 - 0.301 
9.6 - 9.76 
25.4 - 25.8 
138 – 144 
High concentrations (phase I studies) 
High concentrations (phase II-3 studies) 
Low concentrations 
% 
% 
% 
9.68 
25.6 
141 
Transition from low to high concentrations 
a For a typical subject: 66 kg, 70 years of age, healthy, white 
b Magnitude of the covariate effect: factor by which the typical value is multiplied 
c Absorption rate declined with age. The multiplicative factor was (Age/AGE ref)Age Power up to Age=AGE ref and 
53.5 - 58.4 
ng/mL 
56 
- 
remained constant at Age > AGE ref 
Special populations 
Impaired renal function 
In Study 20040245 the PK profile was not notably affected by varying degrees of renal function. Thus 
no  dose  adjustments  are  required  with  different  degrees  of  renal  impairment.  Transient  decreases  in 
median serum calcium concentration were observed following administration, most notably in patients 
with severe kidney disease.  
40
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Impaired hepatic function 
As denosumab is a monoclonal antibody and not eliminated via hepatic metabolic mechanisms, hepatic 
impairment studies have not been conducted. 
Gender 
Following  administration  of  120 mg  SC  median  denosumab  AUC  and  Cmax  values  were  < 23%  and 
< 16%  different,  respectively,  between  healthy  adult  men  and  women,  and  extensive  overlap  in  the 
interquartile ranges was observed (see below). Thus, despite a slightly higher average body weight for 
men (mean 83.1 kg vs. 71.2 kg), no notable differences in exposure were observed. The results do not 
indicate clinically relevant gender differences in the pharmacokinetics of denosumab. 
Race 
Because  of  the  limited  number  of  non-white  subjects  compared  with  white  subjects  in  Studies 
20060446  and  20040113,  the  assessment  of  denosumab  exposure  by  race  across  all  studies  was 
evaluated  in  the  POP-PK  analysis.  Blacks  and  Hispanics,  but  not  Asians,  had  approximately  21%  to 
24%  higher  denosumab  linear  clearance  relative  to  whites.  The  population  PK  analysis  is  considered 
sufficient to conclude that no clinical significant effects on the systemic exposure of denosumab were 
identified with respect to race (Blacks, Hispanics, Asians and Whites explored). 
Weight 
Exposure based on AUC and Cmax tended to be lower for heavier subjects following a 120 mg SC dose. 
The trend of lower exposure with higher body weight did not result in a reduction in PD effect. Results 
are consistent with that from phase III studies. 
Weight significantly affected the pharmacokinetics of denosumab and one might question the choice of 
a flat dose instead of a weight based dose from a pharmacokinetic perspective. However, the applicant 
has  justified  the  flat  dose  regime  based  on  the  lack  of  correlation  between  weight  and 
pharmacodynamic markers observed throughout several studies.  
Elderly 
No relationship has been detected between denosumab concentration and age, except a trend to lower 
exposure  in  postmenopausal  women  65  to  80  years  of  age  compared  to  < 65  years.  This  had  no 
influence on PD parameters, consistent with findings in the pivotal phase III studies. 
No  relationship  was  apparent  between  age  and  exposure  to  denosumab,  based  on  AUC  in  healthy 
adults aged 18 to 82 years. 
Children 
The  applicant  has  obtained  necessary  decisions  for  the  paediatric  development  of  denosumab 
(P/14/2010).  There  are  no  recommendations  to  conduct  paediatric  studies  related  to  patients  with 
multiple myeloma (Class Waiver). The conduct of paediatric clinical studies in the paediatric indication 
of  prevention  of  SREs  in  patients  with  bone  metastases  is  deferred.  The  required  non-clinical 
commitments  have  been  completed  and  a  PIP  compliance  procedure  concluded  that  the  applicant  is 
currently compliant with the agreed PIP.  
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal drug interaction studies were performed because denosumab is a monoclonal antibody not 
eliminated via hepatic metabolic mechanisms and the interaction potential is considered to be low. The 
impact of previous bisphosphonate treatment on the pharmacokinetics of denosumab was assessed in 
41
 
Study  20050241  in  which  pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  were  not  altered  in  subjects  who 
transitioned from alendronate to denosumab. Further, for subjects with advanced breast cancer there 
seems  to  be  no  difference  in  denosumab  PK  based  on  type  of  concomitant  cancer  therapy  (i.e. 
chemotherapy [with or without hormone therapy] or hormone therapy). 
Effects of immunogenicity on the pharmacokinetics of denosumab 
Clinical  studies  showed  a  low  immunogenicity  incidence.  Overall,  0.4%  of  3508  denosumab-treated 
subjects in the studies included in this filing were positive for binding antibodies at any time point, and, 
in most of these subjects, the antibodies were transiently detected. In addition, neutralizing antibodies 
have  not  been  detected  in  any  subject.    Based  on  the  low  number  of  subjects  with  antibodies,  no 
conclusion on antibodies´ impact on denomsumab PK may be drawn. 
Exposure relevant for safety evaluation 
Mean (SD) Cmax and AUC were 27100 (14800) ng/ml and 723 (684) µg*day/ml, respectively, at steady 
state following multiple 120 mg SC doses. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action/Primary pharmacology 
In  preclinical  studies,  denosumab  has  been  shown  to  block  the  formation,  activation,  and  survival  of 
osteoclasts in vitro and to reduce bone resorption in vivo (see Non-Clinical section above). 
Pharmacodynamic data for this application are presented from the two dose-finding studies 20040113 
and 20040114. 
Denosumab is a fully human monoclonal IgG2 antibody. It binds with high affinity to human receptor 
activator of nuclear factor-κB ligand (huRANKL), a member of the tumour necrosis factor (TNF) family 
of proteins. RANKL is essential for the formation, function and survival of osteoclasts, the one and only 
cell type responsible for bone resorption. As denosumab is highly specific to huRANKL, it does not bind 
to  other  TNF  family  member  proteins  such  as  TNFα,  TNFβ,  CD40  ligand,  and  TNF  related  apoptosis 
inducing  ligand  (TRAIL).  The  binding  of  denosumab  to  huRANKL  prevents  it  from  activating  its  only 
known receptor, receptor activator of nuclear factor-κB (RANK), on the surface of osteoclasts and their 
precursors. Prevention of RANKL-RANK interaction results in reduced osteoclast numbers and function, 
with consequent decreased bone resorption, and increased bone mass and bone strength. 
42
 
Fig 3. Mechanism of action for denosumab 
Secondary pharmacology 
No  dose  related  adverse  effects  were  seen  with  respect  to  blood  pressure  or  ECG  (Qt  intervals)  in 
phase 1 or phase 2 clinical studies.  
Inactivation of RANKL by denosumab could theoretically result in elevated "free" or circulating levels of 
osteoprotegerin (OPG, the endogenous RANKL inhibitor). The effect of denosumab, as compared with 
IV  bisphosphonates,  on  levels  of  OPG  was  evaluated  in  studies  20040113  and  20040114.  No 
differences were found in OPG levels between denosumab and IV bisphosphonates.  
Antidenosumab  antibodies  were  rarely  seen,  were  never  neutralising  and  no  dose  relationship  was 
seen for the existence of such antibodies.  
No  dose  relationship  for  denosumab  was  seen  in  phase  2  or  3  studies,  with  mandatory  calcium  and 
vitamin  D  supplementation,  for  the  development  of  hypocalcemia.  In  these  studies,  denosumab 
43
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
administration  was  associated  with  transient  decreases  in  serum  calcium,  which  were  most  often  not 
clinically significant (i.e. median serum calcium decreases from baseline < 5%).  
Selection of dose regimen 
N-telopeptide (NTX), serum C-telopeptide (CTX1), and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase (BSAP) were 
selected  as  pharmacodynamic  endpoints  in  the  clinical  pharmacology  studies  with  denosumab.  The 
choice of urinary NTX as a main pharmacodynamic variable for the clinical studies has been supported 
by data from the literature, from phase 1 studies and from registrational studies with the comparator 
zoledronic  acid.  The  applicant  has  submitted  a  PK-PD  analysis  characterizing  the  time  course  of 
uNTx/Cr as a function of denosumab serum concentrations.  
Study  20040113 was a dose-finding phase 2 study, entitled “A Randomized, Active-controlled Study 
of  AMG  162  in  Breast  Cancer  Subjects  With  Bone  Metastasis  Who  Have  Not  Previously  Been  treated 
With Bisphosponate Therapy”. The primary study objective was to evaluate the effect of different doses 
and schedules of denosumab compared to IV bisphosphonate every 4 weeks on the percentage change 
from  baseline  in  urinary  N-telopeptide  (uNTx)  at  week  13  in  this  category  of  patients.  240  patients 
were enrolled, 40 in each treatment group. 
Fig 4 Mean (±SD) serum denosumab concentration-time profiles after SC denosumab  
A. 30, 120, or 180 mg Q4W denosumab                 B.  60 and 180 mg Q12W 
Based  on  the  results  from  this  study,  the  dose  120  mg  and  the  dosing  interval  every  4  weeks  was 
selected for the phase 3 studies. The 120 and 180 mg doses did not significantly differ with respect to 
maximum  serum  concentration  of  uNTx/Cr  achieved.  The  12  week  dosing  interval  did  not  maintain 
maximal  suppression  of  uNTx/CCr  over  the  whole  dosing  interval  in  most  patients  and  the  dosing 
interval  of  4  weeks  was  therefore  selected  for  the  continued  clinical  development  of  the  drug.  The 
choice of dosing schedule for phase 3 studies is sufficiently supported.   
Study  20040114  was  a  randomised  open-label  active-controlled  phase  2  study  in  patients  (n=111) 
with  advanced  cancer  being  treated  with  intravenous  bisphosphonates.  The  primary  objective  for  the 
initial  25  weeks  treatment  phase  was  to  determine  the  effectiveness  of  denosumab  in  reducing 
uNTx/Cr to below 50 nM/mM in subjects with bone metastases of solid tumours (exept lung cancers) 
and in subjects with multiple myeloma and bone disease. 
A  cutoff  level  of  uNTx/Cr  value  50  nM/mM  as  a  prognostic  tool,  as  used  in  study  0040114,  has  been 
used in studies with zoledronic acid and is justified from zoledronic study data and from the literature. 
Denosumab, in different doses, was initiated directly after bisphosphonate therapy and was compared 
44
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to  continued treatment  with  the  same  IV  bisphosphonate.  The  proportion  of subjects  with  uNTx/Cr  < 
50 nM/mM at week 13 was significantly greater in the combined denosumab group compared with the 
IV bisphosphonate group. Further, denosumab treatment resulted in significantly more patients treated 
with denosumab than with zoledronic acid reaching this level of uNTx after 25 weeks of treatment and 
those  patients  who  reached  the  cutoff  level  did  so  significantly  quicker  in  the  denosumab  treated 
groups than in the group treated with zoledronic acid. More patients treated with denosumab every 4 
weeks than patients treated every 12 weeks reached the cutoff uNTx/Cr level. 
Pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  comparisons  between  studies  20040114  (bisphosphonate-
experienced subjects) and 20040113 (bisphosphonate-naïve subjects) indicated that prior exposure to 
IV  bisphosphonates  does  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  or  pharmacodynamics  of  denosumab  in 
subjects  with  advanced  breast  cancer.  Data  from  these  studies  suggest  that  the  type  of  concomitant 
cancer therapy (chemotherapy with or without hormone therapy) or hormone therapy alone in subjects 
with  advanced  breast  cancer  does  not  affect  the  pharmacokinetics  or  pharmacodynamics  of 
denosumab in subjects with advanced cancer. 
In  clinical  studies  for  the  bone  loss  indication,  with  denosumab  60  mg  every  6  months,  previous 
treatment  with  bisphosphonates  had  no  influence  on  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  denosumab  as 
assessed  by  sCTx1.  It  is  not  clear  from  denosumab  studies  in  advanced  cancer  with  skeletal 
metastases  whether  previous  bisphosphonate  treatment  could  alter  the  safety  of  denosumab,  in 
particular with respect to the potential to develop osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Pharmacodynamic interactions with other medicinal products or substances 
No formal pharmcodynamic interaction studies have been performed, which is acceptable. 
Genetic differences in PD response 
The  issue  of  genetic  polymorphism  in  the  human  RANKL  system  as  a  possible  explanation  to  the 
variation  in  the  response  to  denosumab  has  not  been  investigated  by  the  applicant,  which  is 
acceptable. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetics 
The  majority  of  the  PK  studies  submitted  have  already  been  assessed  during  the  evaluation  of  the 
osteoporosis  indication  as  part  of  the  MAA  for  Prolia.  The  new  assessment  has  focused  on  the  higher 
dose/frequency of administrations for XGEVA as compared to Prolia.  
A total of 17 of the 18 clinical studies supporting this MAA contributed data on the safety, tolerability, 
and pharmacokinetic profiles for denosumab.  
The bioanalytical methods used in the studies performed seems adequately validated. 
A  comprehensive  comparability  program  has  demonstrated  that  the  formulations  intended  to  be 
marketed  are  bioequivalent,  in  terms  of  PK  and  PD,  to  the  formulation  used  in  the  pivotal  phase  III 
studies. Regarding the quality part of the comparability program, the reader is referred to the quality 
AR.  
45
 
Data from a wide range of weight-based SC doses (0.01 to 3.0 mg/kg) and data from fixed SC doses 
(30  to180  mg)  consistently  show  that  denosumab  displays  nonlinear  pharmacokinetics  across  a  wide 
dose range. However, at doses at or above a dose of 60 mg (approximately 1.0 mg/kg), an indication 
of less nonlinear pharmacokinetics was seen. 
The  influence  of  site  of  injection  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  has  been  studied  and 
administrations in thigh, abdomen or back of arm are comparable from a PK point of view. No in vitro 
permeability  studies  have  been  performed.  The  time  for  denosumab  reaching  the  maximum 
concentration in serum occurred in a median time of 7-10 days (range: 3 to 21 days) following a single 
120 mg SC dose. 
Two  mechanisms  of  elimination  for  denosumab  are  suggested,  one  mechanism  that  predominates  at 
low  doses  or  serum  concentrations  and  becomes  saturated  as  serum  levels  increase  and  another 
nonsaturable  mechanism  that  governs  the  rate  of  denosumab  elimination  at  higher  doses  or  serum 
concentrations.  The  saturable  mechanism  of  elimination  is  likely  related  to  denosumab  binding  to 
RANKL  and  elimination  of  the  antibody-RANKL  complex.  The  nonsaturable  mechanism  of  denosumab 
elimination is likely nonspecific catabolism in cells of the reticuloendothelial system. The high molecular 
weight (approximately 150 kD) of denosumab precludes renal excretion as a route of elimination. 
For  1.0-mg/kg  and  the  3.0-mg/kg  SC  doses,  which  are  in  the  proximity  of  the  120-mg  dose  applied 
for, clearance was around 0.07-0.1 mL/h/kg. The corresponding mean half-life value that described the 
disposition of denosumab over a large proportion of exposure (t1/2,β) was approximately 30 days. The 
distribution of denosumab is similar to the volume of plasma (3 l) which is expected as for drugs with 
high molecular weight. Protein binding has not been determined. 
Weight  significantly  affected  the  pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  with  higher  exposures  in  patients 
with low weight compared to patients with higher weight. The applicant justified the flat dose regime 
based on the lack of correlation between weight and pharmacodynamic markers observed throughout 
several  studies.  Furthermore,  efficacy  data  presented  by  weight  quartiles  supported  efficacy  over  the 
weight distribution. 
No notable differences in mean exposure were observed due to gender and age.  
Blacks  and  Hispanics,  but  not  Asians,  had  approximately  21%  to  24%  higher  denosumab  linear 
clearance relative to whites, changes that are considered to be clinically insignificant.  
One  study  in  patients  with  impaired  renal  function  was  performed.  The  pharmacokinetic  profile  of 
denosumab  was  not  notably  affected  by  varying  degrees  of  renal  function  (mild  kidney  disease  with 
CrCL 50 to 80 mL/min), moderate kidney disease with CrCL 30 to 49 mL/min), severe kidney disease 
with  (CrCL < 30 mL/min,  and  ESRD).  No  study  in  hepatically  impaired  subjects  has  been  performed 
which is acceptable for a monoclonal antibody. 
No  formal  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  which  is  acceptable  as  the  interaction  potential  is 
considered low. However, the impact of previous bisphosphonate treatment on the pharmacokinetics of 
denosumab was assessed via studies 20040113 and 20040114. There were no strong indications that 
trough  serum  concentrations  of  denosumab  were  altered  in  subjects  with  previous  bisphosphonate 
treatment. Similarly, based on studies 20040113 and 20050136, no large differences in trough serum 
concentrations  of  denosumab  depending  on  type  of  concomitant  cancer  therapy  (i.e.  chemotherapy 
[with  or  without  hormone  therapy]  or  hormone  therapy)  for  subjects  with  advanced  breast  cancer 
could be observed. 
Clinical  studies  showed  a  low  immunogenicity  incidence.  Overall,  0.4%  of  greater  than  3508 
denosumab-treated  subjects  in  the  studies  included  in  this  filing  were  positive  for  development  of 
binding antibodies. 
46
 
Regarding  exposure  relevant  for  safety  evaluation,  mean  (SD)  Cmax  and  AUC  were  27100  (14800) 
ng/ml and 723 (684) µg*day/ml, respectively, at steady state following multiple 120 mg SC doses. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Denosumab inhibits the bone degrading activity of osteoclasts by inhibiting RANKL, thus reducing the 
degradation  of  bone.  This  inhibition  of  osteoclastic  bone  resorption  differs  from  the  mechanism  of 
action for bisphosphonates. Doses and treatment scheduled selected for phase 2 trials are well founded 
in the phase 1 trials. The 120 and 180 mg doses did not significantly differ with respect to maximum 
serum  concentration  achieved  of  uNTx/Cr.  The  12  week  dosing  interval  did  not  maintain  maximal 
suppression  of  uNTx/Cr  over  the  whole  dosing  interval  in  most  patients  and  the  dosing  interval  of  4 
weeks was therefore selected for the continued clinical development of the drug. The choice of dosing 
schedule for phase 3 studies has been sufficiently supported.  
The  choice  of  urinary  NTX  as  the  main  pharmacodynamic  variable  for  the  clinical  studies  has  been 
adequately supported by data from the literature, from phase 1 studies and from registrational studies 
with the comparator ZOL. A cutoff level of uNTX/Cr value < 50 nM/mM as a prognostic tool, as used in 
study  0040114,  has  been  used  in  studies  with  ZOL  and  is  justified  from  these  studies  and  from 
literature  data.  Using  this  tool,  significantly  more  patients  treated  with  denosumab  than  with  ZOL 
reached the level of uNTX < 50 nM/mM after 25 weeks of treatment. Those patients who reached the 
cutoff level did so significantly quicker in the denosumab treated groups than in the group treated with 
ZOL. 
Levels of OPG or development of antidenosumab antibodies were not affected by different denosumab 
doses.  No  dose  relationship  for  the  development  of  hypocalcemia  was  seen  in  phase  2  or  3  studies, 
with mandatory calcium and vitamin D supplementation.  
In  clinical  studies  for  the  bone  loss  indication,  with  denosumab  60  mg  every  6  months,  previous 
treatment  with  bisphosphonates  had  no  influence  on  the  pharmacodynamic  effects  of  denosumab  as 
assessed  by  sCTx1.  It  is  not  clear  from  denosumab  studies  in  advanced  cancer  with  skeletal 
metastases  whether  previous  bisphosphonate  treatment  could  alter  the  safety  of  denosumab,  in 
particular with respect to the development of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ). 
The applicant has submitted a PK-PD analysis characterizing the time course of uNTx/Cr as a function 
of denosumab serum concentrations, which is acknowledged. The analysis is considered supportive to 
the  clinical  data.  However,  since  no  claims  are  made  based  on  this  analysis  no  thorough  assessment 
has been done. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
In conclusion, the pharmacokinetic profile of denosumab is very well characterized.  
Adequate data on PD effects of denosumab at the suggested dosage has been presented to support an 
indication  in  the  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  (pathological  fracture,  radiation  to  bone,  spinal 
cord  compression  or  surgery  to  bone)  in  adults  with  bone  metastases  from  solid  tumours  in  patients 
with advanced malignant disease involving bone. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
Seven  of  the  18  studies  submitted  with  this  application  were  conducted  in  subjects  with  advanced 
malignancies.  Eight  additional  studies  were  conducted  to  provide  pharmaceutical  and  clinical 
47
 
pharmacology  data  and  also  information  on  the  initial  efficacy  and  tolerability  of  the  drug.  The 
remaining  3  studies  were  conducted  in  patient  populations  outside  the  indication  for  this  application 
(treatment of patients with multiple myeloma or giant cell tumour or prevention of bone metastases in 
patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer at high risk for developing bone metastases). 
2.5.1.  Dose response study(ies) 
Studies  20040113  and  20040114,  discussed  above  under  clinical  pharmacology,  are  the  dose 
response studies for this application. 
2.5.2.  Main study(ies) 
The  three  pivotal  studies  for  the  indication  “Prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  in  adults  with 
advanced malignancies involving bone” are: 
A. Study 20050136, in patients with breast cancer and bone metastases (n = 2046); 
B.  Study  20050103,  in  men  with  hormone  refractory  prostate  cancer  and  bone  metastases  (n  = 
1901); 
C. Study 20050244, in patients with advanced solid malignant tumours (excluding breast cancer and 
prostate cancer) and bone metastases, or with multiple myeloma (n = 1776). 
These 3 studies had a common study design, with only minor differences. The common study design is 
described below while specific details for each of the 3 studies are described separately for each study, 
together with the individual study results. A short summary of pooled efficacy and safety data from all 
3 studies will also be provided  
48
 
 
 
Table 22. Pivotal clinical studies with denosumab in advanced malignancies involving bone 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Study participants were in all three studies patients with advanced cancer and bone metastasis. 
Study 20050136 included patients with breast cancer (males were also included). 
Study 20050103 included patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer and documented failure of 
at least 1 hormonal therapy (surgical or chemical castration), as evidenced by a rising PSA and serum 
testosterone level of < 50 ng/dL due to either surgical or chemical castration 
Study 20050244 included adults with advanced solid malignant tumours (excluding breast cancer and 
prostate cancer) or with multiple myeloma or lymphoma.  
Important inclusion and exclusion criteria 
In  all  3  studies,  subjects  were  also  requested  to  have  ≥  1  bone  metastasis  and  ECOG  performance 
status  0,  1,  or  2.  Creatinine  clearance  was  to  be  no  less  than  30  mL/min  for  included  patients  (as 
calculated according to the Cockroft-Gault equation) and albumin-adjusted serum calcium was to be ≥ 
49
 
 
 
 
 
2.0  mmol/L  (≥  8.0  mg/dL)  and  ≤  2.9  mmol/L  or  ≤  11.5  mg/dL.  Life  expectancy  less  than  6  months 
and prior history or current evidence of osteonecrosis/osteomyelitis of the jaw were exclusion criteria 
in all 3 studies. Among other exclusion criteria were current or prior IV bisphosphonate administration 
and current or prior oral bisphosphonate treatment for bone metastasis. 
Treatments 
Subjects  received  either  denosumab  120  mg,  i.e.  120  mg  SC  Q4W  or  ZOL,  4  mg  IV  Q4W.  Subjects 
with creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min were excluded, in accordance with the product information for 
Zometa.  The  ZOL  dose  was  adjusted  for  patient  with  impaired  renal  function,  in  accordance  with  the 
product information for Zometa. 
Calcium supplementation of  ≥ 500 mg calcium and ≥ 400 IU vitamin D was strongly recommended, 
unless the subject had hypercalcemia.  
Investigators were permitted to prescribe anticancer therapy (chemotherapy or hormonal therapy) and 
other  concomitant  medication  or  treatment  that  they  deemed  necessary  to  provide  adequate  care, 
except  bisphosphonates  or  unapproved  medicinal  products  or  devices.  Bone  marrow  transplantation 
was permitted, if indicated.  
Study subjects were required to visit the clinic once a month for study purposes in addition to receiving 
standard of care evaluation and treatment of the underlying cancer, which included regular evaluation 
of disease progression. 
Study procedures 
No  interim  analysis  was  done  for  these  studies.  Results  from  the  extended  double-blind  treatment 
phase and the open-label  treatment  phase, when completed, will be reported separately. The studies 
had an external, unblinded data monitoring committe (DMC), with members chosen for their expertise 
in oncology or bone disease. 
Pain  endpoints  were  included  in  these  studies,  using  validated  pain  score  scales  and  recording  of 
analgesic  use.  These  patient-related  outcomes  (PRO)  were  recorded  at  baseline  and  then  at  every 
study visit. 
Anti-denosumab antibody testing was done at day 1 and at weeks 25, 49 and 97, at end of study, and 
at follow-up. 
Objectives 
The  pivotal  clincial  studies  were  designed  to  investigate  if  denosumab  was  noninferior  (primary 
endpoint) or superior (secondary endpoint, tested after noninferiority has been demonstrated) to ZOL 
with  respect  to  preventing  or  delaying  the  time  to  first  on-study  occurrence  of  a  SRE  and  whether 
denosumab  was  superior  to  ZOL  in  delaying  the  time  to  first  and  subsequent  on-study  SRE.  Within 
each  pivotal  study,  the  planned  sample  size  was  sufficiently  powered  to  detect  noninferiority  of 
denosumab  to  ZOL  for  the  endpoint  of  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  and  to  detect  superiority  of 
denosumab  to  ZOL  for  at  least  1  of  the  2  secondary  endpoints  (time  to  first  on-study  SRE;  time  to 
first-and- subsequent on-study SRE). The duration of the primary blinded treatment phase supporting 
the primary analysis was event driven. 
50
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  in  the  phase  3  studies  was  time  to  first  on-study  SRE;  this  endpoint  was  also 
evaluated in the integrated analysis. 
Definition of skeletal related-events, SRE 
In the pivotal studies, SRE is defined as one or more of these local, irreversible events:  
 
 
 
pathologic fracture; 
radiation therapy to bone;  
surgery to bone, or spinal cord compression.  
This definition of SREs for the primary efficacy analyses is the same that was used in the registration 
studies supporting the approval of ZOL, in this indication. 
Hypercalcemia  of  malignancy  (HCM)  is  pathogenetically  related  but  was  considered  to  be  a  systemic 
and potentially reversible event and was therefore not considered to be a component of the SRE in the 
denosumab  pivotal  studies.  In  contrast,  correction  of  tumour-induced  hypercalcemia  was  the  primary 
endpoint in several Zometa studies. 
Disease progression and Overall Survival 
Data on disease progression was collected at the monthly visits and assessed as objective endpoints in 
each study by 3 measures: (1) disease progression in bone (determined by blinded, central radiology 
reads from one reviewer using predominantly Q12W skeletal surveys), (2) overall disease progression 
(determined by the investigator throughout the study and reported on a specific case report form that 
required  documentation  of  the  methods  used  to  determine  disease  progression),  and  (3)  overall 
survival  determined  throughout  the  study.  Time  to  disease  progression  in  bone  and  Time  to  overall 
disease progression were also recorded in the pivotal studies. In the prostate cancer study 20050103, 
change  from  baseline  in  PSA  values  measured  Q12W  by  central  laboratory  was  also  included  to 
evaluate disease progression. Events of disease progression were recorded on the specifically designed 
CRF and not at as a separate adverse event(AE). If an AE indicative of initial disease progression was 
reported, a matched entry was also reported on the disease CRF. 
51
 
 
Table 23. Key endpoints for clinical efficacy in pivotal studies 
Sample size 
Study  20051003:  A  sample  size  of  1870  subjects  and  745  subjects  experiencing  ≥  1  SRE  was 
calculated to  provide adequate statistical power to detect that: a) denosumab is noninferior to ZOL for 
time  to  first  on-study  SRE  with  a  true  hazard  ratio  (HR)  of  0.9,  based  on  a  synthesis  approach 
designed  to  demonstrate  that  denosumab  preserves  ≥  50%  of  the  effect  of  ZOL  compared  with 
placebo (90% power); and b) denosumab is superior to ZOL for at least 1 of the 2 secondary endpoints 
(first  on-study  SRE  and  time  to  first-and-subsequent  SRE)  with  a  true  HR  of  0.8  and  a  correlation 
coefficient  of  0.6  between  these  2  endpoints  (90%  power).  Data  from  Novartis  Study  039  comparing 
ZOL  with  placebo  in  subjects  with  prostate  cancer  was  used  to  obtain  the  treatment  effect  of  ZOL 
relative to placebo. 
Study  2005136:  planned  sample  size  of  1960  subjects  and  745  subjects  experiencing  ≥  1  SRE  was 
calculated to provide adequate statistical power to detect that: a) denosumab is noninferior to ZOL for 
time  to  first  on-study  SRE  with  a  true  HR  of  0.9,  based  on  a  synthesis  approach  designed  to 
demonstrate  that  denosumab  preserves  ≥  50%  of  the  effect  of    ZOL  compared  with  placebo  (97% 
power), and b) denosumab is superior to ZOL for at least 1 of the 2 secondary endpoints first on-study 
SRE  and  time  to  first-and-subsequent  SRE  with  a  true  HR  of  0.8  and  a  correlation  coefficient  of  0.6 
between these 2 endpoints (90% power). This study was designed to assess noninferiority with respect 
to  time  to  first  on-study  SRE,  historical  data  from  the  literature  were  used  to  estimate  the  HR  of 
placebo  compared  with  the  active  control  ZOL.  Because  limited  data  comparing  ZOL  against  placebo 
52
 
 
 
 
 
were available, calculation of the combined estimate of ZOL´s effect relative to placebo was based on a 
3-step approach. 
Study 20050244: A planned sample size of 1690 subjects and 745 subjects experiencing ≥ 1 SRE was 
considered  provide adequate statistical power to detect that: a) denosumab is noninferior to ZOL for 
time  to  first  on-study  SRE  with  a  true  HR  of  0.9,  based  on  a  synthesis  approach  designed  to 
demonstrate  that  denosumab  preserves  ≥  50%  of  the  effect  of    ZOL  compared  with  placebo  (97% 
power); and b) denosumab is superior to ZOL for at least 1 of the 2 secondary endpoints with a true 
HR of 0.8 and a correlation coefficient of 0.6 between these 2 endpoints (90% power). This study was 
designed to assess noninferiority with respect to time to first on study SRE and historical data from the 
literature  were  used  to  estimate  the  HR  of  placebo  compared  with  the  active  control  ZOL.  As  limited 
data  comparing  ZOL  against  placebo  were  available,  calculation  of  the  combined  estimate  of  ZOL’s 
effect relative to placebo was based on a 3-step approach. 
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  randomised  in  a  1:1  ratio  to  receive  either  denosumab  or  ZOL  according  to  study 
schedule.  
Table 24. Stratification factors for each phase 3 study 
Blinding (masking) 
The  primary  blinded  treatment  phase  lasted  until  the  date  when  approximately  745  subjects  were 
anticipated  to  have  experienced  an  on  study  SRE,  which  was  the  primary  analysis  date  cutoff  date. 
Even  after  this  date,  subjects  continued  on  blinded  investigational  product  until  the  primary  efficacy 
and safety analysis were completed – this was the extended blinded treatment phase. After completing 
the  blinded  treatment  phase,  subjects  in  studies  20050136  and  20050103  were  offered  to  receive 
open-label denosumab 120 mg SC Q4W for up to 2 years or until denosumab is available commercially 
(whichever  will  occur  first).  The  open-label  phase  is  conducted  under  the  parent  protocol  number 
(20050136 or 20050103) except in the United Kingdom and in the Czech Republic. These two countries 
have requested a special protocol number for the open label extension phase; this protocol number is 
53
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20080540.  No  open-label  extension  phase  was  initiated  in  study  20050244  because  superiority  was 
not met in this study. 
Those  subjects  in  studies  20050103  and  20050136  who  did  not  enrol  into  the  open-label  extension 
phase  and  all  subjects  in  study  20050244  were  to  be  followed  for  survival  for  2  years  after  the  last 
dose of blinded investigational product.  
Statistical methods 
The  analyses  of  the  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  were  conducted  hierarchically.  The  significance 
level for the analysis of the primary endpoint was 0.05. The secondary efficacy endpoints were tested 
only when the null hypothesis of the primary endpoint was rejected at a significance level of 0.05. The 
secondary  efficacy  endpoints  were  tested  simultaneously  using  the  Hochberg  procedure.  A  synthesis 
approach  was  used  for  the  noninferiority  test  for  the  primary  endpoint.  This  synthesis  approach 
assumed constancy from study to study for the estimate of the historical active-control effect (ie ZOL 
effect on time to first on-study SRE). The study was designed to require preservation of at least 50% 
of  the  effect  of  ZOL  on  time  to  first  on  study  SRE.  The  50%  effect  preservation  level  was  chosen  to 
lead  to  a  statistically  robust  study  design  and  to  ensure  that  noninferiority  could  not  be  claimed  if 
denosumab had a clinically meaningful inferior effect relative to ZOL. 
The estimated HR and SE from the Cox model (with treatment groups as the independent variable and 
stratified by the randomisation stratification factors) were combined with the historical estimate and SE 
of  ZOL’s  effect  relative  to  placebo,  to  determine  whether  or  not  denosumab  is  noninferior  to  ZOL.  If 
denosumab  was  found  to  be  noninferior  to  ZOL,  then  the  results  of  the  Cox  model  described  for  the 
primary endpoint were used directly in a Wald test to determine whether or not denosumab is superior 
to ZOL. 
If  denosumab  was  found  to  be  noninferior  to  ZOL,  an  Andersen  and  Gill  model  with  robust  variance 
estimate  stratified  by  the  randomisation  stratification  factors  was  used  for  a  superiority  test  of 
denosumab  compared  with  ZOL  in  time  to  first  and  subsequent  on  study  SRE,  which  accounted  for 
both  the  absolute  number  of  SREs  and  the  timing  between  2  consecutive  events.  A  Nelson-Aalen 
estimate of cumulative mean number of SREs over time was plotted for each treatment arm. 
Exploratory  endpoint:  Proportion  of  subjects  with  an  SRE  by  weeks  49  and  73  and  by  the  primary 
analysis cut-off date. This was the primary endpoint in Novartis ZOL 039 study.  
Results 
Participant flow  
The  median  period  for  on-study  assessments  was  between  7  and  17  months  in  the  3  studies; 
maximum duration of treatment was 30 - 41 months. By the primary analysis data cutoff date, 69.4 % 
of denosumab- treated and 70.4 % of ZOL-treated patients had discontinued study treatment. Death 
accounted for 27.2 % of discontinuations in the denosumab group and for 26.4 % of discontinuations 
in  the  ZOL  group.  Study consent  was withdrawn  for  13.6 %  of patients  in  the  denosumab  group  and 
for 14.8 % of patients in the ZOL group. Disease progression caused study discontinuation for 12.8 % 
of  denosumab  patients  and  for  11.9  %  of    ZOL  patients.  A  lower  percentage  of  subjects  in  study 
20050136  than  in  the  two  other  studies  discontinued  the  study.  Most  subjects  who  discontinued  the 
investigational product (70.0 % denosumab and 71.0 % ZOL) also discontinued the study.  
Dropout rates were high, varying between 54 and 80% in the different treatment arms in the studies. 
This is not higher than is often seen in oncology studies in these categories of patients. Dropouts were 
54
 
 
 
 
evenly  distributed  between  study  arms.  The  high  dropout  rate  is  explained  by  the  severeness  of  the 
disease  in  these  patient  categories,  patients  with  advanced  malignancies  and  skeletal  metastasis. 
Death (17 – 35 %) and progression of disease (12 – 14 %) were the most common underlying reasons 
causing study dropout.  
Baseline data 
In  general,  baseline  characteristics  for  study  populations  were  balanced  in  the  denosumab  pivotal 
studies. 
Table 25. Baseline demographics, full analysis set, pivotal studies for denosumab 
Table 9, ctd 
55
 
 
 
 
 
Table  26.  Baseline  disease  characteristics  and  disease  history,  full  analysis  set,  pivotal  studies  for 
denosumab 
Altogether,  demographic  characteristics  were  balanced  between  the  denosumab  and  zoledronic  acid 
study  groups  in  the  three  pivotal  studies.  Baseline  characteristics  differed  between  studies  in  several 
aspects. The study population in 20050103 was older than the populations in the two other studies (71 
years in the former study; 57 and 56 years in the two latter studies, respectively), consistent with the 
incidence peaks for the different diseases occurring at different ages.  
In  the  pooled  study  data,  approximately  13  %  of  subjects  in  each  treatment  group  had  purely 
osteolytic  lesions  at  baseline.  More  patients  in  study  20050103  than  in  the  other  two  studies  had 
osteolytic bone lesions. Approximately 36 % of subjects in the denosumab group and 33 % of subjects 
in  the  ZOL  group  had  purely  osteoblastic  lesions  at  baseline  in  the  pooled  dataset  from  the  pivotal 
studies.  Fewer  patients  in  study  20050103  than  in  the  other  studies  had  osteoblastic  lesions  at 
baseline.  
56
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fewer patients in study 20050103 than in the other studies had visceral metastases. Patients in study 
20050103 had a longer period from first bone metastasis to study randomisation than patients in the 
other two studies.  
Approximately  40  %  of  patients  in  study  20050244  had  non-small  cell  lung  cancer  and  10  %  had 
multiple  myeloma.  The  rest  of  the  patient  population  in  this  study  had  a  number  of  other  tumour 
types. Patients in this study were not stratified with respect to tumour type and outcomes with respect 
to different tumour types could therefore risk to be biased. Patients in study 20050244 had a shorter 
period  of  time  between  initial  cancer  diagnosis  to  bone  metastasis  than  patients  in  the  two  other 
studies. Most of the oldest patients were found in study 10050244. Fewer patients in study 20050244 
had a low ECOG performance status of 0 or 1 than in the two other studies while more patients in this 
study had an ECOG performance status of 2. 
In the pooled study data, there were 54 % men and 85 % whites in the denosumab study groups and 
53  %  men,  85  %  whites  in  the  zoledronic  acid  groups.  Approximately  44  %  of  patients  in  the 
denosumab groups and 47 % in the zoledronic acid groups were 65 years or older. Approximately 17 
% of patients in both treatment groups were 75 years or older. 
Table 27. Distribution of primary tumour type, full analysis set, study 20050244  
The proportion of subjects with previous SRE did not differ between treatment groups, and all different 
SREs  had  been  experienced  by  the  same  proportion  of  patients  in  both  treatment  groups.  Study 
20050103 had less subjects with a history of a previous SRE than subjects in the other two studies. 
57
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Table 28. Subject disposition, primary advanced cancer, randomised in pivotal denosumab studies 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy results 
In study  20050136, denosumab was superior to ZOL for the delay or prevention of SREs in subjects 
with advanced breast cancer. Denosumab significantly reduced  the risk of developing a first on-study 
SRE by 18% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 0.82 [0.71, 0.95]; p < 0.0001 for noninferiority, p = 
0.0101 [unadjusted and adjusted] for superiority). 
In study  20050103, denosumab was superior to ZOL for the delay or prevention of SREs in subjects 
with  hormone-refractory  (castrate-resistant)  prostate  cancer  and  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of 
developing a first on-study SRE by 18% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 0.82 [0.71, 0.95]; p = 
0.0002 for noninferiority, p = 0.0085 [unadjusted and adjusted] for superiority). 
In  study  20050244,  denosumab  was  noninferior  to  ZOL  for  the  delay  or  prevention  of  SREs  in 
subjects  with  solid  tumours  (excluding  breast  and  prostate  cancer)  and  bone  metastases  (including 
subjects  with  multiple  myeloma).  Denosumab  reduced  the  risk  of  developing  a  first  on-study  SRE  by 
16%  compared  with  ZOL,  although  the  level  of  reduction  did  not  reach  statistical  significance  for 
superiority  when  adjusted  for  multiplicity  (HR  [95%  CI]  of  0.84  [0.71,  0.98];  p  =  0.0007  for 
noninferiority, p = 0.0309 [unadjusted] and 0.0619 [adjusted] for superiority. Subgroup analysis was 
done according to tumour type in study 20050244. 
58
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 5 a. Time to first SRE, Kaplan-Meier curves, full analysis set, pivotal studies for denosumab 
Fig  5  b.  Time  to  first  SRE,  Kaplan-Meier  curve,  overall  analysis,  full  analysis  set,  pivotal  studies  for 
denosumab-Amgen 
59
 
 
 
 
Table 29. Time to first SRE by study, full analysis set, pivotal studies for denosumab 
Secondary efficacy results 
In study  20050136, denosumab significantly reduced the risk of developing a first on-study SRE by 
18% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 0.82 [0.71, 0.95]; p < 0.0001 for noninferiority, p = 0.0101 
[unadjusted and adjusted] for superiority).  
Denosumab  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of  developing  first-and-subsequent  on-study  SREs  by  23% 
compared  with  ZOL  (rate  ratio  [95%  CI]  of  0.77  [0.66,  0.89];  p  =  0.0006  [unadjusted]  and  0.0012 
[adjusted]) (multiple-event analysis). 
In study  20050103, denosumab significantly reduced the risk of developing a first on-study SRE by 
18% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 0.82 [0.71, 0.95]; p = 0.0002 for noninferiority, p = 0.0085 
[unadjusted and adjusted] for superiority).  
Denosumab  significantly  reduced  the  risk  of  developing  first-and-subsequent  on-study  SREs  by  18% 
compared  with  ZOL  (rate  ratio  [95%  CI]  of  0.82  [0.71,  0.94];  p  =  0.0044  [unadjusted]  and  0.0085 
[adjusted]) (multiple-event analysis).  
In  study  20050244,  denosumab  reduced  the  risk  of  developing  a  first  on-study  SRE  by  16% 
compared with ZOL, although the level of reduction did not reach statistical significance for superiority 
when  adjusted  for  multiplicity  (HR  [95%  CI]  of  0.84  [0.71,  0.98];  p  =  0.0007  for  noninferiority,  p  = 
0.0309  [unadjusted]  and  0.0619  [adjusted]  for  superiority).  The  results  of  the  secondary  endpoint 
Time-to-first  and  subsequent  SRE  in  the  integrated  analysis  of  the  3  pivotal  studies  were:  rate  ratio 
0.82 (95% CI: 0.75, 0.89); p < 0.0001. 
Subgroup analyses were performed for age, gender, race, geographic region and presence of osteolytic  
metastases. See fig 9 below. The results were consistent between subgroups for the primary efficacy 
endpoint.  
Individual  components  of  the  primary  endpoint:  The  individual  components  of  the  primary  efficacy 
parameter  were  further  characterised,  showing  that  the  frequencies  of  each  component  were 
60
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consistently  in  favour  of  denosumab  versus  zoledronic  acid.  The  differences  between  treatment  arms 
with regard to frequency of SRE component were 0.3 % for spinal cord compression, 0.3 % for surgery 
to bone, 2.7 % for fracture (p =0.009), and 4.0 % for radiation to bone (p < 0.0001). 
Exploratory endpoints 
Median  time  to  first  on  study  SRE:  In  study  20050136,  the  median  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  was 
not  reached  for  denosumab  and  was  26.4  months  (806  days)  for  ZOL.  In  study  20050103,  the 
median time to first on study SRE was approximately 3 months longer for denosumab compared with 
ZOL (20.7 months [629 days] vs 17.1 months [521 days]). In study  20050244, the median time to 
first  on  study  SRE  was  approximately  4  months  longer  for  denosumab  compared  with  ZOL  (20.6 
months [625 days] vs 16.3 months [496 days]). 
Proportion  of  subjects  with  skeletal  related  events:  In  study  20050136,  denosumab  decreased  the 
proportion of subjects with a first on-study SRE compared with ZOL (5.8% absolute reduction; 30.7% 
denosumab  vs.  36.5%  ZOL).  In  study  20050103,  denosumab  decreased  the  proportion  of  subjects 
with a first on-study SRE compared with ZOL (4.7% absolute reduction; 35.9% denosumab vs. 40.6% 
ZOL). In study 20050244, denosumab decreased the proportion of subjects with a first on-study SRE 
compared with ZOL (4.9% absolute reduction; 31.4% denosumab vs 36.3% ZOL). 
Time  to  first  on  study  radiation  to  bone:  In  study  20050136,  denosumab  also  reduced  the  risk  of 
radiation  to  bone  by  26%  compared  with  ZOL  (HR  [95%  CI]  of  0.74  [0.59,  0.94];  p  =  0.0121).  In 
study  20050103, denosumab also reduced the risk of radiation to bone by 22% compared with ZOL 
(HR [95% CI] of 0.78 [0.66, 0.94]; p = 0.0071). In Study 20050244, denosumab reduced the risk of 
radiation to bone by 22% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 0.78 [0.63, 0.97]; p = 0.0256).  
Time to first on-study SRE or hypercalcemia of malignancy (HCM): In study  20050136, denosumab 
reduced the risk of developing a SRE or HCM by 18% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 0.82 [0.70, 
0.95]; p=0.0074). In study  20050103, denosumab reduced the risk of developing a SRE or HCM by 
17%  compared  with  ZOL  (HR  [95%  CI]  of  0.83  [0.72,  0.96];  p  =  0.0134).  In  study  20050244, 
denosumab reduced the risk of developing a SRE or HCM by 17% compared with ZOL (HR [95% CI] of 
0.83 [0.71, 0.97]; p = 0.0215). 
Patient-reported outcomes 
BPI-SF “worst pain” 
In  these  studies,  worsening  in  pain  represented ≥  2-point  increase  from  baseline in  worst  pain  score 
and improvement represented  ≥ 2-point decrease from baseline in worst pain score. Worst pain score 
was > 4 points. 
In  study  20050136,  time  to  worsening  in  pain  (median  259  days  denosumab,  226  days  ZOL;  HR 
[95%  CI]  of  0.90;  p  =  0.0822)  and  time  to  moderate  or  severe  pain  (median  denosumab  88  days; 
ZOL  64  days;  HR  [95%  CI]  of  0.87;  p  =  0.0094)  were  delayed  for  denosumab  compared  with  ZOL. 
Time to pain improvement was similar for denosumab and ZOL (82 days and 85 days, respectively).  
In study 20050103, time to worsening in pain (median 145 days for denosumab group and 142 days 
for the ZOL group; HR [95% CI] 0.97; p = 0.6437), time to moderate or severe pain (median 86 days 
denosumab  and  80  days  for  the  ZOL  group;  HR  [95%  CI]  0.93,  p  =  0.1677),  and  time  to  pain 
improvement (median 113 days for denosumab and 92 days for the ZOL group; HR [95% CI] 0.93; p 
=  0.3390)  were  generally  comparable  between  treatment  groups.  In  study  20050244,  time  to 
worsening  in  pain  (169  days  denosumab  and  143  days  ZOL;  HR  0.85;  p  =  0.0233)  and  time  to 
moderate  or  severe  pain    (median  denosumab  compared  57  days  for  denosumab  36  days  for  ZOL 
61
 
 
 
group; HR 0.91]; p = 0.1092) were delayed for denosumab compared with ZOL. Median time to pain 
improvement was 85 days for both treatment groups in this study. 
Analgesic use  
On a scale of 0 (no analgesics) to 7 (> 600 mg OME per day), the mean analgesic score was 1.3 to 1.4 
for denosumab and was 1.4 to 1.5 for ZOL at each postdose study visit for the integrated analysis. In 
each  phase  3  study,  no  significant  between-group  differences  in  analgesic  use  were  observed  (p  = 
0.7628,  0.0876,  and  0.4641  for  studies  20050136,  20050244,  and  20050103,  respectively).  No 
significant difference in analgesic use in pooled study data was observed between denosumab and ZOL 
through  week  41  (AUC  of  analgesic  score  relative  to  baseline  was  for  denosumab  0.37  and  for  ZOL 
0.37; p = 0.2356).  
Quality of life (QoL) and health-related quality of life (HRQL) 
In  study  20050136,  the  FACT-B  questionnaire  was  used.  This  questionnaire  consists  of  the  FACT-G 
questionnaire,  a  widely  used  disease-specific  HRQOL  instrument,  plus  additional  questions  specific  to 
breast cancer. A higher score indicates better health-related quality of life. Mean FACT-B scores were 
generally  similar  between  treatment  groups  at  baseline  and  each  study  visit.  The  median  time  to  a 
clinically  meaningful  decline  in  the  FACT-TOI  (ie,  ≥  5-point  worsening  from  baseline)  was  longer  for 
the denosumab group compared to the ZOL (141 days for denosumab, 114 days for ZOL).  
The EQ-5D is a widely used, generic HRQOL instrument that allows for estimation of health utility. For 
both  components,  the  health  index  and  the  VAS,  a  higher  score  indicates  a  better  health  status.  At 
baseline, mean EQ-5D health index scores and VAS scores (64.1 denosumab, 64.5 ZOL) were similar 
between treatment groups. Both groups demonstrated positive changes from baseline in the mean EQ-
5D health state index at most study visits, indicating a maintenance of HRQOL throughout the study. 
No notable differences in the EQ-5D were observed between treatment groups. 
Study  2005103  used  the  FACT-P  questionnaire  that  consists  of  the  FACT-G  questionnaire,  a  widely 
used  disease  specific  HRQOL  instrument,  plus  additional  questions  specific  to  prostate  cancer.  Mean 
change  from  baseline  in  the  FACT-G  total  score,  FACT-P  total  score,  physical  well-being  domain, 
functional well-being domain, and TOI through week 73 indicated decreasing HRQOL in both treatment 
groups.  A  comparison  between  treatment  groups  generally  showed  lower  mean  decreases  in  change 
from  baseline  in  the  FACT-G  total  score  in  the  denosumab  group  relative  to  the  ZOL  group.  The 
denosumab  and  ZOL  treatment  groups  demonstrated  comparable  time  to  a  clinically  meaningful 
decline  in  HRQOL.  Mean  EQ-5D  health  index  and  VAS  were  similar  between  treatment  groups  at 
baseline. Mean change from baseline for the health index score generally demonstrated a lower decline 
for  denosumab  at  each  study  visit,  although  median  scores  consistently  showed  no  change  from 
baseline in both treatment groups. No notable differences were observed between treatment groups in 
mean  change  from  baseline  for  the  VAS.  The  change  in  the  health  index  score  through  week  73 
favoured denosumab but the difference was small. The change in the VAS score was similar between 
treatment groups. 
Study  20050244  also  used the FACT-G questionnaire for evaluation of QoL. A higher FACT-G score 
indicates  better  HRQL.  Mean  scores  generally  increased  from  baseline  through  week  45  for  both 
treatment  groups  (50%  withdrew  due  to  death,  disease  progression,  or  consent  withdrawn).  The 
change  in  each  FACT  score  through  week  25  favoured  the  denosumab  group  compared  with  the  ZOL 
group  (PWB:  p  =  0.0004;  FWB:  p  =  0.2121;  total  score:  p  =  0.0005).  Estimated  with  the  EQ-5D 
questionnaire, both the denosumab and the ZOL groups demonstrated positive changes from baseline 
in both the mean EQ-5D health state index and VAS at most study visits. No notable differences in the 
EQ-5D were observed between treatment groups. 
62
 
The time to pain improvement (i.e.  2 point decrease from baseline in BPI-SF worst pain score) was 
similar  for  denosumab  and  zoledronic  acid  in  each  study  and  the  integrated  analyses.  In  a  post-hoc 
analysis  of  the  combined  dataset,  the  median  time  to  worsening  pain  (> 4-point  worst pain  score)  in 
patients  with  mild  or  no  pain  at  baseline  was  delayed  for  XGEVA  compared  to  zoledronic  acid  (198 
versus 143 days) (p = 0.0002).  
Healthcare utilisation  
Healthcare  utilisation  was  lower  in  the  denosumab  group  than  in  the  ZOL  treatment  group,  probably 
because  fewer  patients  in  this  group  had  skeletal-related  events;  patients  who  had  a  skeletal-related 
event  had  greater  healthcare  resource  utilisation.  In  study  2005103,  the  mean  number  of  radiation 
oncology  clinic  visits  was  22%  lower  in  the  denosumab  group  compared  to  the  ZOL  group  (0.53  and 
0.68 visits, respectively). 
Overall survival 
While  total  overall  survival    in  study  20050244  was  comparable  between  treatment  arms,  as  in 
studies 20050136 and 20050103, a difference was seen in overall survival time between the different 
cancer types in study 20050244, with a shorter overall survival for multiple myeloma patients. 
Fig 6. Forest plot of overall survival analysis by tumour type, study 20050244 full analysis set 
After  the  analysis  of  results  for  overall  survival  in  this  study,  the  applicant  performed  an  analysis  of 
factors  that  might  confound  the  results  for  overall  survival  in  the  subjects  with  non-small  cell  lung 
cancer and multiple myeloma and found the following:  
63
 
 
 
 
a.   At baseline, more subjects in the ZOL group with non-small cell lung cancer had an ECOG score of 
2, compared with denosumab (15.7% denosumab, 19.7% ZOL); 
b.   In  the  subjects  with  multiple  myeloma,  baseline  characteristics  showed  lower  disease  burden  in 
the  ZOL  group:  the  proportion  of  subjects  with  stage  1  tumours  at  diagnosis  was  higher  in  the 
ZOL group (8% denosumab, 14% ZOL); 
 c.   The  proportion  of  subjects  with  an  ECOG  score  of  0  was  higher  in  the  ZOL  group  (23% 
denosumab,  32%  ZOL)  and  low  baseline  renal  function  (CrCL<  40  mL/min)  was  higher  in  the 
denosumab group (9% denosumab, 2% ZOL) 
 d.   The  proportion  of  subjects  who  underwent  aggressive  therapy  with  stem  cell  transplant  for 
myeloma either prior to or on-study was higher in the ZOL group (16% denosumab, 25% ZOL) 
 e.   Study  withdrawals  from  study  due  to  consent  withdrawn  or  lost  to  follow-up  were  higher  in  the 
ZOL group (14% denosumab, 18% ZOL).  
Time  to  first  overall  disease  progression  or  Time  to  first  disease  progression  in  bone  did  not  differ 
between  treatment  groups  in  any  of  the  3  pivotal  studies.  However,  in  study  20050244,  disease 
progression seemed to be enhanced in the small subgroup of multiple myeloma. 
Bone turnover markers  
In all three studies, the % decrease in the bone turnover markers uNTX/Cr and BSAP were greater (p 
< 0.0001) following 3 months of denosumab treatment compared with ZOL treatment. The decline in 
uNTX/Cr  was  more  marked  than  the  decline  in  BSAP.  Standard  deviations  were  large.  PSA  values  at 
baseline were similar between groups in the prostate cancer study. Median change from baseline was 
32 ng/mL in the denosumab group and 61 ng/mL in the ZOL group at week 73. The median PSA value 
was similarly increased relative to baseline in both treatment groups through week 145. 
Summary of main studies 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  studies  supporting  the  present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 30. Summary of Efficacy for trial 20050136 
Title:  A  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Multicenter  Study  of  Denosumab 
Compared  with  Zoledronic  Acid  (Zometa)  in  the  Treatment  of  Bone 
Metastases in Subjects with Advanced Breast Cancer 
Study identifier 
20050136 
Design 
Phase  III,  randomized,  double-blind,  active  comparator,  multicentre  study 
with open label extension phase 
Duration of main phase: 
34 months (April 2006 to March 2009) 
Duration of run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of extension phase:  2  years  (open-label  extension  or  survival 
follow-up) 
64
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
The  primary  hypothesis  for  this  study  was  that  denosumab  is  noninferior  to 
zoledronic  acid  on  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  in  subjects  with  advanced 
breast cancer with bone metastases.   
The  secondary  hypotheses  (tested  only  if  denosumab  was  found  to  be 
noninferior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first on-study SRE) were 
the following. 
 
 
denosumab is superior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first on-
study SRE 
denosumab  is  superior  to  zoledronic  acid  with  respect  to  time  to  first-
and-subsequent on-study SRE (multiple-event analysis) 
Treatment groups 
Denosumab 
120 mg SC Q4W, 1026 randomised 
Zoledronic acid 
4  mg  IV  Q4W  (adjusted  for  renal  function), 
Not applicable 
1020 randomised 
Not applicable 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary:  
Prevention 
Noninferiority compared with zoledronic acid 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
SRE  =  pathologic  fracture,  radiation  to  bone 
on-study SRE 
(including  the  use  of  radioisotopes),  surgery 
Secondary:  
Prevention 
Superiority compared with zoledronic acid 
to bone, or spinal cord compression 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
on-study SRE 
Secondary:  
Prevention 
Superiority compared with zoledronic acid 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
and 
subsequent 
on-study SRE 
Database lock 
July 2, 2009 
Results and analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis 
population 
Full analysis set which included all randomized subjects 
and 
time 
point 
Primary analysis data cut-off date (March 6, 2009); date defined by Amgen 
description 
in anticipation of 745 subjects experiencing an on-study SRE 
Descriptive  statistics 
Treatment group 
Denosumab 
Zoledronic acid 
Not applicable 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Number 
subjects 
of 
1026 
1020 
Median 
time 
to 
Not estimable 
806 days 
first SRE 
N/A 
N/A 
95%  Confidence 
Not  estimable, 
666  days,  not 
N/A 
Interval 
not estimable 
estimable 
Mean  number  of 
0.46 
SREs per patient 
variability statistic  N/A 
0.60 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
65
 
 
Effect  estimate  per 
Primary:    Time  to 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
comparison 
first on-study SRE 
(noninferiority) 
Hazard Ratio 
acid 
0.82 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.95 
P-value 
<0.0001  (unadjusted  and 
adjusted) 
Secondary:    Time 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
to  first  on-study 
SRE (superiority) 
Hazard Ratio 
acid 
0.82 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.95 
P-value 
0.0101 
(unadjusted  and 
adjusted) 
Secondary:    Time 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
to 
first 
and 
subsequent 
on-
Rate Ratio 
acid 
0.77 
study 
SRE 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.66, 0.89 
(superiority) 
P-value 
Not applicable 
0.0006  (unadjusted)  and 
0.0012 (adjusted) 
A second supportive analysis was performed with a data cut-off date of July 
20,  2009  (extended  double-blind  extension  phase  analysis).    Results  were 
consistent with the primary analysis. 
Notes 
Analysis 
description 
Table 31. Summary of Efficacy for trial 20050244 
Title:    A  Randomised,  Double-blind,  Multicentre  Study  of  Denosumab 
Compared  with  Zoledronic  Acid  (Zometa)  in  the  Treatment  of  Bone 
Metastases  in  Subjects  with  Advanced  Cancer  (Excluding  Breast  and 
Prostate Cancer) or Multiple Myeloma 
Study identifier 
20050244 
Design 
Phase  III,  randomized,  double-blind,  active  comparator,  multicentre  study 
with double-blind extension phase 
Duration of main phase: 
34 months (June 2006 – April 2009) 
Duration of run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of extension phase:  2 years (survival follow-up) 
66
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
The  primary  hypothesis  for  this  study  was  that  denosumab  is  noninferior  to 
zoledronic  acid  on  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  in  subjects  with  advanced 
cancer (excluding breast and prostate cancer) or multiple myeloma and bone 
metastasis (or lytic bone lesions from multiple myeloma).   
The  secondary  hypotheses  (tested  only  if  denosumab  was  found  to  be 
noninferior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first on-study SRE) were 
the following: 
 
denosumab is superior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first 
on-study SRE 
  denosumab is superior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first-
and-subsequent on-study SRE (multiple-event analysis) 
Treatment groups 
Denosumab 
120 mg SC Q4W, 886 randomised 
Zoledronic acid 
4  mg  IV  Q4W  (adjusted  for  renal  function), 
Not applicable 
890 randomised 
Not applicable 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary:  
Prevention 
Noninferiority compared with zoledronic acid 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
SRE  =  pathologic  fracture,  radiation  to  bone 
on-study SRE 
(including  the  use  of  radioisotopes),  surgery 
Secondary:  
Prevention 
Superiority compared with zoledronic acid 
to bone, or spinal cord compression 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
on-study SRE 
Secondary:  
Prevention 
Superiority compared with zoledronic acid 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
and 
subsequent 
on-study SRE 
July 29, 2009 
Database lock 
Results and analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis 
population 
Full analysis set which included all randomized subjects 
and 
time 
point 
Primary analysis data cut-off date (April 30, 2009); date defined by Amgen 
description 
in anticipation of 745 subjects experiencing an on-study SRE 
Descriptive  statistics 
Treatment group 
Denosumab 
Zoledronic acid 
Not applicable 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Number 
subjects 
of 
886 
890 
Median 
time 
to 
625 days 
496 days 
first SRE 
N/A 
N/A 
95%  Confidence 
456  days,  not 
371  days,  589 
N/A 
Interval 
estimable 
Mean  number  of 
0.44 
SREs per patient 
days 
0.49 
N/A 
67
 
 
variability statistic  N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
Effect  estimate  per 
Primary:    Time  to 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
comparison 
first on-study SRE 
(noninferiority) 
Hazard Ratio 
acid 
0.84 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.98 
P-value 
0.0007 
(unadjusted  and 
adjusted) 
Secondary:    Time 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
to  first  on-study 
SRE (superiority) 
Hazard Ratio 
acid 
0.84 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.98 
P-value 
0.0309 (unadjusted) 
0.0619 (adjusted) 
Secondary:    Time 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
to 
first 
and 
subsequent 
on-
Rate Ratio 
acid 
0.90 
study 
SRE 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.77, 1.04 
(superiority) 
P-value 
0.1447 
(unadjusted  and 
adjusted) 
Not applicable 
A  second  supportive  analysis  was  performed  with  an  end  of  study  date  of 
October  21,  2009  (extended  double-blind  extension  phase  analysis).  
Results were consistent with the primary analysis. 
Notes 
Analysis 
description 
Table 32. Summary of Efficacy for trial 20050103 
Title:  A  Randomised,  Double-Blind,  Multicenter  Study  of  Denosumab 
Compared  with  Zoledronic  Acid  (Zometa)  in  the  Treatment  of  Bone 
Metastases in Men with Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer 
Study identifier 
20050103 
Design 
Phase  III,  randomized,  double-blind,  active  comparator,  multicentre  study 
with open label extension phase 
Duration of main phase: 
41 months; May 2006 to October 2009 
Duration of run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of extension phase:  2  years  (open-label  extension  or  survival 
follow-up) 
68
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 
The  primary  hypothesis  for  this  study  was  that  denosumab  is  noninferior  to 
zoledronic  acid  on  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  in  subjects  with  hormone-
refractory prostate cancer with bone metastases.   
The  secondary  hypotheses  (tested  only  if  denosumab  was  found  to  be 
noninferior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first on-study SRE) were 
the following: 
 
 
denosumab is superior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first 
on-study SRE 
denosumab is superior to zoledronic acid with respect to time to first-
and-subsequent on-study SRE (multiple-event analysis) 
Treatment groups 
Denosumab 
120 mg SC Q4W, 950 randomised 
Zoledronic acid 
4  mg  IV  Q4W  (adjusted  for  renal  function), 
Not applicable 
951 randomised 
Not applicable 
Endpoints 
definitions 
and 
Primary:  
Prevention 
Noninferiority compared with zoledronic acid 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
SRE  =  pathologic  fracture,  radiation  to  bone 
on-study SRE 
(including  the  use  of  radioisotopes),  surgery 
Secondary:  
Prevention 
Superiority compared with zoledronic acid 
to bone, or spinal cord compression 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
on-study SRE 
Secondary:  
Prevention 
Superiority compared with zoledronic acid 
Time  to  first 
of SREs 
and 
subsequent 
on-study SRE 
Database lock 
February 4, 2010 
Results and analysis 
Analysis 
description 
Primary analysis 
Analysis 
population 
Full analysis set which included all randomized subjects 
and 
time 
point 
Primary  analysis  data  cut-off  date  (October  30,  2009);  date  defined  by 
description 
Amgen in anticipation of 745 subjects experiencing an on-study SRE 
Descriptive  statistics 
Treatment group 
Denosumab 
Zoledronic acid 
Not applicable 
and 
estimate 
variability 
Number 
subjects 
of 
950 
951 
Median 
time 
to 
629 days 
521 days 
first SRE 
N/A 
N/A 
95%  Confidence 
573  days,  757 
456  days,  592 
N/A 
Interval 
days 
Mean  number  of 
0.52 
SREs per patient 
variability statistic  N/A 
days 
0.61 
N/A 
N/A 
N/A 
69
 
 
Effect  estimate  per 
Primary:    Time  to 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab  vs.  zoledronic 
comparison 
first on-study SRE 
(noninferiority) 
Hazard Ratio 
acid 
0.82 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.95 
P-value 
0.0002 
(unadjusted  and 
adjusted) 
Secondary:  Time 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab vs. zoledronic 
to first on-study 
SRE (superiority) 
Hazard Ratio 
acid 
0.82 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.95 
P-value 
0.0085 (unadjusted and 
adjusted) 
Secondary:  Time 
Comparison groups 
Denosumab vs. zoledronic 
to first and 
subsequent on-
Rate Ratio 
acid 
0.82 
study SRE 
(superiority) 
Not applicable 
95% Confidence Interval 
0.71, 0.94 
P-value 
0.0044 (unadjusted) 
0.0085 (adjusted) 
No additional analyses were submitted with the MAA. 
Notes 
Analysis 
description 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No  specific  studies  in  special  populations  with  clinical  endpoints have  been  performed.  One  PK  study, 
study  20040245,  was  performed  in  renally  impaired  subjects  without  advanced  malignancy  (see 
discussion  on  pharmacokinetics  above).  In  this  study,  the  PK  profile  of  denosumab  was  not  notably 
affected by varying degrees of renal function. 
Supportive studies 
Study 20050134 is an ongoing open-label multicenter phase 2 trial of denosumab in the treatment of 
relapsed  or  plateau-phase  multiple  myeloma.  Study  subjects  were  heavily  pretreated.  Fifty  subjects 
were planned for enrollment into each cohort. All subjects were to receive 120 mg denosumab SC on 
day 1 of every 28-day cycle, with additional loading doses on days 8 and 15 of cycle 1. Treatment with 
denosumab  was  continued  until 
the 
investigator’s  or 
the  sponsor’s  recommendation 
for 
discontinuation, the subject’s decision to discontinue for any reason, or disease progression. Serum M-
protein  levels  were  measured  between  days  20  and  23  of  each  cycle  to  assess  treatment  response. 
Complete,  partial,  or  minimal  responses  (CR,  PR,  or  MR)  were  identified  using  serum  M-protein 
assessments and confirmed based on modified Bladé criteria requiring reductions in serum and urinary 
M-protein levels, % of plasma cells on bone marrow aspirate or biopsy, and absence of new osteolytic 
lesions.  Progression  of  disease  (PD)  was  to  be  confirmed  with  a  repeat  investigation  at  least  4  to  6 
weeks  after  the  initial  measurement.  Subjects  with  PD  discontinued  investigational  product  and  had 
the end-of-study visit completed within days after the last dose of denosumab.  
A report containing results from the  primary analysis of the study, conducted 168  days after the last 
enrolled  subject  initiated  treatment  with  denosumab  (equivalent  to  six  28-day  cycles),  has  been 
submitted. Fifty-three patients were enrolled in the cohort with relapsed multiple myeloma: No subject 
70
 
 
 
 
had  a  reduction  in  Mprotein  levels  in  the  range  of  the  predefined  overall  response  rate  (CR,  PR,  and 
MR).  The  overall  response  rate  (CR,  PR,  and  MR)  was  0%,  with  an  upper  confidence  bound  of  6%. 
Eleven subjects (21%) maintained stable disease. Bone turnover markers (serum type 1 C-telopeptide, 
CTx1,  and  bone  specific  alkaline  phosphatase,  BSAP)  decreased  from  baseline  after  treatment  with 
denosumab.  The  median  (range)  %  change  in  serum  CTx  from  baseline  was  -69.5%  (at  cycle  4  and 
65.8% at cycle 7. The median % change in BSAP from baseline was -33.0% (-73.9% - 33.5%) at cycle 
4  and  -46.6%  (-61.9%  -  52.2%)  at  cycle  7.  Bone  resorption  was  suppressed,  demonstrating  RANKL 
inhibition. Subjects with plateau-phase multiple myeloma: Of 43 subjects, none had a reduction in M-
protein  levels  corresponding  to  response  (CR,  PR,  and  MR).  The  observed  overall  response  rate  (CR, 
PR,  and  MR)  was  0%,  with  an  upper  confidence  bound  of  7%.  Nineteen  subjects  (46%)  maintained 
stable  disease.  Levels  of  serum  CTx  and  BSAP  decreased  from  baseline  after  treatment  with 
denosumab.  The  median  %  change  in  serum  CTx  from  baseline  was  -46.5%  (-85.5%  to  63.5%)  at 
cycle 4 and -49.2% (-87.7% to 32.4%) at cycle 7. The median % change in BSAP from baseline was -
12.2%  (-43.4%  -  68.2%)  at  cycle  4  and  -4.8%  (-  58.7%  -  51.4%)  at  cycle  7.  Bone  resorption  was 
suppressed  also  in  this  patient  population.  Mean  serum  denosumab  concentrations  at  days  8  and  15 
(during the loading dose phase) were similar in relapsed and plateau-phase subjects (19500 vs 16200 
and  10800  vs  7980  ng/mL,  respectively).  Exposures  based  on  C0  increased  with  the  loading  dose 
regimen and mean serum concentrations at month 1 were approximately 1.2-fold higher than those at 
expected steady state (achieved by month 2 and later). Mean  C0 up to month 14 (n ≥ 4 per cohort) 
were  comparable  in  relapsed  and  plateau-phase  subjects  (<  36%),  although  there  was  a  trend  of 
slightly  lower  exposure  in  relapsed  subjects.  Mean  serum  C0  were  comparable  with  a  <  2-fold 
difference,  ranging  from  14400  to  23600  ng/mL  in  all  subjects  through  month  16  (n  ≥  6),  indicating 
that the pharmacokinetics of denosumab did not change with time. 
Study  20040215  is  an  open-label  multicenter  phase  2  proof-of-concept  study  in  recurrent  or 
unresectable giant cell tumour (GCT) of bone, which is dependent on RANKL for growth. Thirty-seven 
patients  were  enrolled.  The  study  report  submitted  is  a  primary  analysis,  including  data  collected  for 
the treatment period up to 07 April 2008. Denosumab was administered SC at doses of 120 mg Q4W 
with  a  loading  dose  regimen  on  study  days  1,  8,  and  15.  Study  treatment  continued  until  complete 
tumour  resection  or  disease  progression  or  investigator’s  or  the  sponsor’s  recommendation  for 
discontinuation  or  the  subject’s  decision  to  discontinue;  or  administration  of  bisphosphonates, 
calcitonin, or IFN alfa-2a. The primary objective was to evaluate response to treatment of denosumab 
in subjects with recurrent or unresectable GCT. Response was defined as: at least 90% elimination of 
giant  cells  relative  to  baseline,  or  complete  elimination  of  giant  cells  in  cases  where  giant  cells 
represent  <  5%  of  tumour  cells,  or  a  lack  of  progression  of  the  target  lesion  at  week  25  by 
radiographic  measurements  in  cases  where  histopathology  is  not  available.  Of  the  35  subjects 
included,  86%  had  a  treatment  response.  Radiographic  measurements  of  changes  in  longest  lesion 
dimensions  were  generally  consistent  with  the  primary  endpoint  analysis.  The  response  rate  was 
independent  of  age  or  prior  bisphosphonate  use.  uNTX/Cr  and  serum  CTX  were  consistently 
suppressed  (approximately  80%  below  baseline)  from  week  5  onward.  Other  bone  turnover  markers 
(BSAP,  osteocalcin,  and  TRAP-5b)  also  decreased  from  baseline  and  remained  below  baseline 
throughout  the  study.  Increased  bone  calcification  and  bone  repair  at  the  lesion  were  observed  with 
denosumab treatment. Mean and median C 0 denosumab concentrations at the end of the loading dose 
were  approximately  2-fold  those  following  the  first  dose,  indicating  that  the  loading  dose  regimen 
increased  systemic  exposure  to  target  levels  as  anticipated.  Between  Weeks  9  and  49,  mean  and 
median C 0 varied by less than 22% and 10%, respectively. Exposures remained stable during the Q4W 
dosing period.  
Study  20050147  is  an  ongoing  phase  3,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  multicenter  study  in  men 
with  hormone-refractory  (androgen-independent)  prostate  cancer.  Subjects  (n=  1435)  were 
randomised 1:1 to receive 120 mg denosumab or placebo SCQ4W. Randomisation was stratified based 
71
 
on  PSA  criteria  and  previous  or  current  chemotherapy  for  prostate  cancer.  Subjects  enrolled  in  the 
study  will  receive  investigational  product  Q4W  until  660  subjects  have  developed  bone  metastasis  or 
died and the primary efficacy and safety analysis is completed. An interim report, with cutoff date 30 
October 2009, has been submitted. The study remains blinded and only safety data up to cutoff date 
has been evaluated so far. Dropout rate up to cutoff date was 61 %. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The use of ZOL as comparator in the pivotal studies for denosumab in advanced cancer is supported, 
as ZOL is widely used and well documented in this indication. Dosing ZOL every 4 weeks is within the 
labelled  dosing  interval  for  the  product,  therefore  this  dosing  interval  is  acceptable  for  the  ZOL 
comparator  arm  in  this  application.  In  the  pivotal  studies  for  ZOL,  the  drug  could  be  administered 
every  3  or  4  weeks.  Data  from  these  studies  has  not  been  systematically  analysed  with  respect  to 
whether ZOL was given with 3 or 4 weeks interval. However, it was demonstrated by the applicant that 
the 4-weekly interval is the most frequently used regimen for ZOL in clinical practice. Theoretically, a 
longer  interval  between  infusions  could  reduce  chronic  toxicity.  The  arguments  presented  by  the 
applicant for chosing the dosing interval of 4 weeks are accepted.  
Time  to  first  on-study  skeletal-related  event,  SRE,  is  agreed  as  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  in  the 
pivotal studies for denosumab. SRE was an important efficacy endpoint also in the pivotal studies for 
zoledronic acid, however, with the difference that hypercalcemia of malignancy was included in skeletal 
related  events  in  the  zoledronic  acid  studies.  Since  denosumab  does  not  have  the  same  calcium 
lowering  effect  as  zoledronic  acid,  hypercalcemia  is  reported  separately  in  the  denosumab  studies, 
which is reasonable.  
These studies were designed to require preservation of at least 50% of the effect of zoledronic acid on 
time  to  first  on-study  SRE.  The  zoledronic  acid  effect  level  in  the  placebo  was  not  clearly  defined, 
however, since superiority has been shown in two of three pivotal studies, the non-inferiority criterion 
is  irrelevant  and  has  not  been  further  assessed.  Apart  from  that  the  statistical  methods  used  are 
agreed.  Patients  who  dropped  out  from  study  were  followed  for  survival  only.  Otherwise,  dropouts 
were censored at their last measurement. 
Denosumab was superior to ZOL in time to first skeletal-related event in women with advanced breast 
cancer  and  skeletal  metastases,  and  in  men  with  advanced  prostate  cancer  and  skeletal  metastases. 
The  applicant  has  clarified  how  many  of  the  first on-study  SREs  that  were  classifiable as  pathological 
fracture, radiation to bone, surgery to bone and spinal cord compression, respectively. All differences 
were  in  favour  of  denosumab,  compared  to  zoledronic  acid,  and  the  difference  between  treatment 
groups was statistically significant for fracture and for radiation to bone.  
Efficacy  results  were  consistent  between  studies,  independent  of  some  differences  in  baseline 
characteristics.  In  study  20050136,  the  median  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  was  not  reached  for 
denosumab and was 26.4 months for zoledronic acid. In study 20050103 the median time to first on 
study  SRE  was  approximately  3  months  longer  for  denosumab  compared  with  zoledronic  acid  and  in 
study  20050244,  approximately  4  months  longer  for  denosumab  compared  with  zoledronic  acid.  In 
patients  with  skeletal  metastases  and  advanced  cancer  (excluding  breast  cancer  and  prostate  cancer 
but including multiple myeloma), denosumab was noninferior to zoledronic acid in time to first skeletal-
related  event  but  was  close  to  reaching  superiority. Some  tumour  types  were  very  rare  in  this  study 
and conclusions can therefore not be drawn on the treatment effect for each of these individual tumour 
types.  For  the  time  to  first  on-study  SRE,  superiority  was  demonstrated  for  denosumab  in  studies 
20050136 and 10050103 but not in study 20050244. A significant reduction in the risk of first on-study 
SRE was seen for denosumab in comparison to zoledronic acid in studies 20050136 and 2005103 but 
72
 
not  in  study  20050244.  The  effects  seen  were  independent  of  subgroup  in  a  number  of  subgroup 
analyses.  
The  terminology  used  by  the  applicant  in  these  pivotal  studies  is  somewhat  confusing.  In  oncology 
studies,  the  commonly  used  terms  for  disease  progression  are  Time  to  progression  (TTP)  and 
Progression-free  survival  (PFS).  The  applicant  has  clarified  that  Overall  disease  progression 
excluding death was analogous to the commonly termed endpoint TTP, and that only new bone lesions 
that  were  classified  as  progression  in  bone  events  were  recorded  in  the  pivotal  studies.  It  was  also 
made clear that the disease progression in bone endpoint assessed the timing of clinical complications 
from  bone  metastases  and  the  relation  between  the  SRE  and  TTP-bone  endpoints  was  adequately 
discussed. These endpoints are to some degree correlated but are not expected to be identical. 
Overall survival or time to disease  progression did not differ between treatment groups in any of the 
three  studies.  However,  in  study  20050244,  patients  with  multiple  myeloma  had  a  shorter  overall 
survival  than  patients  with  solid  tumours.  Stratification  was  done  in  this  study  according  to  tumour 
type  (non-small  lung  cancer  or  multiple  myeloma  or  other)  but  since  patients  with  multiple  myeloma 
constituted  only  10%  of  the  study  population  (93  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  and  87  in  the 
denosumab  group)  and  since  the  multiple  myeloma  patients  had  an  imbalance  between  treatment 
groups at baseline for several factors that could have prognostic significance, and also due to the fact 
that an imbalance was seen between treatment arms for the use of other treatment modalities during 
the  study,  conclusions  on  the  efficacy  in  the  subgroup  multiple  myeloma  cannot  be  drawn.  The 
indication  for  XGEVA  can  therefore  not  be  granted  at  present  in  this  subgroup  of  patients,  until  new 
supportive data have been presented.  
Healthcare utilisation was lower in the denosumab group than in the zoledronic acid treatment group, 
probably because fewer patients in this group had skeletal-related events. In all three studies, the % 
decrease  in  the  bone  turnover  markers,  uNTX/Cr  and  BSAP,  were  greater  (p  <  0.0001)  following  3 
months of denosumab treatment compared with ZOL. The decline in uNTX/Cr was more marked than 
the decline in BSAP. Standard deviations were large.  
No  consistent  significant  differences  between  treatment  groups  were  found  in  Quality  of  Life 
questionnaires  used  in  all  three  studies.  However,  the  applicant  has  presented  data  on  significant 
differences  in  some  QoL  and  pain  parameters  in  favour  of  denosumab.  Analgesic  use  did  not 
significantly differ between treatment groups in any of the three studies.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
In  2  of  the  3  pivotal  studies  (advanced  breast  cancer  with  skeletal  metastasis;  advanced  prostate 
cancer with skeletal metastasis) superiority of denosumab 120 mg sc every 4 weeks was shown to the 
comparator zoledronic acid while in the third study (advanced solid tumours except prostate cancer or 
prostate  cancer;  multiple  myeloma  or  lymphoma  and  skeletal  metastasis)  noninferiority  was  shown. 
The  studies  were  event  driven  and  the  primary  efficacy  parameter  was  noninferiority  for  time  to  first 
on-study skeletal related event (SRE) (pathologic fracture, radiation therapy to bone, surgery to bone, 
or  spinal  cord  compression).  The  secondary  endpoint  was  superiority  for  time  to  first  SRE.  Patient-
reported  outcomes  (pain  parameters,  QoL  and  analgesic  use)  did  not  significantly  differ  between 
treatment groups. Healthcare utilisation was lower in the denosumab group than in the zoledronic acid 
treatment group. 
Overall survival and progression of disease were equal between treatment groups with the exception of 
the subgroup of patients with multiple myeloma who had worse outcomes for these parameters in the 
denosumab treated group.  Due to limited sample size and due to a number of imbalances between the 
treatment groups in study IM103244, firm conclusions could not be drawn on efficacy in the subgroup 
73
 
of  multiple myeloma. An  indication  for  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  multiple  myeloma can  therefore 
not  be  granted  at  present,  until  new  data  in  support  of  this  part  of  the  indication  are  presented. 
Following the CHMP assessment, the applicant agreed to exclude multiple myeloma patients from the 
indication, which was reworded as follows:  
“Prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression 
or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastates from solid tumours.” 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Altogether, 3900 patients have been exposed to denosumab in clinical trials for advanced cancer. Only 
10 of those were exposed for 3 years or more. The clinical studies with denosumab provided as part of 
the MAA for Prolia (denosumab 60 mg SC every 6 months) provided a safety database including more 
than  13.000  subjects  who  enrolled  in  30  denosumab  clinical  studies  and  received  at  least  1  dose  of 
denosumab (n = 7848) or placebo (n = 5199). 
Table  33.  Number  of  subjects  receiving  denosumab  and  duration  of  cumulative  exposure  by  study 
type  
The cumulative mean investigational product exposure time in months differed between studies but did 
not significantly differ between treatment groups within each study. In study 20050103, exposure time 
was  11.59  ±  8.13  months  for  ZOL  and  12.6359  ±  8.38  ZOL  for  denosumab  groups.  In  study 
20050136, exposure time was 15.23±7.73 months for ZOL and 15.34±7.47 for denosumab groups. In 
study  20050244,  exposure  time  was  8.91±7.24  months  for  ZOL  and  9.23±7.40  for  denosumab 
groups.  
Adverse events  
Of  the  5677  subjects  who  received  ≥  1  dose  of  investigational  product  and  were  included  in  the 
primary advanced cancer safety analysis set, 96.2% of subjects in the denosumab group and 96.8% of 
subjects  in  the  ZOL  group  had  ≥  1  adverse  event  (AE)  while  on  study.  By  preferred  term,  the  most 
common  AEs  in  either  treatment  group  were  nausea  (30.8%  denosumab,  31.6%  ZOL),  anemia 
(27.1%,  30.3%),  fatigue  (27.1%,  27.0%),  back  pain  (25.3%,  26.3%),  decreased  appetite  (23.1%, 
74
 
 
 
 
 
24.5%), asthenia (21.4%, 21.9%), constipation (21.2%, 23.6%), dyspnea (20.6%, 17.9%), diarrhea 
(20.3%,  18.7%),  arthralgia  (20.1%,  22.3%),  bone  pain  (19.9%,  22.5%),  and  vomiting  (19.9%, 
20.1%).  The  most  common  AEs  were  similar  across  the  3  pivotal  studies.  By  MedDRA  system  organ 
class,  the  most  common  AEs  were:  general  disorders  and  administration  site  conditions  (65.4% 
denosumab,  68.8%  ZOL),  musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders  (63.1%,  67.4%),  and 
gastrointestinal disorders (60.2%, 59.8%). 
Table 34. Summary of subject incidence of AEs, primary advanced cancer safety analysis set 
Table 35. Adverse Events by Preferred Term in Descending Order of Frequency (≥ 5% Subject 
Incidence in Either Treatment Group) (Primary Advanced Cancer Safety Analysis Set) 
 Study 20050136 
 Study 20050244 
 Study 20050103 
 Overall 
Zoledronic Acid 
4 mg Q4W 
(N=1013) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=1020) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=945) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=943) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=2836) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=2841) 
n (%) 
985 (97.2) 
977 (95.8) 
842 (95.9) 
841 (95.8) 
918 (97.1) 
916 (97.1) 
  2745 (96.8) 
2734 (96.2) 
384 (37.9) 
232 (22.9) 
324 (32.0) 
264 (26.1) 
192 (19.0) 
202 (19.9) 
205 (20.2) 
190 (18.8) 
207 (20.4) 
291 (28.7) 
238 (23.5) 
356 (34.9) 
192 (18.8) 
301 (29.5) 
241 (23.6) 
193 (18.9) 
196 (19.2) 
176 (17.3) 
222 (21.8) 
231 (22.6) 
250 (24.5) 
212 (20.8) 
266 (30.3) 
286 (32.6) 
220 (25.1) 
196 (22.3) 
228 (26.0) 
180 (20.5) 
214 (24.4) 
200 (22.8) 
171 (19.5) 
139 (15.8) 
183 (20.8) 
248 (28.2) 
242 (27.6) 
211 (24.0) 
173 (19.7) 
196 (22.3) 
172 (19.6) 
191 (21.8) 
220 (25.1) 
168 (19.1) 
126 (14.4) 
186 (21.2) 
245 (25.9) 
341 (36.1) 
222 (23.5) 
287 (30.4) 
274 (29.0) 
239 (25.3) 
251 (26.6) 
117 (12.4) 
152 (16.1) 
202 (21.4) 
149 (15.8) 
272 (28.8) 
337 (35.7) 
257 (27.3) 
304 (32.2) 
267 (28.3) 
239 (25.3) 
236 (25.0) 
143 (15.2) 
178 (18.9) 
194 (20.6) 
168 (17.8) 
895 (31.6) 
859 (30.3) 
766 (27.0) 
747 (26.3) 
694 (24.5) 
621 (21.9) 
670 (23.6) 
507 (17.9) 
530 (18.7) 
632 (22.3) 
570 (20.1) 
876 (30.8) 
771 (27.1) 
769 (27.1) 
718 (25.3) 
656 (23.1) 
607 (21.4) 
603 (21.2) 
585 (20.6) 
577 (20.3) 
570 (20.1) 
566 (19.9) 
Preferred Term 
Number of subjects 
reporting adverse 
eventsa  
Nausea 
Anaemia 
Fatigue 
Back pain 
Decreased appetite 
Asthenia 
Constipation 
Dyspnoea 
Diarrhoea 
Arthralgia 
Vomiting 
 Study 20050136 
 Study 20050244 
 Study 20050103 
 Overall 
Zoledronic Acid 
4 mg Q4W 
(N=1013) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=1020) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=945) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=943) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=2836) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=2841) 
n (%) 
Preferred Term 
75
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Study 20050136 
 Study 20050244 
 Study 20050103 
 Overall 
Zoledronic Acid 
4 mg Q4W 
(N=1013) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=1020) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=945) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=943) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=2836) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=2841) 
n (%) 
238 (23.5) 
222 (21.9) 
150 (14.8) 
180 (17.8) 
247 (24.4) 
214 (21.1) 
148 (14.6) 
94 (9.3) 
136 (13.4) 
119 (11.7) 
123 (12.1) 
142 (14.0) 
34 (3.4) 
84 (8.3) 
114 (11.3) 
186 (18.2) 
204 (20.0) 
174 (17.1) 
171 (16.8) 
170 (16.7) 
197 (19.3) 
149 (14.6) 
79 (7.7) 
124 (12.2) 
122 (12.0) 
125 (12.3) 
159 (15.6) 
56 (5.5) 
93 (9.1) 
106 (10.4) 
156 (17.8) 
132 (15.0) 
138 (15.7) 
156 (17.8) 
182 (20.7) 
96 (10.9) 
99 (11.3) 
106 (12.1) 
94 (10.7) 
97 (11.0) 
109 (12.4) 
62 (7.1) 
49 (5.6) 
93 (10.6) 
75 (8.5) 
143 (16.3) 
123 (14.0) 
106 (12.1) 
173 (19.7) 
139 (15.8) 
101 (11.5) 
97 (11.0) 
100 (11.4) 
89 (10.1) 
96 (10.9) 
99 (11.3) 
48 (5.5) 
93 (10.6) 
97 (11.0) 
70 (8.0) 
245 (25.9) 
196 (20.7) 
174 (18.4) 
83 (8.8) 
133 (14.1) 
72 (7.6) 
138 (14.6) 
132 (14.0) 
94 (9.9) 
64 (6.8) 
46 (4.9) 
62 (6.6) 
51 (5.4) 
70 (7.4) 
65 (6.9) 
235 (24.9) 
197 (20.9) 
192 (20.4) 
93 (9.9) 
100 (10.6) 
62 (6.6) 
111 (11.8) 
151 (16.0) 
89 (9.4) 
74 (7.8) 
53 (5.6) 
58 (6.2) 
116 (12.3) 
73 (7.7) 
56 (5.9) 
639 (22.5) 
550 (19.4) 
462 (16.3) 
419 (14.8) 
562 (19.8) 
382 (13.5) 
385 (13.6) 
332 (11.7) 
324 (11.4) 
280 (9.9) 
278 (9.8) 
266 (9.4) 
134 (4.7) 
247 (8.7) 
254 (9.0) 
564 (19.9) 
524 (18.4) 
472 (16.6) 
437 (15.4) 
409 (14.4) 
360 (12.7) 
357 (12.6) 
330 (11.6) 
302 (10.6) 
292 (10.3) 
277 (9.8) 
265 (9.3) 
265 (9.3) 
263 (9.3) 
232 (8.2) 
Page 2 of 4
Preferred Term 
Bone pain 
Pain in extremity 
Oedema peripheral 
Cough 
Pyrexia 
Headache 
Musculoskeletal 
pain 
Weight decreased 
Insomnia 
Abdominal pain 
Neutropenia 
Alopecia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Chest pain 
Dizziness 
Preferred Term 
Pain 
Urinary tract infection 
Thrombocytopenia 
Anxiety 
Rash 
Musculoskeletal chest 
pain 
Depression 
Dehydration 
Paraesthesia 
Abdominal pain upper 
Leukopenia 
Rib fracture 
Pleural effusion 
Myalgia 
Nasopharyngitis 
Preferred Term 
Thoracic vertebral 
fracture 
Hypertension 
Neuropathy peripheral 
Pneumonia 
Stomatitis 
Dyspepsia 
Hypokalaemia 
Neck pain 
 Study 20050136 
 Study 20050244 
 Study 20050103 
 Overall 
Zoledronic Acid 
4 mg Q4W 
(N=1013) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=1020) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=945) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=943) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=2836) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=2841) 
n (%) 
97 (9.6) 
92 (9.1) 
60 (5.9) 
74 (7.3) 
100 (9.9) 
81 (8.0) 
86 (8.5) 
42 (4.1) 
73 (7.2) 
82 (8.1) 
76 (7.5) 
93 (9.2) 
62 (6.1) 
106 (10.5) 
94 (9.3) 
72 (7.1) 
72 (7.1) 
68 (6.7) 
75 (7.4) 
97 (9.5) 
82 (8.0) 
72 (7.1) 
46 (4.5) 
69 (6.8) 
71 (7.0) 
81 (7.9) 
83 (8.1) 
64 (6.3) 
82 (8.0) 
84 (8.2) 
52 (5.9) 
46 (5.2) 
102 (11.6) 
58 (6.6) 
76 (8.7) 
52 (5.9) 
56 (6.4) 
70 (8.0) 
60 (6.8) 
39 (4.4) 
73 (8.3) 
46 (5.2) 
49 (5.6) 
32 (3.6) 
31 (3.5) 
57 (6.5) 
43 (4.9) 
96 (10.9) 
75 (8.5) 
67 (7.6) 
54 (6.2) 
62 (7.1) 
68 (7.7) 
46 (5.2) 
51 (5.8) 
51 (5.8) 
40 (4.6) 
52 (5.9) 
31 (3.5) 
25 (2.8) 
94 (9.9) 
124 (13.1) 
37 (3.9) 
52 (5.5) 
25 (2.6) 
55 (5.8) 
93 (9.9) 
105 (11.1) 
52 (5.5) 
46 (4.9) 
29 (3.1) 
50 (5.3) 
40 (4.2) 
52 (5.5) 
71 (7.5) 
43 (4.6) 
28 (3.0) 
27 (2.9) 
26 (2.8) 
57 (6.0) 
38 (4.0) 
52 (5.5) 
65 (6.9) 
53 (5.6) 
45 (4.8) 
33 (3.5) 
35 (3.7) 
37 (3.9) 
37 (3.9) 
40 (4.2) 
243 (8.6) 
262 (9.2) 
199 (7.0) 
184 (6.5) 
201 (7.1) 
188 (6.6) 
182 (6.4) 
164 (5.8) 
204 (7.2) 
164 (5.8) 
177 (6.2) 
166 (5.9) 
137 (4.8) 
195 (6.9) 
163 (5.7) 
222 (7.8) 
220 (7.7) 
216 (7.6) 
196 (6.9) 
193 (6.8) 
186 (6.5) 
186 (6.5) 
179 (6.3) 
168 (5.9) 
167 (5.9) 
165 (5.8) 
158 (5.6) 
153 (5.4) 
150 (5.3) 
149 (5.2) 
Page 3 of 4
 Study 20050136 
 Study 20050244 
 Study 20050103 
 Overall 
Zoledronic Acid 
4 mg Q4W 
(N=1013) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=1020) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=945) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=943) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=2836) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=2841) 
n (%) 
78 (7.7) 
64 (6.3) 
46 (5.2) 
38 (4.3) 
30 (3.2) 
47 (5.0) 
154 (5.4) 
149 (5.2) 
65 (6.4) 
71 (7.0) 
43 (4.2) 
71 (7.0) 
74 (7.3) 
51 (5.0) 
71 (7.0) 
67 (6.6) 
71 (7.0) 
32 (3.1) 
90 (8.8) 
52 (5.1) 
40 (3.9) 
66 (6.5) 
43 (4.9) 
42 (4.8) 
56 (6.4) 
32 (3.6) 
39 (4.4) 
65 (7.4) 
38 (4.3) 
33 (3.8) 
46 (5.2) 
67 (7.6) 
33 (3.8) 
38 (4.3) 
55 (6.3) 
29 (3.3) 
45 (4.8) 
29 (3.1) 
31 (3.3) 
12 (1.3) 
34 (3.6) 
40 (4.2) 
35 (3.7) 
48 (5.1) 
30 (3.2) 
48 (5.1) 
23 (2.4) 
42 (4.5) 
35 (3.7) 
30 (3.2) 
153 (5.4) 
142 (5.0) 
130 (4.6) 
115 (4.1) 
147 (5.2) 
156 (5.5) 
144 (5.1) 
148 (5.2) 
147 (5.2) 
147 (5.2) 
146 (5.1) 
132 (4.6) 
130 (4.6) 
125 (4.4) 
Page 4 of 4
76
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Study 20050136 
 Study 20050244 
 Study 20050103 
 Overall 
Zoledronic Acid 
4 mg Q4W 
(N=1013) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=1020) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=878) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=945) 
n (%) 
Denosumab 
120 mg Q4W 
(N=943) 
n (%) 
Zoledronic Acid
4 mg Q4W 
(N=2836) 
n (%) 
Denosumab
120 mg Q4W
(N=2841) 
n (%) 
Preferred Term 
N = Number of subjects who received ≥ 1 active dose of investigational product 
n = Number of subjects reporting ≥ 1 event  
Includes only treatment-emergent adverse events 
Preferred terms are sorted by descending order of frequency in the overall denosumab group and coded using MedDRA Version 12.1. 
a Includes all adverse events, not only those occurring with ≥ 5% frequency 
Fig  7.  Forest plot of AEs with unadjusted p-value < 0.05 by Preferred Term, primary advanced cancer 
safety analysis set  
Pyrexia,  anemia,  bone  pain,  constipation,  arthralgia,  and  chills  were  adverse  events  that  were  more 
common in the zoledronic acid treatment group than in the denosumab treatment group. Hypocalcemia 
and  dyspnea  were  more  common  in  the  denosumab  group  than  in  the  ZOL  group.  Overall,  the 
incidence  of  adverse  events  was  similar  between  treatment  groups.  Some  types  of  AEs  of  special 
interest were selected for additional analyses. 
•  Hypocalcemia  is  a  known  risk  during  denosumab  treatment  and  was  more  common  in  the 
denosumab  treatment  group  than  in  the  ZOL  treatment  group.  Most  cases  of  hypocalcemia  reversed 
spontaneously or after oral calcium supplementation; very few of the hypocalcemia adverse events in 
77
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the pivotal studies requested intravenous calcium treatment. Administration of calcium and vitamin D 
with investigational product was strongly recommended for participants in denosumab phase 3 studies 
and  is  also  recommended  in  the  SmPC  proposal.  Hypocalcemic  events  were  more  common  among 
patients  who  did  not  receive  calcium  supplementation.  Hypocalcemic  events  were  more  common 
among  patients  treated  with  denosumab  than  among  patients  treated  with  zoledronic  acid  and  this 
difference  between  treatment  groups  was  larger  in  the  small  group  of  patients  who  did  not  receive 
calcium supplementation. 
•  The  incidence  of  any  type  of  infection  did  not  differ  between  study  groups,  with  the  exception  that 
staphylococcal  infections  were  more  common  in  the  denosumab  group  than  in  the  ZOL  group  (0.5% 
versus 0.2%). The overall incidence of bacterial infections did not differ between treatment groups. 
• Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) was more common in the denosumab treated group of patients than 
in patients treated with ZOL.  
Table 36. Subject incidence of adjudicated positive ONJ adverse events 
The cumulative incidence of ONJ in the denosumab and ZOL groups, respectively, was 0.8% and 0.5% 
at  1  year,  1.8%  and  1.0%  at  2  years,  and  1.8%  and  1.3%  at  3  years.  By  calendar  time  period,  the 
incidence of ONJ was 22 subjects (0.8%) in the denosumab group and 15 subjects (0.5%) in the ZOL 
group in the first 12 months on study, 51 subjects (1.8%) and 28 subjects (1.0%), respectively, at 24 
months,  and  52  subjects  (1.8%)  and  36  subjects  (1.3%),  respectively,  at  36  months,  indicating  that 
most cases of ONJ in the denosumab group occurred within the first 2 years on study. 
• No significant differences were observed between the denosumab and ZOL treatment groups in the 
incidence of new primary malignancy (1.0 and 0.6 %, respectively). 
•  Hypersensitivity  was  not  a  significant  problem  in  the  clinical  studies  with  denosumab. 
Hypersensitivity  reactions reported  to  be  associated  with  treatment  were  rare  but  tended  to  be  more 
common in the denosumab treated group; the difference between treatment groups was however not 
significant. 
• Eczema did not occur more often in denosumab treated patients than in ZOL treated patients in the 
pivotal studies.  
• The subject incidence of cataract AEs was similar between treatment groups. 
•  Cardiac  disorders:  AEs  (but  not  SAEs)  of  pericardial  effusion  were  more  common  with  denosumab 
than  with  ZOL  treatment.  Study  20050244  had  more  fatal  cardiac  AEs  among  denosumab  treated 
patients  than  among  patients  in  the  comparator  arm;  this  difference  was  driven  by  a  difference 
between treatment groups in cardiac arrest due to disease progression. The other two studies did not 
have  this  difference  in  cardiac  AEs  between  treatment  groups.  Otherwise,  cardiac  AEs  were  similar 
across treatment groups.   
• AEs of vascular disorders, such as hypertension, hypotension or vascular AEs, did not differ between 
treatment groups. 
78
 
 
 
 
 
• Renal toxicity 
Table  37.  AEs  potentially  associated  with  renal  toxicity  by  Preferred  Term  in  descending  order  of 
frequency by baseline creatinine clearance (≥ 2% subject incidence in either treatment group) 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Fatal AEs were common but did not differ between treatment groups. In study 20050244, fatal events 
due to malignant neoplasm progression were more common in the denosumab group than in the ZOL 
group. It is not clear if this relates to type of tumour or not. The applicant presented how the fatal AEs 
in  study  20050244  were  distributed  with  respect  to  type  of  tumour.  Since  there  was  an  imbalance 
between treatment groups at baseline with respect to tumour type, no firm conclusions could be drawn 
on these data. More SAEs of prostate cancer were seen in the ZOL treatment group while more SAEs of 
osteonecrosis, hypocalcemia and fatigue were seen in the denosumab treatment group.  
The  all  over  incidence  of  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  was  56.3%  in  the  denosumab  group  and 
57.1% in the ZOL group. 
79
 
 
 
 
Table  38.  SAEs  reported  for  ≥  1%  of  subjects  in  either  treatment  group  by  preferred  term  in 
descending 
order of frequency, primary advanced cancer safety analysis set 
Table 38, ctd  
80
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
81
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 8. Forest plot of SAEs with unadjusted P-value < 0.05 by Preferred Term, Primary advanced cancer 
safety analysis set 
Laboratory findings 
Low calcium values were more common in the denosumab treatment group but were seldom very low.  
Increased  creatinine  levels  occurred  in  both  treatment  groups  but  were  more  common  in  the  ZOL 
treatment group.   
Safety in special populations 
Overall, the AEs and SAEs did not significantly differ between groups analysed in subgroup analyses.  
Immunological events 
Overall, 0.4% of the 3508 denosumab-treated subjects who were tested for antibodies in the studies 
included  in  this  application  were  positive  for  binding  antibodies.  In  most  of  these  subjects,  the 
antibodies  were  transiently  detected.  No  neutralising  antibodies  have  been  observed  to  date  in  the 
denosumab clinical development program. 
82
 
 
 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  formal  drug-drug  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted  with  denosumab.  In  clinical  studies, 
denosumab  was  given  together  with  standard  therapies  for  cancer.  Concomitant  cancer  therapy, 
chemotherapy  or  hormone  therapy  in  patients  with  breast  cancer  did  not  affect  denosumab 
pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics. The absence of specified interaction studies is acceptable, as 
denosumab has a low potential to interfere with the expression or activity of the CYP enzyme system in 
the liver.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Investigational  product  withdrawal  due  to  AEs  was  reported  for  12.4%  of  subjects  in  the  denosumab 
group  and  for  13.1%  of  subjects  in  the  ZOL  group.  Osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  was  the  most  common 
adverse event that led to study withdrawal, followed by hypocalcemia. Both these adverse events were 
more  common  as  the  cause  for  study  withdrawal  in  the  denosumab  treatment  group.  All  except  3 
cases  of  osteonecrosis  were  in  the  jaw.  In  the  remaining  3  cases,  the  osteonecrosis  was  localised  in 
the hip. These 3 events were all confounded by bone metastases in the hip. 
Post marketing experience 
At the time of the submission of this application, XGEVA (denosumab) has not yet been marketed.  
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  database  for  denosumab-Amgen  is  appropriate  for  this  application,  and  is  in  accordance 
with current guidelines. It is noted that only 10 patients have received the drug for 3 years or more. 
Pyrexia,  anemia,  bone  pain,  constipation,  arthralgia,  and  chills  were  adverse  events  that  were  more 
common in the zoledronic acid treatment group than in the denosumab treatment group. Hypocalcemia 
and dyspnea were more common in the denosumab group than in the zoledronic acid group. All over, 
the incidence of adverse events was similar between treatment groups. Some types of adverse advents 
of  special  interest  were  selected  for  additional  analyses.  Hypocalcemia  was  more  common  in  the 
denosumab  treatment  group  than  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group.  Most  cases  of  hypocalcemia  reversed 
spontaneously or after oral calcium supplementation; very few of the hypocalcemia adverse events in 
the pivotal studies requested intravenous calcium treatment. 
The  incidence  of  any  type  of  infection  did  not  differ  between  study  groups,  with  the  exception  that 
staphylococcal  infections  were  more  common  in  the  denosumab  group  than  in  the  zoledronic  acid 
group  (0.5%  versus  0.2%).  The  all  over  incidence  of  bacterial  infections  did  not  differ  between 
treatment  groups.  No  significant  differences  were  observed  between  the  denosumab  and  ZOL 
treatment  groups  in  the  incidence  of  new  primary  malignancy.  Hypersensitivity  reactions  reported  to 
be  associated  with  treatment  were  rare  but  tended  to  be  more  common  in  the  denosumab  treated 
group; the difference between treatment groups was however not significant. The subject incidences of 
cataract and eczema were similar between treatment groups in the pivotal studies. 
Adverse  events  -  but  not  severe  adverse  events  -  of  pericardial  effusion  were  more  common  with 
denosumab  than  with  zoledronic  acid  treatment.  Study  20050244  had  more  fatal  cardiac  AEs  among  
denosumab treated patients than among patients in the comparator arm; this difference was driven by 
a  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  cardiac  arrest  due  to  disease  progression.  The  other  two 
studies  did  not  have  this  difference  in  cardiac  adverse  events  between  treatment  groups.  Otherwise, 
cardiac  AEs  were  similar  across  treatment  groups.  Adverse  events  of  vascular  disorders,  such  as 
hypertension, hypotension or vascular adverse events, did not differ between treatment groups.  
83
 
Deterioration  of  renal  function  was  more  common  in  the  zoledronic  acid  treatment  group  than  in  the 
denosumab  treatment  group,  but  was  not  uncommon  in  the  denosumab  group  either.  The 
pharmacokinetic  study  20040245  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  indicated  that  renal  impairment 
does not impact the pharmacokinetics of denosumab. It should however be noted that patients with a 
calculated baseline GFR below 30 mL/min were excluded from the phase 3 studies. The experience of 
denosumab treatment in patients with GFR below 30 mL/min is therefore limited, which is reflected in 
section 4.2 of the product information.  
Osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw,  ONJ:  The  denosumab  pivotal  studies  excluded  from  participation  patients 
with  history  or  current  evidence  of  ONJ,  active  dental  or  jaw  condition  which  required  oral  surgery, 
nonhealed  dental/oral  surgery  or  planned  invasive  dental  procedure  for  the  course  of  the  study.  Still 
after  exclusion  of  patients  with  all  these  known  ONJ  risk  factors  from  study  participation,  the  ONJ 
incidence  for  the  denosumab  patients  in  these  three  pivotal  studies  was  high,  higher  than  for  the 
comparator.  The  highest  incidence  of  ONJ  in  a  denosumab  treatment  arms  was  2.3  %  in  study 
2005103 (comparator 1.3 %). In the pooled data set from all 3 studies, ONJ incidence for denosumab 
was  1.8  %  and  for  the  comparator  zoledronic  acid  1.3  %.  However,  the  frequencies  of  severe  ONJ 
(CTCAE grade ≥ 3) were the same for denosumab and zoledronic acid. In the patients who developed 
ONJ  there  was  no  discernible  impact  on  pain  (as  measured  by  pain  scores)  or  quality-of-life. 
Furthermore, the condition resolved in 40% of denosumab-treated patients (30% for zoledronic acid). 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  safety  database  for  XGEVA  (denosumab)  is  appropriate.  The  incidence  of  adverse  events  was 
similar  between  treatment  groups  and  the  adverse  events  and  serious  adverse  events  did  not 
significantly  differ  between  groups  analysed  in  subgroup  analyses.  Osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  was  the 
most  common  adverse  event  that  led  to  study  withdrawal,  followed  by  hypocalcemia.  Less  renal 
impairment  was  reported  for  denosumab  than  for  zoledronic  acid.  Pyrexia  was  more  common  in  the 
zoledronic  acid  treatment  group,  hypocalcemia  (mostly  non  serious)  and  osteonecrosis  was  more 
common  in  the  denosumab  treatment  group.  In  particular,  the  incidence  of  osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw 
(ONJ) was higher in the denosumab group (1.8%) than in the zoldedronic acid group (1.3%) which is a 
matter  of  concern.  However,  the  frequencies  of  severe  ONJ  (CTCAE  grade  ≥  3)  were  the  same  for 
denosumab  and  zoledronic  acid.  In  patients  who  developed  ONJ  there  was  no  discernible  impact  on 
pain  (as  measured  by  pain  scores)  or  quality-of-life.  Furthermore,  the  condition  resolved  in  40%  of 
denosumab-treated patients (30% for zoledronic acid). Preventive measures against ONJ are included 
in the Risk Management Plan for this product. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.  
84
 
Risk Management Plan 
The  applicant  submitted  a  risk  management  plan  (version  1.3),  which  included  a  risk  minimisation 
plan. 
Safety specification 
The safety concerns specified by the applicant are now considered acceptable and include 3 identified 
risks; hypocalcemia, osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) and skin infections leading to hospitalisation and 7 
potential 
risks; 
infections,  hypersensitivitity 
reactions,  cardiovascular  events,  malignancy, 
osteonecrosis  outside  the  jaw,  immunogenicity  and  cataracts  in  men  with  prostate  cancer  receiving 
androgen  deprivation  therapy  (ADT).  Use  in  pregnant  and  lactating  women,  children,  adult/pediatric 
off-label use, use in patients with renal/hepatic impairment, use in patients with multiple myeloma and 
use in patient with previous iv bisphosphonate treatment are addressed as missing information.   
85
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 39. Summary of the risk management plan   
Agreed Pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
Agreed Risk Minimization 
Activities 
Identified Risks 
Hypocalcaemia  Routine PV activities, including:  
4.3 Contraindications 
  Cumulative reporting in periodic 
Severe, untreated hypocalcaemia 
reports and assessment of events 
from ongoing clinical studies and 
spontaneous reports 
 
Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
  Cumulative analysis of reports of 
hypocalcemia in PSURs 
Proactive surveillance: 
  Study to examine changes in 
serum calcium levels in patients 
with severe renal impairment or 
receiving dialysis administered a 
120-mg dose of denosumab 
4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
Hypocalcaemia 
Pre-existing hypocalcaemia must 
be corrected prior to initiating 
therapy with XGEVA. 
Patients with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance < 
30 ml/min) or receiving dialysis are 
at greater risk of developing 
hypocalcaemia.  Monitoring of 
calcium levels in these patients is 
recommended.  If hypocalcaemia 
occurs while receiving XGEVA, 
additional short-term calcium 
supplementation may be 
necessary. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated List of Adverse Reactions 
Hypocalcemia is listed under 
metabolism and nutrition disorders 
as common. 
Description of Selected Adverse 
Reactions 
Hypocalcaemia 
In three phase III active-controlled 
clinical trials in patients with 
advanced malignancies involving 
bone, hypocalcaemia was reported 
in 9.6% of patients treated with 
XGEVA and 5.0% of patients 
treated with zoledronic acid. 
A grade 3 decrease in serum 
calcium levels was experienced in 
2.5% of patients treated with 
XGEVA and 1.2% of patients 
treated with zoledronic acid.  A 
grade 4 decrease in serum calcium 
levels was experienced in 0.6% of 
patients treated with XGEVA and 
0.2% of patients treated with 
zoledronic acid. 
86
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypocalcaemia 
(continued) 
ONJ 
Routine PV activities, including: 
  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical studies and 
spontaneous reports 
 
Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire 
  Cumulative analysis in PSURs of 
ONJ events reported through 
clinical study and postmarketing 
surveillance  
Proactive surveillance: 
  Ongoing medical reviews and 
 
expedited reporting to regulatory 
agencies of all reported cases of ONJ 
Proposed EU-  and North America-
based case registry to monitor ONJ 
in the postmarketing setting 
  EU-based observational cohort study 
to evaluate the incidence of ONJ in 
the postmarketing setting  
  Ongoing adjudication in clinical 
studies 
  Survey to evaluate European-based 
treating physicians’ knowledge of 
prescribing information related to 
ONJ  
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Other Special Populations 
In a clinical study of patients without 
advanced cancer with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 30 mL/min) or receiving dialysis, 
there was a greater risk of 
developing hypocalcaemia in the 
absence of calcium supplementation. 
4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use 
Osteonecrosis of the Jaw 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) was 
reported in patients treated with 
denosumab, predominantly in 
patients with advanced malignancies 
involving bone.  
Patients who developed ONJ in 
clinical studies generally had known 
risk factors for ONJ, including 
invasive dental procedures (eg, 
tooth extraction, dental implants, 
oral surgery), poor oral hygiene or 
other pre-existing dental disease, 
advanced malignancies, infections, 
or concomitant therapies (eg, 
chemotherapy, corticosteroids, 
angiogenesis inhibitors, radiotherapy 
to the head and neck).  A dental 
examination with appropriate 
preventive dentistry should be 
considered prior to treatment with 
XGEVA in patients with active dental 
and jaw conditions (as listed above).  
While on treatment, patients should 
avoid invasive dental procedures if 
possible.  
Good oral hygiene practices should 
be maintained during treatment with 
XGEVA.  Patients who are suspected 
of having or who develop ONJ while 
on XGEVA therapy should receive 
care by a dentist or oral surgeon.  In 
these patients, extensive dental 
surgery to treat ONJ may exacerbate 
the condition. 
87
 
 
 
ONJ 
(continued) 
An individual risk/benefit evaluation 
should be done for each patient before 
prescribing XGEVA in patients with 
unavoidable risk factors for ONJ; and in 
patients who have developed ONJ during 
treatment with XGEVA. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated List of Adverse Reactions 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw is listed under 
musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders as common. 
Description of Selected Adverse 
Reactions 
Osteonecrosis of the Jaw (ONJ) 
In three phase III active-controlled 
clinical trials in patients with advanced 
malignancies involving bone, ONJ was 
confirmed in 1.8% of patients treated 
with XGEVA and 1.3% of patients 
treated with zoledronic acid.  Clinical 
characteristics of these cases were 
similar between treatment groups.   
Among subjects with confirmed ONJ, 
most (81% in both treatment groups) 
had a history of tooth extraction, poor 
oral hygiene, and/or use of a dental 
appliance.  In addition most subjects 
were receiving or had received 
chemotherapy.   Patients with certain 
identified risk factors for ONJ were 
excluded from participation in the pivotal 
studies. 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic Properties 
Clinical Efficacy in Patients with Bone 
Metastases from Solid Tumors 
Patients with prior history of ONJ or 
osteomyelitis of the jaw, an active dental 
or jaw condition requiring oral surgery, 
non-healed dental/oral surgery, or any 
planned invasive dental procedure, were 
not eligible for inclusion in these studies. 
88
 
 
 
Skin Infections 
Leading to 
Hospitalization 
Routine PV activities, including: 
  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical studies 
and spontaneous reports  
Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire  
 
  Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for 
Use 
Skin Infections Leading to Hospitalisation 
(predominantly cellulitis) 
In clinical trials in patients with 
advanced malignancies involving bone, 
skin infections leading to hospitalisation 
(predominantly cellulitis) were reported. 
Patients should be advised to seek 
prompt medical attention if they develop 
signs or symptoms of cellulitis. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Tabulated List of Adverse Reactions 
Cellulitis is listed under infections and 
infestations as uncommon. 
Description of Selected Adverse 
Reactions 
Skin infections (predominantly cellulitis) 
leading to hospitalisation 
In three phase 3 active-controlled 
clinical trials in patients with advanced 
malignancies involving bone, skin 
infections leading to hospitalisation 
(predominantly cellulitis) were reported 
more frequently in patients receiving 
XGEVA (0.9%) compared with zoledronic 
acid (0.7%).   
In postmenopausal women with 
osteoporosis, skin infections leading to 
hospitalisation were reported for 0.4% 
women receiving Prolia (denosumab 
60 mg every 6 months) and for 0.1% 
women receiving placebo. 
89
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Potential Risks 
Infection 
Routine PV activities, including:  
None  
  Assessment of adverse events 
and serious adverse events of 
infection from ongoing clinical 
studies and spontaneous 
reports 
 
Targeted follow-up of 
postmarketing reports using a 
focused questionnaire  
  Cumulative analysis of serious 
adverse events of infection in 
PSURs 
Proactive Surveillance: 
EU-based observational 
cohort study to evaluate 
infection leading to 
hospitalization in the 
postmarketing setting 
Hypersensitivity 
Reactions 
Routine PV activities, including: 
4.3 Contraindications 
  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical studies 
and spontaneous reports 
  Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
Proactive surveillance: 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance 
or any of the excipients. 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
  Evaluation of adverse event 
Tabulated List of Adverse Reactions 
profiles (including 
hypersensitivity adverse 
events) in subjects who test 
positive for antidenosumab 
antibodies in clinical studies 
Drug hypersensitivity is listed under 
immune system disorders as 
uncommon. 
Cardiovascular 
Events 
Routine PV activities, including: 
  Assessment of events reported 
from ongoing clinical studies 
and spontaneous reports 
  Cumulative analysis in PSURs 
None  
90
 
  
 
 
Malignancy 
Routine PV activities, including: 
None 
  Assessment of events 
reported from ongoing 
clinical studies and 
spontaneous reports 
  Cumulative analysis in 
PSURs 
Osteonecrosis 
outside the jaw 
(avascular 
necrosis) 
Routine PV activities, including:  
None 
  Assessment of events 
reported from ongoing 
clinical studies and 
spontaneous reports 
  Cumulative analysis in 
PSURs 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic Properties 
Immunogenicity 
In clinical studies, neutralising antibodies 
have not been observed for XGEVA. Using 
a sensitive immunoassay < 1% of 
patients treated with denosumab for up 
to 3 years tested positive for non 
neutralising binding antibodies with no 
evidence of altered pharmacokinetics, 
toxicity, or clinical response. 
None  
Immunogenicity  Proactive surveillance: 
 
Testing for antidenosumab 
antibodies in all ongoing 
clinical studies 
  Evaluation of adverse event 
profiles in subjects who test 
positive for antidenosumab 
antibodies in clinical studies  
  During the postmarketing 
period, testing for 
antidenosumab antibodies 
will be available for any 
patient on denosumab at 
the request of the treating 
physician 
Routine PV activities, including: 
  Assessment of events 
reported from ongoing 
clinical studies and 
spontaneous reports 
Proactive surveillance: 
  A prospective, randomized, 
placebo-controlled study is 
being conducted to further 
evaluate the incidence of 
cataracts in men receiving 
denosumab concurrently 
with ADT for prostate 
cancer  
Cataracts in 
Men With 
Prostate Cancer 
Undergoing ADT 
91
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important Missing (or Limited) Information 
Pregnant 
Women 
Routine PV activities and proactive 
surveillance, including: 
  Pregnancy registry based on 
Amgen Pregnant Surveillance 
System established on the basis 
of Spontaneous Reporting Safety 
System.  All patients who report 
having a pregnancy during 
denosumab treatment will be 
followed to observe birth 
outcomes and will be asked to 
provide medical records of infants 
through 12 months of age. 
Lactating 
Women 
Routine activities will include 
providing access for all applicable 
patients to a global Lactation 
Surveillance Program to follow 
children of participating mothers 
through up to 1 year of age. 
4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data from the 
use of XGEVA in pregnant women. 
Animal studies are insufficient with 
respect to reproductive toxicity). In 
genetically engineered mice in which 
RANKL has been turned off by gene 
removal (a “knockout mouse”), 
studies suggest absence of RANKL 
(the target of denosumab) could 
interfere with the development of 
lymph nodes in the foetus and could 
lead to postnatal impairment of 
dentition and bone growth. XGEVA is 
not recommended for use in pregnant 
women and women of childbearing 
potential not using contraception. 
5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
In preclinical studies knockout mice 
lacking RANK or RANKL had an 
absence of lactation due to inhibition 
of mammary gland maturation 
(lobulo-alveolar gland development 
during pregnancy) and exhibited 
impairment of lymph node formation. 
4.6 Fertility, Pregnancy and Lactation 
Breast-feeding  
It is unknown whether denosumab is 
excreted in human milk. Knockout 
mouse studies suggest absence of 
RANKL during pregnancy may 
interfere with maturation of the 
mammary gland leading to impaired 
lactation post-partum.  A decision on 
whether to abstain from breast-
feeding or to abstain from therapy 
with XGEVA should be made, taking 
into account the benefit of breast-
feeding to the newborn/infant and the 
benefit of  XGEVA therapy to the 
woman. 
92
  
  
 
 
4.2  Posology and Method of Administration 
Pediatric Population 
XGEVA is not recommended in paediatric 
patients (age < 18) as the safety and 
efficacy of XGEVA in these patients have 
not been established. Inhibition of 
RANK/RANK ligand (RANKL) in animal 
studies has been coupled to inhibition of 
bone growth and lack of tooth eruption, and 
these changes were partially reversible 
upon cessation of RANKL inhibition. 
5.3 Preclinical Safety Data 
In preclinical studies knockout mice lacking 
RANK or RANKL had an absence of lactation 
due to inhibition of mammary gland 
maturation (lobulo-alveolar gland 
development during pregnancy) and 
exhibited impairment of lymph node 
formation. Neonatal RANK/RANKL knockout 
mice exhibited decreased body weight, 
reduced bone growth, altered growth plates 
and lack of tooth eruption. Reduced bone 
growth, altered growth plates and impaired 
tooth eruption were also seen in studies of 
neonatal rats administered RANKL 
inhibitors, and these changes were partially 
reversible when dosing of RANKL inhibitor 
was discontinued. Adolescent primates 
dosed with denosumab at 2.7 and 15 times 
(10 and 50 mg/kg dose) the clinical 
exposure had abnormal growth plates.  
Therefore, treatment with denosumab may 
impair bone growth in children with open 
growth plates and may inhibit eruption of 
dentition. 
4.1 Therapeutic Indications 
Prevention of skeletal related events 
(pathological fracture, radiation to bone, 
spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) 
in adults with bone metastases from solid 
tumours. 
Children, 
Including 
Off-label 
Pediatric Use 
Routine PV activities, including 
cumulative reports in PSURs  
Proactive surveillance: 
  Monitoring for off-label use 
in children through 
postmarketing surveillance  
  Study to collect data on 
pediatric off-label use 
  Clinical study activities as 
described in the PIP  
Potential Adult 
Off-label Use 
Routine PV activities, 
including cumulative reports in 
PSURs 
Proactive surveillance: 
  Monitoring for off-label use 
through postmarketing 
surveillance  
  Study to collect data on off-
label use 
93
 
 
 
 
Proactive surveillance: 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic Properties 
Patients with 
Multiple 
Myeloma 
  A Phase 3b study to evaluate 
the safety and efficacy of 
denosumab compared with an 
active comparator in subjects 
with newly diagnosed multiple 
myeloma 
Disease Progression and Overall Survival 
A post-hoc analysis in study 2 (patients 
with other solid tumours or multiple 
myeloma) examined overall survival for 
the 3 tumour types used for stratification 
(non-small cell lung cancer, multiple 
myeloma, and other).  Overall survival 
was longer for XGEVA in non-small cell 
lung cancer (hazard ratio [95% CI] of 
0.79 [0.65, 0.95]; n = 702) and longer 
for zoledronic acid in multiple myeloma 
(hazard ratio [95% CI] of 2.26 [1.13, 
4.50]; n = 180) and similar between 
XGEVA and zoledronic acid in other 
tumour types (hazard ratio [95% CI] of 
1.08 (0.90, 1.30); n = 894). 
4.2 Posology and Method of 
Administration 
Patients with Renal Impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in 
patients with renal impairment. 
Experience in patients on dialysis or with 
severe renal impairment (creatinine 
clearance < 30 mL/min) is limited. 
4.4 Special Warnings and Precautions for 
Use 
Hypocalcemia 
Pre-existing hypocalcaemia must be 
corrected prior to initiating therapy with 
XGEVA. 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
(creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) or 
receiving dialysis are at greater risk of 
developing hypocalcaemia.  Monitoring of 
calcium levels in these patients is 
recommended.  If hypocalcaemia occurs 
while receiving XGEVA, additional short-
term calcium supplementation may be 
necessary 
Use in Patients 
with Renal 
Impairment 
Proactive surveillance: 
  Study to examine safety in 
patients with severe renal 
impairment or receiving 
dialysis administered a 120-mg 
dose of denosumab 
94
 
 
 
Use in Patients 
with Renal 
Impairment 
(continued) 
Use in Patients 
with Hepatic 
Impairment 
Routine PV activities, including 
evaluation in the PSUR of hepatic 
adverse events under the 
hepatobiliary system organ class 
4.8 Undesirable Effects 
Other Special Populations 
In a clinical study of patients without 
advanced cancer with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance 
< 30 ml/min) or receiving dialysis, there 
was a greater risk of developing 
hypocalcaemia in the absence of calcium 
supplementation. 
5.2 Pharmacokinetics Properties 
Special Populations 
In a study of 55 patients without 
advanced cancer but with varying 
degrees of renal function, including 
patients on dialysis, the degree of renal 
impairment had no effect on the 
pharmacokinetics of denosumab. There is 
no need for renal monitoring when 
receiving XGEVA. 
4.2 Posology and Method of  
Patients with Hepatic Impairment 
The safety and efficacy of denosumab 
have not been studied in patients with 
hepatic impairment. 
5.2 Pharmacokinetic Properties 
Denosumab is composed solely of amino 
acids and carbohydrates as native 
immunoglobulin and is unlikely to be 
eliminated via hepatic metabolic 
mechanisms.  Its metabolism and 
elimination are expected to follow the 
immunoglobulin clearance pathways, 
resulting in degradation to small peptides 
and individual amino acids. 
Special Populations 
No specific study in patients with hepatic 
impairment was performed.  In general, 
monoclonal antibodies are not eliminated 
via hepatic metabolic mechanisms. The 
pharmacokinetics of denosumab is not 
expected to be affected by hepatic 
impairment. 
95
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with 
Previous IV 
Treatment with 
Bisphosphonate 
The incidence of ONJ will be 
examined in subjects previously 
exposed to bisphosphonates 
using data from the following 
sources:   
  Continued collection of safety 
information in the open-label 
extension phases of pivotal 
studies  
  Collection of information on 
prior bisphosphonate exposure 
in all ongoing clinical studies.   
  Collection of  information on 
prior IV bisphosphonate use 
among denosumab-treated 
subjects in the planned ONJ 
registry program 
  Collection of  information on 
the incidence of ONJ in the 
postmarketing setting in the 
observational cohort study in 
patients with advanced cancer 
  Request for information on 
prior or current 
bisphosphonate use in the ONJ 
questionnaire planned for 
postmarketing surveillance.  
4.5 Interaction with Other Medicinal 
Products and Other Forms of Interaction 
In clinical trials, XGEVA has been 
administered in combination with standard 
anti-cancer treatment and in subjects 
previously receiving bisphosphonates. 
There were no clinically-relevant alterations 
in trough serum concentration and 
pharmacodynamics of denosumab 
(creatinine adjusted urinary N-telopeptide, 
uNTx/Cr) by concomitant chemotherapy 
and/or hormone therapy or by previous 
intravenous bisphosphonate exposure. 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic Properties 
Clinical Efficacy in Patients with Bone 
Metastases from Solid Tumours 
Efficacy and safety of 120 mg XGEVA SC 
every 4 weeks or 4 mg zoledronic acid 
(dose-adjusted for reduced renal function) 
IV every 4 weeks were compared in three 
randomised, double-blind, active-controlled 
studies, in IV-bisphosphonate naïve 
patients with advanced malignancies 
involving bone: adults with breast cancer 
(study 1), other solid tumours or multiple 
myeloma (study 2), and castrate-resistant 
prostate cancer (study 3). 
Pharmacovigilance activities 
The  below  pharmacovigilance  activities,  in  addition  to  the  routine  pharmacovigilance,  are  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
1)    Study  20101102;  ONJ  patients  identified  from  selected  sentinel  sites  within  EU  and  US  will  be 
followed  for  a  total  duration  of  5  years.  The  natural  history  of  positively-adjudicated  ONJ  in 
subjects with cancer will be described. 
2)  Clinical trials including the following studies; 
  A prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trial is being conducted to further evaluate the 
incidence of cataracts in men receiving denosumab concurrently with ADT for prostate cancer 
(Study 20080560). 
  An open-label, multi-center, phase 2 study of denosumab in subjects with giant cell tumour of 
bone (Study 20062004) in which children aged 12-17 years will be investigated. 
  Clinical  studies  monitoring  malignancy  including  3  randomized,  phase  3  clinical  studies  in 
cancer  populations  (ie,  Studies  20050147,  20050209,  20060359)  with  predefined  cancer-
specific safety outcomes comparing effects of denosumab relative to placebo. 
  Study  20101361  to  examine  changes  in  serum  calcium  levels  and  safety  in  patients  with 
severe renal impairment or receiving dialysis administered a 120 mg dose of denosumab. 
  A Phase 3b Study 20090482 will evaluate the safety and efficacy of denosumab compared with 
an active comparator in subjects with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. 
96
  
 
 
 
  Study  20101361  to  examine  safety  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment  or  receiving 
dialysis administered a 120 mg dose of denosumab. 
  Continued  collection  of  safety  information  in  the  open-label  extension  phases  of  Studies 
20050136  and  20050103.  From  both  studies,  safety  information  will  be  available  from  948 
subjects, including 472 subjects who previously received treatment with zoledronic acid before 
receiving denosumab. 
3)  Pregnancy and lactation surveillance programs. 
4)  Study 20101335 collecting data on off-label use in Europe. 
5)  Observational cohort study using health registries in Norway, Sweden/Denmark (Study 20101363). 
In  the  observational  cohort  study  approximately  1000  naïve  XGEVA  patients,  approximately  1000 
XGEVA patients with previous iv bisphosphonate treatment and approximately 2000 naïve Zometa 
patients  will  be  included.  A  descriptive  analysis  of  the  incidence  of  ONJ  and  infections  in  the  3 
treatment  groups  will  be  provided.  The  incidence  of  ONJ  and  infections  leading  to  hospitalisation 
will be compared in these 3 groups. The patients will be followed for up to 5 years after treatment 
initiation. The study will include Denmark, Norway, and Sweden and the applicant will also consider 
including the PHARMO data system in the Netherlands. Annual reporting will start in 2013 and final 
results  for  the  1-,  2-,  3-,  4-  and  5-year  cumulative  incidence  analyses  are  anticipated  to  be 
available  in  Q1  2016,  Q1  2017,  Q1  2018,  Q1  2019  and  Q1  2020  (final  report).  The  presented 
outline  is  accepted,  and  the  final  study  protocol  will  be  submitted  for  CHMP  review  as  a  post-
approval commitment. 
Risk minimisation activities 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
In  order  to  assess  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk  minimisation  the  applicant  proposes  to  perform  a 
survey to evaluate treating physicians’ awareness and understanding of recommendations provided in 
the  proposed  denosumab  prescribing  information  related  to  ONJ  (Study  20110102),  which  is 
acceptable. 
Proposals  for  Pharmacovigilance  and  Risk  minimisation  activities  presented  by  the  applicant  are 
summarized  in  the  table  39.  For  the  wording  of  the  specific  SmPC  sections  mentioned  in  the  table 
please refer to the XGEVA product information.  
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
In conclusion, the user test is considered acceptable. 
97
 
 
 
 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance 
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
In  the  integrated  pivotal  trial,  based  on  3  separate  pivotal  trials  of  advanced  cancer  metastasised  to 
bone with approximately 5700 subjects, superiority of denosumab over zoledronic acid was shown. The 
hazard ratio (HR) of denosumab vs. zoledronic acid was 0.83 (95% CI 0.76; 0.90); p < 0.0001, for the 
primary endpoint, Time-to-first Skeletal Related Event (SRE), defined as one or more of the following 
local, irreversible  events:  pathologic  fracture,  radiation  therapy  of  bone,  bone  surgery,  or  spinal  cord 
compression. Internal consistency was shown by the similar results of the secondary endpoint Time-to-
first and subsequent SRE, rate ratio 0.82 (95% CI: 0.75, 0.89); p < 0.0001. Median time to first SRE 
in  the  breast  cancer  study  20050136  was  not  reached  for  denosumab  and  was  26.4  months  for 
zoledronic acid, was in prostate cancer study 2005103 = 20.7 months for denosumab and 17.1 months 
for  zoledronic  acid,  while  in  study  2050244  it  was  20.6  months  for  denosumab  and  16.3  months  for 
zoledronic  acid.  For  each  of  the  three  included  trials  efficacy  results  very  similar  to  the  integrated 
analysis  were  observed.  Thus,  HRs  for  Time-to-first  SRE  were  0.82  (95%  CI:71;  0.95)  p=  0.01  in 
Study 20050136 in breast cancer patients; 0.82 (95% CI: 0.71; 0.95), p= 0.0085 in Study 20050103 
in  prostate  cancer  patients;  and  0.84  (95%  CI:  0.71;  0.98),  p=  0.03  in  Study  20050244  in  patients 
with  solid  tumours  excluding  breast  and  prostate  cancer,  but  including  multiple  myeloma  and 
lymphoma. Superiority of denosumab was shown for the former in two trials and non-inferiority for the 
latter. 
The  median  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  was  prolonged  by  3  months  or  more  in  the  denosumab 
treatment arm compared to the zoledronic treatment arm, in all 3 pivotal studies.  
The  effects  seen  were  independent  of  subgroup  in  a  number  of  subgroup  analyses.  The  effects 
demonstrated  in  the  pivotal  studies  for  denosumab  thus  appear  superior  with  regard  to  SREs  as 
defined than those demonstrated up to now for any of the bisphosphonates for a similar indication. The 
individual  components  of  the  Skeletal  related  events  primary  efficacy  parameter  were  further 
characterised,  showing  that  the  frequencies  of  each  component  were  consistently  in  favour  of 
denosumab  vs.  zoledronic  acid.  The  differences  between  treatment  arms  with  regard  to  frequency  of 
the SRE component were thus 0.3 % for spinal cord compression, 0.3% for surgery to bone, 2,7% for 
fracture (p=0.009), and 4.0% for radiation of bone, (p<0.0001). 
Overall survival appeared identical across treatment groups in all three studies, with the exception of 
the subgroup of patients with multiple myeloma in Study 20050244 that had a shorter overall survival 
than  patients  with  solid  tumours.  Time  to  first  overall  disease  progression  and  time  to  first  disease 
progression in bone  did not differ between treatment groups in any of the 3 pivotal studies, with the 
exception of the multiple myeloma group, see Risks below.  
In  all  three  studies,  the %  decrease  in  the  bone  turnover  markers,  uNTX/Cr  and  BSAP,  were  greater 
(p< 0.0001) following 3 months of denosumab treatment compared with ZOL. The decline in uNTX/Cr 
was more marked than the decline in BSAP, as a sign of potent bone turnover suppression. 
Healthcare utilisation was lower in the denosumab group than in the zoledronic acid treatment group, 
probably because fewer patients in this group had skeletal-related events. 
Denosumab  is  administered  as  a  subcutaneous  injection  in  a  fixed  dose.  No  intravenous  line  and  no 
highly specialised health care personnel is therefore needed for administration of the drug, which is an 
advantage over the comparator. 
98
 
The results of the pharmacokinetic Study 20040245 indicate that renal impairment does not impact the 
pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  and  there  is  no  need  for  dose  adjustments  in  renally  impaired 
patients.  There  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  hepatic  impairment  has  any  influence  on  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  denosumab  as  monoclonal  antibodies  are  eliminated  by  catabolism  and/or 
receptor-mediated processes and not by hepatic metabolic clearance.  
The  acute  phase  reactions  (e.  g.  fever,  muscle  pain  and  bone  pain,  and  arthralgia),  frequently  seen 
after  administration  of  potent  bisphosponates,  at  least  at  the  initial  administration,  very  rarely 
occurred  after  denosumab  administration,  constituting  another  advantage  over  the  alternative 
treatment. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Some  tumour  types  were  very  rare  in  study  20050244  and  firm  conclusions  can  therefore  not  be 
drawn on the treatment effect for each of these individual tumour types. 
Denosumab  has  not,  in  healthy  volunteers  or  in  patients  with  non-malignant  disease  and  renal 
impairment,  demonstrated  any  nephrotoxicity.  Up  to  now,  the  drug  has  however  not  been 
administered  to  patients  with  severely  impaired  renal  function  and  advanced  malignancy,  many  of 
whom are undergoing simultaneous treatment with a number of nephrotoxic drugs.  
The time to pain improvement (i.e.  2 point decrease from baseline in BPI-SF worst pain score) was 
similar  for  denosumab  and  zoledronic  acid  in  each  study  and  the  integrated  analyses.  In  a  post-hoc 
analysis  of  the  combined  dataset,  the  median  time  to  worsening  pain  (> 4-point  worst pain  score)  in 
patients with mild or no pain at baseline was delayed for denosumab compared to zoledronic acid (198 
versus 143 days) (p = 0.0002). Analgesic use did not significantly differ between treatment groups in 
any of the three studies.  
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
In  Study  20050244,  a  shorter  overall  survival  was  seen  in  the  sub-group  of  patients  with  multiple 
myeloma  and  disease  progression  seemed  to  be  enhanced  in  this  small  subgroup  of  patients, 
consistent with the worse outcome in this subgroup. Differences in baseline disease characteristics, the 
proportion of patients going on to receive stem-cell transplantation as well as statistical factors due to 
the small sample size may have affected this result to an uncertain degree. The gravity of the results 
will  however  preclude  a  positive  B/R  balance  for  this  subgroup.  Following  the  CHMP  assessment,  the 
applicant agreed to exclude multiple myeloma patients from the indication.  
Osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  (ONJ)  is  a  condition  previously  associated  with  bisphosphonate  treatment, 
with  increasing  frequencies  reported  for  the  newer,  more  potent,  generations  of  bisphosphonates 
compared  with  first  generation  of  this  drug  class.  This  has  led  to  increasing  concern  regarding  this 
adverse  reaction,  which  may  be  very  painful  and  debilitating  in  severe  cases.  Zoledronic  acid,  the 
comparator  in  all  three  pivotal  studies,  is  to  date  the  most  potent  approved  bisphosphonate.  Known 
risk  factors  for  the  development  of  ONJ  are  malignant  disease,  poor  oral  hygiene,  history  of  tooth 
extraction,  use  of  a  dental  appliance,  use  of  antiangiogenic  drugs,  chemotherapy,  and  previous 
bisphosphonate  therapy.  The  denosumab  pivotal  studies  excluded  from  participation  patients  with  a 
history  or  current  evidence  of  ONJ,  active  dental  or  jaw  condition  which  required  oral  surgery, 
nonhealed  dental/oral  surgery  or  planned  invasive  dental  procedure  for  the  course  of  the  study. 
Subject  incidence  of  ONJ  in  the  denosumab  treatment  arms  were  2.0  %  in  Study  20050136 
(comparator  1.4  %),  1.1  %  in  Study  20050244  (comparator  1.3  %),  and  2.3  %  in  Study  2005103 
(comparator 1.3 %). In the pooled data set from all three studies, ONJ incidence for denosumab was 
99
 
1.8 % and for the comparator zoledronic acid 1.3%. This overall frequency of ONJ is comparable with 
frequencies  seen  in  other  studies  of  bisphosphonates  in  this  category  of  patients,  where  frequencies 
typically  range  between  0.5  and  4%,  with  a  2%  average.  Considerably  higher  frequencies  have  also 
been  repeatedly  reported,  however  results  might  not  be  entirely  directly  translatable  -  due  to 
differences  in  ONJ  definitions  used,  patient  populations,  and  preventive  measures.  Upon  further 
characterisation  of  the  ONJ  cases  it  has  been  shown  that  ONJ  in  many  of  the  cases  related  to 
denosumab  is  not  a  severely  debilitating  or  permanent  condition:  In  the  denosumab  arm,  75%  of 
cases were mild or moderate, where mild = asymptomatic (CTCAE grade 1). The absolute frequencies 
of  severe  ONJ  (CTCAE  grade  ≥  3)  were  the  same  for  denosumab  and  zoledronic  acid  (0.4%).  In 
patients  who  developed  ONJ  there  was  no  discernible  impact  on  pain  (as  measured  by  pain  scores 
before  and  after  ONJ  event)  or  quality-of-life.  Furthermore,  the  condition  resolved  in  40%  of 
denosumab-treated patients (30% for zoledronic acid). Since the antiresorptive effect of denosumab is 
more  rapidly  reversible,  this  could  theoretically  offer  an  advantage  compared  with  zoledronic  acid  in 
cases of ONJ.  
Hypocalcemia  was  more  commonly  seen  after  denosumab  treatment  than  after  treatment  with 
zoledronic  acid.  The  hypocalcemia  was  however  still  not  very  common  and  was  mostly  mild  and 
resolved spontaneously or after oral calcium medication and very rarely required IV calcium therapy.  
Adverse events of hypocalcemia and dyspnea were more common in the denosumab group than in the 
zoledronic  acid  group  in  the  pivotal  studies  but  overall,  the  incidence  of  adverse  events  was  similar 
between treatment groups. 
The  only  cardiovascular  adverse  event  that  differed  in  incidence  between  treatment  groups  in  the 
pivotal  studies  was  the  adverse  event  of  pericardial  effusion,  and  in  study  20050244  denosumab 
treated  patients  had  more  fatal  cardiac  adverse  event  than  zoledronic  acid  treated  patients.  These 
differences  can  however  be  accounted  for  by  a  difference  in  disease  progression  between  treatment 
arms. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects. 
There  is  no  clear  indication  of  increasing  incidence  of  ONJ  with  increasing  duration  of  denosumab 
treatment.  The  risk  factors  identified  for  ONJ  associated  with  denosumab  therapy,  such  as  poor  oral 
hygiene,  use  of  dental  appliance,  and  tooth  extraction  are  well  known  also  for  bisphosphonates. 
However, the question as to whether the total dose is considered an important additional risk factor for 
ONJ remains. Therefore the applicant is recommended to gain additional information on dosing and its 
relationship with the frequency of ONJ post-approval, and to consider a further dose-response study in 
this regard. 
Pharmacovigilance activities proposed by the applicant in the Risk Management Plan are endorsed. The 
outlines of the proposed Observational Cohort Study on ONJ are considered acceptable. The applicant 
will provide a detailed protocol for review by the CHMP as a post-approval commitment. 
Benefit-Risk Balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects.  
There  is  a  need  for  new  effective  treatment  of  metastatic  bone  disease  in  advanced  cancer,  in 
particular  in  the  category  of  patients  with  impaired  renal  function,  as  the  currently  best  therapy, 
bisphosphonates,  can  be  nephrotoxic  and  associated  with  cytokine  release  symptoms  such  as  fever 
and  influenza-like  symptoms.  The  reduction  of  SREs  demonstrated  in  the  pivotal  studies  for 
denosumab are better than those demonstrated up to now for any of the bisphosphonates for a similar 
indication.  A  17%-risk  reduction  in  Time-to-first  SRE  and  a  prolonged  median  Time-to-first  on-study 
100
 
SRE of over 8 months experienced by denosumab treated patients compared to zoledronic acid treated 
patients in the integrated pivotal study is of clear clinical relevance and benefit to patients. It should be 
noted  that  the  4  components  of  the  composite  SRE  endpoint  are  all  of  clinical  importance  in  the 
management of cancer patients. 
The  decrease  in  overall  survival  and  time  to  disease  progression  for  denosumab  vs.  zoledronic  acid 
treated  patients  seen  in  the  subgroup  of  patients  with  multiple  myeloma  is  a  serious  concern.  Study 
baseline  data  and  additional  treatments  during  study  were  not  balanced  between  study  groups,  and 
B/R  therefore  not  assessable  for  this  subgroup.  Denosumab  is  therefore  at  present  not  considered 
approvable for this category of patients.  
The  adverse  event  osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  in  patients  treated  with  denosumab  is  an  important 
concern,  although  not  of  significantly of  higher frequency  than  for  the  comparator.  The  applicant  has 
however extensively discussed this finding and demonstrated that ONJ in many of the cases related to 
denosumab  is  not  a  severely  debilitating  or  permanent  condition,  diminishing  the  importance  of  the 
condition in this category of terminally ill patients with advanced cancer with skeletal metastases. It is 
not known how the reversibility of ONJ relates to the severity of the condition in patients treated with 
denosumab.  
  Benefit-risk balance 
The  overall  benefit  of  denosumab  in  the  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  (pathological  fracture, 
radiation  to  bone,  spinal  cord  compression  or  surgery  to  bone)  in  adults  with  bone  metastases  from 
solid  tumours  in  patients  with  advanced  malignant  disease  involving  bone  has  been  convincingly 
demonstrated. The increased incidence of osteonecrosis of the jaw of 0.5% for densoumab compared 
with the comparator in the integrated pivotal study is considered to be outweighed by the superiority 
of  denosumab  to  zoledronic  acid  to  prevent  skeletal  related  events  in  patients  with  advanced  solid 
tumours and skeletal metastases.  
The  RMP  provided  is  considered  acceptable  and  all  safety  issues  identified  have  been  appropriately 
addressed  in  the  product  information.  In  addition,  the  CHMP  requested  a  Scientific  Advisory  Group 
(SAG)  to  provide  further  clinical  insights  on  the  Benefit-Risk  balance  in  patients  with  advanced 
malignancy and skeletal metastases, and to discuss ONJ in the malignant setting as compared to ONJ 
in  the  non-malignant  setting,  and  further  to  discuss  how  post-approval  denosumab  studies  in  the 
malignant population should be best designed to identify and monitor risk factors for ONJ.  
As  per  CHMP  request,  an  oncology  SAG  meeting  reinforced  with  additional  experts  on  ONJ  was 
convened on 3 May 2011 to provide advice on the list of questions adopted by the CHMP at its March 
2011 meeting. The SAG provided the following answers to the questions raised by the Committee: 
1.   The SAG is  asked to discuss the clinical relevance of  the demonstrated effect,  both in 
absolute terms and in relation to zoledronic acid.  
The  observed  effect  in  terms  of  skeletal-related  events  (SRE)  is  considered  clinically  relevant. 
The  minimum  effect  in  terms  of  median  time  to  first  on-study  SRE  to  be  considered  clinically 
relevant is judged to be about 3 months. This is in the range of the advantage observed in terms 
of  this  endpoint  compared  to  zoledronic  acid.  Thus,  concerning  this  endpoint,  denosumab  has 
shown  a  superior  effect  compared  to  zoledronic  acid  based  on  two  of  the  three  studies,  i.e.  in 
advanced breast with bone metastases and prostate cancer with bone metastases, but not in the 
study  including  a  range  of  different  tumor  types  with  bone  metastases  (but  not  breast  and 
prostate  cancer)  including  myeloma.  However,  the  absolute  and  relative  overall  efficacy  for 
denosumab need to also take into account other important clinical endpoints, including long-term 
efficacy and safety outcomes. There are no data available to conclude on the overall efficacy and 
safety of denosumab beyond the median duration of follow-up of the pivotal studies, which was 
101
 
about  2  years.  Thus,  it  can  be  reasonably  assumed  that  the  overall  efficacy  is  probably  not 
inferior although data are missing to rule out any long-term detrimental effects or to establish a 
claim of superior overall efficacy (PFS, OS) compared to zoledronic acid.  
The  analysis  of  the  efficacy  data  provided  raised  some  methodological  concerns  as  to  how 
patients  were  handled  in  the  analysis  of  the  primary  endpoint  in  case  of  competing  risks  (e.g. 
death, progression), which might introduce informative censoring. In addition, standard methods 
(Kaplan-Meier, logrank test, Cox model) do not take into consideration competing risks. Further 
analyses  using  classical  competing  risks  methods  (e.g.  cumulative  incidence  curves,  Gray  test) 
and    analyses  of  the  corresponding    composite  endpoints,  such  as  SRE  and  progression  free 
survival  (risks:  SRE,  progression  and  death)  or  SRE-free  survival  (risks:  SRE  and  death; 
provided that SRE was foreseen to be assessed after progression as well), should be requested. 
2.   The  significance  of  the  observed  ONJ  in  patients  with  advanced  cancer  and  skeletal 
metastases  should  be  discussed.  The  importance  of  ONJ  should  be  discussed  in 
relation to the response to Question 1. 
In  this  patient  population,  the  observed  incidence,  duration  and  severity  of  ONJ  was  not 
considered to be a major issue compared to many other more frequent, severe and long-lasting 
side-effects  of  concomitant  treatments  often  only  with  palliative  intent.  Thus,  compared  to  the 
clinically relevant effect observed in terms of SREs, the observed cases of ONJ were considered 
acceptable  and  comparable  to  what  is  expected  from  zoledronic  acid,  but  longer  follow-up  is 
needed for more definitive conclusions. 
However,  it  should  be  noted  that  no  comprehensive  safety  (or  efficacy)  data  are  available 
beyond the duration of follow-up in the clinical trials (about 2 years median follow-up). Beyond 
the observation period, it is possible (or even likely in view of the potent mechanism of action) 
that new cases will be observed increasing the overall incidence. 
Furthermore,  there  is  a  risk  that  unless  adequate  risk  minimisation  measures  are  in  place,  the 
preventive  measures  will  be  generally  less  stringent  in  clinical  practice  compared  to  the  clinical 
trials. 
3.   How  can  post  approval  denosumab  studies  in  this  population  best  be  designed  to 
identify and monitor risk factors for ONJ (e. g treatment with angiogenesis inhibitors, 
corticosteroids, or earlier bisphosphonate therapy)? 
Observational  and  registry  studies  (of  adequate  size  and  analysed  using  adequate  statistical 
methodology  including  analysis  of  competing-risks)  should  be  designed  with  the  aim  to identify 
additional  intrinsic  or  extrinsic  risk  factors,  including  smoking  and  co-medications  (e.g.,  TKIs), 
and  allow  optimising  preventive  measures.  The  studies  should  include  long-term  follow-up 
particularly in  indications  such  as  prostate  or  breast  cancer  where  longer  survival  times  can  be 
expected.  Registry  studies  including  cases  of  ONJ  should  equally  include  life-long  follow-up  to 
study long-term management and outcome. 
4.  
In  the  clinical  studies,  the  event  rate  of  ONJ  was  relatively  low.  Are  there  additional 
measures to undertake in order to help clinicians to adhere to the recommendations in 
the  SmPC  with  respect  to  risk  factors  for  ONJ?  How  can  measure  of  effectiveness  of 
risk minimisation proposed for ONJ post approval in this population best be designed? 
Risk minimisation measures should aim to train physicians and patients about the recommended 
preventive measures to minimise the risk of ONJ. Measures to increase the awareness of dental 
practitioners about the risk factors for ONJ should be explored. Measures to increase awareness 
about current guidelines about ONJ management should be explored. 
102
 
The CHMP considered the  data submitted by the applicant and the argumentation put forward by the 
applicant  and  the  SAG  experts.  The  CHMP  considered  that  the  currently  available  data  on  quality, 
safety  and  efficacy  are  sufficient  to  conclude  on  a  positive  benefit-risk  balance  for  XGEVA 
(denosumab). 
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Following  the  assessment  of  all  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy  provided  as  part  of  the  present 
MAA,  the  CHMP  concluded  that  the  benefit/risk  balance  for  XGEVA  (denosumab)  is  positive  for  the 
following indication: 
“Prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression 
or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastases from solid tumours.” 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
-  pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  were  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns; 
-  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information.  
Further, the CHMP reviewed the data and justifications submitted by the applicant taking into account 
the provisions of Article 14(11) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, and taking into account the provisions 
of  the  “Guidance  on  elements  required  to  support  the  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with 
existing  therapies  of  a  new  therapeutic  indication  in  order  to  benefit  from  an  extended  (11-year) 
marketing protection period (November 2007)”, and considered that as the new therapeutic indication 
brings  significant  clinical  benefit  in  comparison  with  existing  therapies  for  this  indication  in  terms  of 
prolonged  time  to  first  skeletal  event,  less  nephrotoxicity  and  a  simpler  mode  of  administration,  the 
applicant´s  request  for  the  extension  by  1  year  of  the  marketing  protection  for  denosumab  is 
recommended for approval.  
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  XGEVA  in  the  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  (pathological 
fracture, radiation to bone, spinal cord compression or surgery to bone) in adults with bone metastases 
from  solid  tumours  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing 
authorisation. 
Furthermore,  the  CHMP  reviewed  the  data  submitted  by  the  Applicant  taking  into  account  the 
provisions  of  Article  14(11)  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  726/2004  and  considered  by  consensus  the 
indication to be new for denosumab and that it would bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison 
with existing therapies for this indication.  
103
 
