EMA/676704/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002653 
Xofigo (radium-223 dichloride) 
An overview of Xofigo and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Xofigo and what is it used for? 
Xofigo is a radiopharmaceutical (a medicine containing a radioactive substance) that is used to treat 
adults with cancer of the prostate (a gland of the male reproductive system). 
Xofigo is used when castration (to stop the production of male hormones) by surgery or with medicines 
does not work, and when the cancer has spread to the bones (bone metastases) and is causing 
symptoms such as pain, but has not spread to other internal organs. It should be used only for 
patients who have had at least two previous treatments for prostate cancer or who cannot receive 
other treatments. 
Xofigo is used on its own or in combination with a medicine known as an ‘LHRH analogue’.  
Xofigo contains the active substance radium-223 dichloride. 
How is Xofigo used? 
Xofigo can only be obtained with a prescription and should only be handled and given by someone who 
is authorised to use radioactive medicines and after evaluation of the patient by a qualified doctor. 
The dose of Xofigo is calculated to provide a specific dose of radioactivity based on the patient’s body 
weight. The medicine is slowly injected into a vein usually for up to one minute. Injections are 
repeated every 4 weeks for a total of 6 injections.  
For more information about using Xofigo, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Xofigo work? 
The active substance in Xofigo, radium-223, emits short-range radiation known as alpha particles. The 
bones in the body take up radium in the same way as calcium. The radioactive radium builds up in 
bone tissues where the cancer has spread, and the alpha particles destroy surrounding cancer cells and 
help to control the associated symptoms. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Xofigo have been shown in studies? 
Xofigo was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) as an addition to standard care in a main 
study involving 921 men with cancer of the prostate that had spread to the bones and for which 
suppression of male hormones using medicines or surgery did not work. Patients were given up to 6 
injections at 1-month intervals and were followed up for 3 years from the first injection. Patients given 
Xofigo lived on average for 14.9 months, compared with 11.3 months for those given placebo. The 
signs and symptoms of progressive disease such as bone pain also took longer to develop in patients 
given Xofigo. 
What are the risks associated with Xofigo? 
The most common side effects with Xofigo (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are diarrhoea, 
nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, thrombocytopenia (low blood-platelet counts) and bone fractures. The 
most serious side effects were thrombocytopenia and neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of 
white blood cell that fights infection). For the full list of side effects of Xofigo, see the package leaflet. 
Xofigo must not be used with the medicine abiraterone acetate and the corticosteroids prednisone or 
prednisolone. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Xofigo authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Xofigo’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. Xofigo has been shown to prolong life and delaying signs and symptoms 
of progressive disease. Regarding its safety, several measures have been put in place to minimise the 
risks of the medicine such as bone fractures1 The radiation emitted by Xofigo has a shorter range than 
the radiation of currently available radiopharmaceuticals. This may limit the damage to nearby healthy 
tissues. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xofigo? 
Xofigo can increase the risk of having fractures. The company that markets Xofigo will have to conduct 
studies to further characterise the safety profile of the medicine, in particular with regard to the risk of 
fractures and the risk of new metastases that do not affect the bone in patients treated with Xofigo. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Xofigo have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Xofigo are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Xofigo are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Xofigo 
Xofigo received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 13 November 2013.  
Further information on Xofigo can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
1 See outcome of safety review carried out in 2018 here. 
Xofigo (radium-223 dichloride)  
EMA/676704/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
                                       
This overview was last updated in 09-2018.  
Xofigo (radium-223 dichloride)  
EMA/676704/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
