PART VI: SUMMARY OF THE RISK-MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR XOFLUZA (BALOXAVIR 
MARBOXIL) 
This is a summary of the risk-management plan (RMP) for Xofluza. The RMP details 
important risks of Xofluza, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about Xofluza’s risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Xofluza’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Xofluza should be 
used.  
This summary of the RMP for Xofluza should be read in the context of all this 
information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Xofluza’s RMP. 
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR 
I. 
Xofluza is indicated for the treatment of uncomplicated influenza in patients aged 1 and 
above and for post-exposure prophylaxis of influenza in individuals aged 1 and above 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains baloxavir marboxil as the active substance, 
and it is given orally. 
Further information about the evaluation of Xofluza’s benefits can be found in Xofluza’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) Web site, under the medicine’s Web page. 
II. 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO 
MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS 
Important risks of Xofluza, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Xofluza’s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
The authorized pack size ⎯ The amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so as to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly. 
The medicine’s legal status ⎯ The way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., 
with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.  
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected 
continuously and regularly analyzed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) 
assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures 
constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Xofluza are risks that need special risk-management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Xofluza. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs 
further evaluation. Missing information refers to information about the safety of the 
medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-
term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks 
none 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
none 
none 
II.B 
Summary of Important Risks 
There are no important identified risks, important potential risks, or missing information 
for baloxavir marboxil. 
Post-Authorization Development Plan 
II.C 
II.C.1  Studies That Are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific 
obligation of Xofluza. 
II.C.2  Other Studies in Post-Authorization Development Plan 
There are no studies required for Xofluza. 
 
 
