26 April 2018 
EMA/799896/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Xolair  
omalizumab 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000606/P46/062 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
The MAH has submitted a report for a completed paediatric study for Xolair, in accordance with Article 
46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
Novartis has completed the study CIGE025AUS50 (end of data analysis 07 August2017), entitled ‘Real-
World Effectiveness Study of Moderate-to-Severe Allergic Asthma Patients Exposed to Omalizumab’. 
The study utilized electronic medical record (EMR) data containing clinical measures of treatment 
effectiveness such as symptoms, asthma control and lung function to expand the current 
understanding of omalizumab performance in the US real-world setting in adult and adolescent 
patients. In addition, this study describes the profile of pediatric allergic asthma patients, including 
those exposed and unexposed to omalizumab. 
A short critical expert overview written by a Novartis employee has also been provided. 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Information on the development program 
CIGE025AUS50 is a stand alone study. 
1.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Xolair, as approved was used in this study. 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
1.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
CIGE025AUS50, entitled ‘Real-World Effectiveness Study of Moderate-to-Severe Allergic 
Asthma Patients Exposed to Omalizumab’. End of data analysis was 07 August2017. 
1.3.2.  Clinical study 
CIGE025AUS50 
Description 
Study [CIGE025AUS50] was a non-interventional, retrospective, US real-world effectiveness study of 
moderate-to-severe allergic asthma patients treated with omalizumab. The study utilised electronic 
medical record (EMR) data covering the period 2007 to 2016 containing clinical measures of treatment 
effectiveness such as symptoms, asthma control and lung function, to expand the current 
understanding of omalizumab performance in the US real-world setting. 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The study had the following primary objective: 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 2/5 
 
 
 
To evaluate characteristics and long-term outcomes (i.e., asthma exacerbations, asthma control, 
symptoms, corticosteroid sparing, including patient-reported and healthcare provider [HCP] reported 
outcomes) of omalizumab-exposed and omalizumab-unexposed moderate-to-severe allergic asthma 
patients with inadequately controlled symptoms. 
In addition there were two secondary objectives: 
1.  To describe characteristics and outcomes of omalizumab-exposed moderate-to-severe allergic 
asthma patients with inadequately controlled symptoms and elevated blood eosinophil values 
(i.e., ≥150/μl and ≥300/μl). 
2.  To describe characteristics of pediatric (6-11 years old) allergic asthma patients, including 
omalizumab-exposed and omalizumab-unexposed moderate-to-severe patients with 
inadequately controlled symptoms. 
Study design 
This was a retrospective study covering the period from 2007 to 2016. Two different study designs 
were used to address the primary objective: 
•  Design 1: a retrospective cohorts design was used to evaluate characteristics and outcomes of 
omalizumab-exposed and omalizumab-unexposed moderate-to-severe allergic asthma patients 
with inadequately controlled symptoms 
•  Design 2: a retrospective pre-post design was used to evaluate outcomes pre- versus post-
treatment among omalizumab-exposed moderate-to-severe allergic asthma patients with 
inadequately controlled symptoms. 
The Allergy Partners (AP) Clinic Network electronic medical records (EMR) database was used. 
Study population 
Adult and pediatric moderate-to-severe allergic asthma patients with inadequately controlled 
symptoms were classified into one of the two mutually exclusive cohorts based on whether they were 
exposed to omalizumab therapy following an indicator of inadequately controlled symptoms. Patients 
with any omalizumab exposure (an omalizumab prescription or injection) following an indicator of 
inadequately controlled symptoms were classified into the omalizumab-exposed cohort. Patients not 
exposed to omalizumab were classified into the omalizumab-unexposed (control) cohort. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
The data collection included 44 omalizumab-exposed and 917 omalizumab-unexposed patients aged 
12-17 years old. A separate cohort of patients 6-11 years were identified where 37 omalizumab-
exposed and 2,620 omalizumab-unexposed patients were selected for data collection.  
CHMP comment: 
The MAH comments that there was an unbalance in demography and disease severity between treated 
and untreated adolescents making comparisons between these cohorts difficult.     
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 3/5 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
Sample selection criteria 21 chosen to identify omalizumab-eligible patient but unexposed to it have 
not permitted to yield a cohort of patients comparable to the omalizumab-exposed one. Omalizumab-
exposed patients appeared to be more severe at baseline in terms of lung function, asthma control, 
symptoms, comorbidities and medications used compared to the omalizumab-unexposed patients. 
Consequently, the IPTW approach failed to even out the distribution of the patients’ characteristics. 
When outcomes of patients in the two cohorts were compared, the estimated treatment effects likely 
were not free from the confounding bias. 
CHMP comment: 
The MAH presents the results for the primary endpoint in tabulated format only, not summarised in 
this report.   
Multiple factors were found to be associated with a significantly higher likelihood of omalizumab 
exposure. Baseline use of high-dose ICS and LABA was associated with a 159% statistically significant 
increase in the likelihood of omalizumab exposure, shortness of breath – with a 167% statistically 
significant increase, and baseline use of OCS – with a 110% statistically significant increase.   
Comparison of outcomes in omalizumab-exposed cohort between pre- and post- omalizumab periods 
showed that exposure to omalizumab was associated with a statistically significant improvement in 
most symptoms in the post- versus pre-omalizumab period. More specifically, patients were 34% less 
likely to experience cough (OR [CI]: 0.66 [0.49 – 0.91]), 40% less likely to experience shortness of 
breath (OR [CI]: 0.60 [0.44 – 0.83]), and 41% less likely to experience wheezing (OR [CI]: 0.59 [0.43 
– 0.81]). Although a downward trend was observed in the likelihood of experiencing chest tightness, 
the change from the pre-omalizumab period was negligible in magnitude and not statistically 
significant. 
Safety results 
Due to the non-interventional nature of the study with secondary data collection, there was no safety 
data collection performed in this study. 
1.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The results of this trial raised no new safety concerns and do not change the overall risk/benefit profile 
of Xolair® (omalizumab). There are no proposed changes to the existing product information. Due to 
the unbalance in demographics and disease severity between omalizumab treated subjects and 
controls recorded at baseline only limited information was retrieved from this study. The comparisons 
pre and post exposure did not reveal any unexpected findings.  
2.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The study report for Study CIGE025AUS50 has been provided as requested according to Article 46 of 
Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. There were no unexpected findings.  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 4/5 
 
 
 
  Not fulfilled: 
3.  Additional clarification requested 
NA 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 5/5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
