26 April 2018 
EMA/799955/2018  
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Xolair  
omalizumab 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000606/P46/063 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
In February 2018, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Xolair, in accordance with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
Novartis has completed a study CIGE025AMX02 (last patient last visit on 08-Jan-2016) entitled“Multi-
center, Open-label, Randomized, Parallel-group Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of 
Omalizumab in a 12-Month Period, in Patients with Severe IgEmediated Asthma Inadequately 
Controlled with High Doses of Corticosteroids (MEXIC Study).” This study was conducted in Mexico and 
was prematurely terminated after 129 patients aged 6 to 55 years with severe IgE mediated asthma 
inadequately controlled with high doses ICS were randomized. 
A short critical expert overview written by a Novartis employee has also been provided. 
1.  Scientific discussion 
1.1.  Information on the development program 
 CIGE025AMX02 is a stand alone study. 
1.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Xolair, as approved was used in this study. 
1.3.  Clinical aspects 
1.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Study CIGE025AMX02 was a Multi-center, Open-label, Randomized, Parallel-group Study to 
Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Omalizumab in a 12-Month Period, in Patients with Severe IgE-
mediated Asthma Inadequately Controlled with High Doses of Corticosteroids (MEXIC Study). The (last 
patient last visit was 08-Jan-2016). 
1.3.2.  Clinical study 
CIGE025AMX02  
Description 
Study CIGE025AMX02 was a multi-center, open-label, randomized, parallel-group study to evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of omalizumab in a 12-Month Period, in patients with severe IgE-mediated 
asthma inadequately controlled with high doses of corticosteroids. The purpose of the study was to 
assess if the treatment with omalizumab during 12 months is efficacious and safe for reducing the use 
of ICS. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 2/6 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Objective(s) 
The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of omalizumab in severe IgE-mediated 
asthma, inadequately controlled with high doses of corticosteroids, assessed by the proportion of 
patients able to reduce the baseline dose of budesonide by at least 50%.  
In addition there were a number of secondary objectives i.e. to evaluate: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
reduction in clinically significant asthma exacerbation episodes; 
frequency of hospital admission due to asthma exacerbation; 
need for oral or systemic corticosteroid for asthma treatment; 
number of the days missed in school or work due to asthma exacerbation episodes; 
control of asthma symptoms; 
impact in quality of life; 
safety and tolerability during a 12-month treatment period. 
Study design 
The study comprised of 4 phases, a run-in phase, a stable-steroid phase, a steroid dose reduction 
phase and an extension phase. After the Screening visit, eligible patients entered a 4-week run-in 
phase. During the 4-week run-in phase, adult patients received budesonide 800 μg and formoterol 24 
μg (budesonide/formoterol) and pediatric patients received budesonide 400 μg and formoterol 12 μg 
every 24 hours. During the 16-week stable-steroid phase, adult and pediatric patients were 
randomized to one of two treatment groups in a 1:1 ratio:  
•  Budesonide and formoterol every 12 hours and omalizumab s.c. injection every 2 or 4 weeks.  
•  Budesonide and formoterol every 12 hours.  
During the 8-week steroid dose-reduction phase, the dose of budesonide was reduced by 25% of 
baseline dose depending on disease control, until subjects reached a 100% reduction of baseline dose, 
however, formoterol dosages were not modified during the study. If the patient´s asthma symptoms 
are not controlled following the dose reduction, the last effective dose was maintained (minimal 
effective dose) until the next visit, where the Investigator decided the dosages (reduced or increased 
in ±25%) to achieve clinical control of asthma. Clinical control of asthma was defined according to the 
GINA 2012. During the 28-week extension phase, the minimal effective dose was maintained. 
However, dose adjustments were allowed for safety reasons. Patients received the protocol-determined 
omalizumab subcutaneous injection dose according to the IgE level and body weight every 2 or 4 
weeks following the specific administration instructions as per the prescribing information. 
CHMP Comment: 
The rationale behind the study objective is not fully understood as Xolair was used to taper off the 
dose of ICS. Xolair is approved for use in patients inadequately controlled with high doses of 
corticosteroids and is not intended to replace ICS treatment. LABA treatment without ICS is not 
recommended in GINA guidelines and it is not understood how an adequate evaluation of secondary 
parameters could be made considering the variation in ISC dose. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
Study population 
The original sample size planned to enroll approximately a total of 138 to be randomized in a 1:1 ratio 
to the treatment groups. However the study was terminated with 129 randomized patients. 
CHMP Comment: 
The study was prematurely discontinued by the Sponsor for reasons related to data management 
handling. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 93 adult and 36 paediatric patients were randomized in the study. The ITT population 
included 33 patients who received at least one dose of study drug and had at least one post-baseline 
assessment of the primary or secondary efficacy variables. The PP population included 23 patients who 
completed at least 12 months of treatment, had a valid assessment of the primary efficacy variable at 
Week 24 and no major protocol deviations. The mean (SD) age of paediatric patients in the 
omalizumab group was 11.1 (3.32) years and 12.4 (1.80) years in the budesonide and formoterol 
group. In the omalizumab group, half of the patients had persistent moderate asthma and the mean 
(SD) length of time since asthma diagnosis was 6.8 (3.87) years. In the budesonide and formoterol 
group, the majority of patients had persistent severe asthma (64.7%) and the mean (SD) length of 
time since asthma diagnosis was 6.5 (3.68) years. Overall, most paediatrics (93.9%) were found to 
have an allergic component. 
Efficacy results 
Due to premature termination of the study, follow-up efficacy data could not be verified. Primary 
efficacy variable included only the absolute budesonide dose at Baseline without any post-baseline 
results. 
Safety results 
In the paediatric population, a total of 59 AEs were reported in 11 patients in the omalizumab group 
and 33 AEs were reported in 7 patients in the budesonide and formoterol group, respectively as 
summarised in the table below.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
Twenty three AEs noted in 3 patients in the omalizumab group and 1 AE noted in 1 patient in the 
budesonide and formoterol group were suspected to be related to study drug (Table 12-7). Adverse 
events suspected to be related to study drug were reported in the following primary SOCs: 
•  musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders (2 patients in the omalizumab group), 
• 
• 
nervous system disorders (1 patient each in the omalizumab group and budesonide and formoterol 
group, respectively), 
general disorders and administration site conditions, gastrointestinal disorders and skin and 
subcutaneous tissue disorders (1 patient in each category in the omalizumab group). 
CHMP Comment: 
The MAH concludes that there we not unexpected findings in this study, although in the paediatric 
population there were 13 adverse events of musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders recordings 
in 22 % of patients reported as related to study drug. No corresponding events were recorded in the 
bud/form group. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is listed in the SmPC with frequency “rare” and 
arthralgia, myalgia and joint swelling are listed with frequencies “not known” (indicating that no 
frequencies could be set based on data from controlled studies, else there are no listings from this 
SOC). Thus the total frequency of recordings from the SOC appears to be considerably higher than 
expected. Nevertheless, considering that it appears to be only two patients involved and both had a 
number of events listed as “pain localised” it appears to be injections site reactions incorrectly 
classified. This issue is not further pursued.  
1.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The rationale behind the study objective is not fully understood as Xolair was used to taper off the 
dose of ICS, a treatment strategy which is not in line with the GINA guideline. However, no efficacy 
results were retrieved from this study as it was terminated prematurely for reasons linked to data 
management handling. With regard to safety there were adverse events recorded with a certain 
unbalance between test and reference (especially musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders). 
However, due to the limited number of patients firm conclusions should not be drawn.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
The safety information recorded in this study does not change the benefit/risk balance for the product. 
2.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
The study report for Study CIGE025AMX02 has been provided as requested according to Article 46 of 
Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. There is no change to the benefit/risk balance for the 
product.  
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
  Not fulfilled: 
3.  Additional clarification requested 
NA 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
<Doc.Ref> 
Rev04.14 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
