SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Asthma  is  a  chronic  inflammatory  condition  of  the  airways  that  causes  repeated  attacks  of 
breathlessness,  coughing  and  wheezing.  A  distinction  is  made  between  allergic  asthma  and  non-
allergic  asthma.  Allergic  or  atopic  diseases,  also  known  as  Type  I  hypersensitivity,  result  from  the 
over-expression of immunglobulin E (IgE) in response to enviromental allergens. Common allergens 
are house dust mite, pollen, moulds or animal dander. In allergic asthma, exposure to allergen initiates 
a  complex  series  of  events  leading  to  the  production  of  allergen-specific  IgE,  which  binds  to  high 
affinity receptors on effector cells such as mast cells and basophils. The cross–linking of these cell-
bound  IgE  molecules  by  antigen  results  in  the  release  of  pro-inflammatory  mediators  such  as 
histamine, prostaglandins, leukotrienes, chemokines and cytokines from these cells.  
Asthma is primarily treated prophylactically with inhaled corticosteroids and as reliever a short acting 
β2-agonist. Patients with severe asthma often need both higher doses of inhaled steroids and a long-
acting  β2-agonist.  Other  supplemental  medications  are  leucotriene  modifiers,  sustained-release 
theophylline and cromones. Some patients might need oral corticosteroids for short or longer periods 
to control their asthma. Allergen-specific immunotherapy has a documented effect in allergic asthma 
caused by pollen, cat fur and dust mites. However, multi-allergic patients with severe asthma are very 
difficult to treat with this method. 
The  active  substance  of  Xolair  is  omalizumab.  Omalizumab  is  a  recombinant  humanized  anti-IgE 
antibody and inhibits the activity of IgE. Omalizumab is inhibiting the binding of IgE to high-affinity 
IgE receptor (FcεRI) on the surface of mast cells and basophils. Reductions in surface bound IgE on 
FcεRI bearing cells limit the degree of release of mediators of the allergic response.  
Xolair indication is:  
“Xolair  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  to  improve  asthma  control  in  adult  and  adolescent  patients 
(12 years of age and above) with severe persistent allergic asthma who have a positive skin test or in 
vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and who have reduced lung function (FEV1 <80%) as well 
as  frequent  daytime  symptoms  or  night-time  awakenings  and  who  have  had  multiple  documented 
severe  asthma  exacerbations  despite  daily  high-dose  inhaled  corticosteroids,  plus  a  long-acting 
inhaled  beta2-agonist.  Xolair  treatment  should  only  be  considered  for  patients  with  convincing  IgE 
mediated asthma (see section 4.2).” 
The dose applied for is 150 – 375 mg of Xolair subcutaneously every two or four weeks, depending on 
baseline serum total IgE level measured before the start of the treatment, and body weight. 
Xolair is available as 75 mg and 150 mg powder and solvent for solution for injection. 
A  previous  application,  for  the  use  of  omalizumab  in  the  treatment  of  Seasonal  Allergic  Rhinitis 
(SAR) and Allergic Asthma (AA) in adults and children (from 6 year old), was made to the EMEA in 
June 2000. The benefit/risk analysis was not assessed positive for this heterogeneous population, e.g. 
because  of  a  limited  effect  in  a  patient  population  not  optimally  treated  with  recommended  therapy 
and safety concern related to thrombocytopenia found in young monkeys. Following discussions with 
the  CPMP,  the  application  for  a  label for  asthma  patients  below  the  age  of  12  and  for  patients  with 
SAR  was  withdrawn,  and  a  sub-population  of  patients  for  whom  omalizumab  could  have  a  better 
benefit/risk  relationship  was  identified,  initially  defined  as  patients  at  high  risk  of  asthma-related 
mortality.  At  that  time,  a  study  (2306)  was  already  planned  in  patients  with  severe  allergic  asthma. 
Following a scientific advice from CPMP in July 2002 the protocol was changed to better reflect the 
CPMP  requirements.  The  target  population  was  defined  as  patients  with  severe  allergic  asthma 
inadequately  controlled  by  high  doses  of  inhaled  steroids  and  long  acting  beta2  agonists,  who  had 
experienced  either  at  least  two  asthma  exacerbations  or  one  requiring  oral  steroids,  the  year  prior 
study. 
1/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
Omalizumab,  the  active  substance  in  Xolair,  is  a  recombinant  humanised  anti-IgE  antibody. 
Omalizumab  binds  to  the  FcεR1  epitope  of  human  IgE,  preventing  human  IgE  from  binding  to  its 
receptor on mast cells and basophils, thus inhibiting the histamine release response normally triggered 
by exposure to allergens. Omalizumab is produced in suspension cell culture using a Chinese Hamster 
Ovary (CHO) cell line. 
Xolair  is  a  powder  and  solvent  for  injection  to  be  administered  by  subcutaneous  injection  and  is 
presented  in  two  strengths:  75  and  150  mg  of  omalizumab.  The  lyophilised  powder  is  for 
reconstitution with solvent and is presented in 5 ml glass vials (Type I, Ph. Eur.), with a rubber stopper 
and  an  aluminum  flip-off  cap.  The  lyophilised  powder  contains  omalizumab,  sucrose,  histidine, 
histidine hydrochloride monohydrate, and polysorbate 20. The product does not contain ingredients of 
animal  or  human  origin.  The  solvent  is  sterile  water  for  injection  provided  in  glass  ampoules 
containing 2 ml of water. 
Active substance 
Manufacture 
Omalizumab is manufactured and controlled at the following sites: 
•  Genentech  Vacaville,  1000  New  Horizon  Way,  Vacaville,  CA  95688,  USA  (referred  to  as 
“Vacaville”) 
•  Genentech, Inc., 1 DNA Way, South San Francisco, CA 94080-4990, USA (referred to as “SSF”) 
The South San Francisco site is the manufacturer of Master and Working Cell Banks only. 
The  original  site  of  omalizumab  manufacture  for  most  of  the  clinical  trial  material  and  the 
qualification  lots  was  Genentech’s  South  San  Francisco  facility.  The  manufacturing  facility  for  the 
material  to  be  marketed  is  Genentech’s  Vacaville  facility.  A  manufacturing  site  transfer  was 
performed  in  year  2000.  Drug  substance  manufactured  in  Vacaville  has  also  been  used  in  clinical 
study 2306 (pivotal study). 
Genetic development 
During development a mouse monoclonal antibody was selected from a pool of hybridomas designed 
to identify an antibody with the desired specificity and affinity for the appropriate site on the target 
IgE  molecule.  Humanisation  was  accomplished  by  replacing  key  amino  acids  in  human  IgG1  with 
those from the selected antibody , primarily in the complementary determining regions, and evaluating 
the  properties  of  the  resulting  molecules.  Subsequently,  the  humanised  antibodies  performing  best 
were selected based on their high affinity for free IgE and their inability to bind to IgE when bound to 
their cell receptor. This ensured that the antibody would not bind to the cell-IgE complex similarly to 
the formation of an allergen-IgE complex, which would result in histamine release. 
The sequence of the entire coding region of the omalizumab DNA has been confirmed. The parent cell 
line used for hosting the antibody expression sequence was a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell line 
with a well-documented pedigree from  the original CHO cell line (CHO-K1). This CHO cell-line is 
being  used  by  the  manufacturer  for  other  marketed  recombinant  products  and  was  selected  for  its 
performance in culture (reduced insulin requirement and growth in serum free medium). Transfection 
with  the  plasmid  bearing  the  antibody  sequence  was  accomplished  by  standard  electroporation 
methods  and  clones  were  screened  for  secretion  of  intact,  active  omalizumab  molecules.  Through 
screening, a clone was selected based on its high expression levels for production of omalizumab for 
use in Phase I and II studies. A clone performing better was subsequently selected for producing the 
antibody at higher scale. The material produced from this second clone was comparable to the material 
from  the  first  cell  line  and  was  used  in  some  Phase I  and II  studies,  in  all  Phase III  studies,  and  is 
intended for marketing. 
2/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cell banking system 
The  manufacturer  has  prepared  both  the  Master  Cell  Bank  (MCB)  and  Working  Cell  Bank  (WCB) 
using serum-free media. The only protein used in the medium for these banks is recombinant human 
insulin.  Both  banks  were  prepared  using  standard  cryopreservation  techniques  employing  DMSO  as 
the  cryopreservative  and  are  stored  in  controlled  liquid  nitrogen  freezers.  Additional  WCBs  can  be 
generated from the MCB as needed and according to an established protocol. 
The  manufacturer  has  demonstrated  genetic  stability  of  the  expression  system  during  production  as 
recommended in the ICH Guideline “Analysis of the expression construct in cells used for production 
of  rDNA-derived  proteins”  by  using  restriction  digest  analysis,  copy  number  analysis,  and  northern 
blot  and  nucleotide  sequencing  techniques.  The  nucleotide  sequence  in  the  MCB  presents  no 
detectable  differences  with  the  sequence  in  the  plasmid  used  for  creating  the  cell  line.  No 
rearrangements, deletions or insertions within the protein coding nucleotide sequence were detected in 
the MCB, or end of production cells (EPC), both of which contain comparable copy numbers of the 
omalizumab gene. No aberrations were detected in the mRNA of the MCB and EPC and the mRNA 
transcription pattern (evaluated by northern blot analysis) of the MCB and EPC was also consistent. 
Peptide  mapping  confirmed  the  correct  protein  sequence  of  the  entire  molecule.  The  maximum  cell 
age has been adequately defined based on omalizumab protein characteristics. 
Production 
Omalizumab  is  produced  in  a  batch-fed  suspension  cell  culture.  The  process,  which  has  been 
adequately described in the application, involves culturing cells in three stages: 
•  Seed train stage: the seed train is used to provide a continuous source of cells maintained under 
• 
selective pressure. 
Inoculum train stage: the inoculum train is used to expand the cell population for introduction into 
production culture. 
•  Production stage. 
To initiate a seed train, an ampoule from the Working Cell Bank (WCB) is thawed and the culture is 
expanded  under  selective  pressure  in  either  spinner  vessels  and/or  bioreactors.  A  process  of 
continuous subcultivation in selective medium is used to maintain the seed train. To provide inocula 
for omalizumab production cultures, a portion of the seed train cell population is expanded by serial 
subcultivations using non-selective medium in stainless steel bioreactors of increasing volumes. The 
production culture is initiated by transferring cells to a bioreactor containing non-selective, serum-free 
production medium. 
Critical parameters are monitored and controlled during the entire cell culture process. All media and 
gases to be added are passed through a 0.22 µm or less sterile filter. Multiple production batches may 
be  derived  from  a  single  seed  train.  Following  production,  culture  fluid  containing  omalizumab  is 
separated from the cells by centrifugation and may be held refrigerated prior purification for a limited 
number of days, which has been adequately justified. 
Purification 
The  purification  process  has  been  adequately  described  and  consists  of  3  consequential 
chromatographic steps: immobilised protein A affinity chromatography, followed by cation exchange 
chromatography (on SP Sepharose), followed by anion exchange chromatography (on Q Sepharose). 
The  eluate  obtained  from  the  last  chromatographic  step  is  concentrated  by  ultrafiltration  and 
diafiltration  and  formulated  as  “bulk  for  storage”.  For  storage  the  omalizumab  formulated  drug 
substance is filtered (0.22 µm) and filled into high capacity stainless steel tanks, which can be used for 
long-term  storage  and  transportation  at  -20°C.  The  formulated  drug  substance,  which  undergoes 
routine release testing, is stored at 2-8ºC or -20°C until further processing to finished product. 
Compendial  and  noncompendial  raw  materials  and  reagents  are  used  in  cell  culture  and  in  the 
purification steps of omalizumab. Raw materials specifications have been set for each non-compendial 
reagent. Detailed information on the raw materials of bovine origin is provided and documentation to 
3/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
demonstrate  that  there  is  minimal  risk  for  transmission  of  TSE  is  provided.  The  capability  of  the 
manufacturing  process  to  remove  or  inactivate  any  potentially  introduced  adventitious  agent  is 
discussed below. 
Overall, the production and purification processes are controlled by adequate in-process controls and 
have been adequately validated on the basis of data obtained from three full-scale batches produced at 
the “Vacaville” manufacturing site. 
•  Specification 
The  structure  of  omalizumab  has  been  extensively  characterized  using  a  battery  of  standard  protein 
and  carbohydrate  analytical  methods  on  four  batches  manufactured  at  SSF.  Tests  revealed  that 
omalizumab  was  the  major  product  along  with  the  batch-to-batch  consistent  occurrence  of  minor 
molecular variants of omalizumab, which have been satisfactorily characterized using a combination 
of  physicochemical  methods  as  well  as  tested  for  potency.  The  amounts  of  soluble  aggregates  as 
measured by size exclusion chromatography were consistently less than 1% in all tested batches. 
Several  biological  methods  have  been  used  for  the  determination  of  the  biological  activity  of 
omalizumab  among  which  one  was  chosen  as  the  standard  potency  assay.  This  assay  measures  the 
ability  of  omalizumab  to  inhibit  binding  of  IgE  to  its  receptor  which  was  shown  to  correlate  to  the 
inhibition of release of histamine. For the purpose of biological testing, a primary reference material 
was established using two lots of omalizumab “bulk for storage” manufactured in 1997. A secondary 
reference  material  was  subsequently  prepared  for  use  in  all  assays  requiring  omalizumab  reference 
material. This secondary reference material, which is the current reference material, was manufactured 
in 2001 using the pool of three lots of omalizumab “bulk for storage” manufactured in Vacaville and 
was qualified against the primary reference material. The reference material is stored at -70 ºC. 
The  process  related  impurities  are  host-cell  related  impurities  (DNA  and  CHO  proteins),  low 
molecular  weight  substances  used  during  production  and  leached  Protein  A  (from  affinity 
chromatography column). Levels of these impurities have been monitored in numerous batches. The 
results show consistent reduction of the impurities and their levels were below the quantification limit 
of the assays used. 
Overall,  analytical  methods  have  been  adequately  described  and  validated  and  satisfactory 
specifications have been set based on results obtained with the lots used in the clinical studies, as well 
as based on the established manufacturing and assay variability. Results were provided for three of the 
process validation lots manufactured in South San Francisco, three consistency lots manufactured in 
Vacaville, and two additional commercial scale lots from South San Francisco used in clinical trials 
and toxicological studies. 
•  Stability 
Stability  studies  for  omalizumab  have  been  performed  with  three  qualification  lots  manufactured  in 
South  San  Francisco  and  three  commercial  scale  lots  manufactured  in  Vacaville  under  long  term 
storage  conditions  for  up  to  49  months  and  under  accelerated  conditions  for  up  to  1  month. 
Additionally, a study involving three freeze/thaw cycles has been performed as well as stress tests at 
higher  temperature.  With  the  exception  of  some  tests,  all  tests  in  the  release  specifications  were 
included in the stability studies. This was considered acceptable. 
No  marked  changes  in  purity,  potency,  and  physical  characteristics  were  observed  in  the  lots  tested 
after  storage.  After  freezing/thawing  no  changes  could  be  observed  in  the  amount  of  Fab  variants, 
aggregates,  potency,  and  strength.  After  storage  under  stress  conditions  a  significant  increase  of 
degradation products (Fab variants) and a decrease in potency could be observed. 
Based on the presented stability results, the proposed storage conditions and shelf life with a defined 
maximum of freeze/thaw cycles, was considered to be acceptable. 
4/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Medicinal Product 
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
The rationale behind development of the formulation has been adequately documented. Degradation 
and aggregation can be minimised when omalizumab is formulated at a pH of 5.5 to 6.5, in excipients 
including histidine, sucrose, and polysorbate 20. These excipients are  well known and often used in 
this  type  of  product  to  prevent  degradation,  aggregation  and  particulate  formation  during 
manufacturing,  lyophilisation,  shipping,  and  storage.  No  incompatibilities  between  these  excipients 
and  the  drug  substance  have  been  observed  in  stability  studies  with  the  drug  substance  or  the  drug 
product.  At  the  final  protein  concentration  of  125 mg/ml,  omalizumab  shows  good  solubility,  but 
because  of  the  limited  physical  and  chemical  stability  at  this  high  concentration,  resulting  in 
aggregation, isomerization and charge variants, long-term storage as a lyophilisate was preferable. 
Initially,  a  liquid  formulation  of  omalizumab  was  used  in  early  clinical  trials  before  efficacy  data 
indicated  that  a  higher  dose  would  be  required.  A  lyophilisate  was  therefore  developed  to  allow 
subcutaneous dosing at higher concentrations. 
Because of the high viscosity of the drug product after reconstitution, an overfill is necessary to ensure 
that the required dose can be withdrawn from the vial. For the 150 mg formulation, an overfill of 35% 
is necessary to ensure that 1.2 ml can be withdrawn. For the 75 mg formulation, the overfill is 73%, 
and  to  ensure  delivery  of  75  mg  in  0.6 ml,  the  lyophilisate  has  to  be  reconstituted  with  0.9 ml  of 
diluent. 
For  the  150  mg  formulation,  a  modification  to  the  formulation  was  introduced  late  in  development 
(end of 2002). Initially, the drug product vials used in the pivotal clinical trials were stoppered after 
lyophilisation  under  “full  vacuum”.  This  was  also  used  for  the  process  validation.  Due  to  the 
observation  that  1-3%  of  the  vials  lacked  full  vacuum,  a  process  change  to  stopper  the  vials  under 
“partial vacuum” with nitrogen was introduced. The differences between the manufacturing processes 
for  the  product  used  in  the  pivotal  clinical  trials  and  the  product  proposed  to  be  marketed  were 
adequately described, and were shown, with a comparability study, to not have any significant impact 
on quality and stability of the product. 
The  75  mg  formulation  was  introduced  later  during  development  and  is  identical  to  the  150  mg 
formulation. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The  manufacturing  process,  which  complies  with  Good  Manufacturing  Practice  (GMP),  has  been 
described  in  sufficient  detail.  The  lyophilised  powder  is  manufactured  by  Genentech  (South  San 
Francisco, CA, USA). The reconstitution diluent, i.e. sterilised water for injections (Ph.Eur), provided 
in  a  2  ml  ampoule  of  colourless  borosilicate  type  I  glass  (Ph.Eur),  is  manufactured  by  Nycomed 
Austria (in Linz). Novartis Pharma SA, Huningue, France, is responsible for batch release in the EEA, 
and is also the site where batch testing in the EEA takes place. 
None of the excipients, which comply with Ph.Eur, are of human or animal origin. 
For the production of the lyophilised powder, the omalizumab “bulk for storage” solution is filtered at 
0.2 µm  into  a  steam-sterilised  filling  tank.  Multiple  “bulk  for  storage”  containers  may  be  pooled 
during filtration. Under aseptic conditions, the solution is filled by weight into sterile, depyrogenated 
5 ml glass  vials  and  partially  stoppered  with  lyophilisation  stoppers.  The  vials  are  lyophilised 
following a cycle of controlled conditions of temperature, pressure, and time. After the lyophilisation 
cycle is complete, the vial stoppers are fully seated under nitrogen in the sterile chamber. The vials are 
then removed for capping and are sealed with aluminium/plastic flip-off type caps. 
The  production  batch  has  been  adequately  defined.  The  acceptance  limits  of  the  in-process  controls 
used to monitor critical steps of the manufacturing process of the bulk substance are adequate. Filter 
integrity  is  confirmed  before  and  after  the  sterile  filtration  performed  at  the  stage  of  filling.  Fill 
5/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
volumes  are  checked  by  weight  regularly  throughout  the  filling  process.  Every  vial  is  inspected  for 
defects including product appearance and container/closure defects.  
The  manufacturing  process  has  been  validated  on  the  basis  of  batch  analysis  for  the  150  mg 
formulation of 3 full-scale production batches (old “full vacuum process) and 3 full-scale production 
batches using the to-be marketed process (“partial vacuum”). Batch analysis was also performed for 
the 75 mg formulation on 3 full-scale production batches. Given that the manufacturing process for the 
two formulations is similar, the manufacturing process has not been specifically validated for the 75 
mg formulation, except for the freeze-drying process. 
•  Product Specification 
The specifications for drug product have been adequately justified and most of the analytical methods 
used  for  testing  of  potency,  strength,  and  purity  are  similar  to  the  drug  substance  test  methods. 
Specifications were established on the basis of batch analysis data: 
- 
- 
for the 150 mg formulation: three commercial scale batches manufactured in 2002 and 2003 using 
the to-be marketed process (“partial vacuum”) at the South San Francisco plant of Genentech as 
well as data from three batches manufactured in 1999 using the older process (“full vacuum”) 
for  the  75  mg  formulation:  three  commercial  scale  batches  manufactured  in  2003  at  South  San 
Francisco plant of Genentech 
Results  confirm  the  batch-to-batch  consistency  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  the  product  and 
impurities  in  the  drug  product  were  consistent  with  those  already  identified  at  the  level  of  the  drug 
substance. 
•  Stability of the Product 
A shelf life of 48 months at 2-8°C was proposed for both 75 and 150 mg formulations. This was based 
on  48  months  data  for  the  150  mg  formulation  but  only  12  months  data  from  an  ongoing  stability 
study for the 75 mg formulation.  
This was acceptable due to the similarity of the products and the stability observed so far in the studies 
with the 75 mg formulation. 
The stability after reconstitution has been studied using two 150 mg “full vacuum” (clinical) batches. 
Results indicated a stability of 24 hours at 5ºC (two batches) and 8 hours at 30ºC (one batch). 
All  specifications  were  met  at  all  time  points  in  the  studies.  No  significant  changes  in  the 
characteristics studied were observed. No difference in stability was seen between the 75 and 150 mg 
formulations. 
A study involving one 150 mg “full vacuum” (clinical) batch and one 75 mg pilot scale batch indicated 
that the product is not sensitive to light. 
A shelf life of 5 years for the water for injections was proposed. This was acceptable based on trends 
observed over 48 months at 25ºC/60% RH (3 batches) and over 6 months at 40ºC/75% RH. The 25ºC-
study is planned to go on until end of shelf life (5 years). 
The applicant committed to complete the ongoing stability studies on the three commercial scale (to-
be-marketed formulation) lots of the 150 mg formulation and the three commercial scale and one pilot 
scale (to-be-marketed formulation) lots of the 75 mg formulation until end of the proposed shelf life 
(48 months). 
Viral safety 
Omalizumab is produced in recombinant CHO (Chinese Hamster Ovarian) cells in serum free culture 
medium. The composition of the serum free media used for the growth and the storage of MCB and 
6/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WCB  have  been  described.  Materials  of  bovine  origin  are  not  used  in  the  production  process. 
However,  Fetal  Bovine  Serum  (FBS),  sourced  from  New  Zealand,  Canada  or  the  USA,  was  used 
during cell line development. The production of the MCB and WCB was serum-free. Peptone derived 
from  milk  casein  is  used  for  the  manufacture  of  L-histidine,HCl  and  L-histidine  (excipients).  The 
information  given  in  the  application  was  acceptable  and  in  compliance  with  current  TSE  legislation 
and guidelines. 
The MCB and the WCB as well as the preharvest cell culture fluid have been tested for the presence of 
mycoplasma and results were satisfactory. Testing for adventitious viruses including retroviruses were 
performed  in  accordance  with  the  Note  for  Guidance  on  “viral  safety  evaluation  of  biotechnology 
products  derived  from  cell  lines  of  human  or  animal  origin”  (CPMP/ICH/295/95).  Results  were 
satisfactory. 
Routine  testing  on  adventitious  viruses  is  performed  on  samples  from  the  cell  culture  fluid  prior  to 
harvesting. The following tests are used: nucleic acid testing (NAT) for detection of DNA of murine 
(parvovirus)  minute  virus  (MVM),  testing  for  parvovirus  by  cultivation  on  324K  cells;  testing  for 
other  adventitious  viruses  using  MRC-5,  Vero,  and  CHO-K1  cells).  Results  and  validation  reports 
have been provided. The results from the testing of  different batches of preharvest cell  culture fluid 
were satisfactory. 
In  order  to  investigate  the  ability  of  the  manufacturing  process  to  inactivate  or  remove  viruses, 
validation  studies  were  performed  using  relevant  model  viruses  (X-MuLV,  MVM,  and  SV40)  and 
involving four production steps identified as critical. 
X-MuLV  is  the  model  for  type  A  and  C  retroviruses  commonly  detected  in  CHO  cells.  The  non-
enveloped  viruses  MVM  and  SV40  were  used  as  model  viruses  in  the  study  of  the  capacity  of  the 
chromatographic process steps to remove viruses. 
Complete  study  reports  have  been  provided.  Among  the  3  chromatographic  steps  used  in  the 
purification process, two have been investigated. Study results have shown that these steps are capable 
of adequately removing viruses. The results also show that the reuse of the columns does not affect the 
capacity to remove the viruses tested. The effectiveness of the sanitation procedure has been shown. 
Studies also indicated that the process was capable of inactivating type A and C retroviruses.  
In conclusion, the effectiveness of the manufacturing process to inactivate or remove viruses has been 
adequately demonstrated  and testing for adventitious viruses in the cell banks and on the preharvest 
culture media provides an acceptable level of virus safety. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Overall, the production and purification processes of the active substance are controlled by adequate 
in-process controls and have been adequately validated. Tests revealed that omalizumab was the major 
product  along  with  the  batch-to-batch  consistent  occurrence  of  minor  molecular  variants  of 
omalizumab,  which  have  been  satisfactorily  characterized  using  a  combination  of  physicochemical 
methods  as  well  as  tested  for  potency.  Analytical  methods  have  been  adequately  described  and 
validated,  and  satisfactory  specifications  have  been  set  based  on  results  obtained  with  qualification 
lots and lots used in clinical studies. 
The manufacturing process of the finished product, which complies with Good Manufacturing Practice 
(GMP), has been described in sufficient detail. Given that the manufacturing process of the finished 
product  for  the  two  formulations  is  similar,  the  manufacturing  process  has  not  been  specifically 
validated  for  the  75  mg  formulation,  except  for  the  freeze-drying  process.  This  was  considered 
acceptable.  Results  confirm  the  batch-to-batch  consistency  of  the  manufacturing  process  of  the 
product. Impurities in the drug product were consistent with those already identified at the level of the 
drug substance. The specifications for drug product have been adequately justified. 
7/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  effectiveness  of  the  manufacturing  process  to  inactivate  or  remove  viruses  has  been  adequately 
demonstrated  and  testing  for  adventitious  viruses  in  the  cell  banks  and  on  the  pre-harvest  culture 
media  provides  an  acceptable  level  of  virus  safety.  Omalizumab  is  produced  in  recombinant  CHO 
(Chinese Hamster Ovarian) cells in serum free culture medium and materials of bovine origin are not 
used  in  the  production  process.  The  information  given  in  the  application  was  acceptable  and  in 
compliance with current TSE legislation and guidelines. 
A shelf life of 48 months at 2-8°C was proposed for both 75 and 150 mg formulations. This was based 
on  48  months  data  for  the  150  mg  formulation  but  only  12  months  data  from  an  ongoing  stability 
study  for  the  75  mg  formulation.  This  was  acceptable  due  to  the  similarity  of  the  products  and  the 
stability  observed  so  far  in  the  studies  with  the  75  mg  formulation.  The  applicant  committed  to 
complete the ongoing stability studies on the three commercial scale (to-be-marketed formulation) lots 
of  the  150  mg  formulation  and  the  three  commercial  scale  and  one  pilot  scale  (to-be-marketed 
formulation) lots of the 75 mg formulation until end of the proposed shelf life (48 months). 
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Omalizumab  is  a  recombinant  humanised  IgG1  monoclonal  anti-IgE  antibody  which  binds  to  IgE  at 
the  same  epitope  as  FcεRI  -receptor.  The  pool  of  IgE  available  to  interact  with  mast  cells  and 
basophils via FcεRI -receptor is thereby reduced and allergic responses attenuated. 
The Cynomolgus monkey was chosen as model to predict human pharmacology and toxicology since 
omalizumab  binds  Cynomolgus  and  human  IgE  with  similar  affinity  but  does  not  bind  non-primate 
IgE. 
All relevant regulatory safety studies were stated to have been undertaken according to internationally 
accepted Good Laboratory Practice.  
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
A  battery  of  in  vitro  studies  has  been  conducted  to  assess  the  mechanism  of  action  of  this  anti-IgE 
monoclonal antibody. In vitro binding studies showed that the affinity of omalizumab for Cynomolgus 
IgE was 0.19 nM. As only primate IgE is bound by omalizumab, other standard species such as the rat, 
mouse or dog would not be reactive. 
In vitro studies on the pharmacodynamic effects of omalizumab indicated that omalizumab competes 
with the FcεRI-receptor for the binding of IgE. The Kd of omalizumab for human IgE varied between 
0.02  and  7.7  nM  depending  on  the  assay  used.  The  disparity  reflects  the  complexity  of  the 
omalizumab:IgE interaction engendered by the bivalent nature of both molecules. Omalizumab is able 
to  trap  IgE  from  the  surface  of  cell  line  cells.  Histamine  release  by  cross-linking  of  IgE  was  not 
detected,  neither  in  a  basophilic  cell  line  nor  in  whole  blood  of  healthy  donors  after  the  addition  of 
omalizumab.  The  contraction  and  histamine  release  of  tissue  samples,  i.e.  lung  were  reduced  by  the 
addition  of  omalizumab  to  the  test  system.  Omalizumab  did  not  activate  the  complement  cascade 
based on these data. 
Except for skin test reactivity studies in Cynomolgus monkeys sensitised to ragweed, no animal model 
of disease was used. At the time the studies were performed there were no well-characterised primate 
asthma  models  available.    Rodent  asthma  models  were  not  considered  because  of  the  species 
specificity  of  omalizumab  and  because  there  were  no  appropriate  non-anaphylactogenic  surrogate 
antibodies available for  evaluation in rodent  models.  Furthermore, the expression patterns of human 
and rodent FcεRI are very different, making comparisons difficult. Considering the clinical experience 
with Xolair, it is not justified to try to develop any new animal models at this stage. 
•  Safety pharmacology 
8/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety parameters were monitored at regular intervals in the 4-week and 6-month monkey toxicology 
studies.  These  parameters  included  vital  functions  such  as  blood  pressure,  electrocardiograph 
measurements, heart rate and respiration rate. No drug-related effects were observed for any of these 
endpoints. No separate safety pharmacology studies were performed for omalizumab. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No  drug  interactions  have  been  studied,  although  omalizumab  is  intended  to  be  given  to  patients  in 
combination with various other medicinal products. Considering the clinical  experience with Xolair, 
this is acceptable. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Assays developed to quantitate omalizumab, free and total IgE, and anti-omalizumab antibodies were 
primarily enzyme linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), with the exception of the free  IgE assay, 
which was a fluorescence activated cytometry (FACS) assay. 
The cynomolgus monkey and the mouse have been used as experimental models. The mouse was used 
to  characterize  the  antigen-independent  pharmacokinetics  of  omalizumab  in  the  absence  of  complex 
formation with IgE. 
The bioavailability of omalizumab after SC administration was (cid:31) 90 % in mice and ranged from 64 % 
to  104 %  in  monkeys.    The  mean  bioavailability  of  omalizumab  in  humans  is  estimated  to  be 
53%71 %. 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  revealed  an  elimination  half-life  of  approximately  7  days  with  a  maximal 
concentration  after  sc  application  after  approximately  5  days.  Clearance  of  omalizumab:  IgE-
complexes was significantly reduced in comparison to clearance of free IgE. As a result, levels of total 
IgE rose up to 20-fold higher than the baseline levels. 
Distribution  studies  show  that  >90%  of  the  test  material  was  in  the  circulation  of  Cynomolgus 
monkeys. Uptake of omalizumab: 125I-IgE-complexes was greatest in the liver and spleen. Sinusoidal 
endothelial  cells  and  cells  of  the  reticuloendothelial  system  were  involved  in  the  clearance  of  the 
complexes. 
Standard  in  vitro  tissue  binding  studies  were  undertaken  with  human  and  Cynomolgus  tissues. 
Staining of cryo-sections of tissues of human or Cynomolgus monkey origin did not result in binding 
with the exception of lymphoid cells synthesising IgE. 
Pharmacokinetics  after  repeated  administration  and  toxicokinetics  were  comparable  to  the  kinetics 
after single dose administration. 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
No evidence of toxicity was observed following single iv administration of up to 100 mg/kg in mice 
and  following  single  iv  and  sc  administration  of  up  to  50 mg/kg  in  monkeys.  The  high  doses 
represented the maximum that could be delivered as a single iv bolus of a 5 mg/ml formulation. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity 
Two pivotal repeated-dose toxicity studies were performed in Cynomolgus monkeys: a 4-week iv/sc 
study with a 4-week recovery period, dosing three times weekly in the range 0.1-5.0 mg/kg, and a 6-
month  iv/sc  study  with  an  8-week  recovery  period,  dosing  three  times  weekly  in  the  range  0.1-5.0 
mg/kg. In mice, weekly iv bolus injections of up to 50 mg/kg of omalizumab were administered for 
9/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 weeks  with  a  4-week  recovery  period.  Omalizumab  had  no  effect  on  standard  toxicological 
parameters  after  repeated  administration  to  Cynomolgus  monkeys  or  mice.  Despite  the  presence  of 
omalizumab:IgE  complexes  in  the  monkey  studies,  there  were  no  indications  of  immune 
complex-mediated disease. 
Juvenile  (8-  to  10-month  old)  Cynomolgus  monkeys  received  sc  doses  of  50  or  250 mg/kg 
omalizumab  weekly for 26 weeks.  Reversibility of any toxic effects was  assessed during a 26-week 
recovery  period. 
the  exception  of 
  No  omalizumab-related  effects  were  observed  with 
thrombocytopenia and changes secondary to thrombocytopenia. Thrombocytopenia appeared at serum 
concentrations of omalizumab, which were 1.7- to 16.7- fold higher than the concentrations detected 
in  Phase  III  trial  patients.  Histopathological  evaluation  revealed  haemorrhage  in  the  subcutaneous 
tissue  at  the  injection  site,  in  seminal  vesicles,  in  the  stomach  fundus  mucosa,  or  in  the  duodenal 
mucosa of a few animals, in the low and/or high dose groups. In spite of the mechanistic in vivo/vitro 
studies  performed  by  the  Applicant,  the  mechanism  of  the  omalizumab-platelet  interaction  and  the 
epitope  responsible  for  the  interaction  remain  unknown.  In  clinical  trials,  a  few  patients  have  had 
platelet counts below the lower limit of normal variation. So, even if the pattern of severe and dose-
related  decreases  in  platelets  seen  in  non-human  primates  has  not  been  detected  in  humans,  the 
observation of thrombocytopenia is mentioned under 4.8 Undesirable effects and 5.3 Preclinical safety 
data sections of the summary of product characteritics (SPC).. 
The induction of antibodies to omalizumab could not be studied in most serum samples from treated 
Cynomolgus  monkeys  since  the  assay  systems  detecting  anti-omalizumab-antibodies  were  highly 
susceptible  to  disturbances  by  either  the  presence  of  omalizumab  in  the  serum  itself  and/or 
omalizumab:IgE-complexes. Some of the sera of monkeys, which could be evaluated, tested positive. 
It  is  likely  that  the  actual  antibody  response  to  omalizumab  in  monkeys  was  underestimated.  The 
applicant was requested to develop an assay, which could be used in the presence of high IgE titers, to 
study the induction of anti-omalizumab-antibodies. Such an assay was subsequently developed. In this 
assay, pre-treatment of serum samples with acidic potassium thiocyanate, which selectively aggregates 
IgE, eliminates IgE interference.  Anti-omalizumab-antibodies did not affect the pharmacokinetics of 
omalizumab (with the exception of one juvenile monkey) nor did they have neutralising activity, nor 
did they elicit any toxicity, based on data from monkey toxicology studies. 
In a 60-day repeated inhalation study using aerosolised liquid omalizumab, daily 12-minute exposure 
to  approximately  400 µg  omalizumab  was  well  tolerated.  However,  omalizumab  was  highly 
immunogenic,  30  of  31  monkeys  could  be  tested  for  anti-omalizumab  antibodies,  and  all  were 
positive. These findings point to the development of anti-omalizumab antibodies also after inhalation 
exposure. 
•  Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo 
A  standard  Ames  test  was  negative.  A  full  genotoxicity  test  battery  and  carcinogenicity  evaluation 
have not been conducted for omalizumab, due to the absence of a relevant species appropriate for such 
studies. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No  carcinogenicity  study  with  omalizumab  was  performed  since  omalizumab  does  not  bind  rodent 
IgE.  
•  Reproductive and developmental studies 
Male  and  female  fertility,  embryotoxicity/teratology,  and  late  gestational/placental  transfer  were 
studied in Cynomolgus monkeys, since omalizumab would not bind to rodent/rabbit IgE, and a non-
anaphylactogenic anti-murine IgE Mab surrogate antibody was not available. 
Sc administration of omalizumab, at doses of 0, 3, 15 and 75 mg/kg once weekly for 6 weeks (to cover 
the  period  of  spermatogenesis)  did  not  elicit  reproductive  toxicity  in  males.  The  same  doses  were 
10/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
administered to females for 13 weeks (three menstrual cycles) before mating, during the mating period 
(maximum  of  two  menstrual  cycles)  and  during  early  pregnancy  (up  to  Day  25  of  gestation). 
Omalizumab did not elicit reproductive toxicity in female Cynomolgus monkeys. 
Administration of omalizumab to pregnant monkeys during organogenesis (gestational Days 20 to 50) 
at doses of 0, 3, 15 and 75 mg/kg once daily on Days 20-22, and then once weekly through Day 50 did 
not elicit maternal toxicity, embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. 
To assess the effect of omalizumab on late gestation, and to evaluate the placental transfer and milk 
secretion  of  omalizumab,  doses  of  75 mg/kg  were  administered  sc  to  two  groups  of  monkeys 
(Caesarean section group and natural delivery group). Omalizumab was given once daily on Days 120, 
121  and  122  of  gestation  as  a  loading  dose,  and  once  weekly  through  Day  150  of  gestation  for  the 
Cesarean section group, or through Day 28 postpartum for the natural delivery group. 
There was no evidence of late gestational maternal or offspring toxicity. However, further dosing and 
evaluation of the offspring were not performed, for example with regard to immunotoxicity.  
Measurable levels of omalizumab were observed in amniotic fluid (~3.3% of maternal serum levels), 
milk (~0.154%), and fetal (~33%) and neonatal (~33%) serum. Since there was an increased risk of 
thrombocytopenia  in  juvenile  non-human  primates,  a  restrictive  wording  in  4.6  Pregnancy  and 
lactation section of the SmPC is appropriate. 
•  Local tolerance 
Studies of local tolerance in rabbits did not indicate local toxicity. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No  adverse  environmental  effects  are  predicted  from  omalizumab  based  on  the  data  submitted. 
Omalizumab has high water solubility and is susceptible to enzymatic degradation.  After disposal it 
will  most  likely  be  confined  to  the  aquatic  compartment.  This  active  substance  will  undergo  rapid 
enzymatic  proteolysis  by  micro-organisms  which  are  resident  in  waste  water  systems  resulting  in  a 
mixture  of  unmodified  natural  amino  acids.    The  massive  dilutions  involved  would  only  allow  very 
low aqueous concentrations in any event. Other components of the clinical formulation are in use as 
excipients in many medicinal drugs and have been so for many years. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Omalizumab is a recombinant DNA-derived humanised monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to 
human immunoglobulin E (IgE). Omalizumab binds to IgE and prevents binding of IgE to the high-
affinity FCεRI receptor, thereby reducing the amount of free IgE that is available to trigger the allergic 
cascade. 
The  safety  of  omalizumab  has  been  studied  in  the  cynomolgus  monkey.  Chronic  administration  of 
omalizumab was well tolerated in non-human primates, with the exception of a dose-related and age-
dependent  decrease  in  blood  platelets,  with  a  greater  sensitivity  in  juvenile  animals.  The  serum 
concentration required to attain a 50% drop in platelets from baseline in adult cynomolgus monkeys 
was roughly 4 to 20-fold higher than anticipated maximum clinical serum concentrations. In addition, 
acute haemorrhage and inflammation were observed at injection sites in cynomolgus monkeys. 
Formal  carcinogenicity  studies  have  not  been  conducted  with  omalizumab.  Assessment  on 
carcinogenic potential should be made on the basis of available clinical safety data. 
Omalizumab crosses the placental barrier and has been associated with decreases in blood platelets in 
juvenile  non-human  primates.  Xolair  should  therefore  not  be  used  during  pregnancy  unless  clearly 
necessary. Omalizumab is excreted into non-human primate breast milk. Nursing mothers should not 
breast-feed during Xolair therapy. 
11/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No studies of the risk of parasitic infections during omalizumab administration have been performed. 
However,  this  has  been  addressed  adequately  in  the  clinical  documentation,  therefore  clinical 
experience obviates the need for new preclinical data. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The clinical development program for omalizumab included studies which evaluated its use in allergic 
asthma (AA), and seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis (SAR, PAR). The current submission claims 
only  for  maintenance  therapy  in  severe  allergic  asthma.  Data  from  studies  in  other  indications  were 
used to provide additional evidence of the safety and tolerability of omalizumab. 
Efficacy  data  was  provided  mainly  by  seven  allergic  asthma  (AA)  studies  including  one  study  for 
efficacy in the specific target indication of patients with severe allergic asthma inadequately controlled 
(Study  2306)  and  six  studies  in  predominantly  severe  allergic  asthmatics.  These  are  4  double-blind, 
placebo controlled studies in severe persistent allergic asthma (studies 2304, 008 core/extension, 009 
core/extension,  and  011),  and  2  standard  therapy-controlled  open-label  studies  predominantly  in 
severe persistent allergic asthma (studies IA04 and Q2143 (ALTO)).  
The  safety  profile  of  omalizumab  is  based  on  data  from  over  7000  patients  (over  5000  on 
omalizumab)  who  participated  in  studies  in  AA,  SAR,  PAR  and  other  indications  and  more  than 
23000 patients treated with marketed product in the USA. 
One  comparability  study  compared  the  formulation  used  in  the  pivotal  phase  III  trials  with  the 
formulation  intended  for  marketing.  There  were  no  signals  of  altered  pharmacokinetic  or 
pharmacodynamic characteristics after administration of the marketing formulation. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic characteristics of omalizumab were determined on the basis of data provided by 
17 studies: 7 Phase I trials, 5 Phase II trials and 5 Phase III trials (007, 008, 009, 010, 011). Apart from 
one study, no studies were conducted in healthy volunteers as the pharmacokinetics of omalizumab is 
governed by the pharmacodynamic response i.e. IgE levels. Omalizumab was originally developed as 
a formulation for i.v. administration, and much of the early PK data was obtained in studies using both 
i.v. and s.c. dosing. 
A  majority  of  the  PK  studies  were  performed  using  lower  doses  than  applied  for  and  therefore  the 
pharmacokinetic assessment is mainly based on population pharmacokinetic analyses data from sparse 
sampling in the pivotal clinical studies with the addition of some patients where full PK profiles have 
been  collected.  Different  population  analyses  were  performed  because  of  the  different  populations 
studied. 
•  Absorption  
Omalizumab is slowly absorbed with a Tmax at around 5 days. Mean bioavailability after SC dosing 
was 62%. 
Whether  the  bioavailability  of  omalizumab  differs  depending  on  the  injection  site  has  not  been 
determined. Data from study come mainly (99%) from administrations in the upper arm. Omalizumab 
should therefore be administered subcutaneously in the deltoid region of the arm. Only in case that this 
is not feasible, the thigh may be recommended as an alternative site of injection. 
•  Distribution 
Distribution volumes  (Vd/F = 78 ± 32 ml/kg)  were  close  to  or  slightly larger  than  the  serum  volume 
and were typical of those seen with large macromolecules. 
12/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elimination 
The  metabolism  of  omalizumab  is  determined  by  its  IgG1  framework,  and  specific  binding  to  IgE. 
Liver is one site of elimination for IgG, including degradation in the liver reticulo-endothelial system 
and endothelial cells. The omalizumab:IgE complexes are believed to clear via interactions with Fc-
gamma-Rs at rates that are generally faster than IgG clearance. Relative clearance of free omalizumab, 
free  IgE,  and  complexes  is  summarized  as:  free  IgE  clearance  >  >  omalizumab:IgE  clearance  > 
omalizumab clearance. 
Omalizumab appears to be eliminated through one fast pathway as IgE complex and by slower hepatic 
elimination  as  free  omalizumab.  In  therapeutic  dosing,  omalizumab  concentrations  in  blood  are 
markedly  higher  than  the  concentrations  of  IgE.  Thus,  the  slow  pathway  greatly  dominated  during 
therapeutic dosing but the faster pathway has a greater role at subtherapeutic doses.  
The  elimination  of  omalizumab  is  dose-dependent.  Clearance  of  omalizumab  is  low  (around  0.181 
l/day) and the half-life is long; around 35-40 days or even longer. The partial accumulation ratio from 
day 112 to day 336 was 1.1-1.4. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Exposure increased in proportion to dose at doses greater than ~0.5 mg/kg. Non-linear PK observed at 
low doses (less than ~0.5 mg/kg) was due to a larger contribution of complex formation with IgE to 
observed overall systemic clearance and distribution of omalizumab. 
•  Special populations 
No effect of age was seen in population PK analyses. 
Children  apparently  had  a  mean  omalizumab  clearance  that  was  26%  higher  than  that  in  adults  and 
half-lives  of  omalizumab  were  longer  in  children  and  adolescents  but  the  clinical  relevance  is 
questionable. 
There  are  no  studies  investigating  the  effect  of  impaired  renal  function  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of 
omalizumab which is acceptable because elimination is not expected to take place in the kidney. 
Omalizumab  clearance  at  clinical  doses  is  dominated  by  the  reticular  endothelial  system  (RES)  and 
therefore  unlikely  to  be  altered  by  hepatic  insufficiency.  Therefore,  the  applicant  has  conducted  no 
studies in hepatic impairment. 
Weight, IgE levels and dose recommendation 
A  population  PK  analysis  identified  weight  as  the  most  important  covariate.  CL  was  directly 
proportional  to  weight.  Other  covariates  with  statistically  significant  but  much  smaller  effects  were 
baseline IgE levels, ethnic origin and indication (SAR vs. AA). Another population pharmacokinetic 
analysis  from  studies  006,  006  extension,  007,  008,  009,  010,  011,  and  2306  consisting  of  1460 
patients 12-79 years old (i.e. excluding patients younger than 12 years) showed similar results to those 
of the previous analysis. Doubling the weight increased the apparent clearance by 101% and increased 
the  apparent  volume  of  distribution  by  86%.  Quadrupling  the  baseline  IgE  increased  apparent 
clearance by 13%. For a patient with the bodyweight 70 kg, apparent clearance will be 2.8 ml/day/kg 
and  apparent  volume  of  distribution  98ml/kg.  After  accounting  for  covariates  the  remaining 
intersubject variability for CL/F decreased from 44 % to 38%. 
The  Company  presented  simulations  of  plasma  concentrations  courses  obtained  in  patients  of  some 
different  bodyweights  and  baseline  IgE  levels.  The  exposure  of  omalizumab  was  higher  in  patients 
with  a  bodyweight  ≤  25  kg  than  in  other  patients  within  the  same  IgE  range.  Aiming  for  similar 
exposure within IgE-groups, the company presented simulation of plasmaconcentration – time courses 
13/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
obtained with the different dosing tables. Proposed dosing-regimen were considerd acceptable with the 
exception of patients in the weight range 20-25 kg with an baseline level IgE level between 500 and 
700  IU/ml;  these  patients  should  be  dosed  with  150  mg  every  2  weeks  instead  of  300  mg  every  4 
weeks. The Applicant committed to explore alternative dosing regimens for patients with IgE baseline 
levels above 700 IU/ml. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  pharacokinetic  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  This  is  acceptable  since  as  stated  in  the 
SPC: Cytochrome P450 enzymes, efflux pumps and protein-binding mechanisms are not involved in 
the  clearance  of  omalizumab;  thus,  there  is  little  potential  for  drug-drug  interactions.  No  vaccine 
interaction studies have been performed with Xolair.  
A warning about the lack of knowledge regarding possible interactions with specific immunotherapy 
(hypo-sensitisation) has been included in the SPC. 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
Omalizumab  is  designed  to  reduce  the  pool  of  free  IgE  available  to  interact  with  effector  cells  and 
thereby attenuate the subsequent allergic responses in atopic patients. Omalizumab forms complexes 
of  limited  size  (dominant  species  ∼490  kD)  with  IgE,  thus  decreasing  free  IgE  levels.  Omalizumab 
would interrupt the allergic cascade by: 1) forming complexes with IgE and preventing the arming of 
effector cells, 2) aiding off-loading of mast cells and basophils by trapping IgE as it dissociates from 
the  receptor  and,  3)  down-modulating  FcεRI  as  a  direct  consequence  of  the  reduction  in  free  IgE 
levels. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Based on in vitro studies, a reduction in serum free IgE to < 10 ng/mL was expected to prevent IgE 
receptor cross-linking and degranulation of effector cells. Based on clinical response (phase I and II), 
25 ng/mL was the average serum free IgE level associated with potential clinical benefit.  
The  dose  of  Xolair  required  to  maintain  the  average  serum  free  IgE  level  below  25  ng/mL  was 
0.016 (mg/kg)/(IU/mL) q4wk. The Xolair dosing table, based on individual serum IgE level and body 
weight,  ensures  that  each  patient  receives  a  dose  of  at  least  0.016 (mg/kg)/(IU/mL)  q4wk.  Although 
there  seems  to  be  some  relationship  between  the  target  IgE  level  and  effect,  there  are  some 
uncertainties about the validity of such assumption. Observing the results from study 008 the OR for 
the reduction of asthma exacerbations in patients attaining an IgE level below 25 ng/ml was 1.5 during 
the stabilisation phase, which means a favourable trend when compared with those patients attaining 
an  IgE  level  between  25  and  50  ng/mL  (OR  0.95).  However,  the  trend  is  not  confirmed  when 
considering those patients with IgE levels between 50 and 150 ng/mL (OR 1.26). This apparent lack of 
relationship between achieved IgE level and effect was also observed in patients with allergic rhinitis.  
In  the  patient  population  with  asthma,  it  has  not  been  demonstrated  that  IgE  baseline  levels  have  a 
direct  relationship  with  clinical  severity.  However,  omalizumab  exerts  its  effect  by  blocking  the 
immunological cascade triggered by IgE. Thus, it is reasonable to think that high IgE levels must be a 
pre-requisite  for  omalizumab  having  an  effect  and  the  results  of  the  exploratory  multivariate  and 
subgroup analyses performed by the company consistently supported this view. Therefore, and despite 
the  lack  of  relationship  between  baseline  IgE  and  asthma  severity,  there  should  be  a  relationship 
between  baseline  IgE  levels  and  omalizumab  therapeutic  effect.  Since  it  might  have  relevant 
implications  for  what  patients  would  benefit  most  from  omalizumab  therapy,  it  should  be  further 
investigated by the company. 
There were no significant differences in the percentage of eosinophils and eosinophil cationic protein 
in sputum (and other inflammation markers as the percentage of neutrophils) between omalizumab and 
placebo. omalizumab significantly reduced the basophil histamine release and the eosinophils count in 
14/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
peripheral  blood  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  asthma.  Reactivity  to  skin  prick  tests  was  also 
significantly reduced. 
Clinical efficacy  
•  Dose response studies 
Five Phase II dose selection studies were performed, including two in patients with seasonal allergic 
rhinitis. Three dose-finding studies were carried out in patients with asthma. Studies 0630 (n=20) and 
0634 (n=19) included populations with mainly mild asthma and low levels of IgE. Omalizumab was 
dosed by weight without considering the IgE level. In study 0630 the overall administered dose was 
similar  to  that  currently  proposed  in  the  SPC,  but  given  intravenously  and  at  a  different  dosing 
schedule. In study 0634 the dosing schedule was 0.5 mg/kg weekly without initial loading dose. The 
value of the results of these studies is considered to be limited. 
The  proposed  dosing  schedule  for  omalizumab  is  mainly  based  on  the  results  of  study  Q0694g.  As 
recommended  in  the  “NfG  on  the  clinical  investigation  of  medicinal  products  in  the  treatment  of 
asthma”,  this  is  a,  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel,  dose  finding  study,  in  which  different  dosing 
schedules  of  omalizumab  were  evaluated.  The  dose  was  adjusted  by  body  weight  and  baseline  IgE 
levels. Patients were to have moderate to severe asthma requiring chronic corticosteroid therapy (oral 
or inhaled). The study lasted 35 weeks, including a 4-week run-in phase, a 12-week placebo-controlled 
phase, an 8-week corticoid tapering phase and a 10-week follow-up-up phase. There were 4 treatment 
arms  randomised  according  to  1:1:2:2  ratio:  high-dose  placebo,  low-dose  placebo  (n  placebo=105), 
high-dose omalizumab (0.014 (mg/kg)/(IU/ml) IV of omalizumab per IgE at baseline, q2wk) (n=106), 
or  low-dose  omalizumab  (0.006 (mg/kg)/(IU/ml)  IV  of  omalizumab  per  IgE  at  baseline,  q2wk) 
(n=106). Mean baseline IgE levels were 331 UI/ml, ranging from 17 to 1957 UI/ml. This is beyond the 
upper  limit  proposed  in  the  SPC  (700  UI/ml).  A  significant  effect  on  IgE  levels  and  symptoms  was 
attained  with  both  doses,  with  a  trend  toward  a  positive  dose-response  relationship.  The  company 
chose the lower dose, and on this basis, the actual dosing proposal has been built. It should be noted 
that  it  limits  the  total  amount/dose  of  omalizumab  to  375mg,  thus  preventing  the  administration  of 
omalizumab  to  patients  with  baseline  IgE  levels  above  700  UI/mL.  This  limitation  might  deny 
treatment to some patients that could benefit from omalizumab therapy. 
•  Main studies  
They  consist  in  four  early  placebo-controlled  studies  (summarised  in  the  table  below)  and  the  later 
study 2306 targeting the population of the claimed indications. Two supportive open-label studies are 
described in the subsequent section. 
15/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
No. 
2304 
+ 
008 
extension 
in 
safety 
co-
severe 
Study  Objective,  
Population 
efficacy, 
study 
morbid 
AA and PAR 
safety, 
efficacy, 
and  PK/PD  study 
in severe AA 
Randomized 
Patients 
405 
Treatment 
Duration 
28 weeks 
525  (core),  460 
(extension) 
+ 
009 
extension 
safety, 
efficacy, 
and  PK/PD  study 
in severe AA 
546  (core),  483 
(extension) 
011 
efficacy, 
safety, 
steroid  reduction 
and  PK/PD  study 
in severe AA 
(246 
341 
high 
requiring 
dose 
inhaled 
CS, 95 requiring 
oral  and  high 
dose CS 
least 
Medication 
dose/day 
at 
0.016mg/kg/IgE 
[IU/ml]  every  4 
weeks or placebo 
least 
at 
0.016mg/kg/IgE 
[IU/ml]  every  4 
weeks or placebo 
least 
at 
0.016mg/kg/IgE 
[IU/ml]  every  4 
weeks or placebo 
at 
least 
0.016mg/kg/IgE 
[IU/ml]  every  4 
weeks or placebo 
Efficacy 
Endpoint 
incidence 
exacerbation 
QoL 
of 
asthma 
episodes, 
of 
rate 
exacerbation episodes 
asthma 
of 
rate 
exacerbation episodes 
asthma 
reduction 
inhaled 
in 
corticosteroid  use  in  the 
population  not  requiring 
oral corticosteroids 
52  weeks 
(28  weeks 
+ 24 weeks 
extension) 
52  weeks 
(28  weeks 
+ 24 weeks 
extension) 
32 weeks 
Note: AA=Allergic asthma, PAR= Perennial allergic rhinitis, BDP= beclomethasone dipropionate, QoL= Quality 
of life; CS = corticosteroids 
Study 2304 
This study was a double-blind study comparing omalizumab with placebo as add-on therapy to inhaled 
corticosteroid therapy (with or without long-acting β-2 agonist use and with short-acting β-2 agonist 
use  as  needed)  for  28  weeks  in  adult  and  adolescent  patients  (aged  12  to  75  years)  with  co-morbid 
severe allergic asthma (GINA 2002) and perennial allergic rhinitis.  
Eligible patients had allergic asthma for at least one year with a positive skin prick test to at least one 
perennial allergen, a total IgE level ≥ 30 to ≤ 700 IU/mL, and a ≥ 12% increase in FEV1 over baseline 
within  30  minutes  of  receiving  inhaled  salbutamol  documented  within  the  past  year,  at  screening  or 
during the run-in phase. Patients were also required to have had at least 2 unscheduled medical visits 
or asthma exacerbations in the past year (or at least 3 visits/exacerbations in the past 2 years), a total 
AQLQ score of >64 from 192, moderate to high dose inhaled corticosteroid use for at least 3 months 
(equivalent  to  ≥400µg/day  budesonide  turbohaler)  and  moderate  to  severe  PAR  symptoms  of 
sneezing, itchy, runny or stuffy nose, itchy, watery or red eyes or post-nasal drip for at least 2 years, 
and a total RQOL score >56 from 168 at randomization. Patients were randomized (1:1 ratio) to either 
omalizumab or placebo. 
Of the 462 planned patients, a total of 405 patients were randomized and treated during the study of 
whom  95%  completed  28  weeks  of  active  treatment.  The  co-primary  efficacy  endpoints  were  the 
incidence of patients with asthma exacerbations during the treatment period, defined as a worsening of 
asthma requiring treatment with rescue oral or IV corticosteroids or a doubling of baseline budesonide 
dose, and asthma and rhinitis Quality of life assessments where a responder was defined as having an 
improvement  ≥1.0  on  both  AQLQ  and  RQOL  questionnaires.  Secondary  measures  of  efficacy 
included asthma exacerbation rate and QOL evaluation.  
Study 008 
This study was a double-blind study comparing omalizumab with placebo as add-on therapy to inhaled 
corticosteroids and β-2 agonists (on-demand short-acting β-2 agonists throughout the study, with long-
acting β-2 agonists and xanthines allowed during the extension study) for 52 weeks (28 weeks double-
blind core with 24 week double-blind extension) in adult and adolescent patients (aged 12 to 75 years) 
with severe allergic asthma (GINA 2002) requiring daily treatment with inhaled corticosteroids. 
Eligible patients had allergic asthma for at least one year with a positive skin prick test to at least one 
perennial  allergen,  a  total  IgE  level  ≥  30  to  ≤  700  IU/mL,  ≥  12%  increase  in  FEV1  over  baseline 
within 30 minutes of receiving inhaled salbutamol. Patients were also required to have had a baseline 
FEV1 (following washout-from bronchodilators) of ≥ 40 to ≤ 80% of the predicted normal value as 
well as a mean daily total symptom score ≥ 3 (out of a maximum score of 9) during the 14 days prior 
to  randomization,  despite  treatment  with  inhaled  corticosteroids  at  doses  equivalent  to  500  to 
16/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
1000µg/day  of  beclomethasone  dipropionate.  Patients  were  randomized  (1:1  ratio)  to  either 
omalizumab or placebo. The general study design is provided below. 
Screening 
Run-in 
Week 
(7 days) 
Visit 1 
–7
-6/-4 
Weeks 
(4/6 weeks) 
Visits 2 
to  0
core 
– 
28
Double-blind 
treatment 
0 
Weeks 
(28 weeks) 
Visits 3 to 13 
Double-blind  extension 
treatment 
Weeks 
(24 weeks) 
Visits 14 to 20 
29 
52
– 
The 28-week double-blind treatment period of the core study comprised of a  16 week stable-steroid 
phase where patients were required to remain on their baseline inhaled corticosteroid dose, followed 
by a 12 week steroid dose reduction phase where attempts were made to progressively reduce the dose 
of  inhaled  corticosteroids  in  strict  adherence  to  pre-defined  stopping  rules.  During  the  24  week 
double-blind  extension  study  the  dose  of  inhaled  corticosteroids  could  be  increased  or  decreased  as 
deemed appropriate by the investigator. 
Study  008  core:  Of  the  550  planned  patients,  a  total  of  525  patients  were  randomized  and  treated 
during the study of whom 90% completed 28 weeks of core study treatment. Treatment groups were 
balanced for baseline demographic and disease characteristics. 
Efficacy was assessed by the rate and incidence of asthma exacerbations, defined as a worsening of 
asthma  requiring  treatment  with  oral  or  IV  corticosteroids  or  a  doubling  of  the  patient's  inhaled 
corticosteroid (BDP) dose.  
The  exploratory  variables  measured  during  the  double-blind  stabilization  period  were:  asthma  free 
days,  morning  PEFR,  evening  PEFR,  the  difference  between  the  two  PEFR  measurements,  FEV-1, 
FVC, FEF 25-75%, total and individual (nocturnal, morning, and daytime) asthma symptom scores. 
Study 008 extension: In study 008 extension a total of 460 patients (245 omalizumab and 215 placebo) 
entered the extension from the core study and maintained their double-blind treatment.  
Combined  clinical  efficacy  of  the  core  and  extension  studies  are  thereafter  presented  to  evaluate 
treatment effect over 52 weeks of double-blind treatment. 
Study 009 
This  study  was  a  52  week,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  with  an  identical  study  design, 
objectives and population to Study 008. Eligible patients had the same entry requirements as for Study 
008  with  the  exception  in  Study  009  that  patients  required  treatment  with  inhaled  corticosteroids  at 
doses equivalent to 500 to 1200µg/day of beclomethasone dipropionate. 
Study  009  core:  Of  the  550  planned  patients,  a  total  of  546  patients  were  randomized  and  treated 
during the study of whom 89% completed 28 weeks of core study treatment. Efficacy was assessed by 
the rate and incidence of asthma exacerbations during the double-blind phase, defined as a worsening 
of  asthma  requiring  treatment  with  oral  or  IV  corticosteroids  or  a  doubling  of  the  patient's  inhaled 
corticosteroid  (BDP)  dose.  Exploratory  efficacy  variables  included  PEFR,  spirometry  and  asthma 
symptom scores. 
Study 009 extension: In study 009 extension a total of 483 patients (254 omalizumab and 229 placebo) 
entered the extension from the core study and maintained their double-blind treatment.  
Combined  clinical  efficacy  of  the  core  and  extension  studies  are  thereafter  presented  to  evaluate  
treatment effect over 52 weeks of double-blind treatment. 
Study 011 
This  study  was  a  double-blind  study  comparing  the  steroid-reduction  potential  of  omalizumab  with 
placebo as add-on therapy to high dose inhaled corticosteroids, with or without oral corticosteroids or 
long-acting  β-2  agonists,  for  32  weeks  in  adult  and  adolescent  patients  (aged  12  to  75  years)  with 
severe allergic asthma requiring daily treatment with high dose corticosteroids. Eligible patients had 
chronic  severe  allergic  asthma  for  at  least  one  year  with  a  positive  skin  prick  test  to  at  least  one 
17/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
perennial  allergen,  a  total  IgE  level  ≥  30  to  ≤  700  IU/mL,  ≥  12%  increase  in  FEV1  over  baseline 
within 30 minutes of receiving inhaled salbutamol with a baseline FEV1 ≥ 40 of the predicted normal 
value.  During  a  run-in  period,  patients  demonstrated  a  need  for  high  dose  inhaled  corticosteroid 
(fluticasone  1000-2000µg/day)  with  or  without  oral  corticosteroid  use  to  optimally  control  asthma 
symptoms. Patients were also required to have had mean daily total symptom scores <4 during the 7 
days prior to randomization and for asthma medication to remain unchanged in the 4 weeks prior to 
randomization.  Patients  were  randomized  (1:1  ratio)  to  either  omalizumab  or  placebo.  Patients  were 
stratified  into  two  subpopulations:  those  taking  inhaled  corticosteroids  only  (inhaled  subpopulation) 
and  those  taking  inhaled  and  oral  corticosteroids  (oral  subpopulation).  The  general  study  design  is 
provided  below.  The  double-blind  core  treatment  period  comprised  of  a  16  week  stable  treatment 
period followed by a 16 week steroid dose reduction period. 
Screening 
Run-in 
Double-blind treatment  Post-treatment  follow-
Week  -11/-7  to  -10/-6
(7 days) 
Visit 1 
Weeks 
-10/-6 
(6 to 10 weeks) 
Visits 2.1 to 2.5 
to  0
Weeks 
0 
(32 weeks) 
Visits 3 to 15 
– 
32
up 
Weeks 
(12 weeks) 
Visits 16 to 19 
32 
– 
44
Of  the  350  planned  patients,  a  total  of  341  patients  were  randomized  and  treated  during  the  study 
including 176 omalizumab (126 inhaled steroid subpopulation and 50 oral steroid subpopulation) and 
165 placebo patients (120 inhaled steroid subpopulation and 45 oral steroid subpopulation). Of these 
91%  completed  32  weeks  of  study  treatment.  Efficacy  was  assessed  by  reduction  in  inhaled 
corticosteroid  use  in  those  patients  receiving  high  dose  inhaled  corticosteroid  therapy  without  oral 
corticosteroids. Secondary efficacy parameters included a reduction in oral and overall corticosteroid 
use, a reduction in asthma exacerbations, a decrease in rescue medication use, improved lung function, 
improvements in asthma-related QoL and pharmacoeconomic effects. 
Main results of the four early studies 
Study participation 
Study  Group 
No of patients 
Planned  Enrolle
Discont AE 
Reason for Withdrawal  Time 
(mo) 
Other 
IE 
2304 
Pl 
omalizumab 
008C/E  Pl 
omalizumab 
009C/E  PI 
011 
omalizumab 
PI 
omalizumab 
231 
231 
275 
275 
275 
275 
175 
175 
d 
196 
209 
257 
268 
272 
274 
165 
176 
15 
5 
42 
31 
66 
29 
14 
16 
2 
0 
2 
2 
8 
2 
2 
1 
2 
0 
15 
2 
11 
3 
2 
0 
11 
5 
25 
27 
47 
24 
10 
15 
193 
199 
326 
345 
322 
350 
224 
222 
18/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographics and baseline characteristics 
in  BDP
ICS 
Age (yrs) 
  Mean 
  SD 
Sex n (%) 
  Male 
  Female 
Race n (%) 
  Caucasian 
  Black 
  Oriental 
  Other 
Serum total IgE (IU/mL) 
  Mean 
  SD 
Baseline 
equivalent (µg/day) 
  Mean 
  SD 
  Range 
Baseline LABA use n (%) 
  Yes 
Clinical symptom score§ 
  Mean 
  SD 
  Range 
FEV1 (% of predicted) 
  Mean 
  SD 
  Range 
%Reversibility  
  Mean 
  SD 
  Range 
2304 
(N=405) 
008  C/E
(N=525) 
C/E
009 
(N=546) 
011 
(N=341) 
  37.8 
14.70 
39.2 
13.19 
39.5 
14.33 
42.6 
14.94 
  182 (44.9) 
  223 (55.1) 
215 (41.0)  268 (49.1) 
310 (59.0)  278 (50.9) 
129 (37.8) 
212 (62.2) 
  386 (95.3) 
  1 (0.2) 
  1 (0.2) 
  17 (4.2) 
467 (89.0)  498 (91.2) 
37 (7.0) 
4 (0.8) 
17 (3.2) 
22 (4.0) 
8 (1.5) 
18 (3.3) 
282 (82.7) 
3 (0.9) 
3 (0.9) 
53 (15.5) 
  231.9 
176.61 
179.3 
141.65 
214.4 
165.11 
253.1 
198.13 
  1088.3 
565.96 
  500−3000 
677.0 
176.54 
400−1200 
770.5 
250.71 
200−2000 
2784.5 
766.79 
1000−5000 
  157 (38.8) 
0 
0 
149 (43.7) 
  16.4 
7.89 
  0−38 
  78.1 
16.61 
  28−127 
  17.5 
11.99 
-5 − 76 
4.3 
1.17 
1.5−8.6 
67.9 
14.54 
30−112 
4.0 
1.33 
0−8.1 
69.8 
14.70 
22−112 
1.6 
1.55 
0−8.4 
71.7 
19.33 
12−127 
26.4 
14.26 
10.8 − 109  10.4 − 103 
26.1 
14.19 
20.1 
21.75 
-98.7 – 115 
§  Clinical  symptom  score  is  obtained  by  adding  scores  for  nocturnal  asthma, 
morning asthma symptoms and daytime asthma symptoms at baseline for studies 
008C/E,  009C/E  and  011  (0-9);    the  Wasserfallen  symptom  score  (0-40)  at 
baseline is used for studies 2304. 
Efficacy results 
The annualized asthma exacerbation rate with and without imputation in all controlled studies using 
Poisson regression by study (ITT) is shown in the table below. The definition of a clinically significant 
asthma  exacerbation  differed  slightly  between  the  studies.  For  study  011,  the  rate  of  asthma 
exacerbation was a secondary endpoint. 
19/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
2304 
(N=405) 
008C/E 
(N=525) 
009C/E 
(N=546) 
011 
(N=339) 
*   
Exacerbation rate per year 
Omalizumab  Control  Treatment 
difference 
0.294 
0.216 
0.400 
0.373 
0.698 
0.522 
0.424 
0.388 
0.785 
0.670 
0.992 
0.842 
1.212 
0.898 
1.600 
1.266 
0.491 
0.454 
0.592 
0.468 
0.514 
0.376 
1.176 
0.878 
Ratio (95% CI) 
P-value 
0.625 (0.412, 0.949) 
0.678 (0.432, 1.062) 
0.597 (0.453, 0.786) 
0.556 (0.409, 0.756) 
0.424 (0.329, 0.548) 
0.419 (0.309, 0.568) 
0.735 (0.476, 1.135) 
0.694 (0.432, 1.114) 
0.027 
0.090 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.165 
0.130 
Imputation* 
No imputation 
Imputation 
No imputation 
Imputation 
No imputation 
Imputation 
No imputation 
Imputations for missing values: For patients discontinuing prematurely an extra exacerbation 
was  added  unless  the  patient  had  an  exacerbation  in  the  seven  days  prior  to  the  premature 
exacerbation. 
The  number  of  severe  asthma  exacerbations  and  the  annualized  incidence  in  the  placebo-controlled 
studies and in the pooled population is shown in the table below. Severe exacerbations were defined as 
PEF or FEV1 < 50% of predicted/ personal best. 
Study 
Control 
Severe 
exacerbations
No. patients (No. events) 
Omaliz
umab 
5 (6) 
6 (6) 
4 (4) 
4 (5) 
54 (70) 
Exacerbation 
rate/year 
Omaliz
umab 
0.052 
0.024 
0.021 
0.043 
0.073 
3 (3) 
2304 (n=405) 
20 (25) 
008C/E (n=525) 
14 (19) 
009C/E (n=546) 
10 (12) 
011 (n=339) 
Pooled (n=2234) 
102 (159) 
*Poisson regression analysis, exacerbations analyzed without imputation 
0.028 
0.114 
0.108 
0.114 
0.170 
Control 
Ratio (95% CI) 
1.849 (0.432, 7.910) 
0.213 (0.085, 0.533) 
0.192 (0.061, 0.604) 
0.378 (0.112, 1.277) 
0.431 (0.303, 0.613) 
P-
value* 
0.407 
0.001 
0.005 
0.117 
<0.001 
The  controlled  studies  used  Juniper  Adult  Asthma  Quality  of  Life  Questionnaire,  which  assesses 
responses  to  32  individual  questions  in  four  domain  scores:  symptoms,  activities,  emotions  and 
environmental exposure. The scores for the four domains are then combined as an overall score. An 
improvement in overall score ≥ 0.5 from baseline was considered a clinically detectable improvement 
in Quality of Life with an increase ≥ 1.5 reflecting a large improvement. 
Changes from baseline to treatment endpoint in Quality of life (ITT population) 
Placebo 
N 
192 
215 
189 
143 
Least 
Omalizumab 
N 
208 
245 
225 
151 
LSM 
difference 
0.25 
0.28 
0.32 
0.28 
LSM 
1.07 
0.91 
0.85 
0.06 
LSM 
1.33 
1.19 
1.16 
0.35 
squares 
= 
p-value 
0.014 
<0.01 
<0.001 
0.008 
Study 
2304 
008C/E  
009C/E  
011  
LSM 
mean
Number of patients with clinically detectable improvements of total Quality of Life score 
2304  AQLQ 
008C/E AQLQ 
009C/E AQLQ 
011 
Omalizumab 
n (%) 
164 (78.8) 
183 (74.6) 
154 ( 68.4) 
79 (52.3) 
Placebo/Control† 
n (%) 
134 (69.8) 
141 (65.5) 
131( 69.3) 
51 (35.7) 
p-value 
0.002 
<0.01 
0.849 
0.004 
In  study  011,  Percent  reduction  in  fluticasone  dose  was  greater  in  omalizumab  groups  compared  to 
placebo, for the all randomized population (median  60% vs. 50%, p-value 0.003) and in the inhaled 
steroid  subpopulation  (median  61.3%  vs.  46.4%,  p-value  0.004).  In  the  oral  steroid  subpopulation, 
20/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
percent  and  absolute  reduction  in  prednisolone  dose  at  the  end  of  treatment  did  not  differ  between 
omalizumab and placebo patients. 
See also section “Analyses performed across trials” 
Study 2306 
Study  2306  was  a  multicenter,  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  comparing  the 
efficacy, safety and tolerability of subcutaneous omalizumab with placebo for 28 weeks in adult and 
adolescent  patients  with  severe  persistent  allergic  asthma  who  have  reduced  lung  function  and 
inadequate asthma symptom control despite treatment with high dose inhaled corticosteroids and long-
acting β2 agonists. 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Adult and adolescent patients were (aged 12 to 75 years) with severe persistent allergic asthma of at 
least one year duration, who remained inadequately controlled despite GINA (2002) Step 4 therapy. 
Eligible patients had reduced lung function (FEV1 between 40 and 80%), inadequate asthma symptom 
control and in the past 12 months had either at least two independent asthma exacerbations requiring 
systemic  corticosteroid  treatment  or  a  severe  asthma  exacerbation  resulting  in  hospitalization  or 
emergency room treatment, despite regular treatment with high dose inhaled corticosteroids (>1000 µg 
beclomethasone dipropionate or equivalent) and long-acting β2 agonists. They had a positive skin test 
to  at  least  one  perennial  allergen  (e.g.  dust  mite,  animal  dander,  cockroaches),  an  increase  in  FEV1 
over baseline within 30 minutes of taking salbutamol. 
Treatments 
Omalizumab was compared with placebo as add-on therapy to a high dose inhaled corticosteroid and 
long-acting β-2 agonist for 28 weeks. The omalizumab dose administered was based on the patient’s 
body weight and total serum IgE level at Visit 1 and the number of injections and injection volume 
was determined from the dosing tables below. 
ADMINISTRATION EVERY 4 WEEKS. (mg per dose) 
Body weight (kg) 
Baseline 
IgE 
(IU/ml) 
≥30–100 
>20–
30 
150 
>100–200  150 
>200–300  150 
>300–400  300 
>400–500  300 
>500–600  300 
>40–
50 
150 
300 
300 
>50–
60 
150 
300 
300 
>30–
40 
150 
150 
300 
300 
>60–
70 
150 
>70–
80 
150 
>80–
90 
150 
>90–
125 
300 
>125-
150 
300 
300 
300 
300 
ADMINISTRATION EVERY 2 WEEKS: 
SEE table below 
21/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATION EVERY 2 WEEKS (mg per dose) 
Body weight (kg) 
Baseline 
IgE 
(IU/ml) 
≥30-100 
>20–30  >30–40  >40–50  >50–60 >60–70 >70–80 >80–90 >90–125  >125-150 
>100–200  ADMINISTRATION EVERY 4 WEEKS: 
225 
SEE table above 
>200–300 
>300–400 
225 
225 
225 
300 
225 
225 
225 
300 
300 
300 
375 
>400–500 
225 
225 
300 
300 
375 
375 
>500–600 
225 
300 
300 
375 
DO NOT DOSE 
>600–700  225 
225 
300 
375 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  determine  the  effect  of  subcutaneous  administration  of 
omalizumab, compared to placebo, on clinically significant asthma exacerbation rates. The secondary 
objectives  was  to  assess  other  efficacy  factors  and  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of 
omalizumab in this population. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  the  clinically  significant  asthma  exacerbation  rate  during  the  28 
week double-blind treatment phase of the study, defined as a worsening of asthma requiring treatment 
with rescue oral or IV corticosteroids.  
The secondary efficacy variables were use of asthma rescue medication (number of puffs/day), AQLQ 
evaluation,  evaluation  of  total  daily  clinical  symptom  score  and  morning  PEF.  Exploratory  efficacy 
variables included frequency of hospital admissions, emergency visits and unscheduled doctor´s visits, 
time  to  first  clinically  asthma  exacerbation,  evaluation  of  AQLQ  domains,  individual  clinical 
symptom  scores,  pulmonary  function  (FEV1,  FVC,  FEF25-75%),  evening  PEF  and  patient  and 
investigator global evaluation of treatment effectiveness. 
Sample size 
The sample  size  estimate  was based on a  meta-analysis of exacerbation rate data on subjects whose 
disease severity characteristics are similar to those for patients in this study. With a significance level 
of 5% and a power of 90% this leads to a sample size of about 197 patients per treatment arm. 
Randomisation 
Patients were randomized (1:1 ratio) to either omalizumab or placebo. 
In order to minimize between treatment group imbalance patients were randomized into one of three 
strata: 
•  Patients  not  receiving  theophyllines,  oral  long  acting  (cid:31)-2  agonists,  anti-leukotrienes  or 
maintenance oral steroids at baseline. 
•  Patients receiving one or more from theophillines, oral long acting (cid:31)2 agonists, anti-leukotrienes, 
but not receiving maintenance oral steroids at baseline. 
•  Patients receiving maintenance oral steroids at baseline. 
Blinding (masking) 
22/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The investigators and personnel involved in monitoring remained blinded throughout all periods of the 
study, except in the case of an emergency. 
Statistical methods 
For the primary analysis of the number of asthma  exacerbations Poisson regression was used. In all 
test  a  significance  level  of  5%  were  used.  Four  patient  populations  were  defined  for  the  purpose  of 
summaries  and  analysis:  Post-amendment  2  intent-to-treat  patients,  all  intent-to-treat  patients,  per-
protocol patients and all safety patients. Post-amendment 2 intent-to-treat patients are all patients who 
were randomized into the study after the introduction of protocol amendment 2 (see below “Conduct 
of the study”). This is the primary analysis population (PITT). 
Imputations  for  missing  values:  For  patients  discontinuing  prematurely  an  extra  exacerbation  was 
added unless the patient had an exacerbation in the seven days prior to the premature exacerbation. For 
other data the Last Observation Carried Forward (LOCF) was used where apropriate. 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Four hundred and eighty two patients were randomized, from a total of 1006 screened patients. Most 
exclusions were due to IgE levels or weight outside the dosing limit, withdrawal of patient consent, 
and patients not meeting diagnostic/severity criteria.  
The  482  patients  who  entered  the  study  comprised  the  safety  population,  245  were  randomized  to 
omalizumab and 237 to placebo. All randomized patients were treated with at least one dose of study 
medication. A total of 63 patients were randomized prior to protocol amendment 2. The primary ITT 
population (PITT) excluded these patients and consisted of 419 patients, 209 in the omalizumab group 
and 210 in the placebo group. Almost 90% of all patients completed treatment.  
Discontinuations  were  mainly  due  to  either  withdrawal  of  patient  consent  (3.9%)  or  adverse  events 
(3.1%). Both of these reasons were more frequent in the omalizumab treatment group. 
Conduct of the study 
The protocol of study 2306 was amended four times. 
The most relevant of these was “Amendment 2” (dated 22 Mar 2002). The GINA guidelines that were 
used as a basis to determine the patient population for this study were revised after the protocol was 
issued  in  September  2001.  The  baseline  inhaled  corticosteroid  dose,  defined  as  a  high  dose  in  the 
GINA guidelines (2002 edition), was revised to reflect the revision to the GINA guidelines. Patient's 
mould  allergies  were  assessed  by  skin  prick  tests  at  screening,  since  it  has  been  documented  that 
mould allergy may be a risk factor for respiratory arrest. This amendment was implemented after 63 
patients had been enrolled, and changed the entry criteria for the study. The key difference was that 
prior  to  amendment 2,  patients  were  recruited  immediately  after  an  asthma  exacerbation  requiring 
emergency treatment. Post-amendment 2, this requirement was dropped, and patients had to have had 
a severe asthma exacerbation resulting in hospitalization or ER admission in the past 12 months or had 
any asthma related intubation prior to randomization. 
The  “Amendment  3”  (dated  31  Jul  2002)  was  produced  to  make  study  design  changes  following 
scientific advice and protocol review by the Committee for Propriety Medicinal Products (CPMP): 
Reduced  emphasis  on  the  high  risk  population  by:  allowing  patients  with  multiple  asthma 
exacerbations  in  the  12  months  prior  to  screening  to  be  included  as  an  alternative  to  a  severe 
exacerbation  resulting  in  emergency  care  or  hospitalization  and  deleting  the  inclusion  criteria  for 
patients being intubated at any time. 
Stratification of the enrollment based on concomitant medication use. 
Exclusion  of  patients  receiving  >20  mg/day  of  prednisolone  as  asthma  maintenance  therapy  (or 
equivalent oral corticosteroid dose). 
Revision  of  the  primary  analysis  population  to  only  include  those  patients  recruited  after  protocol 
amendment 2. Patients recruited prior to amendment 2 differ to those recruited after amendment 2, due 
to major changes in the inclusion criteria. 
23/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
The  table  below  shows  the  demographic  and  background  characteristics  by  treatment  group.  The 
treatment  groups  were  similar.  The  majority  of  patients  were  females  and  most  patients  were 
Caucasian.  
Demographic  and  background  characteristics  by  treatment  group  (PITT  and  safety 
populations) 
Age (yr) 
  Mean (SD) 
  Median 
  Range 
Sex - n(%) 
  Male 
PITT population 
Omalizumab 
N=209 
Placebo 
N=210 
Safety population 
Omalizumab 
N=245 
Placebo 
N=237 
43.4 (13.29) 
44.0 
(12-79) 
43.3 (13.49) 
44.0 
(13-71) 
42.3 (13.77) 
43.0 
(12-79) 
43.0 (13.57) 
44.0 
(13-74) 
68 ( 32.5) 
141 ( 67.5) 
72 ( 34.3) 
138 ( 65.7) 
74 ( 30.2) 
171 ( 69.8) 
76 ( 32.1) 
161 ( 67.9) 
81.2 (19.75) 
77.0 
(45-148) 
174 ( 73.4) 
15 (  6.3) 
3 (  1.3) 
45 ( 19.0) 
187 ( 76.3) 
14 (  5.7) 
3 (  1.2) 
41 ( 16.7) 
164 ( 78.1) 
14 (  6.7) 
3 (  1.4) 
29 ( 13.8) 
163 ( 78.0) 
14 (  6.7) 
2 (  1.0) 
30 ( 14.4) 
Female 
Race - n(%)  
  Caucasian 
  Black 
  Oriental 
  Other 
Weight (kg) 
  Mean (SD) 
  Median 
  Range 
FEV1 (% of predicted) 
  Mean (SD) 
  Median 
  Range 
Reversibility* (%) 
  Mean (SD) 
  Median 
  Range 
Serum total IgE (IU/ml) 
  Mean (SD) 
  Median 
  Range 
*FEV1  reversibility  demonstrated  prior  to  or  at  baseline,  safety  population  not  relevant  as  pre-amendment  2 
patients could demonstrate PEF reversibility instead  
197.6 (145.2) 
150 
(21-607) 
189.6 (153.1) 
138.0 
(22-632) 
201.7 (153.4) 
148.0 
(21-699) 
190.7 (156.3) 
143.0 
(22-898) 
61.0 (14.42) 
62.2 
(18-101) 
61.6 (13.83) 
61.9 
(30-96) 
79.2 (17.48) 
77.0 
(45-146) 
63.2 (15.83) 
64.1 
(18-116) 
79.2 (19.68) 
76.0 
(45-148) 
63.0 (14.43) 
64.0 
(30-115) 
77.9 (17.66) 
76.0 
(39-146) 
28.9 (23.27) 
21.5 
(-20-158) 
24.5 (23.27) 
19.5 
(-87-169) 
N/a* 
n/a* 
The table below describes patients’ exacerbations during the previous year and during the run-in Study 
2306,  Primary  ITT  population.  It  consists  of  corrected  data  submitted  by  the  company  during  the 
assessment  after  the  company  discovered  an  error  in  counting  these  historical  exacerbations. 
(Historical  exacerbations  could  be  recorded  by  investigators  in  several  places  in  the  eCRF  and 
investigators were instructed to record a single exacerbation only in one place. Despite this instruction, 
double  recording  of  exacerbations  ocurred  at  some  centres.)    Prior  to  correction  the  difference  in 
asthma  exacerbations  was  statistically  greater  in  the  omalizumab  group.  Therefore  the  company 
analysed the primary endpoint without and with adjustment for baseline excarbation.   
24/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number  of  asthma  exacerbations  in  previous  year  +  run-in 
period (14 months prior to starting study drug) 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
9 
14 
No. of exacerbations 
*Cochran Mantel Haenszel test 
P–
value* 
0.303 
n (%) patients 
Omalizuma
b 
N=209 
Placebo 
N=210 
2 (1.0%) 
31 (14.8%) 
90 (43. 1%) 
47 (22.5%) 
19 (9.1%) 
11 (5.3%) 
4 (1.9%) 
3 (1.4%) 
1 (0.5%) 
1 (0.5%) 
551 
0 (-) 
32 (15.2%) 
100 
(47.6%) 
55 (26.2%) 
13 (6.2%) 
5 (2.4%) 
3 (1.4%) 
2 (1.0%) 
0 (-) 
0 (-) 
506 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary  endpoint’s  results  are  presented  below;  Analysis  of  clinically  significant  exacerbation  rate 
with imputation - Study 2306 (Primary ITT population). 
Frequency  of  clinically  significant  asthma 
exacerbations – n (%)   
Omalizumab  
(N=209) 
Placebo 
(N=210)  
119 (56.9) 
59 (28.2) 
18 (8.6) 
6 (2.9) 
7 (3.3) 
0 
1 
2 
3 
  ≥4 
Primary analysis (unadjusted) 
Rate 
clinically 
exacerbations per treatment period 
  Omalizumab / Placebo (95% CI) 
  ‡p-value 
‡  Poisson  regression  including  terms  for  treatment,  schedule,  country  grouping,  and  asthma 
medication strata  
108 (51.4) 
57 (27.1) 
20 (9.5) 
15 (7.1) 
10 (4.8) 
0.806 (0.600 , 1.083) 
0.153 
significant 
asthma 
0.74 
0.92 
of 
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  also  analyzed  after  adjustment  for  baseline  exacerbations.  With  
adjustment,    the  rate  of  clinically  significant  asthma  exacerbations  was  statistically  significant  (0.68 
versus 0.91, p=0.042) 
Sensitivity analyses have been performed. The analysis is summarized in the table below for clinically 
significant exacerbations, severe exacerbations and all emergency visits for the primary ITT and IgE ≥ 
76 IU/mL populations. 
25/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PITT 
Omaliz 
N = 209 
Control
N 
= 
210 
PITT excluding IgE 
<76 IU/mL 
Omaliz 
N = 163 
Control 
N = 143 
exacerbation
Clinically significant exacerbations 
(with imputation) 
Exacerbation rate/28wk 
Ratio 
of 
rates (95% CI) 
p-value for ratio 
Severe exacerbations 
Rate/28wk 
Ratio 
of 
rates (95% CI) 
p-value for ratio 
Total emergency visits 
Rate/28wk 
Ratio 
of 
rates (95% CI) 
p-value for ratio 
exacerbation
exacerbation
0.74 
0.806 (0.600, 1.083)  0.596 (0.430, 0.827 
0.92 
0.69 
1.16 
0.153 
0.002 
0.24 
0.499 (0.321, 0.777)  0.493 (0.293, 0.830) 
0.48 
0.47 
0.23 
0.002 
0.008 
0.24 
0.561 (0.325, 0.968)  0.397 (0.205, 0.766) 
0.19 
0.43 
0.48 
0.038 
0.006 
Secondary efficacy variables  
QoL-questionnaire: Significant effects were seen in all domains. Given that a change of 0.5 in the total 
score or is clinically detectable, a clinically relevant effect on Quality of Life in favor of omalizumab 
was shown. 
Improvement from baseline 
Number of patients included 
≥ 0.5 
≥ 1.0 
≥ 1.5 
Omalizumab  
(N=209) 
204 (100) 
124 (60.8) 
92 (45.1) 
56 (27.5) 
Placebo 
(N=210)  
205 (100) 
98 (47.8) 
51 (24.9) 
35 (17.1) 
p-value 
0.008 
<0.001 
0.011 
Asthma  symptom  score:  Omalizumab  patients  had  statistically  significantly  greater  improvements 
from  baseline  for  total  asthma  score.  However,  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  average  treatment 
difference of about 0.35 points is not immediately transparent. 
Pulmonary function: There was a statistically significantly greater improvement in mean morning PEF 
for omalizumab patients (p=0.042). Statistical significance was achieved from week 12 and onwards. 
At  the  end  of  treatment  there  was  a  significant  difference  in  favor  of  omalizumab  (p=0.043).  The 
average  positive  effects  in  PEF  and  FEV1  were  modest.  However,  the  twice  as  high  probability  to 
achieve  a  clinical  benefit  (FEV1  increase  of  ≥200  ml)  on  omalizumab  treatment  (28%  vs  13.8%) 
supports clinical relevance. 
Global assessment The outcome of the investigator and patient global assessment is statistically and 
clinically  significant.  Approximately  20  %  more  investigators  and  patients  rated  the  effect  of 
omalizumab as excellent or good. 
Rescue  medication:  Reduction  of  rescue  medication  use  was  approximately  0.5  puffs/day  with 
omalizumab compared to placebo (non-significant). 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
26/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy  data  for  the  controlled  studies  was  pooled  for  analysis  by  demographic  subgroups.  No 
analysis of efficacy by race was performed, due to the very small proportion of patients of other than 
Caucasian race. No effect of sex on efficacy was observed. Omalizumab was statistically significantly 
more effective than control in patients aged 12 - < 18 years, and 18 - < 65 years. In patients aged ≥ 65 
years the rate ratio for asthma exacerbations was close to that in the 18 - < 65 years subgroup but the 
between-treatment difference was not statistically significant. This may be due to the relatively small 
number of patients in the ≥ 65 years subgroup. 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Exploratory analysis 
A subgroup analysis of high-risk adult and adolescent patients from studies 008C/E, 009C/E and 011C 
was performed to evaluate the effect of omalizumab treatment in a cohort of patients at high risk of 
asthma-related death. In accordance with GINA guidelines, patients were termed "high risk" if one or 
more of the following criteria was fulfilled at screening: (1) an overnight hospitalization in the prior 
year, (2) an intensive care unit (ICU) stay in the prior year, (3) an emergency room visit in the prior 
year or (4) an intubation at anytime before screening. In addition, lung function impairment severity 
was graded mild if baseline % predicted FEV1 was >80%, moderate if 60-80% and severe if <60%. A 
total  of  254  patients  (135  omalizumab  and  119  placebo)  from  the  study  intent-to-treat  (ITT) 
populations were pooled and included in the high-risk population. Results are summarised below. 
Asthma exacerbation rate per patient year, with/without imputation 
Study period 
Stabilization phase 
Significant exacerbations 
All exacerbations 
Whole study period 
Significant exacerbations 
All exacerbations 
Imputed 
Omal 
(N=135) 
0.69 
0.95 
0.92 
1.20 
Placebo 
(N=119) 
p-value 
Non-imputed 
Omal 
(N=135) 
Placebo 
(N=119) 
1.56 
1.93 
2.04 
2.56 
0.007 
0.010 
<0.001 
<0.001 
0.64 
0.90 
0.79 
1.08 
1.47 
1.84 
1.83 
2.35 
p-value 
0.008 
0.011 
0.001 
<0.001 
Asthma exacerbation rates by FEV1 severity with imputation in the stabilization phase  
FEV1 subgroup 
Exacerbation rate per year 
Control 
Omalizumab 
≤60% 
>60% - ≤80% 
>80% 
0.804 
0.668 
0.618 
2.364 
1.335 
0.856 
Treatment 
difference 
1.56 
0.67 
0.24 
Ratio (95% CI) 
0.340 (0.126, 0.917) 
0.501 (0.223, 1.123) 
0.722 (0.193, 2.703) 
Efficacy data for the seven controlled studies were also pooled to investigate demographic subgroups 
for age, gender, predicted FEV1, total serum IgE and by 2 or 4 weekly dosing. A consistent pattern of 
an effect in all subgroups emerged. There were indication that adolescents and patients with a baseline 
% predicted FEV1 below 60 benefits more.  
Pooled analyses of efficacy data  
-  Exacerbation rate per year in all patients in early studies (008, 009, 010 [a pediatric study] and 
011) were 0.48 versus 0.85 in omalizumab and placebo groups respectivelly. 
27/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-  Exacerbation rate per year in all patients in all adult controlled studies (2306, IA04, 2304, 008, 
009, 011, 2143) 
- 
Exacerbation rate per year 
Control 
Omalizumab 
Pooled 
(N=4273) 
Imputation 
No imputation 
0.910 
0.766 
1.474 
1.266 
Treatment 
difference 
0.564 
0.500 
Ratio (95% CI) 
P-value 
0.617 (0.535, 0.712) 
0.605 (0.514, 0.711) 
<0.001 
<0.001 
-  Severe exacerbation rate per year in all patients in all placebo-controlled studies (2306, 2304, 
008, 009, 011) 
- 
Study 
Pooled (n=2234) 
exacerbations
Severe 
No. patients (No. events) 
Omaliz
umab 
54 (70) 
102 (159) 
Control 
Exacerbation 
rate/year 
Omalizu
mab 
0.073 
Control 
0.170 
Ratio (95% CI) 
P-value* 
0.431 (0.303, 0.613) 
<0.001 
•  Supportive studies 
Study IA04:  
Study IA04 included a population similar to the currently identified target population. In an open-label 
design  omalizumab  on  top  of  current  asthma  treatment  according  to  best  medical  practice  was 
compared to standard treatment alone. The results were statistically impressive and clinically relevant 
for  most  variables,  but  the  open-label  design  together  with  the  subjective  primary  endpoint  (a 
composite  of  decisions  of  the  treating  physician)  reduced  the  confirmatory  value  of  the  study. 
However, for the more objective variable FEV1, which should be less prone to bias due to the open-
label  design,  a  mean  difference  of  200  ml,  which  would  be  clinically  meaningful  for  an  individual 
patient,  was  shown.  Furthermore,  more  pronounced  effects  on  exacerbations  and  FEV1  in  the  more 
severely  ill  patients  (patients  with  clinical  features  of  Step  3  or  worse  despite  Step  4  treatment 
according to the GINA (2002) Severity criteria) were observed. 
Study Q2143g 
This study was an open-label study to evaluate the safety of subcutaneous omalizumab for 24 weeks in 
adult and adolescent patients (aged 6 to 75 years) with predominantly severe persistent asthma (GINA 
2002)  already  treated  with  other  therapies  (ALTO).  Patients  were  randomized  (2:1  ratio)  to  either 
active  treatment  or  the  control  group.  Treatment  was  given  in  combination  with  ongoing  asthma 
treatment.  A  total  of  1899  patients  were  randomized  and  treated  during  the  study  including  1262 
omalizumab  and  637  control  patients.  The  study  was  primary  designed  to  evaluate  safety  and  the 
primary  outcome  measure  was  the  incidence  of  all  serious  adverse  events.  Secondary  measures 
included  the  incidence  of  the  incidence  of  protocol-defined  asthma  exacerbation  episodes  (AEEs) 
during the treatment phase of the study. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Early studies showed that there was an overall statistical significant effect, but the clinical relevance 
for  the  entire  study  population  was  questionable  (0.48  vs  0.85  exacerbations  per  year  in  the 
omalizumab  and  placebo  groups,  respectively).  Subgroup  analyses  identified  a  target  population  of 
patients  with  more  severe  allergic  asthma  in  which  a  more  pronounced  effect  of  potential  clinical 
relevance was apparent (0.69 vs 1.56 exacerbations per year). 
Study 2306 assessed omalizumab in the later target population. In this study, the primary endpoint -  
clinically significant asthma exacerbation rate - did not reach statistical significance. Several plausible 
explanations  have  been  provided,  such  as  baseline  imbalances  with  respect  to  incidence  of  previous 
exacerbations, a low rate of exacerbations during treatment (more than 50% with no exacerbation and 
more than 75% with at most one exacerbation in the placebo group) making the primary endpoint an 
insensitive variable, and a conservative imputation rule in case of missing values. In post hoc analyses 
28/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adjusted  for  baseline  imbalances,  with  and  without  imputations,  statistically  significant  results  were 
obtained.  
Analyses of the rate severe exacerbations (defined as PEF/FEV1<60% of personal best) as well as the 
rate  of  total  emergency  visits  were  approximately  halved  in  the  omalizumab  group  (0.24  vs  0.48, 
p=0.008 and 0.24 vs 0.43, p=0.034, respectively). 
In a GCP inspection of study 2306 it was found that the patients, in case of an exacerbation, usually 
attended a clinic or hospital other than the investigational site, and that the recording of exacerbation 
data and emergency visits was often based on the patient’s recollection rather than on verifiable source 
data.  This  questioned  the  validity  of  all  analyses  based  on  exacerbation  data  and  emergency  visits. 
After  the  inspection  90%  of  the  exacerbations  and  emergency  visits  have  been  verified  by  retrieved 
hospital records. There is no imbalance with respect to numbers in the remaining 10% of  records and 
no other indication of a bias between treatments. Thus, the analyses of exacerbation and emergency 
visits data can be considered reliable.   
In  addition,  results  of  secondary  endpoints  show  evidence  of  statistically  significant  and  clinically 
relevant  benefits  with  respect  to  Quality  of  Life,  FEV1,  and  investigator’s  and  patient’s  global 
evaluation of treatment effectiveness. 
Subgroups  analyses  suggested  that  baseline  FEV1,  IgE  levels,  and  concomitant  oral  corticosteroid 
treatment might be useful as predictors of treatment response. In a subsequent exploratory multivariate 
analysis, baseline IgE was retained as a consistent predictor of response. By excluding patients with a 
baseline  total  IgE<76  IU/ml  a  more  pronounced  and  statistically  significant  effect  is  obtained.  This 
finding  is  consistent  with  the  mode  of  action  of  omalizumab.  However,  it  is  of  limited  value  for 
identifying  a  target  population  because  total  IgE  is  an  insensitive  and  variable  indicator  of  the 
importance of the allergic factor for asthma symptoms and thus, maybe, of limited predicted value in 
an individual patient. 
In  summary,  the  extent  of  the  database,  statistically  significant  differences  in  several  (but  not  all) 
studies  in  term  of  reduction  of  asthma  exacerbation,  benefit  in  other  secondary  endpoints  such  as 
quality of life, and, statistical difference in term of severe exacerbation (life-threatening condition) in 
study 2306 show that some patients respond in a clinically relevant manner to omalizumab. Together 
with  the  safety  concerns,  omalizumb  should  be  restricted  to  severe  patients  and  that  the  indications 
should define the population that is likely to benefit from the product on the basis of inclusion criteria 
of  clinical  studies  (in  particular  2306),  the  mechanism  of  action  of  the  product  (i.e.  patients  with 
convincing IgE mediated asthma), the severity of the disease and clinical need in daily practice. The 
treatment should not be limited to patients treated by oral corticosteroids (In study 2306, 21.7 % of the 
ITT study population in the study had daily use of oral corticosteroids). 
Based on mechanistic rationale and clinical data, it was agreed that treatment with omalizumab should 
be discontinued after 16 weeks if no improvement is seen. 
There  are  no  controlled  data  on  the  use  of  Omalizumab  in  patients  with  allergic  asthma  beyond  28 
weeks. Although non-controlled data suggest that there is no significant rebound in either the disease 
clinical course or the IgE level, the information provided does not allow to assess what would be the 
optimal treatment duration, when stopping omalizumab treatment could be attempted and what could 
be the optimal way of tapering omalizumab. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
The  safety  study  population  comprised  over  5300  patients  exposed  to  omalizumab  for  a  relevant 
duration. Approximately fifty percent of those were patients with allergic asthma. Thereby they also 
represent  a  population  at  risk  for  allergic  reactions  to  treatment.  Of  the  exposure  to  omalizumab  in 
controlled studies, exposure in allergic asthma patients represented the major part, >1560 patient years 
29/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
of the total 1934 patient years. The majority of them seem to have been patients with severe persistent 
allergic asthma.  
•  Adverse events  
Adverse  events  were  reported  by  82%  of  the  asthma  patients  in  both  treatments  groups  in  placebo-
controlled studies. In the same studies, less than 2% of patients in both groups discontinued treatment 
due  to  adverse  events  or  abnormal  laboratory  values.  In  the  placebo-controlled  studies,  the  overall 
incidence of suspected drug-related AEs was similar in both treatment groups. The majority of adverse 
events were of mild to moderate severity. The incidence of adverse events did not increase with the 
duration of exposure to Xolair. 
The table below provides the most common adverse events (≥ 3% in any group) in controlled Allergic 
Asthma  studies  (in  AAP  population  -  studies  [2306,  2304,  008C/E,  009C/E,  011C,  0112]  and  AAS 
population – studies IA04 and Q2143g). 
MedDRA 
  Preferred term 
Organ 
Class
Infections & infestations 
Nasopharyngitis 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Sinusitis 
Influenza 
Bronchitis 
Gastroenteritis 
Pharyngitis 
Viral infection 
Lower respiratory tract infection 
AAP† 
Omalizuma
b 
(N=1192) 
n (%) 
277 (23.2) 
210 (17.6) 
150 (12.6) 
110 (9.2) 
77 (6.5) 
49 (4.1) 
54 (4.5) 
45 (3.8) 
58 (4.9) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Cough 
Rhinitis 
Nasal congestion 
Rhinitis allergic 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Diarrhea 
Nausea 
Dyspepsia 
98 (8.2) 
81 (6.8) 
57 (4.8) 
43 (3.6) 
25 (2.1) 
59 (4.9) 
59 (4.9) 
44 (3.7) 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Back pain 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Pain in extremity 
96 (8.0) 
72 (6.0) 
52 (4.4) 
40 (3.4) 
AAS‡ 
Omalizuma
b 
(N=1338) 
n (%) 
151 (11.3) 
209 (15.6) 
160 (12.0) 
43 (3.2) 
96 (7.2) 
28 (2.1) 
33 (2.5) 
33 (2.5) 
34 (2.5) 
61 (4.6) 
56 (4.2) 
16 (1.2) 
25 (1.9) 
20 (1.5) 
STC* 
(N=666) 
n (%) 
58 (8.7) 
83 (12.5) 
74 (11.1) 
19 (2.8) 
45 (6.8) 
8 (1.2) 
10 (1.5) 
12 (1.8) 
24 (3.6) 
13 (1.9) 
13 (1.9) 
17 (2.5) 
12 (1.8) 
9 (1.3) 
Placebo 
(N=1150) 
n (%) 
274 (23.8) 
214 (18.6) 
168 (14.6) 
114 (9.9) 
86 (7.5) 
36 (3.1) 
53 (4.6) 
46 (4.0) 
55 (4.8) 
98 (8.5) 
103 (9.0) 
53 (4.6) 
35 (3.0) 
37 (3.2) 
53 (4.6) 
47 (4.1) 
65 (5.6) 
92 (8.0) 
56 (4.9) 
48 (4.2) 
27 (2.3) 
41 (3.1) 
46 (3.4) 
16 (1.2) 
44 (3.3) 
41 (3.1) 
22 (1.6) 
18 (1.3) 
5 (0.7) 
8 ( 1.2) 
2 (0.30) 
10 (1.5) 
4 (0.6) 
3 (0.4) 
3 (0.4) 
230 (19.3) 
229 (19.9) 
121 (9.0) 
25 (3.7) 
Gen. disorders and admin. site conditions 
Pyrexia 
Psychiatric disorders 
Insomnia 
43 (3.6) 
39 (3.4) 
13 (1.0) 
4 (0.6) 
29 (2.4) 
37 (3.2) 
11 (0.8) 
4 (0.6) 
Injury, poisoning, and procedural complications 
Joint sprain 
AAP 
† 
‡  AAS studies: IA04 and Q2143g 
*STC = standard therapy control 
studies: 
40 (3.4) 
25 (2.2) 
008C/E, 
009C/E, 
011C, 
17 (1.3) 
0112, 
8 (1.2) 
2304, 
2306
Injection  site  reactions,  exanthema/urticaria,  gastrointestinal  disorders  (gastroenteritis  symptoms  as 
nausea and diarrhoea) and other infections (sinusitis) were observed more frequently in omalizumab 
treated patients. Respiratory reactions were also observed frequently, however more frequently in the 
control  group.  In  placebo-controlled  studies,  the  incidence  rate  of  exanthema/urticaria  was  dose 
30/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
related, probably because the correlation with the degree of baseline IgE on which the individual dose 
is based. The overall frequency of injection site reactions was similar in both treatment groups, 45.1% 
omalizumab and 43.4 % placebo. The overall incidence of severe injections site reactions was slightly 
higher  in  the  omalizumab  group,  11.9%  and  8.5%,  respectively.  Fewer  than  1%  of  patients 
discontinued as a result of injection site reactions. In general, there was a tendency to have more local 
AEs with increasing numbers of injections in both treatment groups and the duration of the reaction 
was similar in the two groups. In a significant proportion, the duration of the reaction was > 1 week. 
Skin  rash  including  urticaria  and  other  allergic  reactions  were  observed  in  a  large  proportion  of 
patients  in  both  groups,  and  there  was  no  clinically  significant  difference  between  them  concerning 
severity and concomitant symptoms except a small number of anaphylactic reactions in close relation 
to the injection, 4 cases (0.11%) with omalizumab and 1 case (0.04%) with placebo.  
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In  total,  five  deaths  occurred  in  clinical  studies  (3  Xolair,  2  Placebo),  and  they  were  all  judged  as 
unrelated to treatment. 
Serious adverse events were reported by around 4 % of the patients in both groups. Severe reactions 
were more common in the placebo group, mainly due to a higher incidence of infections. 
•  Laboratory findings 
No  clinically  meaningful  effects  were  observed  on  serum  biochemistry  parameters,  including  renal 
and liver function tests; no major differences between omalizumab and placebo were observed. 
Decreases in hemoglobin levels occurred slightly more frequently in the omalizumab group (9.1% of 
patients) than the placebo group (7.0%) in the key safety population. In the majority of patients, the 
decrease from baseline in hemoglobin was < 10%. A decrease in hemoglobin of 20-25% was reported 
in < 0.5% of patients in both treatment groups; in most cases these were isolated occurrences. 
In experimental studies in monkeys thrombocytopenia was observed at high doses. No indications of 
severe platelet or other blood disorders could be found in the clinical safety database. A few cases of 
rapidly  reversible  leukopenia  and  agranulocytosis,  several  of  which  probably  were  related  to  other 
factors, give no clear indication of this being a safety issue. Yet, blood disorders cannot be excluded to 
be a risk associated with omalizumab and further focused surveillance is warranted. 
•  Safety in special populations 
12 – 17 years of age: In all controlled studies, 325 omalizumab patients and 214 control patients were 
12-17 years of age. The overall frequency of AEs was 76% in the omalizumab group and 79% in the 
control  group.  There  was  just  one  AE  with  a  ≥  2%  difference  between  the  omalizumab  and  control 
groups, respectively, i.e. nasopharyngitis.  
The experience of treatment of patients >65 years of age is limited. The overall incidence of adverse 
events  in  the  elderly  (>65  years  of  age)  was  higher  with  omalizumab  than  with  placebo,  yet  the 
number of events was small. The pattern of adverse events was the same as in patients < 65 years.  
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Omalizumab  was  administered  in  combination  with  other  antiasthmatic  drugs  in  all  AA  studies.  All 
patients received inhaled corticosteroids, other medications administered included oral corticosteroids, 
long-  and  short-acting  β2-agonists,  theophyllines,  cromolyns,  and  leukotrienes.  No  interactions 
between omalizumab and any of these medications were observed. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
31/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  placebo-controlled  studies,  less  than  2%  of  patients  in  both groups  discontinued  treatment  due  to 
adverse events or abnormal laboratory values. 
•  Post marketing experience 
Xolair  was  first  registered  in  Australia  in  June  2002  and  in  the  USA  in  June  2003.  The  MAH  has 
submitted the 4Th PSUR covering the period 1 July to 31 December 2004. In this PSUR period, the 
estimated exposed number of patients was 2355 in clinical studies and about 11 000 treatment years 
based on sales. The estimated cumulative figure based on sales is 18 000 treatment years.  
In total, 324 case reports  were received, of which 57 serious unlisted, 18 serious listed and 84 non-
serious  unlisted.  The  majority  of  them  were  spontaneous  reports.  No  new  safety  issues  appeared, 
except a large number of  "listed" anaphylactic reactions, urticaria, allergic reactions and some  more 
cases  of  "unlisted"  angioedemas  and  laryngoedema,  the  latter  which  the  CHMP  suggests  should  be 
included as rare ADRs in the current proposed SPC. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  population  is  extensive  and  comprises  over  5300  patients  exposed  to  omalizumab  for  a 
significant duration. Approximately fifty percent patients have allergic asthma.  
The  majority  of  adverse  events  were  mild  to  moderate  in  their  severity.  Overall,  omalizumab  was 
well-tolerated  but  the  following  potential  risks  were  discussed:  thrombocytopenia  or  other  blood 
disorders, parasitic infections, malignancy and allergic reactions. 
Theoretically, patients treated with omalizumab could by its mechanism, the anti-IgE effect, increase 
the  risk  of  parasitic  infections.  A  targeted  study  of  this  (2303),  enrolled  137  patients  with  allergic 
asthma and/or perennial rhinitis (PAR) who were infected  with intestinal geohelminths. Overall, the 
study  2303  showed  an  increased  number  of  intestinal  geohelminth  infections  occurring  with 
omalizumab  compared  with  placebo.  The  difference  was  small  and  not  significant,  although  a  real 
difference in the risk cannot be excluded. However, due to difficulties to carry out this study and the 
lack  of  a  representative  geohelminth  species  effect  model  in  this  study,  the  observations  and 
comparisons are complicated to interpret. This issue may be of clinical significance for individuals in 
endemic  areas  and  travellers.  Further  controlled  studies  are  difficult  to  conduct  and  are  not  feasible 
due  to  the  scientific,  practical  and  ethical  problems  to  be  taken  into  consideration.  Furthermore,  the 
possible increased risk of parasitic infections rarely would result in severe morbidity, which was also 
indicated in the parasitic infection study 2303. Caution is therefore recommended in patients at high 
risk of helminth infection in section 4.4 of the SPC. 
The effect of omalizumab on the immune system has been discussed. No signs of immune-complex 
disorders  or  autoimmune  disorders  were  found.  However,  there  was  an  increased  incidence  of 
neoplasms in the safety population exposed to omalizumab compared to controls (placebo or standard 
asthma  therapy).  Across  all  35  completed  studies,  malignant  neoplasms  were  reported  in  25  out  of 
5015 (0.50%) omalizumab patients compared to 5 out of 2854 (0.18%) control patients. The tumours 
occurred within 1 year in 20 of 25 (80%) omalizumab and 5 of 5 (100%) control patients; no cancers 
were reported in 590 patients treated with omalizumab for >2 years with the exception of a basal cell 
carcinoma  in  1  patient.  This  would  suggest  that  many  of  these  malignant  neoplasms  reported  were 
likely  pre-existing  since  drug-induced  cancers,  especially  solid  tumours,  usually  occur  after  long 
exposure.  An  immunosuppressive  effect  of  omalizumab  is  the  only  likely  situation  in  which  the 
malignancies  would  progress  rapidly  in  relation  to  treatment  with  omalizumab,  i.e.  within  the  first 
years of treatment. There is no experimental evidence of a plausible mechanism for IgE inhibition to 
be  associated  with  carcinogenesis.  Moreover,  the  analysis  was  based  on  a  small  number  of 
malignancies. As part of the requested Pharmacovigilance Plan, the issue will be further studied in an 
already  ongoing  5-year  comparative  observational  prospective  cohort  study  (EXCELS)  in  which  all 
serious  adverse  events  are  planned  to  be  captured  by  continuous  monitoring  and  regular  follow-up 
visits.  The  study  will  enroll  5000  patients  treated  with  Xolair  and  2500  controls.  Thereby,  both  a 
formal  study  of  the  incidence  of  malignancies  (primary  outcome)  and  signal  detection/signal 
evaluation should be possible.  
32/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regarding re-treatment experience, no indications of a significant safety issue was found in patients 
with allergic asthma and/or seasonal allergic rhinitis exposed > 3 months and up to 9 months after a 
previous period of exposure to omalizumab. 
The pharmacivigilance plan has been presented, an will mainly include the EXCELS post-marketing 
safety  study  above-mentioned,  a  pregnancy  registry  and  monitoring  of  the  following  categories  of 
events: malignancy, anaphylaxis/anaphylactoid reactions, serum sickness, significant blood dyscrasias 
(Neutropenia,  Lymphopenia  and  Thrombocytopenia),  severe  hypersensitivity  reactions  including, 
angioedema, severe cutaneous reactions and parasitic infections. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
Except  for  a  limited  number  of  points,  which  can  be  addressed  as  part  of  post-authorisation 
commitments, the quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with 
the  conditions  defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform 
clinical  performance  of  the  product  have  been  investigated  and  are  controlled  in  a  satisfactory  way. 
Viral  safety  or  freedom  from  other  adventitious  agents  (including  TSE)  has  been  adequately 
demonstrated.  Batch  to  batch  consistency  has  been  documented  and  the  relevant  tests  will  be 
performed according to the agreed specifications. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  safety  of  omalizumab  has  been  studied  in  the  cynomolgus  monkey  since  omalizumab  binds  to 
cynomolgus  and  human  IgE  with  similar  affinity.  Chronic  administration  of  omalizumab  was  well 
tolerated in non-human primates, with the exception of a dose-related and age-dependent decrease in 
blood  platelets,  with  a  greater  sensitivity  in  juvenile  animals.  The  serum  concentration  required  to 
attain a 50% drop in platelets from baseline in adult cynomolgus monkeys was roughly 4 to 20-fold 
higher than anticipated maximum clinical serum concentrations.  
Efficacy 
In early studies in a broader asthma population, there was a significant overall effect on exacerbations 
which  clinical  relevance  was  questioned.  This  effect  was  more  pronounced  in  patients  with  more 
severe  allergic  asthma.  Although  the  pre-specified  primary  analysis  of  study  2306  did  not  reach 
statistical significance, the large total clinical documentation for omalizumab supports the treatment of 
severe  allergic  asthma  considering  the  overall  effect  on  exacerbation  in  the  complete  database,  the 
statistically significant effects in rate of severe exacerbations and total emergency visits which were 
halved  in  the  omalizumab  group  and  the  significant  findings  in  other  clinically  relevant  secondary 
variables  in  study  2306  (Quality  of  Life-responders,  FEV1-responders  and  investigator’s  as  well  as 
patient’s global evaluation). Results that were consistent with other study results or analysis such as a 
statistically significant and clinically relevant effect on FEV1 in study IA04, again more pronounced in 
more severely ill patients. 
Xolair treatment should only be considered for patients with convincing IgE mediated asthma. Patients 
with  IgE  lower  than  76 IU/ml  were  less  likely  to  experience  benefit.  Prescribing  physicians  should 
ensure  that  patients  with  IgE  below  76 IU/ml  have  unequivocal  in  vitro  reactivity  (RAST)  to  a 
perennial allergen before starting therapy. 
Safety 
During clinical trials the most commonly reported adverse reactions were injection site reactions and 
headaches.  Most  of  the  reactions  were  mild  or  moderate  in  severity.  Potential  safety  risks  will  be 
followed up through a pharmacovigilance plan. 
33/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  with  any  protein,  local  or  systemic  allergic  reactions,  including  anaphylaxis,  may  occur. 
Anaphylactic  reactions  were  rare  in  clinical  trials.  Medications  for  the  treatment  of  anaphylactic 
reactions should be available for immediate use following administration of Xolair.  
Benefit/risk assessment 
Overall,  there  is  a  pattern  of  significant  results  that  show  that  omalizumab  efficacy  is  of  clinical 
relevance  for  patients  with  severe  allergic  asthma.  Based  on  the  large  database,  there  is  no  safety 
alarming  signal  even  some  concerns  for  long-term  use  will  have  to  be  followed  through  the  risk 
management  programme.  As  a  consequence,  the  benefit-risk  is  considered  positive  in  the  following 
indications: 
“Xolair  is  indicated  as  add-on  therapy  to  improve  asthma  control  in  adult  and  adolescent 
patients  (12 years  of  age  and  above)  with  severe  persistent  allergic  asthma  who  have  a 
positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and who have reduced lung 
function  (FEV1  <80%)  as  well  as  frequent  daytime  symptoms  or  night-time  awakenings  and 
who  have  had  multiple  documented  severe  asthma  exacerbations  despite  daily  high-dose 
inhaled corticosteroids, plus a long-acting inhaled beta2-agonist. Xolair treatment should only 
be considered for patients with convincing IgE mediated asthma.” 
Xolair treatment should be initiated by physicians experienced in the diagnosis and treatment of severe 
persistent asthma. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  majority 
decision  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Xolair  in  the  treatment  of  the  above-mentioned  approved 
indication was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation. 
34/34 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
