SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Table of Contents 
I.
II.
II.A
II.B
II.C
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR ········································ 2
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES TO
MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS ···························· 2
List of important risks and missing information ············································ 3
Summary of important risks ·································································· 3
Postauthorization development plan ························································· 8
II.C.1
II.C.2
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization ······················· 8 
Other studies in postauthorization development plan ································ 8 
References 
 ······························································································ 9
 
Summary of risk management plan for XOSPATA (Gilteritinib) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for XOSPATA. The RMP details 
important risks of XOSPATA, how these risks can be minimized, and how more information 
will be obtained about XOSPATA’s risks. 
XOSPATA’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how XOSPATA should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for XOSPATA should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
XOSPATA’s RMP.  
I.
THE MEDICINE AND WHAT IT IS USED FOR
XOSPATA is authorized for treatment of adult patients who have relapsed or refractory acute 
myeloid leukemia (AML) with an FMS-like tyrosine kinase (FLT3) mutation (see the SmPC 
for the full indication). It contains gilteritinib as the active substance and it is available as a 
film-coated 40 mg tablet. 
Further information about the evaluation of XOSPATA’s benefits can be found in XOSPATA’s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European Medicines 
Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/xospata 
II.
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MEDICINE AND ACTIVITIES
TO MINIMIZE OR FURTHER CHARACTERIZE THE RISKS
Important risks of XOSPATA, together with measures to minimize such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about XOSPATA‘s risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
● Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
● Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
● The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
● The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g., with or
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In the case of XOSPATA, these measures are supplemented with additional risk minimization 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analyzed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A  List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of XOSPATA are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important 
risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is 
sufficient proof of a link with the use of XOSPATA. Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of Important Risks 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome
•
• Differentiation syndrome
Serious Gastrointestinal disorders
• Torsades de Pointes
•
• Eye disorders
•
•
• Embryo-fetal lethality, suppressed fetal growth, and
Pulmonary adverse events
Pancreatitis
teratogenicity
II.B  Summary of important risks
Important identified risk: Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
PRES is a rare neurological disorder that can present with rapidly evolving 
symptoms including seizure, headache, confusion, blindness, and other visual and 
neurological disturbances, with or without associated hypertension. A diagnosis 
of PRES requires confirmation by brain imaging, preferably magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI). In clinical trials, there have been uncommon reports of PRES 
with gilteritinib with symptoms including seizure and altered mental status. 
Symptoms have resolved after discontinuation of gilteritinib. Early recognition of 
PRES may mitigate secondary complications that can lead to morbidity/mortality. 
Discontinuation of gilteritinib in patients who develop PRES is recommended. 
In general, there appears to be a predominance of female PRES cases to male 
cases; the syndrome occurs across many age groups (pediatric, adult, and elderly) 
[Fugate et al, 2010; Li et al, 2012; Li et al, 2013]. 
PRES has been linked to a number of medical conditions including hypertensive 
encephalopathy, renal disease, systemic inflammatory syndrome, autoimmune 
disease, and vasculitis [Le & Loghin, 2014]. PRES has also been linked to 
medications including chemotherapies (e.g., anthracyclines and alkylating 
agents), monoclonal antibodies, and immunosuppressant drugs [Le & Loghin, 
2014]. PRES has also been associated with use of several multikinase inhibitors 
(e.g., sunitinib, sorafenib) [Costa et al, 2014; Foerster et al, 2013]. 
Risk factors and 
risk groups 
Important identified risk: Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome (PRES) 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8; 
•  PL sections 2 and 4. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical measures to 
address the risk: 
•  Recommendation to discontinue gilteritinib in patients who develop PRES is 
provided in SmPC sections 4.2 and 4.4. 
MRI: Magnetic Resonance Imaging; PL: Package Leaflet; PRES: Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome; SmPC: 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Important identified risk: Differentiation Syndrome 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Differentiation syndrome is associated with rapid proliferation and differentiation 
of myeloid cells and may be life-threatening or fatal if not treated. Of the 319 
patients treated with gilteritinib in the clinical trials, 3% experienced 
differentiation syndrome. Symptoms of differentiation syndrome in patients treated 
with gilteritinib included fever, dyspnea, pleural effusion, pericardial effusion, 
pulmonary edema, hypotension, rapid weight gain, peripheral edema, rash, and 
renal dysfunction. Some cases had concomitant acute febrile neutrophilic 
dermatosis. Differentiation syndrome occurred as early as 1 day and up to 82 days 
after gilteritinib initiation and has been observed with or without concomitant 
leukocytosis. Of the 11 patients who experienced differentiation syndrome, 9 
(82%) recovered after treatment or after dose interruption of gilteritinib. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients treated with chemotherapeutic agents and targeted therapies that induce 
myeloid differentiation are at risk for developing differentiation syndrome as a rare 
treatment associated complication. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2; 4.4; 4.8; 
•  PL sections 2 and 4. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical measures to 
address the risk: 
•  Recommendation for monitoring is provided in SmPC section 4.4; 
•  Recommendation for treatment interruption of gilteritinib is provided in SmPC 
section 4.2 and 4.4. 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
•  Healthcare Professional Information 
•  Patient alert card 
PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics 
 
 
Important potential risk: Torsades de Pointes 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Gilteritinib has been associated with prolonged cardiac ventricular 
repolarization (QT interval). A concentration-related increase in change 
from baseline of QTcF was observed across gilteritinib doses ranging 
from 20 to 450 mg. The effect of gilteritinib 120 mg once a day on QTc 
has been evaluated in patients, which showed an absence of large mean 
increases (i.e., 20 msec) in the QTc interval.  
Of 319 patients treated with gilteritinib at 120 mg tested in clinical trials, 
4 patients (1.3%) experienced a QTcF > 500 msec. Additionally, across 
all doses, 2.3% of relapse/refractory subjects had a maximum post-
baseline QTcF interval > 500 msec. 
In clinical trials, there have been reports of QT prolongation with 
gilteritinib, occurring in approximately 7% of patients treated with 
gilteritinib (36/496 patients). Another approximately 7% (36/496 patients) 
experienced related events such as syncope, cardiac arrest, ventricular 
tachycardia, ventricular arrhythmia, loss of consciousness, ventricular 
fibrillation, and sudden death. There were no patients that discontinued 
gilteritinib due to QT prolongation. 
The clinical trials excluded patients with baseline QTcF ≥ 450 msec, long 
QT syndrome, hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia, or significant 
cardiovascular disease.  
Monitoring for arrhythmias and early recognition of QT prolongation may 
mitigate the development of serious outcomes. Interruption and/or dose 
reduction of gilteritinib in patients who develop QT prolongation (QTcF 
> 500 msec) is recommended. Consideration for gilteritinib dose 
reduction in patients with QTc > 30 msec change from baseline on Day 8, 
if confirmed. 
Patients with pre-existing QTcF > 450 msec, long QT syndrome, 
electrolyte abnormalities (hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia), or those 
who are taking medications known to prolong the QT interval (e.g., 
anti-arrhythmic medicines, fluoroquinolones, triazole antifungals, and 
5-HT3 [serotonin type 3] receptor antagonists) may be at a higher risk for 
QT prolongation. 
A concentration-related increase in changes from baseline for QTcF was 
observed across gilteritinib doses ranging from 20 to 450 mg. Therefore, 
strong inhibitors of CYP3A or P-gp, such as, antifungals (e.g., 
voriconazole, posaconazole), antibiotics (e.g., clarithromycin, 
azithromycin), angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (e.g., captopril), 
antivirals (e.g., ritonavir), and beta blockers (e.g., carvedilol) may 
increase the risk of QTc interval prolongation because they can increase 
gilteritinib plasma concentrations. 
Routine risk communication: 
•  Description of QT prolongation is included in: 
o  SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8; 
o  PL sections 2 and 4. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Important potential risk: Torsades de Pointes 
• Recommendation for ECG monitoring is provided in SmPC sections
4.2 and 4.4;
• Recommendation for treatment interruption of gilteritinib in patients
with QTc > 500 msec with resumption at a reduced dose when QTc
interval returns to baseline or ≤480 msec is provided in SmPC section
4.2 and 4.4;
• Consideration for gilteritinib dose reduction in patients with QTc > 30
msec change from baseline on Day 8, if confirmed is provided in
SmPC section 4.2 and 4.4.
• Recommendation to correct hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia prior to
and during gilteritinib administration is provided in SmPC section
4.4., as hypokalemia or hypomagnesemia may increase QT
prolongation.
• Caution in patients with relevant cardiac history is noted in SmPC
section 4.4.
CYP: Cytochrome P450; ECG: Electrocardiogram; P-gp: P-glycoprotein; PL: Package Leaflet; QTc: QT Interval 
Corrected for Heart Rate; QTcF: QT Interval Corrected for Heart Rate Using Fridericia’s Formula; SmPC: Summary of 
Product Characteristics. 
Important potential risk: Serious GI disorders 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Serious GI disorders have been observed in gilteritinib clinical trials; 
however, an association with gilteritinib has not been confirmed. 
Risk factors for serious GI disorders in the general population include 
hyperlipidemia, pre-existing conditions such as diverticulitis, alcohol use, 
obesity, and cigarette smoking. In AML patients, serious GI disorders can 
occur secondary to sepsis and infection. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
AML: Acute Myeloid Leukemia; GI: Gastrointestinal. 
None 
Important potential risk: Eye disorders 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Eye disorders have been observed in gilteritinib clinical trials; however, 
an association with gilteritinib has not been confirmed. 
Risk factors for eye disorders in the general population include age, 
hypertension, diabetes, pre-existing retinal disease, bleeding disorders, 
ultraviolet exposure and cigarette smoking. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
None 
Important potential risk: Pulmonary adverse events 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Pulmonary events have been observed in gilteritinib clinical trials; 
however, an association with gilteritinib has not been confirmed. 
Risk factors for pulmonary toxicity in the general population include 
diabetes, alcohol use, environmental pollution, genetic/autoimmune 
diseases such as asthma and cystic fibrosis, and cigarette smoking. In 
AML patients, pulmonary events can occur secondary to sepsis and 
infection, thrombocytopenia with associated bleeding complications and 
also in association with differentiation syndrome. 
Risk minimization 
measures 
None 
AML: Acute Myeloid Leukemia 
Important potential risk: Pancreatitis 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Acute pancreatitis and pancreatitis have been observed in gilteritinib 
clinical trials; however, an association with gilteritinib has not been 
confirmed. 
Risk factors for pancreatitis in the general population include 
hyperlipidemia, diabetes, alcohol use, and cigarette smoking. In AML 
patients, pancreatitis can occur secondary to sepsis and infection. 
Routine risk communication: 
•  SmPC section 4.2 and 4.4; 
•  PL section 2. 
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical 
measures to address the risk: 
•  Recommendation to evaluate and monitor patients who develop signs 
and symptoms suggestive of pancreatitis is provided in SmPC section 
4.4.  
•  Recommendation for treatment interruption of gilteritinib is provided 
in SmPC section 4.2 and 4.4. Gilteritinib can be resumed at a reduced 
dose when the signs and symptoms of pancreatitis have resolved. 
AML: Acute Myeloid Leukemia; PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
 
 
Important potential risk: Embryo-fetal lethality, suppressed fetal growth, and 
teratogenicity 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Gilteritinib can cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women. 
There are no data from the use of gilteritinib in pregnant women. Embryo-
fetal development studies in rats with gilteritinib have shown suppressed 
fetal growth, embryo-fetal deaths, and teratogenicity. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimization 
measures 
Persons at risk include female patients of child-bearing potential, as well 
as male patients with female partners who are of child-bearing potential. 
SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.6;
PL section 2.
Routine risk communication: 
•
•
Routine risk minimization activities recommending specific clinical
measures to address the risk:
• Recommendation for females of reproductive potential to use
contraception during treatment and for at least 6 months after the last
dose of gilteritinib is provided in SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.6;
• Recommendation for women using hormonal contraceptives to add a
barrier method of contraception is provided in SmPC sections 4.4 and
4.6;
• Recommendation for males with female partners of reproductive
potential to use effective contraception during treatment and for at
least 4 months after the last dose is provided in SmPC sections 4.4 and
4.6.
PL: Package Leaflet; SmPC: Summary of Product Characteristics. 
II.C  Postauthorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorization or specific obligation 
of XOSPATA.  
II.C.2 Other studies in postauthorization development plan
None 
References 
Costa R, Costa R, Costa R, Junior GM, Cartaxo HQ, de Barros AC. Reversible posterior 
encephalopathy syndrome secondary to sunitinib. Case Rep Oncol Med. 2014;2014:952624. 
Epub 13-May-2014. 
Foerster R, Welzel T, Debus J, Gruellich C, Jaeger D, Potthoff K. Posterior reversible 
leukoencephalopathy syndrome associated with pazopanib. Case Rep Oncol. 2013;6(1):204-8. 
Fugate JE, Claassen DO, Cloft HJ, Kallmes DF, Kozak OS, Rabinstein AA. Posterior reversible 
encephalopathy syndrome: associated clinical and radiologic findings. Mayo Clin Proc. 
2010;85(5):427-32. 
Le EM, Loghin ME. Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome: a neurologic phenomenon in 
cancer patients. Curr Oncol Rep. 2014;16(5):383. 
Li R, Mitchell P, Dowling R, Yan B. Is hypertension predictive of clinical recurrence in posterior 
reversible encephalopathy syndrome? J Clin Neurosci. 2013;20(2):248-52. 
Li Y, Gor D, Walicki D, Jenny D, Jones D, Barbour P, et al. Spectrum and potential pathogenesis of 
reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 
2012;21(8):873-82. 
