EMA/CHMP/472762/2013  
EMEA/H/C/003755 
EPAR summary for the public 
Xoterna Breezhaler 
Indacaterol / glycopyrronium  
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Xoterna Breezhaler. It explains 
how the Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of 
use. It is not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Xoterna Breezhaler. 
For practical information about using Xoterna Breezhaler, patients should read the package leaflet or 
contact their doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Xoterna Breezhaler and what is it used for? 
Xoterna Breezhaler is a medicine that contains two active substances, indacaterol (85 micrograms) and 
glycopyrronium (43 micrograms). It is used as maintenance (regular) treatment to relieve symptoms 
of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in adults. COPD is a long-term disease in which the 
airways and air sacs inside the lungs become damaged or blocked, leading to difficulty breathing air in 
and out of the lungs. 
How is Xoterna Breezhaler used? 
Xoterna Breezhaler is available as capsules containing a powder for inhalation can only be obtained 
with a prescription.  
The recommended dose is one inhalation once a day of the powder content of a single capsule. It is 
taken at the same time each day using the Xoterno Breezhaler device. The contents of the capsules 
must not be inhaled using any other device. 
In patients with severely reduced kidney function Xoterna Breezhaler should only be used after a 
careful benefit-risk assessment.  
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How does Xoterna Breezhaler work? 
The active substances in Xoterna Breezhaler, indacaterol and glycopyrronium, work in different ways to 
widen the airways and improve breathing in COPD. 
Indacaterol is a long-acting beta-2 agonist. It works by attaching to beta-2-adrenergic receptors found 
in the muscles of many organs including the airways of the lungs. When inhaled, indacaterol reaches 
the receptors in the airways and activates them. This causes the muscles of the airways to relax. 
Glycopyrronium is a muscarinic receptor antagonist. It works by blocking some receptors called 
muscarinic receptors, which control the contraction of muscles. When glycopyrronium is inhaled, it 
causes the muscles of the airways to relax. 
The combined action of the two active substances helps to keep the airways open and allows the 
patient to breathe more easily. Muscarinic receptor antagonists and long-acting beta-2-adrenergic 
agonists are commonly combined in the management of COPD. 
What benefits of Xoterna Breezhaler have been shown in studies? 
Xoterna Breezhaler has been studied in two main studies involving a total of 2,667 patients with COPD. 
While one study compared the effects of Xoterna Breezhaler with those of placebo (a dummy 
treatment), or indacaterol or glycopyrronium alone, the other study compared Xoterna Breezhaler with 
fluticasone plus salmeterol, a standard treatment for COPD. In both studies, the main measure of 
effectiveness was how Xoterna Breezhaler improved patients’ forced expiratory volumes (FEV1, the 
maximum volume of air a person can breathe out in one second) after 26 weeks of treatment.  
The first study showed that treatment with Xoterna Breezhaler was more effective than placebo and 
increased FEV1 by an average of 200 ml more. Xoterna Breezhaler also increased FEV1 by 70 ml more 
than indacaterol alone and 90 ml than glycopyrronium alone. In the second study the average increase 
in FEV1 was 140 ml more with Xoterna Breezhaler than with treatment with fluticasone and salmeterol. 
A third study studied the effects of Xoterna Breezhaler on the rate of exacerbations (flare-ups) patients 
experienced during 64 weeks of treatment when compared with treatment with glycopyrronium or 
tiotropium (other treatments for COPD). The reduction in the rate of exacerbations was 10 to 12% 
higher with Xoterna Breezhaler than with tiotropium and glycopyrronium. 
What are the risks associated with Xoterna Breezhaler? 
The most common side effects with Xoterna Breezhaler (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
are upper respiratory tract infections (colds). 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Xoterna Breezhaler, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Xoterna Breezhaler approved? 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Xoterna 
Breezhaler’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU.  
The effects of Xoterna Breezhaler when used to relieve symptoms of COPD were clinically meaningful. 
However, the CHMP considered that its effects on reducing the rate of exacerbations were too small to 
recommend its use for reducing exacerbations. Regarding its safety, Xoterna Breezhaler is comparable 
to indacaterol and glycopyrronium used as separate medicines. Side effects seen in studies were 
generally benign and were considered manageable.  
Xoterna Breezhaler  
EMA/CHMP/472762/2013 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xoterna Breezhaler? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Xoterna Breezhaler is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Xoterna Breezhaler, including the appropriate precautions to 
be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
Other information about Xoterna Breezhaler 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Xoterna Breezhaler on 19 September 2013.  
The full EPAR for Xoterna Breezhaler can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Xoterna Breezhaler, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2013. 
Xoterna Breezhaler  
EMA/CHMP/472762/2013 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
