ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xromi 100 mg/ml oral solution 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One ml of solution contains 100 mg hydroxycarbamide. 
Excipients with known effect 
One ml of solution contains 0.5 mg methyl hydroxybenzoate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral solution. 
Clear, colourless to pale yellow viscous liquid. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Xromi is indicated for the prevention of vaso-occlusive complications of Sickle Cell Disease in 
patients over 2 years of age. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Hydroxycarbamide treatment should be supervised by a physician or other healthcare professionals 
experienced in the management of patients with Sickle Cell Disease. 
Posology 
The posology should be based on the patient’s body weight (kg). 
The usual starting dose of hydroxycarbamide is 15 mg/kg/day and usual maintenance dose is between 
20-25 mg/kg/day. The maximum dose is 35 mg/kg/day. Full blood cell count with white cell 
differential and reticulocyte count should be monitored once a month for the first 2 months following 
treatment initiation. 
A target absolute neutrophil count 1,500 – 4,000 /μL should be aimed for, whilst maintaining platelet 
count > 80,000/μL. If neutropenia or thrombocytopenia occurs, hydroxycarbamide dosing should be 
temporarily withheld and full blood cell count with white cell differential should be monitored weekly. 
When blood counts have recovered, hydroxycarbamide should be reinstated at a dose 5 mg/kg/day 
lower than the dose given before onset of cytopenias. 
If dose escalation is warranted based on clinical and laboratory findings, the following steps should be 
taken: 
• 
• 
Dose to be increased by 5 mg/kg/day increments every 8 weeks 
Increases in dose to be continued until mild myelosuppression (absolute neutrophil count 
1,500/ μL to 4,000/ μL) is achieved, up to a maximum of 35 mg/kg/day. 
Full blood cell count with white cell differential and reticulocyte count to be monitored at least 
every 4 weeks when adjusting dosage. 
• 
Once a maximum tolerated dose is established, laboratory safety monitoring should include full blood 
cell count with white cell differential, reticulocyte count, and platelet count every 2-3 months. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Red blood cell (RBC), mean cell volume (MCV), and foetal haemoglobin (HbF) levels should be 
monitored for evidence of consistent or progressive laboratory response. However, a lack of increase 
in MCV, HbF, or both, is not an indication to discontinue therapy if the patient responds clinically 
(e.g. decreased incidence of pain or hospitalisation). 
A clinical response to treatment with hydroxycarbamide may take 3-6 months and therefore, a 
6-month trial on the maximum tolerated dose is required prior to considering discontinuation due to 
treatment failure (whether due to lack of adherence or failure to respond to therapy). 
Special populations 
Elderly 
Elderly patients may be more sensitive to the myelosuppressive effects of hydroxycarbamide, and may 
require a lower dosage regimen. 
Renal impairment 
Since renal excretion is a pathway of elimination, consideration should be given to decreasing the 
dosage of hydroxycarbamide in renally impaired patients. In patients with a creatinine clearance 
(CrCl) ≤ 60 ml/min the initial hydroxycarbamide dose should be decreased by 50%. Close monitoring 
of blood parameters is advised in these patients (see section 4.4). 
Hydroxycarbamide must not be administered to patients with severe renal impairment 
(CrCl < 30 ml/min) (see sections 4.3, 4.4, and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
There are no data that support specific dose adjustments in patients with hepatic impairment. Close 
monitoring of blood parameters is advised in these patients. Due to safety considerations, 
hydroxycarbamide is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see sections 4.3 and 
4.4). 
Children less than 2 years of age 
The safety and efficacy of hydroxycarbamide in children from birth up to 2 years have not yet been 
established. Limited data suggest that 20 mg/kg/day reduced painful episodes and were safe in 
children less than 2 years of age but safety of long-term treatment remains to be established. Therefore 
no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
Method of administration 
Xromi is for oral use. 
Two dosing syringes (a 3 ml and a10 ml) are provided for accurate measurement of the prescribed 
dose of the oral solution. It is recommended that the healthcare professional advises the patient or 
carer which syringe to use to ensure that the correct volume is administered. 
The smaller 3 ml syringe, marked from 0.5 ml to 3 ml, is for measuring doses of less than or equal to 3 
ml. This syringe should be recommended for doses less than or equal to 3 ml (each graduation of 
0.1 ml contains 10 mg of hydroxycarbamide). 
The larger 10 ml syringe, marked from 1 ml to 10 ml, is for measuring doses of more than 3 ml. This 
syringe should be recommended for doses greater than 3 ml (each graduation of 0.5 ml contains 50 mg 
of hydroxycarbamide). 
In adults without swallowing difficulties, solid oral formulations may be more appropriate and 
convenient. 
Xromi may be taken with or after meals at any time of the day but patients should standardise the 
method of administration and time of day. 
To assist accurate and consistent dose delivery to the stomach water should be taken after each dose of 
Xromi. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh classification C). 
Severe renal impairment (CrCl < 30 ml/min). 
Toxic ranges of myelosuppression as described in section 4.2. 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6). 
Pregnancy (see section 4.6) 
Concomitant anti-retroviral medicinal products for HIV disease (see sections 4.4 and 4.5) 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Bone marrow suppression 
The complete status of the blood, including bone marrow examination, if indicated, as well as kidney 
function and liver function should be determined prior to, and repeatedly during, treatment. If bone 
marrow function is depressed, treatment with hydroxycarbamide should not be initiated. 
The full blood cell count with white cell differential, reticulate count, and platelet count should be 
monitored regularly (see section 4.2). 
Hydroxycarbamide may produce bone marrow suppression; leukopenia is generally its first and most 
common manifestation. Thrombocytopenia and anaemia occur less often and are seldom seen without 
a preceding leukopenia. Bone marrow depression is more likely in patients who have previously 
received radiotherapy or cytotoxic cancer chemotherapeutic medicinal products; hydroxycarbamide 
should be used cautiously in such patients. The recovery from myelosuppression is rapid when 
hydroxycarbamide therapy is interrupted. 
Hydroxycarbamide therapy can then be re-initiated at a lower dose (see section 4.2). 
Severe anaemia must be corrected with whole blood replacement before initiating therapy with 
hydroxycarbamide. If, during treatment, anaemia occurs, correct without interrupting 
hydroxycarbamide therapy. Erythrocytic abnormalities; megaloblastic erythropoiesis, which is self- 
limiting, is often seen early in the course of hydroxycarbamide therapy. The morphologic change 
resembles pernicious anaemia, but is not related to vitamin B12 or folic acid deficiency. The 
macrocytosis may mask the incidental development of folic acid deficiency; regular determinations of 
serum folic acid are recommended. Hydroxycarbamide may also delay plasma iron clearance and 
reduce the rate of iron utilisation by erythrocytes but it does not appear to alter the red blood cell 
survival time. 
Other 
Patients who have received irradiation therapy in the past may have an exacerbation of post irradiation 
erythema when hydroxycarbamide is given. 
Renal and hepatic impairment 
Hydroxycarbamide should be used with caution in patients with marked renal dysfunction. 
Hydroxycarbamide may cause hepatotoxicity and liver function tests should be monitored during 
treatment. 
Blood parameters for renal and hepatic impairment should be closely monitored, and 
hydroxycarbamide should be discontinued if necessary. If appropriate, hydroxycarbamide should be 
re-started at a lower dose. 
HIV patients 
Hydroxycarbamide must not be used in combination with anti-retroviral medicinal products for HIV 
disease and it may cause treatment failure and toxicities (in some cases fatal) in HIV patients (see 
sections 4.3 and 4.5). 
Secondary leukaemia and skin cancer 
In patients receiving long-term therapy with hydroxycarbamide for myeloproliferative disorders, such 
as polycythemia, secondary leukaemia has been reported. It is unknown whether this leukaemogenic 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
effect is secondary to hydroxycarbamide or associated with the patient's underlying disease. Skin 
cancer has been reported in patients receiving long-term hydroxycarbamide. Patients should be 
advised to protect skin from sun exposure. In addition patients should conduct self-inspection of the 
skin during the treatment and after discontinuation of the therapy with hydroxycarbamide and be 
screened for secondary malignancies during routine follow-up visits. 
Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities 
Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene have occurred in patients 
with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxycarbamide. The risk of vasculitic 
toxicities is increased in patients who receive prior or concomitant interferon therapy. The digital 
distribution of these vasculitic ulcerations and progressive clinical behaviour of peripheral vasculitic 
insufficiency leading to digital infarct or gangrene were distinctly different than the typical skin ulcers 
generally described with Hydroxycarbamide. Due to potentially severe clinical outcomes for the 
cutaneous vasculitic ulcers reported in patients with myeloproliferative disease, hydroxycarbamide 
should be discontinued if cutaneous vasculitic ulcerations develop. 
Vaccinations 
Concomitant use of hydroxycarbamide with a live virus vaccine may potentiate the replication of the 
vaccine virus and/or may increase some of the adverse reactions of the vaccine virus because normal 
defence mechanisms may be suppressed by hydroxycarbamide. Vaccination with a live vaccine in a 
patient taking hydroxycarbamide may result in severe infection. The patient's antibody response to 
vaccines may be decreased. The use of live vaccines should be avoided during treatment and for at 
least six months after treatment has finished and individual specialist advice sought (see section 4.5). 
Leg ulcers 
In patients with leg ulcers, hydroxycarbamide should be used with caution. Leg ulcers are a common 
complication of Sickle Cell Disease, but have also been reported in patients treated with 
hydroxycarbamide. 
Carcinogenicity 
Hydroxycarbamide is unequivocally genotoxic in a wide range of test systems. Hydroxycarbamide is 
presumed to be a transspecies carcinogen (see section 5.3). 
Safe handling of the solution 
Parents and care givers should avoid hydroxycarbamide contact with skin or mucous membrane. If the 
solution comes into contact with skin or mucosa, it should be washed immediately and thoroughly 
with soap and water (see section 6.6). 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) which may cause allergic 
reactions (possibly delayed). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
The myelosuppressive activity may be potentiated by previous or concomitant radiotherapy or 
cytotoxic therapy. 
Concurrent use of hydroxycarbamide and other myelosuppressive medicinal products or radiation 
therapy may increase bone marrow depression, gastro-intestinal disturbances or mucositis. An 
erythema caused by radiation therapy may be aggravated by hydroxycarbamide. 
Patients must not be treated with hydroxycarbamide and anti-retroviral medicinal products 
concurrently (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
Fatal and non-fatal pancreatitis has occurred in HIV-infected patients during therapy with 
hydroxycarbamide and didanosine, with or without stavudine. 
Hepatotoxicity and hepatic failure resulting in death were reported during post-marketing surveillance 
in HIV-infected patients treated with hydroxycarbamide and other antiretroviral medicinal products. 
Fatal hepatic events were reported most often in patients treated with the combination of 
hydroxycarbamide, didanosine, and stavudine. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Peripheral neuropathy, which was severe in some cases, has been reported in HIV-infected patients 
receiving hydroxycarbamide in combination with anti-retroviral medicinal products, including 
didanosine, with or without stavudine (see section 4.4). 
Patients treated with hydroxycarbamide in combination with didanosine, stavudine, and indinavir 
showed a median decline in CD4 cells of approximately 100/mm3. 
Studies have shown that there is an analytical interference of hydroxycarbamide with the enzymes 
(urease, uricase, and lactic dehydrogenase) used in the determination of urea, uric acid, and lactic acid, 
rendering falsely elevated results of these in patients treated with hydroxycarbamide. 
Vaccinations 
There is an increased risk of severe or fatal infections with the concomitant use of live vaccines. Live 
vaccines are not recommended in immunosuppressed patients. 
Concomitant use of hydroxycarbamide with a live virus vaccine may potentiate the replication of the 
vaccine virus and/or may increase the adverse reaction of the vaccine virus, because normal defence 
mechanisms may be suppressed by hydroxycarbamide therapy. Vaccination with a live vaccine in a 
patient taking hydroxycarbamide may result in severe infections. Generally, the patient's antibody 
response to vaccines may be decreased. Treatment with hydroxycarbamide and concomitant 
immunisation with live virus vaccines should only be performed if benefits clearly outweigh potential 
risks (see section 4.4). 
Cutaneous vasculitic toxicities, including vasculitic ulcerations and gangrene, have occurred in 
patients with myeloproliferative disorders during therapy with hydroxycarbamide. These vasculitic 
toxicities were reported most often in patients with a history of, or currently receiving, interferon 
therapy (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Medicinal products which affect DNA synthesis, such as hydroxycarbamide, may be potent mutagenic 
active substances. This possibility should be carefully considered before administering this medicinal 
product to male or female patients who may contemplate conception. 
Both male and female patients should be advised to use contraceptive measures before and during 
treatment with hydroxycarbamide. 
Pregnancy 
Studies in animals have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Patients on hydroxycarbamide 
should be made aware of the risks to the foetus. 
There is limited amount of data from the use of hydroxycarbamide in pregnant women. 
Hydroxycarbamide can cause foetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman. Therefore it must 
not be administered to patients who are pregnant. 
Patients on hydroxycarbamide wishing to conceive should stop treatment 3 to 6 months before 
pregnancy if possible. 
The patient should be instructed to immediately contact a doctor in case of suspected pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Hydroxycarbamide is excreted in human breast milk. Because of the potential for serious adverse 
reactions in breast-feeding infants, breast-feeding must be discontinued while taking 
hydroxycarbamide. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fertility 
Fertility in males might be affected by treatment. Very common reversible oligo- and azoo-spermia 
have been observed in man, although these disorders are also associated with the underlying disease. 
Impaired fertility has been observed in male rats (see section 5.3). 
Male patients should be informed by their healthcare professionals about the possibility of sperm 
conservation (cryopreservation) before the start of therapy. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Hydroxycarbamide has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Patients should be 
advised not to drive or operate machines, if dizziness is experienced while taking hydroxycarbamide. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
The safety profile of hydroxycarbamide in sickle cell disease was established from clinical trials and 
confirmed with long-term cohort studies including up to 1903 adults and children of more than 2 years 
of age. 
Summary of the safety profile 
Bone-marrow suppression is the major toxic effect of hydroxycarbamide and is dose related. At lower 
doses, mild, transient and reversible cytopenias are commonly reported in Sickle Cell Disease patients 
which is expected based on the pharmacology of hydroxycarbamide. 
Hydroxycarbamide affects spermatogenesis, and hence oligospermia and azoospermia are very 
commonly reported. 
Other commonly reported adverse effects also include nausea, constipation, headache, and dizziness. 
Adverse reactions affecting the skin and subcutaneous tissue such as darkening of the skin nail beds, 
dry skin, skin ulcers, and alopecia tend to occur following several years of long-term daily 
maintenance therapy. Rarely leg ulcers and very rarely systemic lupus erythematosus have been 
reported. 
There is also a serious risk of leukaemia and in the elderly, skin cancer, although the frequency is not 
known. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The list is presented by system organ class, MedDRA preferred term, and frequency using the 
following frequency categories: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100, < 1/10), uncommon 
(≥ 1/1,000, < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000, < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000), and not known (cannot be 
estimated from the available data). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Neoplasms benign, malignant 
and unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps) 
Unknown 
Blood and lymphatic system 
disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Unknown 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Unknown 
Common 
Uncommon 
Unknown 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very Rare 
Leukaemia, skin cancers (in 
elderly patients) 
Bone marrow depression 
including neutropenia 
(< 1,500 / μL), 
reticulocytopenia (< 
80,000 / μL), macrocytosis 
Thrombocytopenia 
(< 80,000 / μL), anaemia 
(haemoglobin < 4.5 g/dl) 
Weight gain, vitamin D 
deficiency 
Headache, dizziness 
Bleeding 
Nausea, constipation 
Stomatitis, diarrhoea, 
vomiting 
Gastrointestinal disturbances, 
gastrointestinal ulcer, severe 
hypomagnesaemia 
Elevated liver enzymes, 
Hepatotoxicity 
Skin ulcer, oral, nail and skin 
hyperpigmentation, dry skin, 
alopecia 
Rash 
Leg ulcers 
Systemic and cutaneous lupus 
erythematosus 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Very common 
Oligospermia, azoospermia 
Unknown 
Unknown 
Amenorrhea 
Fever 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
In the event of bone marrow suppression, haematological recovery usually occurs within two weeks of 
withdrawal of hydroxycarbamide. Gradual dose titration is recommended to avoid more severe bone 
marrow suppressions (see section 4.2). 
The macrocytosis caused by hydroxycarbamide is not vitamin B12 or folic acid dependent. The 
anaemia commonly observed has mainly been due to an infection with Parvovirus, splenic or hepatic 
sequestration, renal impairment. 
8 
 
 
 
Weight gain observed during treatment with hydroxycarbamide may be an effect of improved general 
conditions. 
Oligospermia and azoospermia caused by hydroxycarbamide are in general reversible, but have to be 
taken into account when fatherhood is desired (see section 5.3). These disorders are also associated 
with the underlying disease. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Symptoms 
Acute mucocutaneous toxicity has been reported in patients receiving hydroxycarbamide at a dosage 
several times greater than that recommended. Soreness, violet erythema, oedema on palms and foot 
soles followed by scaling of hands and feet, intense generalised hyperpigmentation of skin, and severe 
acute stomatitis were observed. 
In patients with sickle cell disease, severe bone marrow depression was reported in isolated cases of 
hydroxycarbamide overdose between 2 and 10 times the prescribed dose (up to 8.57 times of the 
maximum recommended dose of 35 mg/kg/day). It is recommended that blood counts are monitored 
for several weeks after overdose since recovery may be delayed. 
Treatment 
Immediate treatment consists of gastric lavage, followed by supportive therapy for the 
cardiorespiratory systems if required. Patients should be monitored for vital signs, blood and urine 
chemistry, renal and hepatic function and full blood counts for at least 3 weeks. Longer periods of 
monitoring may be required. If necessary, blood should be transfused. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, other antineoplastic agents, ATC code: L01XX05. 
Mechanism of action 
Hydroxycarbamide is an orally active antineoplastic agent. 
Although the mechanism of action has not yet been clearly defined, hydroxycarbamide appears to act 
by interfering with synthesis of DNA by acting as a ribonucleotide reductase inhibitor, without 
interfering with the synthesis of ribonucleic acid or protein. 
One of the mechanisms by which hydroxycarbamide acts is the elevation of HbF concentrations in 
Sickle Cell Disease patients. HbF interferes with the polymerisation of HbS (sickle haemoglobin) and 
thus impedes the sickling of red blood cell. In all clinical studies, there was a significant increase in 
HbF from baseline after hydroxycarbamide use. 
Recently, hydroxycarbamide has shown to be associated with the generation of nitric oxide suggesting 
that nitric oxide stimulates cyclic guanosine monophosphatase (cGMP) production, which then 
activates a protein kinase and increases the production of HbF. Other known pharmacological effects 
of hydroxycarbamide which may contribute to its beneficial effects in Sickle Cell Disease include 
decrease of neutrophils, improved deformability of sickled cells, and altered adhesion of red blood 
cells to the endothelium. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Evidence for the efficacy of hydroxycarbamide in reducing the vaso-occlusive complications of Sickle 
Cell Disease in patients older than 2 years comes from four randomised controlled trials (Charache et 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
al 1995 [MSH Study]; Jain et al 2012, Ferster et al 1996; Ware et al 2015 [TWiTCH]). Furthermore, 
findings from these pivotal studies are supported by observational studies including some long-term 
follow up. 
Multi-centre study of hydroxycarbamide in Sickle Cell Anaemia (MSH) 
The MSH study was a multicentre, randomised, and double-blind study, which compared 
hydroxycarbamide with placebo in adults with Sickle Cell Anaemia (HbSS genotype only) with the 
objective of reducing the frequency of pain crises. A total of 299 participants were randomised; 152 to 
hydroxycarbamide and 147 to matching placebo. Hydroxycarbamide was started at low dose 
(15 mg/kg per day) and increased at 12-weekly intervals by 5 mg/kg per day until mild bone marrow 
depression was achieved, as judged by either neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. Once the blood count 
had recovered, treatment was restarted at 2.5 mg/kg per day less than the toxic dose. 
There was a statistically significant difference between the hydroxycarbamide group and placebo 
group in the mean annual crisis rate (all crises), mean difference -2.80 (95% CI -4.74 to -0.86) 
(p = 0.005), and for crises requiring hospitalisation, mean difference -1.50 (95% CI -2.58 to -0.42) 
(p = 0.007). 
The study also showed an increase in median time from the initiation of treatment to first painful crisis 
(2.76 months in the hydroxycarbamide arm compared with 1.35 months on placebo (p = 0.014), 
second painful crisis (6.58 months in the hydroxycarbamide group compared with 4.13 months on 
placebo (p < 0.0024), and third painful crisis (11.9 months in the hydroxycarbamide group compared 
with 7.04 months on placebo (p = 0.0002). 
Also rates of acute chest syndrome were decreased in those taking hydroxycarbamide when compared 
with those taking placebo; RR 0.44 (95% CI 0.28 to 0.68) (p < 0.001). Similar decreases were seen in 
blood transfusion rates, a surrogate for life-threatening illness. Hydroxycarbamide did not reduce rates 
of hepatic or splenic sequestration when compared with placebo. 
In keeping with the mechanism of action of hydroxycarbamide, the MSH study also showed a 
statistically significant increase in HbF (mean difference 3.9% (95% CI 2.69 to 5.11 (p < 0.0001)) and 
haemoglobin levels (mean difference 0.6 g/dL (95% CI 0.28 to 0.92, p < 0.0014) and a decrease in 
haemolytic markers in the groups treated with hydroxycarbamide. The MSH study showed increased 
haematological toxicity resulting in a dose reduction in the hydroxycarbamide group as compared with 
placebo, but there were no infections related to neutropenia or bleeding episodes due to 
thrombocytopenia. 
Paediatric Population 
Cross-over comparison with placebo (Ferster et al 1996) 
A randomized cross-over study was conducted in 25 children and young adults (age range: 2 to 
22 years) with homozygous sickle cell anaemia and severe clinical manifestations (defined as >3 vaso- 
occlusive crises in the year before study entry and/or with previous history of stroke, acute chest 
syndrome, recurrent crises without a free interval, or splenic sequestration). The primary outcome 
measure of the study was the number and duration of hospitalisations. Patients were randomly 
assigned to receive either hydroxycarbamide first for 6 months, followed by placebo for 6 months, or 
placebo first, followed by hydroxycarbamide for 6 months. Hydroxycarbamide was administered at an 
initial dose of 20 mg/kg/day. The dose was increased to 25 mg/kg per day if change in HbF was <2% 
after 2 months. Dose was reduced by 50% for bone marrow toxicity. 
The study reported 16 patients out of 22 (73%) did not require any hospitalisation for painful episodes 
when treated with hydroxycarbamide as compared with only 3 of 22 (14%) when treated with placebo. 
In addition, there was a reduction in mean hospital stay; 5.3 days in the hydroxycarbamide group and 
15.2 days in the placebo group. There were no deaths reported in the study. An increase in HbF and a 
decrease in absolute neutrophil count were reported in the hydroxycarbamide group. Similarly after six 
months of treatment, haemoglobin and MCV increased significantly whilst platelet count and white 
blood cells (WBC) decreased significantly in the hydroxycarbamide group. Results of this study are 
presented in Tables 2 and 3 below. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Number of Hospitalisations and Number of Days in Hospital by Treatment (Both Periods 
Combined) (Ferster et al, 1996) 
Hydroxycarbamide 
(n=22) 
Placebo  
(n=22) 
Number of 
hospitalisations 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
0 
Number of days in 
hospital 
1 – 10 
>10 
Range 
16 
2 
3 
0 
1 
0 
16 
2 
4 
3 
13 
2 
3 
0 
1 
3 
13 
6 
0-19 
0-104 
Table 3: Mean Haematologic Values Before and After 6 Months of Treatment with hydroxycarbamide 
(Ferster et al, 1996) 
Before 
Hydroxycarbamide 
Therapy 
(mean ± SD) 
After 
Hydroxycarbamide 
Therapy 
(mean ± SD) 
P value 
8.1 ± 0.75 
8.5 ± 0.83 
Not significant 
85.2 ± 9.74 
33.0 ± 2.08 
95.5 ± 11.57 
<0.001 
32.3 ± 1.12 
Not significant 
443.2 ± 189.1 
386.7 ± 144.6 
Not significant 
Haemoglobin (Hb) 
(g/dL) 
MCV (fL) 
Mean corpuscular 
haemoglobin 
concentration  
(MCHC) (%) 
Platelets (×109/L) 
WBC (×109/L) 
12.47 ± 4.58 
8.9 ± 2.51 
HbF (%) 
4.65 ± 4.81 
Reticulocytes (%) 
148.6 ± 53.8 
15.34 ± 11.3 
102.7 ± 48.5 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
Low fixed dose hydroxycarbamide in children with Sickle Cell Disease (Jain et al 2012) 
In a randomised, double-blind, placebo controlled study conducted in a tertiary hospital in India, 
60 children (aged 5-18 years) with three or more blood transfusions or vaso-occlusive crises requiring 
hospitalisation per year, were randomised to fixed dose 10 mg/mg per day hydroxycarbamide (n=30) 
or to a matched placebo (n=30). The primary outcome was the decrease in the frequency of 
vaso-occlusive crises per patient per year. Secondary outcomes included the decrease in frequency of 
blood transfusions and hospitalizations, and increase in HbF levels. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After 18 months of treatment, there was a significant difference in the number of vaso-occlusive crises 
between the hydroxycarbamide group and placebo group, mean difference -9.60 (95% CI -10.86 
to -8.34) (p < 0.00001). There was also significant difference between the hydroxycarbamide group 
and placebo groups in the number of blood transfusions, mean difference -1.85 (95% 
CI -2.18 to -1.52) (p < 0.00001), in the number of hospitalisations, mean difference -8.89 (95% 
CI -10.04 to -7.74) (p < 0.00001), and the duration of hospitalisation, mean difference -4.00 days (95% 
CI -4.87 to -3.13) (p < 0.00001). Results are presented in Table 4. 
The study also showed a statistically significant increase in HbF and Hb levels and a decrease in 
haemolytic markers in the groups treated with hydroxycarbamide. 
Table 4: Comparison of the Number of Clinical Events before and after Intervention in the 
Hydroxycarbamide and Placebo Groups 
Hydroxycarbamide 
Placebo 
Number of events / 
patient / year 
Before 
After 18 
months 
Before 
After 18 
months 
P value1  P value2 
Vaso-occlusive crises 
12.13 ± 8.56 
0.6 ± 1.37 
11.46 ± 3.01 
10.2 ± 3.24 
Blood transfusions 
2.43 ± 0.69 
0.13 ± 0.43 
2.13 ± 0.98 
1.98 ± 0.82 
Hospitalisations 
10.13 ± 6.56 
0.70 ± 1.28 
9.56 ± 2.91 
9.59 ± 2.94 
1. P value is for comparison between hydroxycarbamide and placebo groups at baseline 
2. P value is for comparison between hydroxycarbamide and placebo groups at 18 months 
0.10 
0.25 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
Primary stroke prevention (TWiTCH study) 
Transcranial Doppler (TCD) with Transfusions Changing to Hydroxycarbamide (TWiTCH) was an 
NHLBI-funded Phase III multicenter, randomized clinical trial comparing 24 months of standard 
treatment (monthly blood transfusions) to alternative treatment (hydroxycarbamide) in 121 children 
aged 4-16 years with Sickle Cell Disease and abnormal TCD velocities (≥ 200 cm/s) who had received 
at least 12 months of chronic transfusions and did not have severe vasculopathy, documented clinical 
stroke, or transient ischaemic attack.. The primary objective of this study was to examine if 
hydroxycarbamide could maintain TCD velocities after an initial period of transfusions as effectively 
as chronic blood transfusions. 
Subjects assigned to standard treatment (n = 61) continued to receive monthly blood transfusions to 
maintain 30% HbS or lower, while those assigned to the alternative treatment (n = 60), after having 
received blood transfusions for a mean duration of 4.5 years (±2.8), started oral hydroxycarbamide at 
20 mg/kg/day, which was escalated to each participant’s maximum tolerated dose. This study used a 
non-inferiority trial design with a primary endpoint of TCD velocity at 24 months, controlling for 
baseline (enrollment) values. The non-inferiority margin was 15 cm/s. At the first scheduled interim 
analysis, non-inferiority was shown and the sponsor terminated the study. Final model-based TCD 
velocities were 143 cm/s (95% CI 140-146) in children who received standard transfusions and 
138 cm/s (95% CI 135-142) in those who received hydroxycarbamide, with a difference of 4.54 cm/s 
(95% CI 0.10-8.98). Non-inferiority (p = 8.82×10-16) and post-hoc superiority (p = 0.023) were met. 
There was no difference in life-threatening neurological events between the treatment groups. Iron 
overload improved more in the hydroxycarbamide than the transfusion arm, with a greater average 
change in serum ferritin (–1805 versus –38 ng/mL; p < 0.0001) and liver iron concentration (average 
= –1.9 mg/g versus +2.4 mg/g dry weight liver; p = 0.0011). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
After oral administration hydroxycarbamide is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Peak 
plasma concentrations are reached within 2 hours and by 24 hours the serum concentrations are 
virtually zero. Bioavailability is complete or nearly complete in cancer patients. 
In a comparative bioavailability study in healthy adult volunteers (n=28), 500 mg of 
hydroxycarbamide oral solution was demonstrated to be bioequivalent to the reference 500 mg 
capsule, with respect to both the peak concentration and area under the curve. There was a statistically 
significant reduction in time to peak concentration with hydroxycarbamide oral solution compared to 
the reference 500 mg capsule (0.5 versus 0.75 hours, p = 0.0467), indicating a faster rate of absorption. 
In a study of children with Sickle Cell Disease, liquid and capsule formulations resulted in similar area 
under the curve, peak concentrations, and half-life. The largest difference in the pharmacokinetic 
profile was a trend towards a shorter time to peak concentration following ingestion of the liquid 
compared with the capsule, but that difference did not reach statistical significance (0.74 versus 
0.97 hours, p = 0.14). 
Distribution 
Hydroxycarbamide distributes rapidly throughout the human body, enters the cerebrospinal fluid, 
appears in peritoneal fluid and ascites, and concentrates in leukocytes and erythrocytes. The estimated 
volume of distribution of hydroxycarbamide approximates total body water. The volume of 
distribution following oral dosing of hydroxycarbamide is approximately equal to total body water: 
adult values of 0.48 – 0.90 L/kg have been reported, whilst in children a population estimate of 
0.7 L/kg has been reported. The extent of protein binding of hydroxycarbamide is unknown. 
Biotransformation 
It appears that nitroxyl, the corresponding carboxylic acid and nitric oxide are metabolites: Urea has 
also been shown to be a metabolite of hydroxycarbamide. Hydroxycarbamide at 30, 100 and 300 µM 
is not metabolised in vitro by cytochrome P450s of human liver microsomes. At concentrations 
ranging from 10 to 300 µM, hydroxycarbamide does not stimulate the in vitro ATPase activity of 
recombinant human P glycoprotein (P-gp), indicating that hydroxycarbamide is not a P-gp substrate. 
Hence, no interaction is to be expected in case of concomitant administration with substances being 
substrates of cytochromes P450 or P-gp. 
Elimination 
The total body clearance of hydroxycarbamide in adult patients with Sickle Cell Disease is 
0.17 L/h/kg. 
The respective value in children was similar, 0.22 L/h/kg. 
A significant fraction of hydroxycarbamide is eliminated by nonrenal (mainly hepatic) mechanisms. In 
adults, the urinary recovery of unchanged drug is reported to be approximately 37% of the oral dose 
when renal function is normal. In children, the fraction of hydroxycarbamide excreted unchanged into 
the urine comprised about 50%. 
In adult cancer patients, hydroxycarbamide was eliminated with a half-life of approximately 2-3 hours. 
In a single dose study in children with Sickle Cell Disease, the mean half-life was reported to be 
1.7 hours. 
Elderly 
Although there is no evidence of an age effect on the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic relationship, 
elderly patients may be more sensitive to the effects of hydroxycarbamide and therefore consideration 
should be given to starting with a lower initial dose and more cautious dose escalation. Close 
monitoring of blood parameters is advised (see section 4.2). 
Renal impairment 
As renal excretion is a pathway of elimination, consideration should be given to decreasing the dose of 
hydroxycarbamide in patients with renal impairment. In an open single-dose study in adult patients 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with Sickle Cell Disease the influence of renal function on pharmacokinetics of hydroxycarbamide 
was assessed. Patients with normal (CrCl> 90 ml/min), mild (CrCl 60-89 ml/min), moderate 
(CrCl 30- 59 ml/min), severe (CrCl 15-29 ml/min) renal impairment, and End Stage Renal Disease 
(CrCL < 15 ml/min) received hydroxycarbamide as a single dose of 15 mg/kg body weight. In 
patients, whose CrCl was below 60 ml/min or patients with End Stage Renal Disease the mean 
exposure to hydroxycarbamide was approximately 64% higher than in patients with normal renal 
function. 
It is recommended that the starting dose is reduced by 50% in patients with CrCl <60 ml/min (see 
sections 4.2 and 4.3). 
Close monitoring of blood parameters is advised in these patients. 
Hepatic impairment 
There are no data that support specific guidance for dose adjustment in patients with hepatic 
impairment, but, due to safety considerations, hydroxycarbamide is contraindicated in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.3). Close monitoring of blood parameters is advised in 
patients with hepatic impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Preclinical toxicity studies have demonstrated the most commonly observed effects include bone 
marrow depression in rats, dogs and monkeys. In some species cardiovascular and haematological 
effects have also been observed. Observations in monkeys have also shown lymphoid atrophy and 
degeneration of the small and large intestine. Toxicology studies have also demonstrated testicular 
atrophy with decreased spermatogenesis and sperm count in rats and decreased testis weight and 
reduced sperm counts in mice as well. While in dogs reversible spermatogenic arrest was noted. 
Hydroxycarbamide is unequivocally genotoxic and although conventional long-term carcinogenicity 
studies have not been conducted, hydroxycarbamide is presumed to be a transspecies carcinogen 
which implies a carcinogenic risk to humans. 
Hydroxycarbamide crosses the placental barrier, demonstrated by dams exposed to hydroxycarbamide 
during gestation. Embryotoxicity manifesting as decreased foetal viability, reduced live litter sizes, 
and developmental delays has been reported in species including mice, hamsters, cats, dogs, and 
monkeys at doses comparable to human doses. Teratogenic effects manifested as partially ossified 
cranial bones, absence of eye sockets, hydrocephaly, bipartite sternebrae, and missing lumbar 
vertebrae. 
Hydroxycarbamide administered to male rats at 60 mg/kg body weight/day (about double the 
recommended usual maximum dose in humans) produced testicular atrophy, decreased 
spermatogenesis and significantly reduced their ability to impregnate females. 
Overall, exposure to hydroxycarbamide produces abnormalities in several experimental animal species 
and affects the reproductive capacity of male and female animals. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Xanthan gum (E415) 
Sucralose (E955) 
Strawberry flavour 
Methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) 
Sodium hydroxide (E524) 
Purified water 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
After first opening: 12 weeks. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C). 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Amber type III glass bottle with tamper evident child-resistant closure (HDPE with expanded 
polyethylene liner) containing 150 ml of oral solution. 
Each pack contains one bottle, an LDPE bottle adaptor and 2  dosing syringes (a syringe graduated to 
3 ml and a syringe graduated to 10 ml). 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Safe handling 
Anyone handling hydroxycarbamide should wash their hands before and after administering a dose. 
To decrease the risk of exposure, parents and care givers should wear disposable gloves when 
handling hydroxycarbamide. To minimise air bubbles, the bottle should not be shaken prior to dosing. 
Hydroxycarbamide contact with skin or mucous membrane must be avoided. If hydroxycarbamide 
comes into contact with skin or mucosa, it should be washed immediately and thoroughly with soap 
and water. Spillages must be wiped immediately. 
Women who are pregnant, planning to be or breast-feeding should not handle hydroxycarbamide. 
Parents / care givers and patients should be advised to keep hydroxycarbamide out of the sight and 
reach of children. Accidental ingestion can be lethal for children. 
Keep the bottle tightly closed to protect the integrity of the product and minimise the risk of accidental 
spillage. 
Syringes should be rinsed and washed with cold or warm water and dried completely before the next 
use. Store syringes in a hygienic place with the medicine. 
Disposal 
Hydroxycarbamide is cytotoxic. Any unused product or waste material should be disposed of in 
accordance with local requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1366/001 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 01 July 2019  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this product is available on the website of the European Medicines Agency 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Pronav Clinical Ltd.  
Unit 5  
Dublin Road Business Park  
Carraroe, Sligo  
F91 D439  
Ireland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Xromi in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must 
agree about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, 
distribution modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent 
Authority. 
The educational programme is aimed to ensure the safe and effective use of the product, to minimise 
the risks listed below and to reduce the burden of adverse reactions with Xromi. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Xromi is marketed, all healthcare 
professionals and patients/carers who are expected to prescribe and use Xromi have access to/are 
provided with the following educational package to be disseminated through professional bodies: 
• 
Physician educational material 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Patient information pack 
The physician educational material should contain: 
The Summary of Product Characteristics 
• 
Guide for healthcare professionals 
• 
- 
The Guide for healthcare professionals shall contain the following key elements: 
- 
- 
Indication, dosage and dose adjustment; 
Description of safe handling of Xromi, including the risk of medication error due to the use of 
two different dosing syringes; 
Warnings about important risks associated with using Xromi: 
o 
o 
o 
o  Management of adverse drug reactions;  
Switching patients from capsule and tablet to liquid formulation; 
Need for contraception;  
Risk to male and female fertility, potential risk to foetus and breast feeding; 
The patient information pack should contain: 
• 
• 
Patient information leaflet 
A patient/carer guide 
The Patient/carer guide shall contain the following key elements: 
- 
- 
Indication; 
Instructions for proper and safe use of the product, including clear instructions on the use of two 
different dosing syringes to avoid the risk of medication error; 
o 
o 
Need for contraception; 
Risk to male and female fertility, potential risk to foetus and breast feeding  
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xromi 100 mg/ml oral solution 
hydroxycarbamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of solution contains 100 mg hydroxycarbamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution. 
Bottle 
Bottle adaptor 
3 ml and 10 ml dosing syringes. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Take as directed by your doctor using the dosing syringes provided. 
Do not shake the bottle. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: Handle with caution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Discard 12 weeks after first opening. 
Open date:  
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused product waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/19/1366/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER< 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Xromi 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Xromi 100 mg/ml oral solution 
hydroxycarbamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One ml of solution contains 100 mg hydroxycarbamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218). See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral solution 
150 ml. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
Take as directed by your doctor using the dosing syringes provided. 
Do not shake. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Cytotoxic: Handle with caution. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP: 
Discard 12 weeks after first opening. 
Open date:  
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Any unused product should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/19/1366/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot: 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Xromi 100 mg/ml oral solution 
hydroxycarbamide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Xromi is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xromi 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Xromi 
Possible side effects  
How to store Xromi 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Xromi is and what it is used for 
Xromi contains hydroxycarbamide, a substance which reduces the growth and multiplication of some 
cells in the bone marrow. These effects lead to a reduction of circulating red, white and coagulation 
blood cells. In Sickle Cell Disease, hydroxycarbamide also helps to prevent red blood cells from 
taking the abnormal sickle shape. 
Sickle Cell disease is an inherited blood disorder that affects the disc shaped red cells of the blood. 
Some cells become abnormal, rigid and take a crescent or sickle shape which leads to anaemia. 
The sickle cells also get stuck in blood vessels, blocking blood flow. This can cause acute pain crises 
and organ damage. 
Xromi is used to prevent the complications of blocked blood vessels caused by Sickle Cell Disease in 
patients over 2 years of age. Xromi will decrease the number of painful crises as well as the need for 
hospitalisation as a result of the disease. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Xromi 
Do not take Xromi 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to hydroxycarbamide or any of the other ingredients of Xromi (listed in 
section 6). 
if you suffer from severe liver disease 
if you suffer from severe kidney disease 
if you have decreased production of red, white, or coagulating blood cells (‘myelosuppressed’) 
as described in section 3 “How to take Xromi, Treatment follow-up” 
if you are pregnant or breast-feeding (see section “Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility”). 
if you take antiretroviral medicines for the treatment of Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV), 
the virus which causes AIDS 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions  
Test and checks 
Your doctor will run blood tests: 
- 
- 
- 
to check your blood count before and during treatment with Xromi 
to monitor your liver before and during treatment with Xromi 
to monitor your kidneys before and during treatment with Xromi 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Xromi 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have extreme tiredness, weakness and shortness of breath, which may be symptoms of a 
lack of red blood cells (anaemia). 
if you have bleeding or bruise easily, which may be symptoms of low levels of cells in the blood 
known as platelets. 
if you have a liver disease (additional monitoring may be needed) 
if you have a kidney disease (the dose may be adjusted) 
if you have leg ulcers 
if you have a known lack of vitamin B12 or folate 
If you are not sure if any of the above applies to you, talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking 
Xromi. 
Skin cancer has been reported in patients receiving long term hydroxycarbamide. You should protect 
your skin from the sun and regularly inspect your skin yourself during the treatment and after 
discontinuation of the therapy with hydroxycarbamide. Your doctor will also inspect your skin during 
routine follow-up visits. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children from birth to 2 years of age because it is unlikely to be safe. 
Other medicines and Xromi 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor, nurse or pharmacist if you are taking any of the following: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
other myelosuppressive medicines (those that decrease production of red, white, or coagulating 
blood cells) 
radiation therapy or chemotherapy 
any medicines for cancer treatment, especially interferon therapy - when used with Xromi there 
is a greater chance of side effects, such as anaemia 
antiretroviral medicines (those that inhibit or destroy a retrovirus such as HIV), e.g. didanosine, 
stavudine, and indinavir (a drop in your white cell count may occur) 
live vaccines, e.g. measles, mumps, rubella (MMR), chicken pox 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
Do not take Xromi if you are planning to have a baby without first speaking to your doctor for advice. 
This applies to both men and women. Xromi may harm your sperm or eggs. 
Xromi must not be used during pregnancy. Xromi should be stopped 3 to 6 months prior to becoming 
pregnant, if possible. 
Please contact your doctor immediately if you think you may be pregnant. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of effective contraception is strongly recommended for both male and female patients. 
For male patients taking Xromi, if your partner becomes pregnant or plans to become pregnant, your 
doctor will discuss with you the potential benefits and risks of continuing using Xromi. 
Hydroxycarbamide, the active substance of Xromi, passes into human breast milk. Do not breastfeed 
while taking Xromi. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
Driving and using machines 
Xromi can make you feel drowsy. You should not drive or operate any machinery unless it has been 
shown not to affect you and you have discussed it with your doctor. 
Xromi contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) 
Xromi contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) which may cause allergic reactions (possibly 
delayed). 
3. 
How to take Xromi 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
Xromi should only be given to you by a specialist doctor who is experienced in treating blood 
problems. 
- 
- 
- 
When you take Xromi your doctor will take regular blood tests. This is to check the number and 
type of cells in your blood and to check your liver and kidney. 
Depending on the dose you take, these tests may be performed initially once a month and then 
every 2-3 months. 
Depending on these results your doctor may change your dose of Xromi. 
Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. The usual starting dose for adults, 
adolescents and children over the age of 2 years is 15 mg/kg each day and the usual maintenance dose 
is between 20-25 mg/kg. Your doctor will prescribe the correct dose for you. Sometimes the doctor 
may change your dose of Xromi, for example as a result of different tests. If you are not sure how 
much medicine to take, always ask your doctor or nurse. 
Xromi with food and drink 
You can take this medicine with or after meals at any time of the day. However, the choice of method 
and time of day should be consistent from day to day. 
Use in elderly 
You may be more sensitive to the effects of Xromi and your doctor may need to give you a lower 
dose. 
If you have kidney disease 
Your doctor may need to give you a lower dose. 
You should not take Xromi if you have severe kidney disease. 
Handling 
Your pack of Xromi contains a bottle of medicine, a cap, a bottle adaptor and two dosing syringes (a 
3 ml and a 10 ml syringe). Always use the syringes provided to take your medicine. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is important that you use the correct dosing syringe for your medicine. Your doctor or pharmacist 
will advise which syringe to use depending on the dose that has been prescribed. 
The smaller 3 ml syringe, marked from 0.5 ml to 3 ml, is for measuring doses of less than or equal to 
3 ml. You should use this one if the total amount you have to take is less than or equal to 3 ml (each 
graduation of 0.1 ml contains 10 mg of hydroxycarbamide). 
The larger 10 ml syringe, marked from 1 ml to 10 ml, is for measuring doses of more than 3 ml. 
You should use this one if the total amount you have to take is more than 3 ml (each graduation of 
0.5 ml contains 50 mg of hydroxycarbamide). 
If you are a parent or care giver administering the medicine, wash your hands before and after 
administering a dose. Wipe up spillages immediately. To decrease the risk of exposure disposable 
gloves should be used when handling Xromi. To minimise air bubbles, do not shake the bottle before 
administering a dose. 
If Xromi comes into contact with skin, eyes or nose, it should be washed immediately and thoroughly 
with soap and water. 
When you use the medicine follow the instructions below: 
1. 
2. 
3. 
Put on disposable hand gloves before handling Xromi. 
Remove the bottle cap (figure 1) and push the adaptor firmly into the top of the bottle and leave 
in place for future doses (figure 2). 
Push the tip of the dosing syringe into the hole in the adaptor (figure 3). Your doctor or 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
pharmacist will advise you of the correct syringe to use, either the 3 ml or the 10 ml 
syringe in order to give the correct dose. 
Turn the bottle upside down (figure 4). 
Pull the plunger of the syringe back so that the medicine is drawn from the bottle into the 
syringe. Pull the plunger back to the point on the scale that corresponds to the dose prescribed 
(figure 4). If you are not sure about how much medicine to draw into the syringe, always ask 
your doctor or nurse for advice. 
Turn the bottle back the right way up and carefully remove the syringe from the adaptor, 
holding it by the barrel rather than the plunger. 
Gently put the tip of the syringe into your mouth and to the inside of your cheek. 
Slowly and gently push the plunger down to gently squirt the medicine into the inside of your 
cheek and swallow it. DO NOT forcefully push down the plunger, or squirt the medicine to the 
back of your mouth or throat, as you may choke. 
Remove the syringe from your mouth. 
9. 
10.  Swallow the dose of oral solution then drink some water, making sure no medicine is left in 
your mouth. 
11.  Put the cap back on the bottle with the adaptor left in place. Ensure that the cap is tightly closed. 
12.  Wash the syringe with cold or warm tap water and rinse well. Hold the syringe under water and 
move the plunger up and down several times to make sure the inside of the syringe is clean. Let 
the syringe dry completely before you use that syringe again for dosing. Store the syringe in a 
hygienic place with the medicine. 
Repeat the above for each dose as instructed by your doctor or pharmacist. 
If you take more Xromi than you should 
If you take more Xromi than you should, tell your doctor or go to a hospital immediately. Take the 
medicine pack and this leaflet with you. The most common symptoms of overdose with Xromi are: 
- 
- 
Redness of the skin, 
Soreness (touch is painful) and swelling of the palms of hands and soles of feet followed by the 
hands and feet becoming scaly, 
Skin becoming strongly pigmented (locally changes of colour), 
Soreness or swelling in the mouth. 
- 
- 
If you forget to take Xromi 
Tell your doctor. Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Xromi 
Do not stop taking your medicine unless advised by your doctor. If you have any further questions on 
the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
If you get any of the following side effects, talk to your doctor or go to hospital immediately: 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
- 
A severe infection 
Fever or chills 
Tiredness and/or looking pale 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
Unexplained bruising (accumulation of blood under the skin) or bleeding 
Sore (open skin infection) on your skin 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
- 
Any yellowing of the whites of the eyes or skin (jaundice) 
Rare: may affect up to 1 in 1000 people 
- 
Ulcers or wounds on your legs 
Very rare: may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people 
- 
Inflammation of the skin causing red scaly patches and possibly occurring together with pain in 
the joints 
Other side effects which are not mentioned above are listed below. Speak to your doctor if you 
are concerned by any of these side effects. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
- 
Absence or low amount of sperm in the semen (azoospermia or oligospermia). 
Common: may affect up to 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Nausea 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Constipation 
Darkening of the skin, nails and mouth 
Dry skin 
Hair loss 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in 100 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Itching red eruption of the skin (rash) 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Inflammation or ulceration of the mouth 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Other side effects (the frequency is unknown) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Isolated cases of malignant disease of blood cells (leukaemia) 
Skin cancers in elderly patients 
Stomach pain or heartburn 
Gastrointestinal ulcer 
Fever 
Absence of menstrual cycles (amenorrhoea) 
Weight gain 
Low Vitamin D level in blood test 
Low magnesium level in blood test 
Bleeding 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Xromi 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. Accidental ingestion can be lethal for 
children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the bottle after 
‘EXP’. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
After first opening of the bottle, discard any unused contents after 12 weeks. 
Store in a refrigerator (2 °C – 8 °C) 
Keep the bottle tightly closed to prevent spoilage of the medicine and reduce the risk of 
accidental spillage. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Xromi contains 
The active substance is hydroxycarbamide. One ml of solution contains 100 mg of hydroxycarbamide. 
The other ingredients are xanthan gum, sucralose (E955), strawberry flavour, methyl 
parahydroxybenzoate (E218), sodium hydroxide, and purified water. See section 2 “Xromi contains 
methyl parahydroxybenzoate”. 
What Xromi looks like and contents of the pack 
Xromi is a clear, colourless to pale yellow, oral solution. It comes in glass bottles of 150 ml capped 
with a child-resistant closure. Each pack contains one bottle, a bottle adaptor and two dosing syringes 
(a syringe graduated to 3 ml and a syringe graduated to 10 ml). 
Your doctor or pharmacist will advise which syringe to use depending on the dose that has been 
prescribed 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Nova Laboratories Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor 
Ulysses House 
Foley Street, Dublin 1 
D01 W2T2 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Pronav Clinical Ltd.  
Unit 5  
Dublin Road Business Park  
Carraroe, Sligo  
F91 D439  
Ireland 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:  
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
34 
 
 
