EMA/244342/2019 
EMEA/H/C/004837 
Xromi (hydroxycarbamide) 
An overview of Xromi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Xromi and what is it used for? 
Xromi is a medicine used in adults, adolescents and children over two years of age who have sickle cell 
disease, a genetic disease where the red blood cells become rigid and sticky, and change from being 
disc-shaped to being crescent-shaped (like a sickle). Xromi is used to prevent so-called vaso-occlusive 
complications – problems that happen when blood vessels become blocked by the abnormal red blood
cells, restricting the flow of blood to parts of the body. 
Xromi is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the same 
active substance, but is given as a liquid to be swallowed rather than as capsules and is authorised for 
different uses. The reference medicine for Xromi is Hydrea. 
The active substance in Xromi is hydroxycarbamide. 
How is Xromi used? 
Xromi is available as a liquid to be swallowed containing hydroxycarbamide 100 mg/mL, and doses are 
based on the patient’s body weight. Patients are usually started at a daily dose of 15 mg for each kg of 
body weight, and increased if necessary every 8 weeks to a maximum of 35 mg per kg. The medicine 
is supplied with two oral syringes for measuring the dose, a smaller red one for measuring doses up to 
a total of 300 mg (3 mL of liquid), and a larger white one for use if doses are bigger than this. Patients 
should drink water after a dose of Xromi to ensure the full dose reaches the stomach.  
Xromi can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment must be supervised by a healthcare 
professional experienced in the management of sickle cell disease. For more information about using 
Xromi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Xromi work? 
The active substance in Xromi, hydroxycarbamide, blocks the growth and reproduction of some cells, 
such as blood cells. Although the way that it works in this disease is not fully understood, 
hydroxycarbamide can reduce the numbers of cells that are circulating in the blood, as well as prevent 
red blood cells changing shape in patients with sickle cell disease. This reduces the risk of blood 
vessels becoming blocked. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union  
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
Hydroxycarbamide, which used to be known as hydroxyurea, has been used for many years to treat 
sickle cell disease, and has been authorised in EU countries for several decades as Hydrea for use in 
some types of cancer. 
What benefits of Xromi have been shown in studies? 
Because hydroxycarbamide is a well-established substance that has been used for many years in the 
EU the company provided information from the published literature on the benefits and risks of 
hydroxycarbamide in its approved uses. This included information from 4 main studies in sickle cell 
disease, including 3 studies involving 384 adults and children in whom hydroxycarbamide was shown 
to substantially reduce the risk of severe, painful blockages of blood supply (called vaso-occlusive 
crises) compared with a dummy treatment, and a fourth study involving 121 children that showed 
hydroxycarbamide to be at least as effective as standard treatment using blood transfusions in 
reducing blood vessel damage in the brain and the risk of stroke.  
The company also provided information from a variety of supportive studies. As for every medicine, 
this included studies showing that the medicine was of acceptable quality. It also carried out a study 
that showed Xromi is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Hydrea. Two medicines are 
bioequivalent when they produce the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the risks associated with Xromi? 
The most common side effects with Xromi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are bone 
marrow suppression (reduced ability to produce blood cells) and reduced fertility in men due to 
oligospermia (low sperm counts) or azoospermia (absence of sperm). For the full list of side effects of 
Xromi, see the package leaflet. 
Xromi must not be used in people who have severe problems with their kidneys or liver, or who have 
dangerously low blood cell counts. It must not be used in pregnancy, and breast-feeding must be 
stopped while taking the medicine. Xromi must also not be used in patients taking medicines to treat 
HIV infection. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Xromi authorised in the EU? 
The company provided updated information showing the benefits of hydroxcarbamide in preventing 
complications of sickle cell disease in patients over 2 years of age. The safety issues with 
hydroxycarbamide are well understood, and Xromi has been shown to be bioequivalent to an 
authorised hydroxycarbamide medicine. Therefore the European Medicines Agency decided that 
Xromi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xromi? 
The company that markets Xromi will put in place an educational programme for doctors and patients 
about the correct use of the medicine and preventing harm, including guidance on use of the 
appropriate syringe for dosing and the need for regular blood testing. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Xromi have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Xromi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Xromi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Xromi (hydroxycarbamide)  
EMA/244342/2019 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Xromi 
Xromi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 01 July 2019. 
Further information on Xromi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/xromi . 
This overview was last updated in 06-2019. 
Xromi (hydroxycarbamide)  
EMA/244342/2019 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
