EMA/186470/2021  
EMEA/H/C/002639 
Xtandi (enzalutamide) 
An overview of Xtandi and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Xtandi and what is it used for? 
Xtandi is a cancer medicine used to treat men with prostate cancer.  
It can be used together with hormone therapy (treatment to lower production of testosterone) when 
the cancer is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body) and is hormone sensitive (a cancer 
that depends on a hormone, such as testosterone, to grow). 
It is also used when metastatic cancer is castration resistant (worsens despite treatment to lower 
production of testosterone or after surgical removal of the testes) and when either: 
• 
treatment with docetaxel (a cancer medicine) has not worked or no longer works; or 
•  hormone therapy has not worked, and the patient has either no symptoms or mild symptoms and 
does not yet require chemotherapy (another type of cancer treatment). 
Xtandi can also be used for castration-resistant prostate cancer that is not metastatic (has not yet 
spread) but is at high risk of doing so. 
The medicine contains the active substance enzalutamide.  
How is Xtandi used? 
Treatment with Xtandi should be started and monitored by a doctor who has experience in treating 
prostate cancer. 
Xtandi is available as capsules (40 mg) and tablets (40 and 80 mg) and can only be obtained with a 
prescription. The usual dose is 160 mg once a day, at about the same time each day. The doctor may 
reduce the dose or interrupt treatment if a patient gets certain side effects. 
For more information about using Xtandi, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Xtandi work? 
The active substance in Xtandi, enzalutamide, works by blocking the action of the male hormone 
testosterone and other male hormones known as androgens. Enzalutamide does this by blocking the 
receptors to which these hormones attach. Because prostate cancer needs testosterone and other male 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
hormones to survive and grow, by blocking the effects of these hormones, enzalutamide slows down 
the growth of the prostate cancer. 
What benefits of Xtandi have been shown in studies? 
Metastatic prostate cancer 
Xtandi has been compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in a main study involving 1,199 patients 
with metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer who were previously treated with docetaxel. In 
this study, Xtandi was more effective than placebo at prolonging patients’ lives: on average, patients 
treated with Xtandi lived for 18 months, compared with 14 months for patients given placebo. 
Xtandi has also been compared with placebo in a second main study involving 1,717 patients with 
metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer in whom hormone therapy had failed, but who had no 
symptoms or mild symptoms and had not previously been treated with chemotherapy. The average 
survival of patients treated with Xtandi was around 32 months compared with 30 months for patients 
given placebo. In addition, patients treated with Xtandi lived for longer without their disease showing 
signs of worsening in a radiographic scan: 20 months compared with 5 months for patients treated 
with placebo. 
A third main study showed that Xtandi was more effective than placebo in 1,150 patients with 
hormone-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer who either also received hormone therapy to lower 
testosterone or had their testes surgically removed. The disease got worse more slowly in patients 
taking Xtandi compared with those given placebo. The average period before the disease got worse in 
those given placebo was 19 months but the average for those taking Xtandi could not be calculated 
because the disease had not got worse in many patients during the follow up period. 
Non-metastatic prostate cancer 
Xtandi has been compared with placebo in a study involving 1,401 patients with castration-resistant 
prostate cancer at high risk of becoming metastatic. Patients treated with Xtandi lived for an average 
of 37 months without their disease becoming metastatic compared with 15 months on placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Xtandi? 
The most common side effects with Xtandi (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are weakness, 
tiredness, falls, fractures (broken bones), hot flushes and hypertension (high blood pressure). Other 
important side effects include cognitive disorder (problems with thinking, learning and memory), and 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cells). In addition, seizures (fits) can occur 
in around 4 patients in 1,000. For the full list of side effects with Xtandi, see the package leaflet. 
Xtandi is not for use in women and must not be given to women who are or who may be pregnant. For 
the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Xtandi authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency considered that the anticancer effects of Xtandi had been clearly 
demonstrated and that its benefit in prolonging life for patients with metastatic disease is important for 
patients. Xtandi has also been shown to delay the development of metastatic disease. Regarding its 
safety, the side effects with Xtandi were generally mild and could be managed appropriately.  
Xtandi (enzalutamide)  
EMA/186470/2021  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
The Agency therefore concluded that Xtandi’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xtandi? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Xtandi have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Xtandi are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Xtandi are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Xtandi 
Xtandi received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 21 June 2013.  
Further information on Xtandi can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Xtandi.  
This overview was last updated in 04-2021.  
Xtandi (enzalutamide)  
EMA/186470/2021  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
