24 July 2014 
EMA/CHMP/369341/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Xultophy  
International non-proprietary name: insulin degludec / liraglutide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002647/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2014. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ......................................................................... 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier .................................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Manufacturers .................................................................................................................... 5 
1.3. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ........................................................................................................... 6 
2.1. Introduction ....................................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................................. 8 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................................... 14 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................................ 18 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................................ 23 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................................. 67 
2.7. Additional expert consultations ........................................................................................... 79 
2.8. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................................ 81 
2.9. Risk Management Plan ...................................................................................................... 81 
2.10. Product information ........................................................................................................ 85 
3. Benefit-Risk Balance ........................................................................................................ 85 
4. Recommendations............................................................................................................ 89 
2 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADA 
ALAT 
American Diabetes Association 
alanine aminotransferase 
ANCOVA 
analysis of covariance 
ASAT 
BMI 
BNP 
CAS 
aspartate aminotransferase  
body mass index 
brain natriuretic peptide  
completers analysis set 
C. Hypo  
confirmed hypoglycaemia 
CGM 
continuous glucose monitoring 
DPP-4   
dipeptidyl peptidase 4 
E 
EOT 
ext 
FAS 
FPG 
GI 
glin 
number of events 
end of text 
extension (Trial 3697, 52 weeks) 
full analysis set  
fasting plasma glucose 
gastrointestinal  
glinide 
GLP-1   
HbA1c   
HDL  
glucagon-like peptide-1 
glycosylated haemoglobin 
high density lipoprotein 
hsCRP   
highly sensitive C-reactive protein  
iAUC 
IDeg 
incremental area under curve 
insulin degludec 
IDegLira 
insulin degludec/liraglutide 
IDF 
LDL 
Lira 
LOCF 
met 
OAD 
pio 
PYE 
R 
s.c. 
SMPG 
SU 
T1DM 
T2DM 
U 
UNR 
VLDL 
International Diabetes Federation 
low density lipoprotein 
liraglutide 
last observation carried forward 
metformin 
oral anti-diabetic drug 
pioglitazone 
patient-years of exposure 
event rate 
subcutaneous(ly) 
self-measured plasma glucose 
sulphonylurea 
type 1 diabetes mellitus 
type 2 diabetes mellitus 
unit 
upper normal range 
very low density lipoprotein 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Novo Nordisk A/S submitted on 31 May 2013 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Xultophy, through the centralised procedure falling within the 
Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 .  
The applicant applied for the following indication: 
Xultophy  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  adults  with  type  2  diabetes  mellitus  to  achieve  glycaemic 
control in combination with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products when these alone or combined with 
basal insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 for available data on 
the different combinations). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(b) of Directive 2001/83/EC – relating to applications for new fixed combination products. 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-clinical 
and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or  bibliographic  literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/310/2011 on the granting of a (product-specific) waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000 and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
847/2000, the applicant did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with authorised 
orphan  medicinal  products  because  there  is  no  authorised  orphan  medicinal  product  for  a  condition 
related to the proposed indication. 
Scientific Advice 
The  applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  in  September  2010.  The  Scientific  Advice 
pertained to non-clinical, clinical and device development of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
4 
 
 
 
1.2.  Manufacturers 
Manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Novo Nordisk A/S 
Novo Allé, Bagsværd, 2880, Denmark 
1.3.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Kristina Dunder 
Co-Rapporteur:  Robert James Hemmings 
•  The application was received by the EMA on 31 May 2013. 
•  The procedure started on 26 June 2013.  
•  The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 13 September 
2013.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13 
September 2013.  
•  During the meeting on 24 October 2013, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 24 
October 2013. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16 January 
2014. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 21 February 2014. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 20 March 2014, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 15 May 2014. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 3 June 2014. 
•  During the CHMP meeting on 24 June 2014, outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant 
during an oral explanation before the CHMP. 
•  The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of outstanding Issues on 2 July 2014. 
•  The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 9 July 2014. 
•  During the meeting on 24 July 2014, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to Xultophy.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Several large and comprehensive diabetes outcome studies have clearly demonstrated the importance of 
tight glycaemic control in order to avoid comorbidities, but the majority of subjects with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus  (T2DM)  nevertheless  fail  to  meet  the  recommended  levels  of  glycaemic  control  required  to 
reduce long-term microvascular and macrovascular complications. 
With progressing disease, patients become insulin deficient and thus require insulin therapy to obtain 
adequate glycaemic control. With insulin treatment, hypoglycaemia and the fear of hypoglycaemia are 
major  limiting  factors  for  achieving  target  levels  of  glucose  control  and  are  also  barriers  for  timely 
initiation of insulin. The tendency towards weight gain with insulin treatment is an additional potential 
treatment barrier in patients with T2DM. When considering treatment modalities for the management of 
T2DM it is furthermore important to bear in mind that T2DM is a multi-organ disease, which in addition to 
peripheral  insulin  resistance  and  progressing  relative  insulin  deficiency  is  characterised  by  defective 
secretion  and/or  action  of  incretin  hormones  including  glucagon-like  peptide-1  (GLP-1).  Optimal 
glycaemic control therefore relies on a multi-faceted treatment approach, which often cannot be achieved 
by insulin treatment alone. 
The  combination  product  insulin  degludec/liraglutide  (IDegLira)  was  being  developed  to  provide  the 
combined  benefits  of  insulin  degludec  (a  long-acting  basal  insulin)  and  liraglutide  (a  GLP-1  receptor 
agonist) in a single daily injection. It was anticipated that the complementary modes of action of these 
two compounds would result in clinically important improvements in glycaemic control at a low risk of 
hypoglycaemia and weight gain in patients with T2DM. In addition, the convenience of administering both 
components in a single daily injection is expected to facilitate treatment compliance for patients. 
Liraglutide 
Liraglutide is a GLP-1 analogue with 97% sequence homology to human GLP-1. Liraglutide is the active 
substance  of  Victoza  (EMEA/H/C/001026),  licensed  on  30/6/09.  The  GLP-1  receptor  is  the  target  for 
native GLP-1, an endogenous incretin hormone that potentiates glucose-dependent insulin secretion from 
the  pancreatic  beta  cells.  Unlike  native  GLP-1,  liraglutide  has  a  profile  suitable  for  once  daily 
administration.  Liraglutide  stimulates  insulin  secretion  and  lowers  inappropriately  high  glucagon 
secretion,  in  a  glucose-dependent  manner.  Thus,  when  blood  glucose  is  high,  insulin  secretion  is 
stimulated and glucagon secretion is inhibited. Conversely, during hypoglycaemia liraglutide diminishes 
insulin secretion and does not impair glucagon secretion. The mechanism of blood glucose lowering also 
involves a delay in gastric emptying, and a modest reduction in body weight and body fat mass. 
Insulin degludec 
Insulin  degludec  is  long-acting  (basal)  insulin  given  once  daily,  and  the  active  substance  of  Tresiba 
(EMEA/H/C/0024980) licensed on 21/1/13.   It binds specifically to the human insulin receptor and results 
in the same pharmacological effects as human insulin. The blood glucose-lowering effect of insulin is due 
to the facilitated uptake of glucose following the binding of insulin to receptors on muscle and fat cells and 
to the simultaneous inhibition of glucose output from the liver. 
Insulin degludec/liraglutide (Xultophy) 
6 
 
 
Xultophy is a combination of liraglutide and insulin degludec.  It is presented in a single-chamber 3 ml 
pre-filled pen containing insulin degludec 100 units per mL and liraglutide 3.6 mg per mL, to which a 
disposable subcutaneous needle should be attached. As the dose of Xultophy is increased or decreased, 
the ratio between the doses of the two components does not change.   
The combination of 2 parenteral products in this way is entirely novel in the treatment of diabetes.  
Proposed  indication and posology 
The proposed indication was as follows 
Xultophy is indicated for the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus to achieve glycaemic control 
in combination with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products when these alone or combined with basal 
insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 for available data on the 
different combinations). 
Proposed posology 
Exactly as the 2 component products, the route of administration is subcutaneous injection, administered 
once daily at any time of the day, preferably at the same time of the day. 
Xultophy is to be initiated and titrated according to glycaemic control (FPG levels).  The dosing unit of 
Xultophy is defined as a “dose step”. One dose step contains 1 unit of insulin degludec and 0.036 mg of 
liraglutide.  The  pre-filled  pen  provides  up  to  50  dose  steps  (50  units  of  insulin  degludec  and  1.8  mg 
liraglutide)  in  one  injection  in  increments  of  one  dose  step.  The  recommended  daily  starting  dose  of 
Xultophy in patients not previously on insulin is 10 dose steps (10 U insulin degludec/0.36 mg liraglutide). 
In patients transferring from basal insulin therapy, the starting dose of Xultophy may be increased to 
16 dose steps (16 U insulin degludec/0.6 mg liraglutide)  
The  maximum  dose  range  proposed  is  within  the  licensed  dose  range  for  the  liraglutide 
mono-component; however a starting dose incorporating only 0.36 mg liraglutide is less than the licensed 
starting dose (0.6 mg) for liraglutide, although in Xultophy given with 10 units of insulin.  
Xultophy  is  proposed  to  be  not  recommended  for  use  in  patients  with  severe  renal  impairment,  any 
degree of hepatic impairment, or in patients under 18 years of age.  
The development programme 
The  clinical  development  strategy  for  IDegLira  builds  upon  the  knowledge  obtained  in  the  individual 
development  programmes  for  IDeg  (Tresiba)  and  liraglutide  (Victoza).  The  completed  clinical 
development programme for the IDeg/liraglutide ratio intended for the market comprises one single-dose 
clinical pharmacology trial as well as two therapeutic confirmatory trials. 
The single-dose, clinical pharmacology trial (Trial 3632) was conducted to investigate to what extent the 
pharmacokinetic characteristics of the individual components of IDegLira were affected when compared 
with  the  mono-components.  The  two  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials  were  conducted  in  subjects  with 
T2DM  to  demonstrate  the  benefits  of  IDegLira  relative  to  IDeg  and  liraglutide  in  terms  of  glycaemic 
control and to enable an evaluation of the clinical benefit-risk profile of IDegLira, including an evaluation 
of any additional effects of IDegLira relative to IDeg and liraglutide on key efficacy outcomes. More than 
2000 subjects were exposed to trial drug in these trials, of which more than 1000 received IDegLira. 
The  clinical  development  was  conducted  in  compliance  with  the  EMA  guideline  on  fixed  combinations 
(CHMP/EWP/240/95  Rev.  1)  and  the  EMA  Guideline  on  the  development  of  medicinal  products  in  the 
treatment of diabetes mellitus (CPMP/EWP/1080/00 Rev. 1). 
7 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
The finished product is presented as a solution for injection containing a fixed combination of 100 units/ml 
insulin  degludec  and  3.6  mg/ml  liraglutide.  Other  ingredients  are:  glycerol,  phenol,  zinc  acetate, 
hydrochloric acid (for pH adjustment), sodium hydroxide (for pH adjustment) and water for injections. 
Xultophy is comprised of a 3 ml solution of the finished product in a cartridge (type 1 glass) with a plunger 
(halobutyl) and a stopper (halobutyl/polyisoprene). The cartridge is contained in a pre-filled multidose 
disposable  pen  made  of  polypropylene,  polycarbonate  and  acrylonitrile  butadiene  styrene,  to  which  a 
disposable subcutaneous needle is to be attached. 
Pack sizes of 1, 3, 5 and a multipack containing 10 (2 packs of 5) pre-filled pens have been authorised. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Insulin degludec 
General information 
Insulin degludec is an analogue of human insulin where threonine in position B30 has been omitted and 
the ε-amino group of lysine B29 has been coupled with hexadecanedioic acid via a γ-glutamic acid spacer. 
Insulin degludec is produced using recombinant DNA technology in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and 
subsequent chemical modification. The structural formula of insulin degludec is given in the Figure below. 
A1
NH2
G I
NH2 F
V
B1
A10
A20
V
N
E
Q
Q
H
C
L
C
C
T
S
I
C
S
L
G
S
H
L
V
E
Y
A
Q L
E
N
Y
C
N
COOH
L
Y
L
V
C
G E
R
G F
F Y
T
P
B10
B20
HO
H
N
B29
O
O
HO
HN
O
H
N
O
HO
O
Figure: Structural formula of insulin degludec 
Reference has been made to a current marketing authorization, already held by Novo Nordisk, for the 
insulin degludec active substance: Tresiba (EMEA/H/C/002498, date of EU-approval: 21 January 2013), 
Consequently, there has been no re-assessment of this drug substance in this report.  
8 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The production process includes fermentation of yeast cells, recovery and purification. The fermentation 
produces  a  precursor-insulin  which  is  cleaved  to  produce  des-B30-insulin.  This  is  then  purified  and 
chemically modified to insulin degludec by inserting a hexadecandioyl-γ-L-glutamate group in position 
B29. After further purification, the drug substance is stored at long term storage conditions according to 
the approved shelf-life. Satisfactory information on filling, storage and shipping has been documented.  
The  ‘manufacture’  section  of  the  file  adequately  describes  the  control  of  materials  including  the 
generation of the S. cerevisiae production strain which produces the insulin precursor, the subsequent cell 
banking system and demonstration of stability of these cell banks.   
Many of the raw materials used are compendial and the control of all non-compendial materials has been 
verified  Both  the  critical  operational  parameters  and  critical  in-process  tests  have  been  accepted  and 
authorised for Tresiba.   
The process validation has been satisfactorily performed. Potential process related impurities including 
host  cell  proteins,  DNA,  reagents,  solvents  and  buffers,  microbial  impurities,  endotoxin  and  other 
impurities along with their control are described. 
Product  related  impurities  are  impurities  structurally  related  to  insulin  degludec.  They  are  generated 
during  fermentation  or  downstream  processing  or  storage.  Reduction  factors  for  each  of  the  product 
related impurities are estimated from laboratory scale experiments or from process validation.. Process 
validation has demonstrated that the authorised manufacturing process effectively removes both product 
(drug substance) and process related impurities to acceptable levels. 
The manufacturing process development also details the development genetics of the production strain 
and the development of the insulin degludec manufacturing process. The comparability of drug substance 
produced during development has been demonstrated and furthermore, batch data on material used in 
clinical trials have been provided.  
Specification 
The active substance specification contains parameters defining identity, content, potency and purity of 
insulin degludec. 
No international or compendial reference material for insulin degludec exists and therefore an assignment 
of content in terms of international units is not applicable.  
Structural and functional characterisation has been  performed using state of the art techniques using 
drug substance batches representative of the manufacturing process used for phase 3 clinical trials and 
intended for the marketed product. Separation of the main product derived substances and impurities 
from  the  main  substance  have  been  described  and  the  bioactivity  of  the  various  fractions  have  been 
characterised  by  a  bioactivity  assay  which  correlates  well  with  biological  activity.  The  authorised 
specifications  and  methods  have  been  shown  to  be  suitable  for  the  control  of  insulin  degludec.  An 
overview of the analytical data for relevant insulin degludec drug substance batches has been presented 
and is acceptable. The batches have been used for non-clinical studies, clinical studies, stability studies, 
reference material, process validation and setting of specifications. 
9 
 
Stability 
Stability data from primary stability studies of   drug substance production scale batches and stability 
studies  of    insulin  degludec  drug  substance  Process  Validation  (PV)  batches  have  been  submitted.  In 
addition, stability data for the supportive stability studies of  insulin degludec drug substance pilot scale 
batches have been completed and are included in the application. 
Stability studies at long-term storage conditions and accelerated storage conditions for the supportive, 
primary, and process validation batches have been performed to support the proposed shelf-life when 
stored at long-term storage conditions. The stability studies have been performed according to the study 
protocols and to current ICH stability guidelines. 
The  primary  and  the  process  validation  stability  batches  of  insulin  degludec  drug  substance  show  a 
comparable stability profile to the supportive stability batches. The stability results indicate that the drug 
substance is sufficiently stable.The studies conducted on supportive stability batches, primary stability 
batches  and  process  validation  batches  can  be  used  in  establishing  the  proposed  shelf-life  for  insulin 
degludec drug substance. 
Liraglutide 
General information 
Liraglutide is a long acting analogue of the naturally occurring human Glucagon-Like-Peptide-1 sequence 
position 7-37  (GLP-1(7-37)).  
The structural formula of liraglutide is shown in the figure below: 
Liraglutide has a substitution of the naturally occurring amino acid residue in position 34 (Lys) by Arg and 
addition of a Glu-spaced palmitic acid to the ε-amino group of lysine in position 26.  The analogue is 
produced  as  the  polypeptide  precursor  by  r-DNA  technology  with  Saccharomyces  cerevisiae  as  the 
production strain. Substitution with the side chain is performed during down-stream processing. 
Reference has been made to a current marketing authorization, already held by Novo Nordisk, for the 
active  substance  liraglutide:  Victoza  (EMEA/H/C/001026,  date  of  EU-approval:  30/06/2009). 
Consequently,  there  has  been  no  re-assessment  of  the  drug  substance  in  this  report,  except  for  the 
updated documentation on reference standards of materials.  
10 
 
 
 
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
The  production  process  includes  fermentation  of  yeast  cells,  recovery  and  purification  of  liraglutide 
precursor,  acylation  of  the  precursor  and  further  purification  of  liraglutide  to  drug  substance.    The 
‘manufacture’ section of the file adequately describes control of materials, control of critical steps and 
intermediates,  process  validation  and/or  evaluation  and  manufacturing  process  development.  Filling, 
storage and transportation (shipping) procedures have been satisfactorily documented.  
The generation of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain producing liraglutide precursor, the cell banking 
system and stability of the cell banks has been adequately described in the ‘control of materials’ section. 
Critical operational parameters and critical in-process tests have been defined. The purpose of the set 
acceptance criteria for these critical in-process tests is to control the process and to ensure that the drug 
substance  consistently  complies  with  the  specifications.  Other  steps  are  also  controlled  by  in  process 
controls.   
The  process  has  been  satisfactorily  validated.  Data  was  collected  for  critical  in-process  controls, 
specification  tests  on  liraglutide  drug  substance  and  additional  analyses.  Potential  process  related 
impurities  including  host  cell  proteins,  DNA,  reagents,  solvents  and  buffers,  microbial  impurities, 
endotoxin and other impurities, along with their control, are described. All acceptance criteria for the 
critical operational parameters and similarly acceptance criteria for the in-process tests were fulfilled. 
The manufacturing process development also details the development of the liraglutide manufacturing 
process. The comparability of drug substance produced during development has been demonstrated and 
furthermore, batch data on material used in clinical trials has been provided.  
Specification 
No international or compendial reference material for liraglutide exists and therefore an assignment of 
content  in  terms  of  international  units  is  not  applicable.  The  specification  and  control  of  the  drug 
substance is acceptable. 
Structural  and  functional  characterisation  has  been  performed  using  state  of  the  art  techniques. 
Separation of product derived substances and impurities from the main substances has been described 
and the bioactivity of the main fractions have been characterised by a bioactivity assay. 
All  the  analytical  procedures  are  described.  The  non-pharmacopoeial  methods  have  been  validated 
according to the ICH Q2 (R1) guideline and brief summaries of the validations are provided. 
An overview of the analytical results for relevant liraglutide drug substance batches is presented. The 
batches  have  been  used  for  non-clinical  studies,  clinical  studies,  stability  studies,  reference  material, 
process  validation  and  setting  of  specifications.Product  related  impurities  are  impurities  structurally 
related to liraglutide. Related impurities associated with liraglutide and potential degradation products 
have  been  identified.  The  product  related  impurities  having  biological  activity  are  controlled.  Process 
validation has demonstrated that the authorised manufacturing process effectively removes both product 
(drug substance) and process related impurities 
Stability 
Stability  data  from  primary  stability  studies  of  drug  substance  production  scale  batches  and  stability 
studies  of  drug  substance  pilot  scale  batches  have  been  submitted.  In  addition,  stability  data  for  the 
supportive stability studies of liraglutide drug substance pilot scale batches have been completed and are 
included in the application. 
Stability studies at long-term storage conditions and accelerated storage conditions for the supportive, 
primary, and process validation batches have been performed to establish the proposed shelf-life when 
11 
 
 
stored at long term storage. Sufficient stability data has been provided to support the proposed shelf life 
of specified intermediates. The stability studies have been performed according to the study protocols and 
to current ICH stability guidelines. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
In  addition  to  the  active  ingredients,  the  drug  product  contains  the  following  excipients:  phenol 
(preservative), glycerol (for isotonicity), zinc acetate (stabilising agent) and water. Hydrochloric acid and 
sodium hydroxide are used to adjust the pH of the final drug product. The insulin degludec/liraglutide 
(100  U/3.6  mg/ml)  formulation  used  in  phase  3  studies  is  identical  to  the  intended  commercial 
formulation.  
The primary packaging is a 3 ml cartridge. The cartridge is made of clear, colourless type I glass. Closures 
comply  with  Ph.Eur.  The  3  ml  cartridge is  assembled  into  a pre-filled  disposable  device.,  the  PDS290 
pen-injector. The pre-filled PDS290 pen-injector has been approved with other Novo Nordisk insulin drug 
products (Tresiba).The drug substances used for the insulin degludec/liraglutide formulations from Phase 
3 and onwards are identical to the drug substances used for the approved formulations of Victoza® and 
Tresiba®. 
Phenol is added as a preservative agent since the product is intended for multiple dosing. 
All  excipients  are  well  known  pharmaceutical  ingredients  and  their  quality  is  compliant  with  Ph.  Eur 
standards. There are no novel excipients used in the finished product formulation. 
Development and understanding of the drug product has been based on prior knowledge from insulin 
degludec (Tresiba) and liraglutide (Victoza).  
During  development,  minor  changes  to  optimise  the  manufacturing  process  were  introduced.  The 
manufacturing process development has been adequately described. The drug product formulation and 
manufacturing process tested in phase 3 clinical trials are identical to the formulation and manufacturing 
process intended for commercial use. 
The primary packaging is described above. The material complies with Ph.Eur. and EC requirements. The 
choice of the container closure system has been validated by data and has been found adequate for the 
intended use of the product. The function and the dose accuracy of the insulin degludec/liraglutide drug 
product in the pen-injector has been tested and verified according to ISO standards. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Overall, the manufacturing process for Xultophy has been sufficiently described and validated. Critical 
steps in the production have been adequately identified and are monitored by in-process controls.  
Product specification 
In general, appropriate drug product specifications have been set and justified. The release specification 
for  Xultophy  contains  parameters  defining  identify,  content,  potency  and  purity  of  the  product. 
Non-pharmacopoeial methods were validated in accordance with ICH guidelines. 
Specifications and acceptable control of the impurity profile have been demonstrated and justified.   
12 
 
 
As concerns the primary packaging i.e. a 3 ml cartridge, the compatibility with the drug, the assessment 
of extractables and of leachables have been considered acceptably demonstrated. The description of the 
autoinjector design and the conformance to the relevant standards are also considered acceptable.  
Stability of the product 
A stability study has been performed at long term (5°C ± 3°C) and accelerated conditions on primary 
batches  in  order  to  establish  the  proposed  shelf  life  of  24  months  at  5°C.  The  primary  batches  were 
manufactured with a formulation and drug product manufacturing process identical to the drug product 
intended for the market. A stability study has also been initiated on process performance qualification 
(PPQ) batches in order to confirm the shelf life and show comparability between primary stability batches 
and PPQ batches. The parameters tested are stability indicating. 
In-use stability has been performed on cartridges to establish the proposed in-use period of 21 days at a 
maximum temperature of 25°C.   
The primary stability data and the data from the PPQ batches complied with the drug product shelf life 
specification. All results complied with the drug product shelf life specification. 
Based on the stability studies conducted, a shelf-life period of 24 months is considered justified for drug 
product when stored at 5°C. An in-use period of 21 days at up to 25°C is considered justified for this 
product as stated in the SmPC. The photostability study concludes that the secondary packaging intended 
for the market (pen-injector with the cap on) provides adequate protection against light.  
Adventitious agents 
The  manufacturing  process  for  a  raw  material  used  in  the  manufacture  of  insulin  degludec  uses  two 
bovine milk products. By reference to a current marketing authorization, already held by Novo Nordisk, 
these materials have already been deemed acceptable. 
No animal derived raw materials or excipients are used in the production of liraglutide. 
The  manufacturing  and  formulation  of  insulin  degludec/liraglutide  drug  product  does  not  include  any 
additional animal derived raw materials or excipients. The overall conclusion of the adventitious agents 
safety evaluation is that the insulin degludec/liraglutide drug product is safe with regards to both viral and 
TSE agents. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the conclusion that the 
product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical use.  
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SmPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. Data has been presented 
to give reassurance on viral/TSE safety. 
13 
 
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development 
N/A 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
This is a fixed combination of the two approved active substances insulin degludec and liraglutide. The 
applicant  has  submitted  summaries  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  of  the 
individual  components.  For  the  pharmacology  and  toxicology  of  the  combination  the  applicant  has 
submitted novel data with this application.  
A detailed assessment of the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology of the individual 
components is included in the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR) for Tresiba (insulin degludec; 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-_Public_assessment_report/human/
002498/WC500139010.pdf) and Victoza (liraglutide; 
http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-_Summary_for_the_public/human/0
01026/WC500050013.pdf), respectively. 
GLP 
The pivotal repeat-dose toxicity studies in rats were performed in accordance with GLP regulations. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Insulin degludec 
Insulin degludec is a long-acting insulin analogue. A series of in vitro and in vivo studies showed that 
insulin degludec’s mode of action and metabolic effects are the same as that of naturally occurring human 
insulin. Due to the molecular modifications made to IDeg, its insulin receptor binding is slightly lower than 
that of human insulin, but the efficacy at the receptor is the same. 
The ratio between IGF-1 and insulin receptor affinities for insulin degludec relative to human insulin was 
consistently <1 in all species and assay systems. Studies on insulin receptor activation, and cellular and 
mitogenic responses showed no relevant differences from human insulin. 
Safety  pharmacology  studies  in  rats  and  dogs  showed  no  findings  except  those  associated  with 
hypoglycaemia at the highest dose. 
Liraglutide 
Liraglutide is a recombinant analogue of GLP-1 acting as a selective agonist on the GLP-1 receptor. In 
vitro studies showed stimulation of insulin secretion and beta-cell proliferation and inhibition of beta-cell 
apoptosis. In vivo studies showed lowered blood glucose and body weight in a number of animal disease 
models.  
In safety pharmacology studies effects were confined to the rat and these were known GLP-1 mediated 
effects in rodents on the cardiovascular system and kidney function. 
14 
 
Insulin degludec and liraglutide 
Pimary pharmacodynamic studies  
The acute pharmacodynamic effects of a single dose of IDegLira with a ratio of IDeg and liraglutide of 600 
nmol/ml  IDeg  and  1600  nmol/ml  liraglutide  were  evaluated  in  male  Wistar  rats.  The  effects  were 
compared  to  the  individual  effects  of  IDeg  and  liraglutide  when  given  alone.  The  pharmacodynamic 
effects of IDegLira on blood glucose, food and water consumption and change in body weight  were as 
expected based on the known effects of IDeg and liraglutide tested as individual components. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies and Safety pharmacology programme 
No studies on secondary pharmacodynamics or safety pharmacology were performed. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics  
Insulin degludec 
Insulin degludec has a prolonged pharmacokinetic profile due to slow and continuous delivery of insulin 
degludec from a subcutaneous injection site into the systemic circulation. Tissue uptake was low with the 
highest tissue concentrations in kidney and liver, known to be involved in receptor mediated uptake and 
degradation of insulin. Metabolism and clearance is similar to clearance of human insulin. 
Liraglutide 
Liraglutide is a human GLP-1 analogue with a prolonged pharmacokinetic profile based on high binding to 
plasma  proteins  and  stabilisation  against  metabolic  degradation  by  the  peptidases  (DPP-IV  and  NEP) 
known to be involved in the clearance of native GLP-1. The distribution volume is low, in agreement with 
high  protein  binding.  The  metabolic  and  excretion  pattern  were  highly  similar  across  species  with 
liraglutide being fully metabolised in the body by sequential cleavage. 
Insulin degludec and liraglutide 
The pharmacokinetics of IDegLira was evaluated by investing the PK of the two components following 
subcutaneous administration, as part of the general toxicity evaluation in rats. Additional evaluation was 
performed in pigs as part of the formulation development. 
The PK of IDeg and liraglutide following s.c. administration was similar to what was observed for the 
mono-components.  In  single  dose  studies  in  pigs  a  tendency  towards  lower  Cmax  was  observed  for 
liraglutide. Furthermore, the addition of zinc to a formulation of liraglutide alone resulted in a reduction in 
liraglutide AUC and Cmax. This may explain the lower liraglutide exposures observed in IDegLira clinical 
pharmacology trials. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Insulin degludec 
General toxicity was studied in rats (up to 52 weeks including carcinogenicity assessment) and dogs (up 
to  26  weeks).  Only  effects  related  to  the  pharmacological  effects  of  insulin  were  observed,  similar  in 
nature and magnitude to those induced by NPH insulin. 
Insulin  showed  no  carcinogenic  potential  in  a  52-week  toxicity  study  in  Sprague  Dawley  rats.  No 
treatment  related  changes  in  the  female  mammary  gland  proliferation  were  found  using  BrdU 
incorporation. 
15 
 
In  reproductive  and  developmental  toxicity  studies,  decreased  maternal  food  consumption  and  body 
weight, periparturient maternal hypoglycaemia-related mortality, lowered live birth index and viability 
index, lower offspring body weight and viability, skeletal changes in the offspring and delayed balano 
preputial  separation  are  all  considered  secondary  changes  to  the  expected  pharmacological  effect  on 
lowering the maternal blood glucose levels. Similar effects were seen following dosing with NPH insulin, 
albeit some effects were more pronounced in rats receiving insulin degludec, which is related to the higher 
dose and prolonged pharmacological effect observed following insulin degludec dosing compared to NPH 
insulin. 
Liraglutide 
The general toxicity of liraglutide was assessed after subcutaneous repeat-dose administration in mice, 
rats and monkeys for up to 3,6 and 12 months, respectively. Expected pharmacological effects on food 
consumption and body weight were seen in all species. These effects were the dose-limiting factor in all 
species tested. Thyroid C-cell hyperplasia was seen in mice after 3 months of dosing. No other target 
organ of systemic toxicity was identified. 
Liraglutide  was  tested  for  carcinogenic  potential  in  104-week  studies  in  mice  and  rats.  In  mice,  a 
treatment-related increase in thyroid C-cell adenomas was seen in two highest dose-groups and thyroid 
C-cell carcinomas were seen in the highest dose group. In rats, a treatment-related increase in thyroid 
C-cell  adenomas  was  seen  in  males  in  the  two  highest  dose  groups  and  at  all  doses  in  females.  An 
increase  in  thyroid  C-cell  carcinomas  was  observed  in  all  groups  of  males  and  in  females  at  the  two 
highest doses. 
Based  on  published  literature  and  further  substantiated  with  experimental  data,  the  mode-of-action 
behind the C-cell findings is proposed to due to the following sequential key events: 
1)  Circulating liraglutide binds to and activates GLP-1 receptors on C-cells. 
2)  GLP-1 receptor activation on C-cells induces calcium release. 
3)  Persistent GLP-1 receptor stimulation of the C-cells leads to C-cell hyperplasia in rodents. 
In  a  combined  fertility  and  embryo-foetal  development  study  in  rats,  an  increase  in  early  embryonic 
deaths and an increased incidence of foetuses with minimally kinked ribs were seen at the highest dose 
level, corresponding to 11-fold the MRHD based on AUC (0-24h). At this dose level maternal clinical signs of 
adverse  reactions,  decreased  food  consumption  and  body  weight  were  observed.  In  the  rabbit 
developmental study foetal effects were reduced foetal weight, an increase in skeletal variations and a 
slight increase in the number of gall bladder abnormalities. In the pre- and post-natal development study 
in rats, pharmacologically mediated effects on body weight and food consumption in F0 animals and a 
decreased body weight gain in F1 animals was observed at all doses.  
Insulin degludec and liraglutide 
The general toxicity of IDegLira was assessed in two pivotal toxicity studies in rats after s.c. repeated 
dose administration for up to 13 weeks duration. Effects related to the pharmacological effects of insulin 
and GLP-1 analogues were seen. These were mainly episodes of lowered blood glucose/hypoglycaemia, 
reduced  food  consumption  and  reduced  body  weight  gain.  Histological  effects  were  observed  in  the 
adrenal gland, liver and testis. Such effects have been reported earlier with insulin alone or were similar 
to  effects  of  reduced  food  consumption  reflecting  the  known  pharmacology  of  insulin  and  GLP-1 
analogues. 
The Applicant conducted a study to investigate the effect of liraglutide and insulin on the proliferation of 
the mouse pancreatic beta cell line INS-1.  When administered separately, insulin and liraglutide caused 
a  concentration-dependent  increase  in  the  observed  levels  of  mitochondrial  dehydrogenase  activity 
16 
 
  
(considered to be directly proportional to the number of viable INS-1 cells).  Liraglutide was shown to 
have  an  additive  effect  on  the  response  to  insulin  as  opposed  to  a  synergistic  effect  as  there  was  no 
change in the observed EC50. With the aid of COLO-205 human colon adenocarcinoma cells, the Applicant 
has  also  investigated the  effects  of  liraglutide  on  the  proliferative  response of  insulin  and  shown  that 
liraglutide at up to 500 nM (which is substantially higher than the proposed Cmax for liraglutide, ~14 nM) 
has no effect on the proliferative response afforded by insulin. 
Local tolerance was assessed in two separate studies in pigs and rabbits. The local tissue reaction was 
mild and comparable to that of the vehicle. 
No further toxicity studies were performed. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
IDegLira consists of two drug substances, insulin degludec and liraglutide, which are characterized as 
peptides. CHMP therefore considered it exempted from the requirement to perform an environmental risk 
assessment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
This is a fixed combination of the two approved active substances insulin degludec and liraglutide. The 
applicant  has  submitted  summaries  on  the  pharmacology,  pharmacokinetics  and  toxicology  of  the 
individual  components,  a  detailed  assessment  of  which  is  included  in  the  EPAR  of  Tresiba  (insulin 
degludec) and Victoza (liraglutide), respectively. 
The novel data submitted with this application has shown that the pharmacology and toxicology of the 
combination  does  not  show  any  meaningful  differences  from  what  would  be  expected  based  on  the 
knowledge of the individual components.  
An area of possible concern is carcinogenicity. Liraglutide, as well as a number of other GLP-1 receptor 
agonists, are associated with thyroid C-cell tumours in rodents. This issue has been addressed in depth 
and it is agreed that while a clinical relevance cannot be fully excluded, rodents are particularly sensitive 
to this effect and there are no data showing an increased risk in humans. In nonclinical in vitro and in vivo 
models insulin degludec was not associated with an increased carcinogenic potential when compared to 
human insulin. However, insulin has growth-promoting activity and a theoretical risk for enhancing the 
carcinogenic  potential  of  the  GLP-1  receptor  agonist  could  be  depicted.    Additive  effects  (of  a  small 
magnitude) on cell proliferation have been observed in a mouse pancreatic beta cell line and the clinical 
relevance of the observed magnitude of the additive effect in vitro and how it would translate to the in 
vivo situation is unclear.  Nevertheless, it is agreed that this additive effect would occur in a small number 
of cells in humans which would express both the GLP-1 and the insulin receptor and would most likely 
affect the pancreas.  Pancreatic cancer has been included as a potential risk within the risk management 
plan. 
It is evident that when administered as individual components both insulin degludec and liraglutide can 
potentially affect embryofoetal development and for this reason, the SmPC currently states that Xultophy 
should not be used in pregnant women. Given the magnitude of the safety margins for insulin degludec, 
it is agreed that the potential for significant additive or synergistic effects of the fetus following treatment 
with IDegLira (if used as proposed) are low. The proposed wording in Sections 4.6 and 5.3 of the SmPC 
(which is in line with the current wording used for liraglutide) was therefore considered to be acceptable 
by CHMP. 
17 
 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
There are no objections to the approval of the product from a non-clinical point of view.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Overview of clinical studies 
The safety and efficacy of IDegLira has been evaluated in two therapeutic confirmatory trials (Trials 3697 
and 3912). An overview of the two trials is displayed in Table 1. In addition, supportive data from study 
3948 have been submitted (Table 2). Further to this, data for trial 3951 was submitted during the 
procedure (Figure 1). 
Figure 1 Overview of trials in the IDegLira development programme 
All IDegLira clinical trials 
Clinical 
pharmacology trials 
Single-dose 
Therapeutic confirmatory trials 
Completed trials 
26−52 weeks’ duration 
Therapeutic confirmatory trials 
Ongoing trials 
26 weeks’ duration 
Healthy subjects:  
3632a, 3871b 
Subjects with type 2 diabetes: 
3697c (insulin-naïve) 
3912 (insulin-treated) 
Subjects with type 2 diabetes: 
3851 (switch from GLP-1) 
3951 (add-on to SU) 
Table 1 Confirmatory therapeutic trials  
Trial 
Trial description 
and treatment 
Subject 
population 
Antidiabetic 
therapy at 
screening 
Rando-m
ised 
IDegLira: 
comp. 
No. of 
subjects 
eligible 
for 
analysis* 
Endpoints/assessments 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trial 
Trial description 
and treatment 
Subject 
population 
T2DM 
subjects 
inadequately 
controlled on 
metformin ± 
pioglitazone  
(screening 
HbA1c 
7.0-10.0%, 
both 
inclusive). 
BMI ≤ 
40 kg/m2 
Antidiabetic 
therapy at 
screening 
Rando-m
ised 
IDegLira: 
comp. 
Metformin ± 
pioglitazone 
2:1:1 
No. of 
subjects 
eligible 
for 
analysis* 
IDegLira: 
833 
IDeg: 413 
Liraglutide: 
414 
Endpoints/assessments 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
HbA1c (primary) 
Responders for HbA1c 
targets 
Insulin dose 
(confirmatory 
secondary) 
Fasting plasma glucose 
Prandial AUC increment 
based on meal test 
(confirmatory 
secondary) 
9-point SMPG profiles 
CGM measurements 
Hypoglycaemic 
episodes (confirmatory 
secondary) 
Body weight 
(confirmatory 
secondary)  
•  Waist circumference 
• 
Blood pressure 
• 
Cardiovascular 
biomarkers 
Fasting lipid profile 
Beta cell function 
Safety  
• 
• 
• 
T2DM 
subjects 
inadequately 
controlled on 
basal insulin + 
metformin ± 
SU or glinides  
(screening 
HbA1c 
7.5-10.0%, 
both 
inclusive).  
BMI ≥ 
27 kg/m2 
Basal insulin 
+ metformin 
± 
SU/glinides. 
Basal insulin: 
20-40 units/
day. 
SU and 
glinides:  
≥ half of max 
approved 
dose 
according to 
local label 
1:1 
IDegLira: 
199 
IDeg: 199 
• 
• 
HbA1c (primary) 
Responders for HbA1c 
targets 
Insulin dose 
Fasting plasma glucose 
9-point SMPG profiles 
Body weight  
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Waist circumference 
• 
Blood pressure 
• 
Cardiovascular 
biomarkers 
• 
Fasting lipid profile 
•  Withdrawal due to 
ineffective therapy 
Beta cell function 
Safety 
• 
• 
SU ± 
metformin. 
2:1 
T2DM 
inadequately 
controlled on 
their current 
OAD regimen 
of SU ± 
IDegLira: 
288 
Placebo: 
146 
• 
• 
HbA1c (primary) 
Responders for HbA1c 
targets  
•  Withdrawal due to 
ineffective therapy 
Fasting plasma glucose 
• 
19 
3697 
26 weeks 
+ 26 
weeks 
exten-sio
n 
3912  
26 weeks 
3951  
26 weeks 
IDegLira versus 
IDeg and liraglutide 
in separate, parallel 
treatment arms 
(open-label). All 
three treatments as 
add-on to 
metformin ± 
pioglitazone.  
IDegLira and IDega: 
starting dose of 
10 dose steps 
and 10 units, 
respectively, 
dosed once daily 
and titrated 
twice weekly to a 
FPG target of 
4.0-5.0 mmol/L 
(72-90 mg/dL) 
Maximum IDegLira 
dose of 50 dose 
steps. 
Liraglutideb: Weekly 
dose increase of 
0.6 mg/day until 
reaching the 
target dose of 
1.8 mg/day 
Metformin: ≥ 
1500 mg/day or 
maximum 
tolerated dose  
Pioglitazone: ≥ 
30 mg/day 
IDegLira vs. IDeg 
(double-blinded), 
both in combination 
with metformin. 
IDegLira and IDeg: 
starting dose of 
16 dose steps of 
IDegLira and 16 
units of IDeg, 
both dosed once 
daily and titrated 
twice weekly to a 
FPG target of 
4.0 -5.0 mmol/L 
(72 -90 mg/dL).  
Maximum IDegLira 
dose of 50 dose 
steps and IDeg 
dose of 50 units.  
Metformin: ≥ 
1500 mg/day or 
max tolerated dose.  
IDegLira vs. 
placebo 
(double-blinded), 
both in combination 
with SU ± 
metformin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trial 
Trial description 
and treatment 
Subject 
population 
Antidiabetic 
therapy at 
screening 
Rando-m
ised 
IDegLira: 
comp. 
No. of 
subjects 
eligible 
for 
analysis* 
Endpoints/assessments 
9-point SMPG profiles 
Fasting insulin 
Fasting C-peptide 
Fasting glucagon 
Body weight  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
•  Waist circumference 
• 
• 
• 
Fasting lipid profile 
Blood pressure 
Safety 
metformin 
(screening 
HbA1c 
7.5-9.0%, 
both 
inclusive).  
BMI ≤ 
40 kg/m2 
IDegLira: starting 
dose of 10 dose 
steps of 
IDegLira, dosed 
once daily and 
titrated twice 
weekly to a FPG 
target of 
4.0 -6.0 mmol/L 
(72 -108 mg/dL) 
Maximum IDegLira 
dose of 50 dose 
steps.  
SU: ≥ half of the 
maximum 
approved dose 
according to local 
label. 
Metformin: ≥ 
1500 mg/day or 
max tolerated dose. 
a One dose step of IDegLira is equivalent to 1 unit IDeg and 0.036 mg liraglutide. 
b Liraglutide was started with 0.6 mg/day and subsequent 0.6 mg weekly dose escalation to a maximum dose of 1.8 
mg/day, where after it should remain unchanged. 
* 18 subjects (3 from Trial 3697 and 15 from Trial 3912) were excluded from analysis 
Abbreviations: BMI = Body mass index; glin = glinide; IDeg = insulin degludec; IDegLira = insulin 
degludec/liraglutide; met = metformin; pio = pioglitazone; SU = sulphonylurea; T2DM = type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Table 2 
IDegLira: Insulin degludec/liraglutide; IDeg Insulin degludec; IAsp: Insulin aspart; OD: once-daily; s.c. subcutaneous; 
M: male; F: female; T2DM: type 2 diabetes mellitus 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The application of IDegLira is referring to the data from the mono-components, a detailed assessment of 
which is included in the EPAR of Tresiba (insulin degludec) and Victoza (liraglutide), respectively. 
The following trials contribute to characterize the clinical pharmacology properties of the combination: 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
NN9068-3632 was a single dose trial in healthy subjects comparing the bioavailability of IDegLira with 
the mono-components given separately or concomitantly. This study used the dose 17U/0.6 mg, which is 
the  IDeg/Lira  ratio  intended  for  the  market  (100  U/3.6  mg).  The  study  included  24  healthy  male 
volunteers,  and  each  subject  was  dosed  on  4  occasions  with  7-15  days  wash-out.  All  doses  were 
administered s c in the thigh, with PK sampling for 72 hours for Lira and 96 hours for IDeg. The planned 
analysis of bioavailability was based on a two-sided statistical test at 95% significance level instead of an 
equivalence test. The ratios of AUC and Cmax with 90% CI were evaluated in a post-hoc analysis, and are 
presented in the assessment.  
NN9068-3697 was a 26-week randomised, parallel, three-arm, open-label, multi-centre, 
treat-to-target trial comparing fixed ratio combination of insulin degludec and liraglutide versus insulin 
degludec or liraglutide alone, in subjects with type 2 diabetes treated with 1-2 oral anti-diabetic drugs 
with a 26-week extension. A total of 1660 patients with type 2 diabetes out of 1663 patients randomised 
were included in the FAS data. The PK, including dose-proportionality and selected covariate effects, of 
IDeg and liraglutide was assessed using a population approach.  
In addition, study NN9068-3871 was a relative bioavailability study on an early formulation of IDegLira, 
with another ratio between the agents (100 U/6 mg). This formulation has not been further developed, 
and the study has not been assessed. 
Bioassays 
IDeg  was  assayed  using  a  specific  sandwich  ELISA.  The  assay  has  previously  been  assessed  in  the 
approval  of  Tresiba,  and  found  to  be  acceptable.  Liraglutide  was  quantified  by  an  ELISA  with  two 
monoclonal antibodies directed against different epitopes of liraglutide. The validation was acceptable, 
and conventional acceptance criteria were used. 
Results 
NN9068-3632 The combination product IDegLira resulted in an IDeg exposure very similar to that of 
mono-component IDeg, whereas the bioavailability of Lira was somewhat (11%) lower with 23% lower 
Cmax when given in the combination product. A 12% higher Cmax was observed for IDeg when given in 
the combination product. Possible reasons for, or clinical implications of, the observed differences are not 
discussed by the applicant.  
NN9068-3697 The evaluation of PK in the patient population and anticipated special populations was 
essentially adequate. Results show that weight and gender were found to be significant covariates for 
liraglutide  and  only  weight  for  insulin.  However,  as  Xultophy  is  dosed  using  individual  titration, 
dose-adjustments based on body weight would be redundant. The PK data is limited for the very elderly 
and patients with moderate renal impairment.   
Absorption 
The  overall  exposure  of  insulin  degludec  was  equivalent  following  administration  of  Xultophy  versus 
insulin  degludec  alone  while  the  Cmax  was  higher  by  12%.  The  overall  exposure  of  liraglutide  was 
equivalent following administration of Xultophy versus liraglutide alone while Cmax was lower by 23%.  
Distribution 
Insulin  degludec  and  liraglutide  are  extensively  bound  to  plasma  proteins  (> 99%  and  > 98%, 
respectively). 
Elimination 
The half-life of insulin degludec is approximately 25 hours and the half-life of liraglutide is approximately 
13 hours. 
21 
 
 
 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
Xultophy is a combination product consisting of insulin degludec and liraglutide having complementary 
mechanisms of action. Insulin degludec binds specifically to the human insulin receptor and results in the 
same  pharmacological  effects  as  human  insulin.  Liraglutide  is  a  Glucagon-Like  Peptide-1  (GLP-1) 
analogue with 97% sequence homology to human GLP-1 that binds to and activates the GLP-1 receptor. 
Liraglutide  stimulates  insulin  secretion  and  lowers  inappropriately  high  glucagon  secretion  in  a 
glucose-dependent manner.  
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Insulin  degludec  (IDeg)  is  a  basal  insulin  with  a  glucose-lowering  effect  which  extends  beyond 
42 hours. Steady state is achieved following 2-3 days of once-daily dosing with no further increase in 
exposure thereafter.  
The  day-to-day  variability  in  glucose-lowering  effect,  as  assessed  by  the  glucose  infusion  rate  during 
euglycaemic  clamps,  is  lower  with  IDeg  compared  to  insulin  glargine.  IDeg  can  be  administered 
subcutaneously in the abdomen, deltoid or thigh with equal effect. 
The long pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg are preserved in all populations investigated. There are no 
differences in the pharmacodynamic properties of IDeg between geriatric and younger adult subjects, 
between subjects with or without hepatic or renal impairment, or between subjects of different race and 
ethnicity.  There  is  no  difference  in  pharmacokinetic  properties  between  women  and  men,  whereas 
glucose-lowering  effect  is  greater  in  women  compared  to  men,  consistent  with  the  greater  insulin 
sensitivity in women. 
Liraglutide  is  a  human  analogue  of  the  naturally  occurring  hormone  GLP-1.  Following  subcutaneous 
administration, the protracted action profile is based on self-association, which results in slow absorption, 
binding to albumin, and higher enzymatic stability towards the dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4) and neutral 
endopeptidase (NEP) enzymes.  
Liraglutide has a 4-hour duration of action and improves glycaemic control by stimulating insulin secretion 
and inhibiting glucagon secretion in a glucose-dependent manner when plasma glucose levels are above 
normal.  Liraglutide  also  reduces  body  weight  through  mechanisms  involving  decreased  hunger  and 
lowered energy intake. 
In trial 3632, the pharmacodynamics of IDegLira was investigated in healthy volunteers by comparing the 
Glucose  Infusion  Rates  (GIR)  of  the  four  treatment  groups;  IDeg,  liraglutide,  IDegLira  and  separate 
simultaneous administration of IDeg and liraglutide. Some additional pharmacodynamic response was 
observed for the combination of IDeg and liraglutide compared to IDeg alone, however no clear difference 
is  observed  between  the  combination  and  liraglutide  alone.  Comparable  results  were  observed  for 
IDegLira  (fixed  combination)  vs  the  free  combination.  No  synergistic  effect  was  observed.  When 
interpreting the data it should be taken into consideration that the euglycaemic clamp situation does not 
reflect the clinical setting. 
The  pharmacodynamics  of  IDegLira  was  further  investigated  in  a  sub-population  in  trial  3697  after  a 
standardised liquid meal. The effect on postprandial glucose levels are further discussed in the efficacy 
section of this report. The data on serum insulin, serum C-peptide AUC0−4h and plasma glucagon AUC0−4h 
indicate that the liraglutide effect on these parameters is maintained when given in the fixed combination.  
22 
 
Over the 26 week treatment period, the insulin secretion rate was comparable for IDegLira and liraglutide 
alone,  whereas  a  lower  insulin  secretion  rate  was  observed  for  IDeg.  Corresponding  findings  were 
observed when beta-cell function was estimated. 
The relationship between dose/exposure and effect was investigated in study 3697 and the data show 
that both components contribute to the glucose lowering effect. This could in part justify the use of 
liraglutide doses lower than the 0.6 mg dose shown efficient in the liraglutide file.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The applicant bridged his application to the clinical pharmacology data for the mono-components, based 
on showing similar exposure to the mono-components given separately or concomitantly. This was found 
to be acceptable by CHMP, given that dose proportionality was shown, meaning that bioavailability data 
from  one  dose  level  can  be  extrapolated  over  the  full  dose  range.  The  study  designs  and  bioanalysis 
methods used were considered acceptable. The use of PopPK is appropriate. 
Performing study 3632 as a comparative bioavailability study instead of a bioequivalence study was found 
to be acceptable, as the aim was only to show similar exposure to be able to bridge to pharmacokinetic 
data for the mono-components, and not to enable patients to transfer from mono-components to the 
combination.  
The modest differences in bioavailability and absorption rate observed between mono-components and 
the IDegLira formulation do not prevent bridging to clinical pharmacology data for the mono-components. 
The product IDegLira is to be used as a titration product in itself, and it is not foreseen for patients to be 
able to change between the individual components and the combination just by using identical dosages of 
the  2  components,  respectively,  but  rather  to  adjust  the  dose  of  Xultophy  by  titration;  thus  it  is  not 
necessary to show strict bioequivalence. The somewhat higher Cmax of IDeg and lower Cmax and AUC of 
liraglutide when given in the combination product compared to mono-components are not expected to 
have clinical significance. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
IDegLira is a combination of the basal insulin insulin degludec (IDeg, active substance of Tresiba), and the 
GLP-1 analogue liraglutide (active substance of Victoza).  
The mechanism of action and pharmacodynamic properties of both components, IDeg and liraglutide, 
have been well characterised in the development programs of the mono-components supporting their 
respective MAAs. Both components have a long duration of action and can be given as OD injections.  
The bioavailability and dose-linearity of IDeg and liraglutide in the new formulation has been sufficiently 
characterised,  and  bridging  to  clinical  pharmacology  data  of  the  mono-components  was  found  to  be 
acceptable by CHMP. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
No dose-response study was performed. The ratio of IDeg and liraglutide in the IDegLira product was 
chosen such that clinically appropriate doses of both IDeg and liraglutide would be co-administered with 
the product, taking the starting dose and the maximum approved liraglutide dose of 1.8 mg per day into 
consideration. Two fixed IDeg/liraglutide ratios were tested in clinical pharmacology trials, and based on 
23 
 
these  trials  the  ratio  providing  a  maximum  of  50  units  IDeg  (i.e.,  with  each  of  the  50  dose  steps 
containing 1 unit IDeg and 0.036 mg liraglutide) was considered to most adequately cover the treatment 
requirement  of  people  with  type  2  diabetes.  This  a  priori  assumption  was  in  accordance  with  clinical 
experience with co-administration of basal insulin and GLP-1 analogues.  
The dosing unit of IDegLira is defined as a dose step. One dose step provides 1 unit of insulin degludec 
and 0.036 mg of liraglutide. The pre-filled pen has a dose range of 1 to 50 dose steps in a single injection 
with dose adjustments of 1 dose step. 
2.5.2.  Main studies 
In the following the two pivotal studies and study 3951 are described in parallel. 
Methods 
Trial 3697 
Trial 3697 was a randomised, controlled, parallel three-arm, multicentre, multinational treat-to-target 
trial with a 26-week main phase, which was followed by a 26-week extension phase to provide evidence 
of persistence of efficacy and safety during long-term exposure (Figure 2). The trial included subjects with 
type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled on metformin or metformin + pioglitazone, defined as HbA1c 
level of 7.0−10.0% (both inclusive). Subjects continued on their pre-trial OAD regimen throughout the 
duration of the trial. 
Figure 2 Design of Trial 3697 
26 weeks treatment (Trial 3697 main) 
liraglutide + metformin +/− pioglitazone 
T2DM 
metformin +/−  
pioglitazone 
IDeg + metformin +/− pioglitazone 
IDegLira + metformin +/− pioglitazone 
52 weeks treatment (Trial 3697 extension) 
Visit 
 1 
2 
main period 
28/28A 
extension period 
55 
56 
Week 
-2 
Screening 
0 
Randomisation 
Trial 3912 
26 
End-of-treatment 
main part 
52 
End-of-treatment 
extension part 
53 
Follow-up 
visit 
Trial  3912  was  a  randomised,  controlled,  double-blind,  parallel  two-arm,  multicentre,  multinational, 
treat-to-target trial of 26 weeks duration (Figure 3). The trial included patients inadequately controlled on 
20-40 units of basal insulin and 1-2 OADs (metformin, or metformin and sulfonylurea/glinides), defined 
as HbA1c of 7.5–10.0% (both inclusive). 
24 
 
 
 
Figure 3 Design of Trial 3912 
T2DM 
basal insulin + 
metformin +/−  
SU or glinides 
26 weeks treatment 
IDeg + metformin 
IDegLira + metformin 
Visit 
1 
Week  -2 
2 
0 
Screening 
Randomisation 
Trial 3951 
33 
26 
34 
27 
End-of-treatment 
Follow-up 
visit 
Trial  3951  was  a  26-week,  multinational,  multi-centre,  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel-group, 
placebo-controlled, treat-to-target trial in subjects with T2DM inadequately controlled on their current 
oral antidiabetic drug (OAD) regimen consisting of sulphonylurea (SU) with or without metformin (Figure 
4). The trial compared the efficacy and safety of IDegLira once daily with placebo once daily, both added 
on to current SU ± metformin. Inadequately controlled T2DM was defined as an HbA1c level of 7.0−9.0% 
(both inclusive). 
Figure 4 Design of Trial 3951 
Objectives  
Primary objective of Trial 3912 
To confirm superiority of IDegLira vs. IDeg in controlling glycaemia in subjects with type 2 diabetes. The 
maximum  insulin  dose  in  the  IDeg  treatment  arm  was  50  units  (i.e.,  equivalent  to  the  insulin  dose 
administered  with  the  proposed  maximum  dose  of  IDegLira)  in  order  to  specifically  assess  the 
contribution of the liraglutide component to glycaemic control with IDegLira. 
Secondary objective of Trial 3912 
• 
To compare general efficacy and safety parameters of IDegLira and IDeg after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Primary objective of Trial 3697 
To confirm the efficacy of IDegLira in controlling glycaemia in subjects with type 2 diabetes. This was done 
by determining if the effect (change in HbA1c) of IDegLira was non-inferior to that of IDeg and superior 
to that of liraglutide after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Secondary objectives of Trial 3697 
25 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
To confirm superiority of  IDegLira vs. IDeg  after 26  weeks of treatment on either weight control, 
hypoglycaemic episodes, glycaemic control in relation to a meal, or glycaemic control as indirectly 
measured by daily dose of IDeg 
To confirm the efficacy of IDegLira in controlling glycaemia in subjects with type 2 diabetes after 52 
weeks of treatment 
To compare general efficacy and safety of IDegLira, IDeg and liraglutide after 26 and 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Primary objective of Trial 3951 
To  confirm  superiority  of  insulin  degludec/liraglutide  compared  to  placebo  in  controlling  glycaemia  as 
add-on  treatment  in  insulin-naïve  subjects  with  T2DM  inadequately  controlled  on  SU  with  or  without 
metformin therapy after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Secondary objective of Trial 3951 
To  compare  general  efficacy  and  safety  of  the  addition  of  insulin  degludec/liraglutide  and  insulin 
degludec/liraglutide placebo in insulin-naïve subjects with T2DM inadequately controlled on SU with or 
without metformin therapy after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Statistical methods 
The  statistical  evaluations  were  based  on  pre-specified  analyses  for  each  trial  individually,  using  the 
common statistical principles implemented across the IDegLira clinical development trial programme. The 
primary  statistical  evaluation  of  efficacy  was  based  on  the  full  analysis  set  (FAS)  adhering  to  the 
intention-to-treat  principle.  Missing  values  were  imputed  using  the  last  observation  carried  forward 
(LOCF) approach. 
Continuous  endpoints  (including  the  primary  endpoint)  were  analysed  using  a  pre-specified  standard 
analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  method  including  treatment,  all  stratification  factors  and  country  as 
fixed effects and the baseline value of the response as covariate. Log-transformation was applied for a 
number  of  pre-specified  endpoints.  Binary  endpoints  were  analysed  using  a  pre-specified  standard 
logistic regression model with treatment, all stratification factors and country as fixed factors and the 
applicable  baseline  value  as  covariate.  Counting  endpoints  (including  hypoglycaemic  episodes)  were 
analysed using a pre-specified standard negative binomial regression model with a log-link function, and 
the logarithm of the time period in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as 
offset (or relevant exposure time for other endpoints). The model included treatment, all stratification 
factors and country/region as fixed factors. Stratification varied between trials. As pre-specified in the 
respective  statistical  analysis  plans,  country  was  exchanged  with  region  in  the  analysis  of  binary  and 
counting endpoints of Trial 3697 (full 52-week trial  period) and Trial 3912 in  order to avoid potential 
analysis issues caused by a low number of subjects in some countries.  
Confirmatory statistical testing strategy 
For  the  primary  endpoint  of  change  in  HbA1c,  non-inferiority  was  confirmed  for  the  comparison  of 
IDegLira relative to IDeg in Trial 3697 if the 95% confidence interval for the estimated mean treatment 
difference was entirely below the non-inferiority margin of 0.3%. Superiority of IDegLira on the primary 
endpoint  was  tested  against  liraglutide  in  Trial  3697,  against  IDeg  in  Trial  3912  and  against  placebo 
in Trial 3951. For all three comparisons, superiority was confirmed if the 95% confidence interval for the 
estimated  mean  treatment  difference  was  entirely  below  0%,  equivalent  to  a  one-sided  test  with  a 
significance level of 2.5%. 
26 
 
In order to ensure that the overall type I error rate was not inflated, the four confirmatory secondary 
endpoints  of  Trial  3697  were  only  to  be  tested  for  superiority  (IDegLira  versus  IDeg)  if  the  primary 
objective was confirmed. In addition, the family-wise type I error rate for testing the four confirmatory 
secondary  endpoints  was  controlled  at  a  2.5%  level  in  the  strong  sense  using  the  Holm-Bonferroni 
method. Overall, this pre-specified confirmatory statistical testing strategy controlled the type I error rate 
at a 2.5% level in the strong sense with respect to testing both the primary objective and the secondary 
objectives.    
Results 
Trial 3697 
Subject disposition for Trial 3697 is summarised in Figure 5. The proportion of randomised subjects who 
withdrew or were withdrawn before exposure to trial drug was 1.0% in the IDegLira group versus 0.2% 
and 0.5% in the IDeg and liraglutide groups, respectively. 
27 
 
Figure 5 Subject disposition – Trial 3697 
28 
 
 
 
Trial 3912 
In Trial 3912, the withdrawal pattern was similar between the IDegLira and IDeg treatment groups Figure 
6.  
Figure 6 Subject disposition – Trial 3912 
Trial 3951 
In Trial 3951, the withdrawal rate was higher in the placebo group. More patients in the placebo groups 
fulfilled withdrawal criteria and more patients in this group withdrew due to other reasons. Withdrawal 
due  to  adverse  events  was  low  (1.4  %  and  3.1  %  in  the  placebo-  and  IDegLira-treated  groups, 
respectively) (Table 3). 
29 
 
 
 
Table 3 Subject disposition – Trial 3951 
Baseline data 
Trial 3697 
Subjects in Trial 3697 were representative of insulin-naïve subjects with type 2 diabetes, with respect to 
both demographic characteristics (Table 4) and other key baseline characteristics (Table 5). The three 
treatment groups were similar with respect to baseline characteristics. The mean age was 55.0 years, and 
the  gender  distribution  was  even.  The  racial  distribution  reflected  the  international  trial  design,  with 
61.9% of subjects being White, 21.7% being Asian Indian and 7.4% being Black or African American. 
30 
 
  
Table 4 Demographic characteristics at baseline – Trial 3697 – FAS 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                       IDegLira         IDeg             Lira             Total         
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
Number of Subjects      833              413              414             1660          
Age (years)                                                                               
  N                     833              413              413             1659          
  Mean (SD)              55.1 (9.9)       54.9 (9.7)       55.0 (10.2)      55.0 (9.9)   
  Median                 55.7             55.0             55.3             55.4        
  Min ; Max              27.8 ; 83.8      24.0 ; 79.1      24.4 ; 81.6      24.0 ; 83.8  
Sex; N (%)                                                                                       
  N                     833 (100.0)      413 (100.0)      414 (100.0)     1660 (100.0)  
  Female                398 ( 47.8)      213 ( 51.6)      206 ( 49.8)      817 ( 49.2)  
  Male                  435 ( 52.2)      200 ( 48.4)      208 ( 50.2)      843 ( 50.8)  
Ethnicity; N (%)                                                                                
  N                     833 (100.0)      412 (100.0)      413 (100.0)     1658 (100.0)  
  Hispanic or Latino    127 ( 15.2)       67 ( 16.3)       56 ( 13.6)      250 ( 15.1)  
  Not Hispanic or                                                                        
    Latino              706 ( 84.8)      345 ( 83.7)      357 ( 86.4)     1408 ( 84.9)  
  Not Applicable          0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)  
Race; N (%)                                                                                      
  N                     833 (100.0)      413 (100.0)      414 (100.0)     1660 (100.0)  
  White                 513 ( 61.6)      257 ( 62.2)      258 ( 62.3)     1028 ( 61.9)  
  Black or African                                                                        
    American             72 (  8.6)       23 (  5.6)       28 (  6.8)      123 (  7.4)  
  Asian Indian          176 ( 21.1)       97 ( 23.5)       88 ( 21.3)      361 ( 21.7)  
  Asian non-Indian       52 (  6.2)       23 (  5.6)       28 (  6.8)      103 (  6.2)  
  American Indian or                                                                      
    Alaska Native         2 (  0.2)        2 (  0.5)        0 (  0.0)        4 (  0.2)  
  Native Hawaiian or                                                                      
    Oth. Pacific                                                                          
    Islander              0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)        1 (  0.2)        1 (  0.1)  
  Not Applicable          0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)        0 (  0.0)  
  Other                  18 (  2.2)       11 (  2.7)       11 (  2.7)       40 (  2.4)  
BMI (kg/m2
)                                                                              
  N                     833              413              414             1660          
  Mean (SD)              31.3 (5.1)       31.2 (5.2)       31.4 (4.8)       31.3 (5.1)  
  Median                 31.2             31.1             31.3             31.2        
  Min ; Max              17.3 ; 43.5      16.5 ; 40.0      20.0 ; 40.0      16.5 ; 43.5  
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
BMI = Body Mass Index, N = Number of Subjects, SD = Standard Deviation, %= Percentages based 
on N 
Consistent with the subject inclusion criteria all subjects were on metformin therapy at screening, with 
17.3% of subjects receiving pioglitazone concomitantly. One subject in the liraglutide treatment group 
was on a regimen of metformin and glimepiride at screening. This subject was randomised in error and 
was withdrawn at Visit 3. The subject is included in the FAS. 
31 
 
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
  
 
 
Table 5 Key baseline characteristics – Trial 3697 – FAS 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                           IDegLira        IDeg            Lira             Total         
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
Number of Subjects       833             413             414             1660          
HbA1c (%)                                                                                 
  N                      833             413             414             1660             
  Mean (SD)                8.3 (0.9)       8.3 (1.0)       8.3 (0.9)        8.3 (0.9)     
  Median                   8.2             8.2             8.2              8.2           
  Min ; Max                6.0 ; 11.0      6.6 ; 11.3      6.4 ; 12.6       6.0 ; 12.6    
FPG (mmol/L)                                                                              
  N                      809             409             409             1627             
  Mean (SD)                9.2 (2.4)       9.4 (2.7)       9.0 (2.6)        9.2 (2.5)     
  Median                   8.8             8.7             8.4              8.7           
  Min ; Max                2.7 ; 18.5      4.7 ; 19.4      3.1 ; 23.4       2.7 ; 23.4    
Duration of diabetes (yrs)                                                           
  N                      833             413             413             1659           
  Mean (SD)                6.6  (5.1)      7.0  (5.3)      7.2  (6.1)       6.8  (5.4)  
  Median                   5.2             5.5             5.6              5.4         
  Min; Max                <0.1  ; 35.1    <0.1  ; 32.3    <0.1  ; 53.9     <0.1  ; 53.9 
OAD at Screening; N (%)                                                                   
  N                      833 (100.0)     413 (100.0)     414 (100.0)     1660 (100.0)   
  Metformin              691 ( 83.0)     343 ( 83.1)     338 ( 81.6)     1372 ( 82.7)   
  Metformin+Pioglitazone 142 ( 17.0)      70 ( 16.9)      75 ( 18.1)      287 ( 17.3)   
  Metformin+Glimepiride    0 (  0.0)       0 (  0.0)       1 (  0.2)        1 (  0.1)   
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
BMI = Body Mass Index, N = Number of Subjects, SD = Standard Deviation, FPG= Fasting Plasma 
Glucose, OAD= Oral Anti-diabetic Drug, %= Percentages based on N                                              
Trial 3912 
Subjects in Trial 3912 were representative of insulin-using subjects with type 2 diabetes, with respect to 
both  demographic  characteristics  (Table  6)  and  other  key  baseline  characteristics  (Table  7).  The  two 
treatment groups were overall well matched with respect to demographics and baseline characteristics. 
32 
 
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
 
 
                                                                                          
 
Table 6 Demographic characteristics at baseline – Trial 3912 – FAS 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                            IDegLira               IDeg                   Total         
———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————                                                                                          
Number of Subjects          199                    199                    398          
Age (years)                                                                               
  N                         199                    199                    398             
  Mean (SD)                  56.8 (8.9)             57.5 (10.5)            57.2 (9.7)     
  Median                     56.2                   58.2                   57.4           
  Min ; Max                  31.4 ; 76.9            29.5 ; 85.8            29.5 ; 85.8    
Sex; N (%)                                                                                  
  N                         199 (100.0)            199 (100.0)            398 (100.0)   
  Female                     87 ( 43.7)             93 ( 46.7)            180 ( 45.2)   
  Male                      112 ( 56.3)            106 ( 53.3)            218 ( 54.8)   
Ethnicity; N (%)                                                                           
  N                         199 (100.0)            199 (100.0)            398 (100.0)   
  Hispanic or Latino         16 (  8.0)             24 ( 12.1)             40 ( 10.1)   
  Not Hispanic or                                                                         
    Latino                  183 ( 92.0)            175 ( 87.9)            358 ( 89.9)   
  Not Applicable              0 (  0.0)              0 (  0.0)              0 (  0.0)   
Race; N (%)                                                                                                                                                
  N                         199 (100.0)            199 (100.0)            398 (100.0)   
  White                     157  (78.9)            151  (75.9)            308  (77.4)   
  Black or African American   9   (4.5)             10   (5.0)             19   (4.8)   
  Asian Indian               31  (15.6)             34  (17.1)             65  (16.3)   
  Asian non-Indian            2   (1.0)              2   (1.0)              4   (1.0)   
  Native Hawaiian or Oth.                            1   (0.5)              1   (0.3)   
   Pacific Island                                                                         
  Other                                              1   (0.5)              1   (0.3)   
)                                                                              
BMI (kg/m2
  N                         199                    199                    398             
  Mean (SD)                  33.6 (5.7)             33.8 (5.6)             33.7 (5.7)     
  Median                     32.3                   32.8                   32.6           
  Min ; Max                  26.5 ; 56.5            25.8 ; 54.7            25.8 ; 56.5    
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
BMI = Body Mass Index, N = Number of Subjects, SD = Standard Deviation, %= Percentages based 
on N 
The  results  for  baseline  characteristics  were  indicative  of  a  relatively  more  advanced  stage  of  T2DM 
compared to subjects in Trial 3697 (higher HbA1c and FPG and a longer duration of diabetes). This is in 
accordance with the subject selection criteria for the two trials. The time lack from screening to baseline 
is a contributing factor with respect to the observation that a minority of patients deviated slightly from 
subject selection criteria. 
33 
 
 
                                                                                          
  
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                           
                                                                             
 
Table 7 Key baseline characteristics – Trial 3912 – FAS 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
                            IDegLira               IDeg                   Total           
———————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————  
Number of Subjects          199                    199                    398             
HbA1c (%)                                                                                 
  N                         199                    199                    398             
  Mean (SD)                   8.7 (0.7)              8.8 (0.7)              8.8 (0.7)     
  Median                      8.6                    8.9                    8.7           
  Min ; Max                   7.2 ; 12.3             7.3 ; 10.9             7.2 ; 12.3    
FPG (mmol/L)                                                                              
  N                         198                    199                    397             
  Mean (SD)                   9.7 (2.9)              9.6 (3.1)              9.6 (3.0)     
  Median                      9.5                    9.3                    9.4           
  Min ; Max                   3.0 ; 19.1             4.2 ; 29.9             3.0 ; 29.9   
Duration of Diabetes (years)                                                              
  N                         199                    199                    398             
  Mean (SD)                  10.3 (6.0)             10.9 (7.0)             10.6 (6.5)     
  Median                      8.7                    9.5                    9.1           
  Min ; Max                   0.8 ; 30.4             0.8 ; 40.4             0.8 ; 40.4    
OAD at Screening; N (%)                                                                   
1 OAD                        95 (47.7)              98 (49.2)             193 (48.5) 
  Metformin                  95 (47.7)              98 (49.2)             193 (48.5) 
2 OADs                      104 (52.3)             101 (50.8)             205 (51.5) 
  Metformin + Glinide         4 (2.0)                2 (1.0)                6 (1.5) 
  Metformin + Sulphonylurea  99 (49.7)              98 (49.2)             197 (49.5) 
  Metformin + SU or Glinides  1 (0.5)                1 (0.5)                2 (0.5) 
——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— 
BMI = Body Mass Index, N = Number of Subjects, SD = Standard Deviation, FPG= Fasting Plasma 
Glucose, OAD= Oral Anti-diabetic Drug, SU = sulphonylurea, %= Percentages based on N                                              
At screening, the following basal insulins were used: insulin detemir (n=67), insulin glargine (n=174), 
insulin NPH (n=174) and other/unknown (n=7). 
Trial 3951 
The  treatment  groups  were  overall  well  matched  with  respect  to  demographics  and  baseline 
characteristics. The mean age was 59.8 years (29% were >65 years old), mean BMI was 31.5 kg/m2 
(31.2 kg/m2 in the Xultophy group and 32.0 kg/m2 in the placebo group), and the gender distribution 
was even. The racial distribution reflected the international trial conduct, with 75.4% of subjects being 
White, 16.6% being Asian and 6.7% being Black or African American. The HbA1c inclusion criterion was 
7.0−9.0%,  resulting  in  a  mean  baseline  HbA1c  of  7.9%  in  both  treatment  groups.  Mean  duration  of 
diabetes  was  9.1  years.  All  subjects  were  on  SU  therapy  at  screening,  with  89.2%  of  subjects  using 
metformin concomitantly. Mean HbA1c at baseline was 7.9% in both treatment groups. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Trial 3697  
Change in HbA1c (primary endpoint) 
Mean HbA1c levels throughout the duration of the trial are depicted by treatment group in Figure 7. Mean 
HbA1c at baseline was 8.3% in all three treatment groups. After 26 weeks of treatment, HbA1c had on 
average decreased by 1.91%-point to 6.4% with IDegLira, by 1.44%-point to 6.9% with IDeg and by 
34 
 
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
  
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
 
1.28%-point  to  7.0%  with  liraglutide.  The  reduction  in  HbA1c  occurred  during  the  initial  3  months  of 
treatment in all treatment groups.  
Figure 7 HbA1c (%) by treatment week - Trial 3697 - FAS 
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
0
2
4
6
8
10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Time since Randomisation (Week)
IDegLira
IDeg
Lira
H
b
A
1
c
(
%
)
FAS; LOCF imputed data
Error bars: +- Standard Error (Mean)
30APR2013:12:21:50 - fmean_numfind_v03.sas/e_hba1c_abs_mean_locf_3697_fas.cgm
/nn9068/nn9068-exploratory/lsuegc005
The  reduction  in  HbA1c  was  statistically  significantly  greater  with  IDegLira  compared  with  IDeg 
(estimated treatment difference: -0.47 [-0.58; -0.36] 95%CI; p<0.0001), confirming the pre-specified test 
for non-inferiority for this comparison. Additionally, superiority of IDegLira over liraglutide in terms of 
change in HbA1c was confirmed (estimated treatment difference: -0.64 [-0.75; -0.53]95%CI; p<0.0001). 
HbA1c target responder analyses  
Subjects achieving HbA1c targets 
For  Trial  3697,  the  proportion  of  subjects  reaching  the  pre-defined  HbA1c  targets  at  the  end  of  the 
26-week treatment period was consistently greater with IDegLira than with comparator treatments. The 
American Diabetes Association (ADA) target of HbA1c <7.0% was reached by 80.6% of subjects receiving 
IDegLira versus 65.1% and 60.4% of subjects receiving IDeg and liraglutide, respectively. Similarly, the 
proportion of subjects reaching the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) target of HbA1c ≤6.5% was 
69.7% with IDegLira versus 47.5% and 41.1% with IDeg and liraglutide, respectively.  
Logistic regression analysis showed that the estimated odds of achieving these HbA1c targets after 26 
weeks of treatment were statistically significantly greater for subjects of the IDegLira treatment group 
compared to those of the IDeg and liraglutide treatment groups. 
Subjects achieving HbA1c targets without gaining weight 
For Trial 3697, the proportion of subjects reaching the ADA target of HbA1c <7.0% without gaining weight 
was 46.2% with IDegLira versus 21.1% with IDeg and 54.3% with liraglutide. The proportion of subjects 
of Trial 3697 reaching the more ambitious IDF target of HbA1c ≤6.5% without gaining weight was 41.9% 
with IDegLira versus 14.5% with IDeg and 39.1% with liraglutide.  
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subjects achieving HbA1c targets without confirmed hypoglycaemia 
For Trial 3697 the proportion of subjects reaching the ADA target of HbA1c <7.0% without experiencing 
any episodes of confirmed hypoglycaemia (defined as severe hypoglycaemia according to ADA criteria or 
episodes of hypoglycaemia confirmed with a PG < 3.1 mmol/L (56 mg/dL) irrespective of symptoms) was 
60.4% with IDegLira versus 40.9% with IDeg and 57.7% with liraglutide, i.e., with a higher responder 
rate  for  IDegLira  than  IDeg,  and  no  major  difference  in  responder  rate  between  the  IDegLira  and 
liraglutide groups. The proportion of subjects in Trial 3697 reaching the more ambitious IDF target of 
HbA1c ≤6.5% without confirmed hypoglycaemia was 52.2% with IDegLira versus 27.4% with IDeg and 
39.6% with liraglutide.  
Insulin dose 
A ‘treat-to-target’ approach was applied for IDegLira and IDeg treatment in both therapeutic confirmatory 
trials,  aiming  for  predefined  fasting  plasma  glucose  of  4.0−5.0  mmol/L  (72−90 mg/dL)  in  order  to 
achieve glycaemic control, as recommended by current treatment guidelines. IDegLira and IDeg doses 
were titrated twice weekly in adjustments of 2 dose steps for IDegLira and 2 units for IDeg according to 
the average fasting mean SMPG from the preceding three daily measurements.  
Actual daily insulin dose by week in Trial 3697 is presented in Figure 8. At Week 1, the mean insulin dose 
was 12 units in both the IDegLira group and the IDeg group. The mean insulin dose steadily increased 
during the first weeks of the trial in both treatment arms. After 12 weeks of treatment the insulin dose in 
the IDegLira treatment group remained relatively stable, whereas the insulin dose continued to increase 
in the IDeg treatment group (Figure 8). At the end of the main trial period at Week 26, the mean daily 
insulin dose was 38 units with IDegLira and 53 units with IDeg.  
Figure 8 Daily insulin dose (actual) in units by treatment week – Trial 3697 – SAS 
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
)
U
(
e
s
o
D
y
l
i
a
D
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
D
a
i
l
y
D
o
s
e
(
U
)
0
2
4
6
8
10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Time since Randomisation (Week)
IDegLira
IDeg
      SAFETY; LOCF imputed data 
    Error bars: +- Standard Error (Mean) 
The daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of treatment was a confirmatory secondary endpoint for Trial 3697. 
Results of the statistical analysis showed a statistically significantly lower insulin dose of 14.9 units with 
IDegLira  relative  to  IDeg  (estimated  treatment  difference:  -14.90  units  [-17.14;  -12.66]95%CI; 
p<0.0001). 
36 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fasting plasma glucose 
For Trial 3697, mean FPG levels throughout the duration of the trial are depicted by treatment group in 
Figure 9. 
Figure 9 Fasting plasma glucose by treatment week - Trial 3697 - FAS 
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
)
L
/
l
o
m
m
(
G
P
F
198
189
180
171
162
153
144
135
126
117
108
99
90
F
P
G
(
m
g
/
d
L
)
-2
0
2
4
6
8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Time since Randomisation (Week)
IDegLira
IDeg
Lira
     FAS; LOCF imputed data 
d d
 i
     Error bars: +- Standard Error (Mean) 
No statistically significant difference between IDegLira and IDeg was found, whereas the reduction in FPG 
was significantly greater for IDegLira relative to liraglutide (estimated treatment difference: 
−1.76 mmol/L [-2.00;-1.53] 95%CI, p < 0.0001).  
Prandial glucose control 
Incremental mean plasma curves after 26 weeks of treatment are depicted in Figure 10. 
Baseline normalised iAUC0-4h for glucose was similar across treatment groups (IDegLira: 4.11 mmol/L 
[74.1 mg/dL], IDeg: 4.12 mmol/L [74.2 mg/dL], and liraglutide: 4.12 mmol/L [74.1 mg/dL]). 
After 26 weeks of treatment, iAUC0-4h had decreased by 0.87 mmol/L [15.7 mg/dL] with IDegLira, by 0.16 
mmol/L [3.1 mg/dL] with IDeg and by 0.78 mmol/L [14.2 mg/dL] with liraglutide. 
37 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 Incremental mean plot of plasma glucose after 26 weeks of treatment – 
Trial 3697 - FAS 
)
L
/
l
o
m
a
m
m
(
s
e
a
s
l
o
P
c
u
l
l
a
G
t
n
a
m
e
m
s
a
l
e
P
r
c
n
I
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
126
108
I
n
c
P
r
l
e
a
s
m
m
e
a
n
G
t
l
a
u
c
o
P
s
e
a
(
s
m
m
g
/
a
d
0
L
)
l
l
90
72
54
36
18
-1
0
20
40
60
80 100 120 140 160 180 200 220 240 260
Nominal Time (min)
IDegLira
IDeg
Lira
-18
     Missing profiles are imputed from Week 0 
     Error bars: +- Standard Error (Mean) 
The reduction in prandial increment was statistically significantly greater with IDegLira than with IDeg 
(estimated treatment difference: -0.71 mmol/L [-1.17; -0.26]95% CI; p = 0.0023) confirming superiority, 
whereas no significant difference between IDegLira and liraglutide was observed for change in prandial 
increment. 
The  results  on  incremental  AUC  described  above  are  in  alignment  with  the  results  on  self-measured 
plasma glucose (SMPG) profiles for the full trial population as illustrated in Figure 11. In addition to a 
statistically significantly greater reduction in mean of 9-point SMPG profile with IDegLira compared to 
IDeg (estimated treatment difference -0.30 mmol/L [-0.50; -0.09]95%CI, p = 0.0040) and liraglutide 
(estimated  treatment  difference  -0.93  mmol/L  [-1.13;  -0.73]95%CI,  p < 0.0001),  there  was  a  lower 
mean prandial increment across all meals with IDegLira compared to IDeg (1.9 mmol/L [34 mg/dL] vs. 
2.4 mmol/L [43 mg/dL]). The increment observed with liraglutide (1.9 mmol/L [34 mg/dL]) was similar to 
that of IDegLira. 
38 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11 Mean 9-point SMPG profile at Week 26 – Trial 3697 – FAS 
13.0
12.5
12.0
11.5
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
)
L
/
l
o
m
m
(
e
s
o
c
u
l
G
a
m
s
a
l
P
234
216
198
180
162
144
126
108
90
P
l
a
s
m
a
G
l
u
c
o
s
e
(
m
g
/
d
L
)
Breakfast +90 min Lunch +90 min Evening
 meal
+90 min Bedtime 04:00h Breakfast
 next day
LOCF imputed data for all time points 
IDegLira
IDeg
Lira
Hypoglycaemia 
Confirmed hypoglycaemia 
Confirmed hypoglycaemia (defined as either severe hypoglycaemia according to ADA criteria or episodes 
of hypoglycaemia confirmed with a PG < 3.1 mmol/L (56 mg/dL) irrespective of symptoms) was recorded 
for 31.9% of subjects receiving IDegLira and for 38.6% of subjects receiving IDeg. Corresponding event 
rates were 180.2 and 256.7 events per 100 patient-years of exposure (PYE). Confirmed hypoglycaemia 
was  a  confirmatory  secondary  endpoint  for  Trial  3697  and  was  analysed  using  a  negative  binomial 
regression model. The analysis shows a statistically significant 32% reduction in the rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic  episodes  with  IDegLira  relative  to  IDeg  (estimated  treatment  ratio:  0.68  [0.53; 
0.87]95%CI; p= 0.0023). 
A significantly lower risk of confirmed hypoglycaemia with liraglutide relative to IDegLira was observed in 
Trial 3697 (estimated treatment ratio (IDegLira vs. liraglutide): 7.61 [5.17; 11.21]95%CI; p < 0.0001). 
A statistically significant reduction of 32% with IDegLira relative to IDeg was also seen for the rate of 
documented  symptomatic  hypoglycaemic  episodes  (as  defined  by  ADA),  thus  confirming  the  results 
obtained  for  confirmed  hypoglycaemia.  The  estimated  event  rates  of  documented  symptomatic 
hypoglycaemic episodes were 375.85 and 554.54 events per 100 patient-years of exposure (PYE)  for 
IDegLira and IDeg, respectively; estimated rate ratio 0.68 [0.52; 0.89]95%CI; p = 0.0049. 
Body weight 
Mean  body  weight  at  baseline  was  similar  across  treatments  (IDegLira:  87.2  kg,  IDeg:  87.4  kg,  and 
liraglutide:  87.4  kg).  After  26  weeks  of  treatment,  mean  body  weight  had  decreased  by  0.5  kg  with 
IDegLira, increased by 1.6 kg with IDeg and decreased by 3.0 kg with liraglutide.  
The estimated treatment difference between IDegLira and IDeg of -2.22 kg [-2.64; -1.80]95%CI as well 
as the estimated treatment difference between IDegLira and liraglutide of 2.44 kg [2.02; 2.86]95%CI 
39 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  
were both statistically significant (p< 0.0001 for both comparisons). Results for change in BMI as well as 
change in waist and hip circumference were in alignment with the above results on weight change. 
Efficacy results after 52 weeks exposure 
A total of 1311 patients (78.8 % of patients randomised to the core phase) were included in the extension 
phase of trial 3697 (IDegLira 665 (79.7 %); IDeg 333 (80.4 %); Lira 313 (75.4 %)). Out of these, 1211 
patients (72.8 %) completed the study (IDegLira 621 (74.5 %); IDeg 305 (73.7 %); Lira 285 (68.7 %). 
Key efficacy results pertaining to the extended 52-week treatment period of Trial 3697 are compared 
against the corresponding results for the 26-week treatment period in Table 8.  
Table 8 Key efficacy results for 26 vs. 52-week treatment period – Trial 3697 – FAS 
Endpoints 
Treatment contrast or ratio 
Change in HbA1c (%-point) 
    IDegLira − IDeg 
    IDegLira − lira 
Insulin dose (units/day) 
    IDegLira − IDeg 
Change in prandial glucose 
increment (iAUC 0-4h; 
mmol/L)* 
    IDegLira − IDeg 
    IDegLira − lira 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes 
    IDegLira/IDeg 
    IDegLira/lira 
Change in body weight (kg) 
    IDegLira − IDeg 
    IDegLira − lira 
26-week results 
52-week results 
Estimate       95% CI 
p-value 
Estimate        95% CI 
p-value 
-0.47    [-0.58; -0.36]       <0.0001          
-0.64    [-0.75; -0.53]       <0.0001          
-0.46  [-0.57 ; -0.34]    <0.0001   
-0.65  [-0.76 ; -0.53]    <0.0001         
-14.90        
[-17.14; -12.66]  <0.0001  
-23.38  [-26.44;-20.31]  <0.0001   
-0.71         
-0.09         
[-1.17 ; -0.26]   
[-0.56 ;  0.37]   
  0.0023    
  0.7000                 0.05  [-0.43 ;  0.53]         0.8417                                  
-0.64  [-1.11 ; -0.17]         0.0073  
0.68   [0.53 ;  0.87]    
7.61   [5.17 ; 11.21]    <0.0001                                                                                                             
0.63  [0.50 ;  0.79]          <0.0001              
8.52  [6.09 ; 11.93]          <0.0001              
  0.0023    
-2.22         
 2.44         
[-2.64 ; -1.80]   <0.0001  
-2.80  [-3.34 ;-2.27]     <0.0001    
[ 2.02 ;  2.86]   <0.0001                2.66  [ 2.13 ; 3.20]     <0.0001    
* Calculated for a pre-specified population of 260 subjects of Trial 3697 
After 12 weeks of treatment, the insulin dose in the IDegLira treatment group remained stable during 
extended  exposure,  whereas  the  insulin  dose  continued  to  increase  in  the  IDeg  treatment  group.  At 
Week 52, mean daily insulin dose was 39 units and 62 units for subjects treated with IDegLira and IDeg, 
respectively, with a similar proportion of IDegLira treated subjects reaching the maximum dose after 52 
weeks as compared to after 26 weeks of treatment. Despite the dose difference at Week 52, the mean 
fasting SMPG was close to the glycaemic target and similar in both treatment groups after 52 weeks of 
treatment (IDegLira: 5.6 mmol/L [101 mg/dL] and IDeg: 5.4 mmol/L [97 mg/dL]). 
Trial 3912 
Change in HbA1c (primary endpoint) 
Mean HbA1c levels throughout the duration of the trial are depicted by treatment group in  
Figure 12. Mean HbA1c at baseline was 8.7% in the IDegLira group and 8.8% in the IDeg group. After 26 
weeks of treatment, HbA1c had on average decreased by 1.90 %-point to 6.9% with IDegLira and by 
0.89  %-point  to  8.0%  with  IDeg.  The  reduction  in  HbA1c  was  statistically  significantly  greater  with 
IDegLira compared with IDeg (estimated treatment difference: -1.05 %-point [-1.25; -0.84]95%CI, p < 
0.0001). 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
Figure 12 HbA1c by treatment week - Trial 3912 – FAS 
10.0
)
%
(
c
1
A
b
H
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
H
b
A
1
c
(
%
)
-2
0
2
4
6
8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Time since Randomisation (Week)
IDegLira
IDeg
      FAS; LOCF imputed data 
      Error bars: +- Standard Error (Mean) 
HbA1c target responder analyses 
Starting at an HbA1c of 8.7%, the HbA1c targets of <7% and ≤6.5% were reached by 60.3% and 45.2% 
of IDegLira-treated subjects, respectively, and a significant proportion of these subjects reached these 
glycaemic  targets  without  gaining  weight  or  experiencing  any  events  of  confirmed  hypoglycaemia.  In 
comparison, the HbA1c targets of <7% and ≤6.5% was reached by 23.1% and 13.1% of IDeg-treated 
subjects, respectively.  
Insulin dose 
Within  the  limitation  of  the  allowed  maximum  doses,  a  treat-to-target  approach  and  frequent  visit 
schedule were applied during the treatment period to ensure optimal titration of IDegLira and IDeg based 
on fasting SMPG values to the glycaemic target of 4.0−5.0 mmol/L (72−90 mg/dL).  
The mean actual daily insulin dose in Trial 3912 was similar between IDegLira and IDeg throughout the 
trial. After 26 weeks of treatment, the mean actual daily insulin dose was 45 units with both IDegLira and 
IDeg. Of the IDegLira treated subjects 65.3% reached a daily dose of 50 dose steps and 67.3% of the 
IDeg treated subjects reached a daily insulin dose of 50 units.  
Fasting plasma glucose  
From baseline to Week 26, FPG for subjects on IDegLira and IDeg decreased by 3.46 mmol/L [62.4 mg/dL] 
to  6.2  mmol/L  [112.0  mg/dl]  and  by  2.58  mmol/L  [46.4  mg/dL]  to  7.0  mmol/L  [125.7  mg/dL], 
respectively.  The  estimated  treatment  difference  for  IDegLira  vs.  IDeg  was  -0.73  mmol/L 
[-1.19;-0.27]95%CI, p = 0.0019.  
Prandial glucose control 
At baseline, the SMPG 9-point profiles appeared similar between treatments groups. After 26 weeks of 
treatment, plasma glucose concentrations had decreased for both treatments, however, the profile for 
IDegLira  showed  both  lower  pre-prandial  (i.e.  before  meals)  glucose  concentrations  as  well  as  lower 
post-prandial  (90  min  after  meal  consumption)  glucose  concentrations  compared  with  IDeg.  The 
estimated treatment difference in mean SMPG for IDegLira vs. IDeg was -1.07 mmol/L [-1.44;-0.70] 95%CI, 
p < 0.0001.  
41 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The mean prandial increments across all meals were 2.2 mmol/L (39.6 mg/dL) with IDegLira and 2.4 
mmol/L (43.2 mg/dL) with IDeg after 26 weeks of treatment. Change from baseline in prandial increment 
after 26 weeks of treatment was greater with IDegLira than with IDeg, estimated treatment difference 
between IDegLira and IDeg for all meals was -0.37 mmol/L [-0.69;-0.04] 95%CI, p = 0.0260. 
Hypoglycaemia 
The improvements in glycaemic control with IDegLira in Trial 3912 were obtained at a similar incidence of 
hypoglycaemia with IDegLira relative to IDeg. The percentage of subjects with confirmed hypoglycaemia 
was approximately 24% in both treatment arms. The difference in rates (153.4 and 263.3 episodes per 
100 PYE for IDegLira and IDeg, respectively) was not statistically significant.  
Body weight 
For IDegLira treated subjects, body weight decreased, whereas for IDeg treated subjects there was no 
change in weight. After 26 weeks of treatment, mean body weight was 92.7 kg and 93.5 kg corresponding 
to  a  change  in  body  weight  from  baseline  to  Week  26  of  -2.7  kg  and  0.0  kg,  for  IDegLira  and  IDeg, 
respectively; estimated mean treatment difference (IDegLira vs. IDeg) was -2.51 kg [-3.21; -1.82] 95%CI, 
p < 0.0001. 
Trial 3951 
Change in HbA1c (primary endpoint) 
Mean HbA1c and mean change from baseline in HbA1c over time is shown in Figure 13. For the primary 
endpoint of change in HbA1c after 26 weeks of treatment, HbA1c decreased by 1.45% points to 6.4% in 
the  IDegLira  group  and  by  0.46%-points  to  7.4%  in  the  placebo  group  (estimated  mean  treatment 
difference: -1.02 [-1.18-0.87] p<0.001) . 
The mean dose of IDegLira at end study was 28 dose steps. 
Figure 13 HbA1c (%) by treatment week – Trial 3951 - FAS 
Responders for HbA1c 
After 26 weeks of treatment, the proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7% was 79.2% in the IDegLira 
group and 28.8% in the placebo group. In line with these results, 64.0% of the subjects in the IDegLira 
group achieved HbA1c ≤6.5%, compared to 12.3% in the placebo group. 
42 
 
 
Withdrawal due to ineffective therapy 
A total 11 subjects were withdrawn due to ineffective therapy (withdrawal criterion no. 3 or AEs related to 
hyperglycaemia); 1 subject in the IDegLira group and 10 subjects in the placebo group. In addition to the 
above 11 cases, 8 subjects were withdrawn from the trial with reasons such as ‘high blood glucose levels’, 
‘patient had too high fasting blood values’ or similar. All cases were reported by subjects in the placebo 
group. 
Fasting plasma glucose 
Mean FPG at baseline was similar at 9.1 mmol/L in both treatment groups. From baseline to Week 26, FPG 
decreased by 2.60 mmol/L to 6.5 mmol/L for subjects treated with IDegLira and by 0.31 mmol/L to 8.8 
mmol/L for subjects treated with placebo (treatment difference: -2.30 mmol/L [-2.72-1.89] p < 0.001). 
Body weight 
Body weight at baseline (Week 0) was 87.2 kg for IDegLira and 89.3 kg for placebo. In both treatment 
groups the body weight remained relatively stable throughout the trial and ended on 87.7 kg and 88.3 kg 
after  26  weeks  of  treatment,  for  the  IDegLira  and  placebo  groups,  respectively.  The  estimated  mean 
treatment difference between IDegLira and placebo was 1.48 kg, p <0.001; however this was less than 
the baseline differences between the groups. 
Ancillary analyses 
Comparison of results in sub-populations 
The  efficacy  of  IDegLira  in  sub-populations  was  assessed  through  statistical  analysis  by  testing  the 
null-hypothesis of equal treatment effect on HbA1c reduction at week 26 across the different sub-groups 
when comparing IDegLira vs. IDeg and IDegLira vs. liraglutide. The analyses were based on individual 
data from each of the two therapeutic confirmatory trials. 
The subgroup analysis did not identify any clinically relevant effects related to age group, sex BMI, race, 
disease factors or concomitant treatments. 
Analysis of clinical information relevant to dosing recommendations 
In  clinical  practice,  determination  of  insulin  dosing  is  based  upon  individual  needs,  considering  the 
balance between glycaemic control and risk of hypoglycaemia. A ‘treat-to-target’ concept was applied in 
both  therapeutic  confirmatory  trials,  adjusting  the  dose  for  each  individual  subject  with  the  aim  of 
achieving pre-defined glycaemic targets for subjects receiving IDeg or IDegLira.  
Analysis of dose results 
Insulin-naïve subjects with type 2 diabetes (Trial 3697) were to start IDegLira treatment at a dose of 10 
dose steps once daily. Subjects previously treated with basal insulin (20-40 units) (Trial 3912) were to 
start IDegLira treatment at a dose of 16 dose steps once daily.  
Mean  fasting  SMPG  levels  in  Trial  3912  (Figure  14)  did  not  indicate  any  transient  deterioration  of 
glycaemic control in subjects transferring from 20-40 units of basal insulin to 16 dose steps of IDegLira. 
The  fasting  SMPG  values  and  change  from  baseline  during  the  initial  4  weeks  of  treatment  show  an 
immediate  reduction  in  fasting  SMPG  values  providing  further  support  for  sufficient  coverage  during 
initiation of IDegLira treatment. 
43 
 
Figure 14 Mean fasting SMPG for dose adjustment by treatment week – Trial 3912 - 
FAS 
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
)
L
/
l
o
m
m
(
G
P
M
S
g
n
i
t
s
a
F
F
a
s
t
i
n
g
S
M
P
G
189.21
180.20
171.19
162.18
153.17
144.16
135.15
126.14
m
117.13
g
/
d
108.12
L
)99.11
(
-2 0
2
4
6
8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28
Time since Randomisation (Week)
IDegLira
IDeg
FAS; LOCF imputed data
SMPG = Self Measured Plasma Glucose
Endpoint is calculated as the mean of the available SMPG values used for titration      
All values are only available post baseline at week 0.5
Error bars: +- Standard Error (Mean)
/
/f
/
The distributions of end-of-trial doses of IDegLira and IDeg are shown for Trials 3697 and 3912 in Figure 
15 and Figure 16, respectively. Doses of IDegLira after 26 weeks of treatment in Trial 3697 spanned the 
dose range of up to 50 dose steps of IDegLira, with approximately 55% of subjects receiving from 40 to 
50 dose steps per day (Figure 15). At the end of the main trial period (Week 26) the mean daily IDegLira 
dose was 38 dose steps, and 39.7% of subjects reached a daily insulin dose of 50 dose steps. After 52 
weeks of IDegLira treatment 43.0% of subjects had reached a daily insulin dose of 50 dose steps. 
As expected, fewer subjects in Trial 3912 received doses in the lower range, (Figure 16) due to a trial 
population of previous insufficiently controlled basal insulin users with a presumed need of relatively high 
doses of trial medication. The mean daily IDegLira dose was 45 dose steps at end-of-trial, and 65.3% of 
IDegLira-treated subjects reached a daily insulin dose of 50 dose steps.  
44 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 15 Actual daily dose of IDegLira (in dose steps) and IDeg (in units) after 26 
weeks of treatment – Trial 3697 – SAS 
s
t
c
e
j
b
u
s
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
]0-10]
]10-20]
]20-30]
]30-40]
]40-50]
]50-60]
]60-70]
]70-80]
]80-90]
]90-100]
]100-110]
]110-120]
]120-
Dose
  Data is based on trial NN9068-3697 
  SAS: LOCF imputed data 
IDegLira
IDeg
Figure 16 Actual daily dose of IDegLira (in dose steps) and IDeg (in units) after 26 
weeks of treatment – Trial 3912 – SAS 
s
t
c
e
j
b
u
s
f
o
e
g
a
t
n
e
c
r
e
P
80
75
70
65
60
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
]0-10]
]10-20]
]20-30]
]30-40]
]40-50]
]50-
Dose
IDegLira
IDeg
  Data is based on trial NN9068-3912 
  SAS: LOCF imputed data 
Glycaemic control was maintained in subjects who reached the maximum dose level of IDegLira, which 
supports the adequacy of the applied dose range of IDegLira. The HbA1c at end of trial (Week 26 and 
Week 52) in Trial 3697 was, however, slightly lower for subjects receiving a daily insulin dose < 50 dose 
steps/units versus those reaching 50 dose steps/units (after 26 weeks: 6.3% vs. 6.5%; after 52 weeks: 
6.3% vs. 6.6%). The difference was relatively small, and the corresponding results for Trial 3912 did not 
show a similar difference. Results for HbA1c responders by actual daily insulin dose < 50 or ≥ 50 dose 
steps/units  showed  the  same  pattern,  confirming  that  a  substantial  proportion  of  subjects  reached 
glycaemic control, regardless of previous antidiabetic treatment.  
45 
 
                
   
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
   
 
                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main studies 
The following table summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as well 
as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 9 (overview) Key efficacy results of IDegLira treatment in the confirmatory 
trials 
Trial 3697  
(insulin naïve) 
Trial 3912  
(insulin treated) 
Trial 3951  
(SU ± metformin) 
HbA1c 
    Baseline 
    Week 26 
    Change 
  8.3% 
  6.4% 
 -1.91 %-point 
  8.7% 
  6.9% 
 -1.90 %-point 
Responders, HbA1c <7% 
80.6% 
Responders, HbA1c <6.5% 
69.7% 
60.3% 
45.2% 
7.9 % 
6.4 % 
-1.45 % 
79.2 % 
64.0 % 
Mean daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks 
38  units 
45 units 
28 units 
FPG 
    Baseline  
    Week 26 
    Change 
Mean 9-point profile post 
prandial increment (across 
all meals)  
    Baseline  
    Week 26 
    Change 
Body weight 
    Baseline  
    Week 26 
    Change 
  9.2   mmol/L 
  5.6   mmol/L 
 -3.62 mmol/L 
  9.7   mmol/L 
  6.2   mmol/L 
 -3.46 mmol/L 
 9.1   mmol/L 
 6.5   mmol/L 
-2.60 mmol/L 
  2.3   mmol/L 
  1.9   mmol/L 
 -0.4   mmol/L 
  2.5   mmol/L 
  2.2   mmol/L 
 -0.3   mmol/L 
  2.6   mmol/L 
  2.3   mmol/L 
 -0.3   mmol/L 
87.2   kg 
86.7   kg 
 -0.5   kg 
95.4   kg 
92.7   kg 
 -2.7   kg 
87.2  kg 
87.7  kg 
0.5    kg 
Table 9a 
Summary of efficacy for Trial 3697 
Title: DUAL I - DUal Action of Liraglutide and insulin degludec in type 2 diabetes: A trial comparing the 
efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/liraglutide, insulin degludec and liraglutide in subjects with type 
2 diabetes.  
A 26-week randomised, parallel three-arm, open-label, multi-centre, multinational treat-to-target trial 
comparing fixed ratio combination of insulin degludec and liraglutide versus insulin degludec or 
liraglutide alone, in subjects with type 2 diabetes treated with 1-2 oral anti-diabetic drugs (OADs) with 
a 26-week extension 
Study 
identifier 
Protocol number: NN9068-3697; EudraCT number: 2010-021560-15;  
Study identifier: NCT01336023. See Trial 3697 report body (M 5.3.5.1). 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Design 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
The trial was a 26-week randomised, controlled, parallel three-arm, open-label, multi 
centre, multinational, treat-to-target trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately 
controlled with 1−2 OADs (metformin or metformin + pioglitazone) with a 26-week 
extension comparing the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/liraglutide (IDegLira) 
once daily with insulin degludec (IDeg) once daily and liraglutide once daily. 
Inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes was defined as an HbA1c level of 7.0−10.0% 
(both inclusive).  
Eligible subjects were randomised 2:1:1 to receive one of three parallel treatments 
consisting of once daily IDegLira, IDeg or liraglutide. Metformin or metformin + 
pioglitazone were continued at pre-trial doses and dosing frequency throughout the 
trial. The randomisation was stratified by previous treatment with metformin and 
metformin + pioglitazone and baseline HbA1c (≤ 8.3% and > 8.3%, respectively).  
Subjects in the liraglutide arm followed a dose escalation scheme with a starting dose of 
0.6 mg and a dose increase of 0.6 mg weekly until the target dose of 1.8 mg was 
reached (in accordance with Victoza labelling). Starting dose for IDegLira was 10 dose 
steps (10 units IDeg and 0.36 mg liraglutide) and for IDeg 10 units, and both products 
were titrated twice weekly, according to the predefined titration algorithm based on 
fasting SMPG levels. Maximum dose for IDegLira was 50 dose steps (50 units IDeg and 
1.8 mg liraglutide). There was no maximum dose for IDeg.  
At selected sites, a sub-study comprising continuous glucose measurement (CGM) and 
a meal test was performed. The main trial (26 weeks) and the full trial period (26 weeks 
+ 26 weeks extension) were reported in separate trial reports. Below is a summary of 
the main trial.   
Duration of main trial: 
The main objective of the trial was to confirm efficacy of IDegLira in controlling 
glycaemia in subjects with type 2 diabetes, by investigating if non-inferiority of 
IDegLira vs. IDeg and superiority of IDegLira versus liraglutide was demonstrated: 
Non-inferiority of IDegLira vs. IDeg was confirmed when the 95% confidence interval 
(CI) for the treatment differences for change in HbA1c lies entirely below 0.3%; 
equivalent to a one-sided test with a significance level of 2.5%. 
Superiority of IDegLira over liraglutide was confirmed when the 95% CI for the 
treatment difference for change in HbA1c lies entirely below 0%; equivalent to a 
one-sided test with a significance level of 2.5%. Superiority was only investigated for 
the full analysis set (FAS).  
The trial also aimed at showing superiority of IDegLira vs IDeg for four confirmatory 
secondary endpoints using Holm-Bonferroni method to control for type-I error rate: 1) 
Daily insulin dose; 2) Change from baseline in body weight; 3) Number of 
hypoglycaemic episodes; 4) Meal test - post prandial glucose profile. The requirement 
for a successful result, in addition to the primary endpoint, was that at least one of the 
endpoints used for superiority of IDegLira vs. IDeg gave a statistically significant result 
after adjustment for multiple testing.  
Insulin degludec/liraglutide 
(IDegLira) 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
A total of 834 subjects were randomised to the 
IDegLira treatment group (dosed OD + 
pre-trial OAD). The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks. 
A total of 414 subjects were randomised to the 
IDeg treatment group (dosed OD + pre-trial 
OAD). The total treatment duration was 26 
weeks. 
A total of 415 subjects were randomised in the 
liraglutide treatment group (dosed OD + 
pre-trial OAD). The total treatment duration 
was 26 weeks. 
See Hypothesis. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
Liraglutide 
Endpoints 
and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%-point) 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
47 
 
 
 
1) 
Confirmator
ysecondary 
endpoint 
2) 
Confirmator
y secondary 
endpoint 
Daily insulin dose after 
26 weeks of treatment 
Change from baseline 
in body weight after 
26 weeks of treatment 
3) 
Confirmator
ysecondary 
endpoint 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic 
episodes after 26 
weeks of treatment 
4) 
Confirmator
y secondary 
endpoint 
Meal test - post 
prandial glucose 
increment (iAUC0-4h) 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Responders for HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in FPG after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in 9-point SMPG 
profile after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
Supportive 
secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in 9-point 
post-prandial 
increments (all meals) 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
The daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of 
treatment was compared between the 
IDegLira and IDeg treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation and adjusted for multiple 
testing. 
Change from baseline in body weight after  
26 weeks of treatment was compared between 
the IDegLira and IDeg treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation and adjusted for multiple 
testing. 
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes after 26 weeks of treatment was 
compared between the IDegLira and IDeg 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation and 
adjusted for multiple testing. 
Change from baseline after 26 weeks of 
treatment in iAUC0-4h was compared between 
the IDegLira and IDeg treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation and adjusted for multiple 
testing. 
The numbers of subjects that met a 
pre-defined HbA1c target level after 26 weeks 
of treatment (HbA1c < 7.0% or HbA1c ≤ 
6.5%) was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Change from baseline in FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Mean of the 9-point profile was defined as the 
area under the profile (calculated using the 
trapezoidal method) divided by the actual 
measurement time after 26 weeks of 
treatment. This was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Mean post prandial increment across all meals 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Database 
lock 
Results and Analysis  
17 Jul 2012 
Analysis 
description 
Key efficacy endpoints 
48 
 
 
 
Analysis 
population 
and time 
point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
The FAS included all randomised subjects, except for 3 subjects from Site 946 who were 
excluded due to unsigned case books (site closure). Analysis of the efficacy endpoints 
including confirmatory analysis on confirmed hypoglycaemia were based on the FAS (N 
= 833). The population consisted of male and female subjects with type 2 diabetes ≥ 18 
years of age (78.4% in the age group 40-65 years), with a mean duration of diabetes of 
6.84 years, mean HbA1c of 8.3%, and mean BMI of 31.3 kg/m2. A total of 82.7% 
subjects reported metformin as their single OAD pre-trial whereas 17.3% reported 
metformin and pioglitazone as their pre-trial OAD. The percentage of completers in 
each group was 88.2%, 88.4% and 82.4% for IDegLira, IDeg and liraglutide, 
respectively. For the sub-study this was 94.7%, 96.9% and 93.8% of the subjects 
treated with IDegLira, IDeg and or liraglutide, respectively. 
Change in HbA1c, insulin dose, body weight, post-prandial increment in glucose 
(iAUC0-4h), FPG, mean of the 9-point profile (SMPG) and 9-point post-prandial 
increments  at end of treatment were analysed using an analysis of variance (ANCOVA) 
model. The model included treatment, previous anti-diabetic treatment, baseline 
HbA1c stratum, sub-study participation and region as fixed factors and the 
corresponding baseline value as a covariate. A mixed effect model using an 
unstructured residual covariance matrix for measurements within subject was fitted to 
the 9-point profile data. The model included treatment, time-point, previous 
anti-diabetic treatment, baseline HbA1c stratum, sub-study participation, country and 
treatment by time-point interaction as fixed factors and baseline 9-point profile value 
as covariate.  
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period 
in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The 
model included treatment, previous anti-diabetic treatment, baseline HbA1c stratum, 
sub-study participation and country as fixed factors. Analysis of the responder 
endpoints was based on a logistic regression model with treatment, region, baseline 
HbA1c stratum, sub-study participation and previous OAD treatment as fixed factors 
and baseline HbA1c value as a covariate.  
The Holm-Bonferroni method was used to adjust for multiplicity.  
Treatment group 
Liraglutide  
IDegLira 
IDeg 
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean %-point 
(SD) 
HbA1c at baseline,  
mean % (SD) 
HbA1c at Week 26,  
mean % (SD) 
Responder to HbA1c,  
‘yes’%: < 7.0%; ≤ 6.5%  
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment,  
mean units (SD) 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 weeks 
of treatment, mean kg 
(SD) 
Change from baseline in 
post-prandial glucose 
increments after 26 weeks 
of treatment, mean 
mmol/L (SD) – 
sub-population 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes, 
per 100 PYE 
833 
-1.91 
(1.07) 
413 
-1.44 
(1.03) 
414 
-1.28 (1.13) 
8.3 (0.9) 
8.3 (1.0) 
8.3 (0.9) 
6.4 (1.0) 
6.9 (1.1) 
7.0 (1.2) 
80.6; 69.7 
65.1; 47.5  60.4; 41.1 
38 (13) 
53 (28) 
N/A 
-0.5 (3.5) 
1.6 (4.0) 
-3.0 (3.5) 
-0.87 
(1.65)       
-0.17 
(1.98)       
-0.78 (1.62) 
180.2 
256.7 
22.0 
49 
 
Effect 
estimate per 
comparison 
FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
Change from baseline in 
FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD)  
Change from baseline in 
9-point SMPG profile after  
26 weeks of treatment,  
mean mmol/L (SD) 
Change from baseline in  
9-point post-prandial 
increments (all meals) 
after  
26 weeks of treatment,  
mean mmol/L (SD) 
Primary endpoint: Change 
from baseline in HbA1c  
(%-point) after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
1) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
2) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint:  
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 26 weeks 
of treatment 
3) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
4) Confirmatory secondary 
endpoint: Change in 
glucose iAUC0-4h after 26 
weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Responders to HbA1c 
(<7.0%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Responders to HbA1c 
(≤6.5%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Change from baseline in 
FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD)  
Change from baseline in 
9-point SMPG profile after 
26 weeks of treatment,  
mean mmol/L (SD) 
5.6 (1.8) 
5.8 (2.3) 
7.3 (2.5) 
-3.62 
(2.62) 
-3.61 
(2.97) 
-1.75 (2.81) 
-3.2 (2.4)  
-3.0 (2.4)  
-2.1 (2.4) 
-0.4 (2.0)  
-0.2 (2.1)  
-0.6 (1.9) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
-0.64 
[-0.75; 
-0.53]* 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.47 
[-0.58;-0.3
6]* 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-14.90  
[-17.14 ; -12.66]* 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-2.22 
[-2.64; -1.80]* 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – IDeg 
0.68 
[0.53 ; 0.87]* 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-0.71  
[-1.17 ; -0.26]* 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
50 
IDegLira - 
IDeg 
2.38  
[ 1.78 ; 
3.18]* 
IDegLira - 
IDeg 
2.82  
[ 2.17 ; 
3.67]* 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.17                 -1.76                 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
3.26  
[ 2.45 ; 
4.33]* 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
3.98  
[ 3.05 ; 
5.18]* 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
[-0.41 ; 
0.07] 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.30 
[-2.00 
;-1.53]* 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
-0.93  
[-0.50; 
-0.09] 
[-1.13; 
-0.73]* 
 
 
 
Notes 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.45  
[-0.63 
;-0.28]* 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
0.06  
[-0.11 ; 
0.23] 
Change from baseline in 
9-point post-prandial 
increments (all meals) 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment,  
mean mmol/L (SD) 
A total of 13.2% of the subjects withdrew during the trial. Lower proportions of 
withdrawals were observed with IDegLira and IDeg (11.8% and 11.6%, respectively) 
than compared to the liraglutide treatment group (17.6% withdrew). The differences in 
withdrawals between the treatment groups were driven by higher proportions of 
subjects treated with liraglutide withdrawing due to AEs. Most of the AEs leading to 
withdrawal in the liraglutide arm were related to gastrointestinal events (16 out of 24). 
The majority of all subjects, both in total and per treatment arm, withdrew due to 
fulfilment of 
withdrawal criteria: 69 (8.3%) subjects with IDegLira, 34 (8.2%) with IDeg and 40 
(9.6%) with 
liraglutide. Number of subjects withdrawing due to fulfilling of the Withdrawal Criterion 
2 (non-compliant and safety concern) was 32 out of 69 with IDegLira treatment, 11 out 
of 34 with IDeg and 16 out of 39 with liraglutide. Of the subjects withdrawing due to 
fulfilling of Withdrawal Criteria, 9 out of 39 subjects with liraglutide withdrew due to 
Withdrawal Criterion 5 (continuous high SMPG). For IDegLira and IDeg treatment 
groups this was 2 out of 69 or 2 out of 34, respectively. 
No trend for subject withdrawal could be determined based on the reasons specified in 
other. In total, there were 30 subjects withdrawn due to other (given as primary reason 
for withdrawal).  All 30 subjects withdrew at or after randomisation. Of those, 17 
subjects were randomised in error, 8 discontinued due to site closure, 2 were lost to 
follow up, 1 discontinued due to relocation, 1 due to hypoglycaemia and 1 due to 
unstable metformin dose.  
ANCOVA: analysis of variance; BMI: body mass index; CAS: completers analysis set, CI: confidence interval; 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; 
FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA 1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; IDeg: insulin degludec; 
IDegLira: insulin degludec/liraglutide, OAD, oral anti-diabetic treatment, OD: once daily, PP: per protocol; PYE: patient 
years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma glucose.*: 
statistically significant 
51 
 
 
Table 9b 
Summary of efficacy for Trial 3697-52w 
Title: DUAL I - DUal Action of Liraglutide and insulin degludec in type 2 diabetes: A trial comparing the 
efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/liraglutide, insulin degludec and liraglutide in subjects with type 
2 diabetes.  
A 26-week randomised, parallel three-arm, open-label, multi-centre, multinational treat-to-target trial 
comparing fixed ratio combination of insulin degludec and liraglutide versus insulin degludec or 
liraglutide alone, in subjects with type 2 diabetes treated with 1-2 oral anti-diabetic drugs (OADs) with 
a 26-week extension 
Study 
identifier 
Design 
Protocol number: NN9068-3697; EudraCT number: 2010-021560-15; Study identifier: 
NCT01336023. See Trial 3697-52w  report body (M 5.3.5.1). 
The present trial was a 26-week randomised, controlled, parallel three-arm, open-label, 
multi centre, multinational, treat-to-target trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes 
inadequately controlled with 1-2 OADs (metformin or metformin + pioglitazone) with a 
26-week extension comparing the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/liraglutide 
(IDegLira) once daily with the single components insulin degludec (IDeg) once daily and 
liraglutide once daily. Inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes was defined as an HbA1c 
level of 7.0-10.0% (both inclusive). 
Eligible subjects were randomised 2:1:1 to receive one of three parallel treatments 
consisting of once daily IDegLira, IDeg or liraglutide. Metformin or metformin + 
pioglitazone were continued at pre-trial doses and dosing frequency throughout the 
trial. The randomisation was stratified by previous treatment with metformin and 
metformin + pioglitazone and baseline HbA1c (≤ 8.3% and > 8.3%, respectively). All 
treatments were open-label. 
Subjects in the liraglutide arm followed a fixed dose escalation scheme with a dose 
increase of 0.6 mg weekly until the target dose of 1.8 mg was reached. Initial dose for 
IDegLira and IDeg was 10 dose steps and 10 units, respectively, and titrated twice 
weekly, according to the predefined titration algorithm based on fasting SMPG levels. 
Maximum dose for IDegLira was 50 dose steps (50 units IDeg and 1.8 mg liraglutide). 
There was no maximum dose for IDeg. 
At selected sites, a sub-study comprising continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) and a 
meal test was performed. 
26 weeks after randomisation, all subjects were invited to enter additional 26 weeks of 
treatment. The subjects were to continue the same treatment at unchanged dose 
(liraglutide arm) or dosing regimen (IDeg and IDegLira arms). 
Duration of main phase: 
26 weeks (+ 1 week follow-up for those 
subjects not entering the extension trial) 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up (Trial 3697 ext) 
Duration of extension phase: 
Sustained efficacy of IDegLira as compared to IDeg and liraglutide was investigated by 
evaluation of the mean HbA1c value after 52 weeks and by estimating the 2-sided 95% 
CI for the treatment difference (IDegLira – IDeg) and (IDegLira – liraglutide) for the 
change in HbA1c after 52 weeks of treatment. 
Insulin degludec/liragltuide 
(IDegLira) 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
A total of 834 subjects were randomised to the 
IDegLira treatment group (dosed OD + 
pre-trial OAD). The total treatment duration 
was 52 weeks. 
A total of 414 subjects were randomised to the 
IDeg treatment group (dosed OD + pre-trial 
OAD). The total treatment duration was 52 
weeks. 
A total of 415 subjects were randomised to the 
liraglutide treatment group (dosed OD + 
pre-trial OAD). The total treatment duration 
was 52 weeks. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
Liraglutide 
52 
 
 
Endpoints 
and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%-point) 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment 
Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%-point) 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Responders for HbA1c 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Daily insulin dose after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in FPG after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in 9-point SMPG 
profile after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in 9-point 
post-prandial 
increments (all meals) 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Meal test - post 
prandial glucose 
increment (iAUC0-4h) 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Change from baseline 
in body weight after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic 
episodes after 52 
weeks of treatment 
Database 
lock 
15 Jan 2013 
The primary endpoint was analysed after 
26-weeks of treatment and was not applicable 
for the 52-week trial 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after 52 weeks 
of treatment was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation 
The numbers of subjects that met a 
pre-defined HbA1c target level after 52 weeks 
of treatment (HbA1c < 7.0% or HbA1c ≤ 
6.5%) was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation 
The daily insulin dose after 52 weeks of 
treatment was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation  
Change from baseline in FPG after 52 weeks of 
treatment was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation 
Mean of the 9-point profile was defined as the 
area under the profile (calculated using the 
trapezoidal method) divided by the actual 
measurement time after 52 weeks of 
treatment. This was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Mean post prandial increment across all meals 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Change from baseline after 52 weeks of 
treatment in iAUC0-4h was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation 
Change from baseline in body weight after 52 
weeks of treatment was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic 
episodes after 52 weeks of treatment was 
compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
safety evaluation. 
53 
 
 
 
 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population 
and time 
point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Key efficacy endpoints 
The full analysis set (FAS) included all randomised subjects except for 3 subjects from 
Site 946 who were excluded due to unsigned case books (site closure). Analysis of the 
efficacy endpoints were based on the FAS (N= 833). The population consisted of male 
and female subjects with type 2 diabetes ≥ 18 years of age (78.4% in the age group 
40-65 years), with a mean duration of diabetes of 6.85 years, mean HbA1c of 8.3%, 
and mean BMI of 31.2 kg/m2. A total of 83.0% subjects reported metformin as their 
single OAD pre-trial, whereas 17.0% reported metformin and pioglitazone as their 
pre-trial OAD. The percentage of completers in each treatment group was 74.52%, 
73.7% and 68.7% for IDegLira, IDeg and liraglutide, respectively. In the sub-study, 
76.3%, 75.0% and 72.3% of the subjects treated with IDegLira, IDeg and or liraglutide, 
respectively, completed the trial. 
Change in HbA1c, insulin dose, body weight, post-prandial increment in glucose 
(iAUC0-4h), FPG, mean of the 9-point profile (SMPG) and 9-point post-prandial 
increments at end of treatment were analysed using an analysis of variance (ANCOVA) 
model. The model included treatment, previous anti-diabetic treatment, baseline 
HbA1c stratum, sub-study participation and region as fixed factors and the 
corresponding baseline value as a covariate. A mixed effect model using an 
unstructured residual covariance matrix for measurements within subject was fitted to 
the 9-point profile data. The model included treatment, time-point, previous 
anti-diabetic treatment, baseline HbA1c stratum, sub-study participation, country and 
treatment by time-point interaction as fixed factors and baseline 9-point profile value 
as covariate.  
The number of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes was analysed using a negative 
binomial regression model with a log-link function and the logarithm of the time period 
in which a hypoglycaemic episode was considered treatment emergent as offset. The 
model included treatment, previous anti-diabetic treatment, baseline HbA1c stratum, 
sub-study participation and country as fixed factors. Analysis of the responder 
endpoints was based on a logistic regression model with treatment, region, baseline 
HbA1c stratum, sub-study participation and previous OAD treatment as fixed factors 
and baseline HbA1c value as a covariate.  
Treatment group 
IDegLira 
IDeg 
Liraglutide  
Number of subjects (FAS) 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean %-point 
(SD) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % 
(SD) 
HbA1c at Week 52, 
mean % (SD) 
Responder to HbA1c, 
‘yes’%: < 7.0%; ≤ 6.5%   
Total daily insulin dose 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean units 
(SD)  
Change from baseline in 
FPG after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
FPG after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
833 
-1.84 
(1.08)  
413 
-1.40 
(1.06)  
414 
-1.21 (1.21) 
8.3 (0.9)  
8.3 (0.9)  
8.3 (0.8) 
6.4 (1.0)   
6.9 (1.1) 
7.1 (1.2)  
78.2, 66.9  
62.5, 49.2  56.5, 38.2 
39 (13)  
62 (42) 
N/A 
-3.45 
(2.57)  
-3.40 
(3.00)  
-1.67 (2.88) 
5.7 (2.0)  
6.0 (2.5) 
7.3 (2.5) 
54 
 
 
Effect 
estimate per 
comparison 
Change from baseline in 
9-point SMPG profile after 
52 weeks of treatment, 
mean mmol/L (SD) 
Change from baseline in 
9-point post-prandial 
increments (all meals) 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD) 
Change from baseline in 
post-prandial glucose 
increments after 52 weeks 
of treatments, mean 
mmol/L (SD) – 
sub-population 
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 52 weeks 
of treatment, mean kg 
(SD) 
Observed rate of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment, per 100 PYE 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in 
HbA1c (%) after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Responders for 
HbA1c(<7%) after 52 
weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Responders for 
HbA1c(≤6.5%) after 52 
weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Daily insulin dose after 52 
weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in 
FPG after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in 
9-point SMPG profile after 
52 weeks of treatment 
Secondary endpoint: 
Change from baseline in 
9-point post-prandial 
increments (all meals) 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
-3.2 (2.3)   
-3.0 (2.4) 
-2.1 (2.4) 
-0.4 (2.0)  
-0.2 (2.1)   -0.6 (2.0) 
-0.86 
(1.78)  
-0.23 
(1.84)  
-0.93 (1.71) 
-0.4 (4.2)    2.3 (5.7) 
-3.0 (4.1) 
176.7 
279.1 
19.1 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
-0.65  
[-0.76 
;-0.53]* 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
3.42  
[ 2.58 ; 
4.54]* 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
3.94  
[ 3.02 ; 
5.14]* 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
N/A 
N/A 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.46  
[-0.57 
;-0.34]* 
IDegLira - 
IDeg 
2.35  
[ 1.77 ; 
3.13]* 
IDegLira - 
IDeg 
2.26  
[ 1.74 ; 
2.93]* 
IDegLira - 
IDeg 
-23.38  
[-26.44;-20.3
1]* 
IDegLira - 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
IDeg 
-0.20  
-1.67  
[-0.45 ; 0.05]  [-1.92 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.30  
[-0.50 
;-0.11] 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.39  
[-0.57 
;-0.21]* 
;-1.42]* 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
-0.99  
[-1.19 
;-0.80]* 
IDegLira – 
liraglutide 
0.10  
[-0.08 ; 
0.27] 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Rate ratio 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
55 
 
 
Notes 
Secondary endpoint: Meal 
test - post prandial glucose 
profile after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Secondary endpoint:  
Change from baseline in 
body weight after 52 weeks 
of treatment 
Secondary endpoint:  
Number of confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes 
after 52 weeks of 
treatment 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison groups 
Treatment contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-0.64  
[-1.11 ; 
-0.17]* 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
-2.80  
[-3.34 
;-2.27]* 
IDegLira – 
IDeg 
0.63  
[0.50; 0.79]
* 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
0.05  
[-0.43 ; 
0.53] 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
2.66  
[ 2.13 ; 
3.20]* 
IDegLira - 
liraglutide 
8.52  
[6.09; 
11.93]* 
A total of 13.3% of the subjects withdrew after randomisation but before the extension 
period. In 
the liraglutide treatment group 17.6% withdrew whereas lower proportions were 
observed with 
IDegLira and IDeg (12.0% and 11.6%, respectively). 
Withdrawal during the extension period was 5.3% with IDegLira, 6.8% with IDeg and 
6.7% with liraglutide. As for the main period of the trial the majority of subjects 
withdrew during the extension period due to fulfilment of different withdrawal criteria: 
19 (2.3%) subjects with IDegLira, 14 (3.4%) with IDeg and 16 (3.9%) with liraglutide. 
There was no treatment specific trend except for withdrawals due to Withdrawal 
Criterion 5 (continuous high SMPG) (1 subject with IDegLira, and 5 with liraglutide 
treatment). 
No trend for subject withdrawal could be determined based on the reasons specified in 
other. In 
total, there were 30 subjects withdrawn due to primary reason for withdrawal other 
during the main period of the trial and 40 during the extension. All these subjects 
withdrew at or after randomisation. Of those, 43 discontinued due to site closure, 17 
subjects were randomised in error, 3 were lost to follow up, 3 discontinued due to 
relocation, 1 due to personal reasons, 1 due to unstable metformin dose, and 1 due to 
hypoglycaemia. 
ANCOVA: analysis of variance; BMI: body mass index; CAS: completers analysis set, CI: confidence interval; 
Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes: the subject unable to treat himself/herself and/or has a recorded PG < 3.1 mmol/L; 
ETS: extension trial set, FAS: full analysis set; FPG: fasting plasma glucose; HbA 1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c; 
IDeg: insulin degludec; IDegLira: insulin degludec/liraglutide, OAD, oral anti-diabetic treatment, OD: once daily, PP: 
per protocol; PYE: patient years of exposure; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured 
plasma glucose.*: statistically significant 
Table 9c 
Summary of efficacy for Trial 3912 
Title: DUAL™ II - A trial comparing the efficacy and safety of insulin degludec/liraglutide and insulin 
degludec in subjects with type 2 diabetes. A 26-week randomised, parallel, two-arm, double-blind, 
multi-centre, multinational, treat-to-target trial comparing fixed ratio combination of insulin degludec 
and liraglutide with insulin degludec in subjects with type 2 diabetes 
Study 
identifier 
Protocol number: NN9068-3912; EudraCT number: 2011-002336-72;  
Study identifier: NCT01392573. See Trial 3912 report body (M 5.3.5.1). 
56 
 
 
Design 
The trial was a 26-week randomised, parallel, two-arm, double-blind, multi-centre, 
multinational, treat-to-target trial in subjects with type 2 diabetes inadequately 
controlled with basal insulin and metformin with or without SU or glinides comparing 
the efficacy and safety of IDegLira once daily (OD) with IDeg OD both added on to 
metformin. Inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes was defined as HbA1c level of 
7.5−10.0% (both inclusive). 
Eligible subjects were randomised 1:1 to either once daily insulin degludec/liraglutide 
(IDegLira) or once daily insulin degludec (IDeg), both in combination with metformin. 
Pre-trial treatment with basal insulin and SU or glinides (if applicable) was to be 
discontinued at Visit 2. Throughout the trial, metformin treatment should be 
maintained at the stable, pre-randomisation dose and frequency, although dose 
adjustments for safety reasons were allowed.  
The starting dose was 16 dose steps for IDegLira and 16 units for IDeg and was titrated 
twice weekly according to the predefined titration algorithm, based on FPG levels. 
Subjects were to measure fasting self-measured plasma glucose (SMPG) values during 
the trial. The IDegLira starting dose of 16 dose steps (16 units IDeg and 0.6 mg 
liraglutide) is in accordance with the recommended start dose of 0.6 mg/day with 
Victoza®. The maximum dose in the two arms was 50 dose steps and 50 units for 
IDegLira and IDeg, respectively, allowing dose-equivalence with regards to the 
maximum insulin dose. This was done in order to demonstrate the additional benefits of 
the liraglutide component to overall glycaemic control and related endpoints, compared 
to IDeg at insulin dose equivalence. 
Duration of trial: 
26 weeks + 1 week follow-up 
Hypothesis 
Treatments 
groups 
Superiority of IDegLira over IDeg was concluded if the 95% confidence interval (CI) for 
the treatment difference for change in HbA1c lies entirely below 0%. If superiority was 
concluded, the primary objective was considered fulfilled. Conclusion of superiority was 
only based on the full analysis set (FAS).  
Insulin degludec/liraglutide 
(IDegLira)  
A total of 207 subjects were randomised to 
IDegLira dosed OD + metformin. The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks. 
Insulin degludec (IDeg)  
Endpoints 
and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in HbA1c (%-point) 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment. 
Responders for HbA1c 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Total daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of 
treatment. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in FPG after 26 weeks 
of treatment. 
A total of 206 subjects were randomised to 
IDeg dosed OD + metformin. The total 
treatment duration was 26 weeks.  
See Hypothesis.  
The numbers of subjects that met a specific 
HbA1c target level after 26 weeks of treatment  
(HbA1c < 7.0% or HbA1c ≤ 6.5%) was 
compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
The total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of 
treatment was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Change from baseline in FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment was compared between treatment 
groups and assessed by statistical analysis as 
part of the efficacy evaluation. 
57 
 
 
 
 
Secondary 
endpoint 
SMPG 9-point profiles 
including mean of  
9-point profile and 
mean of post-prandial 
increments. 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Change from baseline 
in body weight after  
26 weeks of 
treatment. 
Database 
lock 
28-Nov-2012 
Results and Analysis  
Mean of the 9-point profile was defined as the 
area under the profile (calculated using the 
trapezoidal method) divided by the actual 
measurement time after 26 weeks of 
treatment. This was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Mean post-prandial increment across all meals 
was compared between treatment groups and 
assessed by statistical analysis as part of the 
efficacy evaluation. 
Change from baseline in body weight after  
26 weeks of treatment was compared between 
treatment groups and assessed by statistical 
analysis as part of the efficacy evaluation. 
Analysis 
description 
Analysis 
population 
and time 
point 
description 
Statistical 
methods 
Key efficacy endpoints  
The FAS included all randomised subjects except all 15 subjects from site 105 that were 
excluded from all analyses due to compromised data integrity. Analyses of efficacy 
endpoints were based on the FAS (N=398). The population consisted of male and 
female subjects with type 2 diabetes ≥ 18 years of age, pre-trial diabetes treatment: 
20-40 U of basal insulin and metformin  
±SU/glinides, mean age: 57.2 years, mean duration of diabetes: 10.6 years, mean 
HbA1c: 8.8%, and mean BMI: 33.7 kg/m2. In total, 84.5% and 83.0% of the subjects 
completed the trial in the IDegLira and IDeg treatment group, respectively. 
Change in HbA1c from baseline after 26 weeks of treatment was analysed using a 
standard analysis of variance (ANCOVA) model. The model included treatment, 
previous antidiabetic treatment, and country as fixed factors and the corresponding 
baseline value as a covariate. The primary objective was fulfilled only if superiority of 
IDegLira vs. IDeg was confirmed. The daily insulin dose after 26 weeks of treatment 
was analysed using a standard ANCOVA model using FAS. The model included 
treatment, previous antidiabetic treatment and country as fixed factors and baseline 
HbA1c value and baseline insulin dose as covariates. Analysis of each of the two 
responder endpoints was based on a logistic regression model with treatment, region 
and previous anti-diabetic treatment as fixed factors and baseline HbA1c value as a 
covariate. Change from baseline in FPG and body weight after 26 weeks of treatment 
were analysed using the standard ANCOVA model. Change from baseline in the mean of 
the 9-point profile (SMPG) and postprandial increments endpoints after 26 weeks of 
treatment were analysed separately using the standard ANCOVA model. The endpoint 
value obtained at baseline was used as covariate. 
Descriptive 
statistics and 
estimate 
variability 
Treatment group 
Number of subjects (FAS). 
Change from baseline in HbA1c after  
26 weeks of treatment, mean 
%-point (SD). 
IDegLira 
199 
IDeg 
199 
-1.9 (1.09) 
-0.89 (1.18) 
HbA1c at baseline, mean % (SD). 
8.7 (0.7) 
HbA1c at Week 26, mean % (SD). 
Responders to HbA1c < 7.0%, N (%). 
6.9 (1.0) 
120 (60.3) 
Responders to HbA1c ≤ 6.5%, N (%). 
90 (45.2) 
8.8 (0.7) 
8.0 (1.2) 
46 (23.1) 
26 (13.1) 
Total daily insulin dose after 26 weeks 
of treatment, mean units (SD). 
45 (9) 
45 (10) 
58 
 
Change from baseline in FPG after 26 
weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD).  
FPG after 26 weeks of treatment, mean 
mmol/L (SD).  
Change from baseline in 9-point SMPG 
profile after 26 weeks of treatment,  
mean mmol/L (SD). 
Change from baseline in 9-point 
post-prandial increments (all meals) 
after  
26 weeks of treatment, mean mmol/L 
(SD).  
Change from baseline in body weight 
after 26 weeks of treatment, mean kg 
(SD). 
Primary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in HbA1c (%) after 26 weeks of 
treatment. 
Effect 
estimate per 
comparison 
-3.46 (2.92) 
-2.58 (3.31) 
6.2 (2.4)  
7.0 (2.7) 
-3.2 (2.6)  
-2.0 (2.6)  
-0.3 (2.1) 
0.1 (2.0) 
-2.7 (3.7) 
0.0 (3.4) 
Comparison 
groups 
Treatment 
contrast 
95% CI 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-1.05% 
[-1.25; -0.84]* 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-0.02 unit 
[-1.88; 1.84] 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-0.73 mmol/L 
[-1.19; -0.27]* 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-1.07 mmol/L 
[-1.44; -0.70]* 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-0.37 mmol/L 
[-0.69; -0.04]* 
IDegLira – IDeg 
-2.51 kg 
[-3.21; -1.82]* 
Secondary endpoint: Daily insulin dose 
after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Comparison 
groups 
Secondary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in FPG after 26 weeks of 
treatment. 
Treatment 
contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison 
groups 
Treatment 
contrast 
95% CI 
Secondary endpoint: Mean 9-point 
SMPG after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Comparison 
groups 
Secondary endpoint: Mean postprandial 
increments across all meals after 26 
weeks of treatment. 
Secondary endpoint: Change from 
baseline in body weight after 26 weeks 
of treatment. 
Treatment 
contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison 
groups 
Treatment 
contrast 
95% CI 
Comparison 
groups 
Treatment 
contrast 
95% CI 
59 
 
 
Notes 
A total of 16.2% of the subjects withdrew during the trial. The withdrawal rate was 
15.5% in the IDegLira treatment group and 17.0% in the IDeg treatment group. 
Subjects in both treatment groups withdrew due to withdrawal criteria adverse events, 
ineffective therapy, non-compliance with protocol and for ‘other’ reasons. The 3 AEs 
leading to withdrawal in the IDeg arm were related to ‘acute myocardial infarction’, 
‘cholelithiasis’ and ‘ischaemic stroke’, and the single AE withdrawal in the IDegLira arm 
was related to ’major depression’.  
The majority of all subjects, both in total and per treatment arm, withdrew due to 
fulfilment of withdrawal criteria: 13 subjects in IDegLira (6.3%) and 15 subjects in IDeg 
(7.3%). More subjects withdrew at own will without explanation in the IDegLira 
treatment group (9 out of 13) compared to the IDeg treatment group (6 out of 15). 
More subjects withdrew due to fulfilling of the withdrawal criteria non-compliant and 
safety concern in the IDeg treatment group (4 out of 15) compared to the IDegLira 
treatment group (2 out of 13). Of the subjects withdrawing due to fulfilling of 
withdrawal criteria more subjects in the IDeg treatment group (5 out of 15) withdrew 
due to continuous high SMPG compared to the IDegLira treatment group (1 out of 13).  
In total, there were 30 subjects withdrawn due to primary reason for withdrawal 
“other”. 15 of these subjects were withdrawn due to closure of site 105 (the site was 
closed due to suspicion of misconduct). The remaining 15 subjects were randomised in 
error (11 subjects due to non-fulfilment of inclusion criteria 5, 1 subject due to 
exclusion criteria 14, 2 subjects due to non-fulfilment of exclusion criteria 17, and 1 
subject due to violation of both inclusion number 5 and exclusion number 15). 
BMI: body mass index; CI: confidence interval; FAS: full analysis set; CAS: completer analysis set; FPG: fasting 
plasma glucose; HbA 1c: glycosylated haemoglobin A1c;IDegLira: insulin degludec/liraglutide; IDeg: insulin degludec;  
met: metformin;  OD: once daily; SAS: safety analysis set; SD: standard deviation; SMPG: self-measured plasma 
glucose (pre-breakfast). *statistically significant. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
n/a 
Clinical studies in special populations 
n/a 
Supportive study 
Study 3948 
This  trial  was  a  26-week  randomised,  controlled,  open-label,  multicentre,  multinational,  parallel, 
treat-to-target trial comparing the efficacy and safety of adding liraglutide versus addition of IAsp with 
the  largest  meal  to  IDeg  OD  +  metformin,  in  subjects  with  type  2  diabetes  who  had  completed 
approximately 104 weeks of treatment with IDeg + metformin in NN1250-3579 and the extension trial, 
NN1250-3643, with an end of treatment HbA1c ≥7.0% thus qualifying for treatment intensification.  
A third treatment arm consisted of non-randomised subjects who completed NN1250-3643 and achieved 
the glycaemic target of HbA1c <7.0% at end of treatment. These subjects continued treatment with IDeg 
OD  +  metformin  in  order  to  further  evaluate  the  long-term  sustainability  of  glycaemic  control.  No 
comparisons were made between the non-randomised and the randomised treatment arms. 
The primary objective of the study was to compare the efficacy of adding liraglutide versus adding IAsp to 
the largest meal on top of IDeg (OD) + metformin in controlling glycaemia.  
The  estimated  mean  reduction  in  HbA1c  during  the  trial  was  −0.73  %-points  with  IDeg  +  Lira  and 
−0.40 %- points with IDeg + IAsp, with a statistically significant estimated mean difference in favour of 
IDeg + Lira of −0.32 %−points [−0.53; −0.12]95%CI.  
60 
 
 
Figure 17 HbA1c (%) by treatment week – Mean plot – Full analysis set 
The observed proportion of subjects achieving HbA1c <7% was 58.0% with IDeg + Lira and 44.9% with 
IDeg  +  IAsp.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  terms  of 
achieving  HbA1c  <7.  The  observed  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  HbA1c  <7%  without  confirmed 
hypoglycaemia during the last 12 weeks of treatment was 54.3% with IDeg + Lira and 19.3% with IDeg 
+  IAsp.  The  odds  of  achieving  HbA1c  target  <7%  without  confirmed  hypoglycaemia  was  statistically 
significantly greater with IDeg + Lira than with IDeg + IAsp; estimated odds ratio (IDeg + Lira/IDeg + 
IAsp)  5.57  [2.67;  11.63]95%  CI.  There  were  no  severe  hypoglycaemic  episodes  in  either  of  the 
randomised  treatment  arms.  The  observed  proportion  of  subjects  achieving  HbA1c  <7%  without 
confirmed hypoglycaemia during the last 12 weeks of treatment and without weight gain was 49.4% with 
IDeg + Lira and 7.2% with IDeg + IAsp. The odds of achieving HbA1c target <7% without confirmed 
hypoglycaemia and without weight gain was statistically significantly greater with IDeg + Lira than with 
IDeg + IAsp, with an estimated odds ratio (IDeg + Lira/IDeg + IAsp): 13.79 [5.24; 36.28]95% CI. 
Overall, there were minimal changes in FPG from baseline to end of treatment. There was no statistically 
significant difference between treatment groups. 9-point SMPG values improved for all time points in both 
treatment arms with no statistically significant difference between groups at the end of the trial at any 
time point.  
There was a statistically significant difference in weight change between treatment groups in favour of 
IDeg + Lira after 26 weeks of treatment; the estimated mean weight change was −3.03 and 0.72 kg with 
IDeg + Lira and IDeg + IAsp, respectively, with an estimated treatment difference (IDeg + Lira−IDeg + 
IAsp) of −3.75 kg [−4.70; −2.79]95%CI. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
The  application  was  supported  by  a  limited  study  program  in  order  to  support  the  fixed  combination. 
References are made to the data supporting the MAAs for the two mono-components. This is acceptable 
and in accordance with the EMA Guideline on fixed combination products (CHMP/EWP/240/95 Rev. 1). 
61 
 
 
The studies submitted appear well designed and conducted and follow in all essential part the advice given 
by the CHMP.  
Studies 3697 and 3912 are considered the pivotal studies for this application. Some additional data in 
patients treated with the free combination has been provided with study 3948. One additional study, in 
patients receiving IDegLira as add-on to SU (3951), was submitted during the procedure.   
No dose finding studies were performed. The doses for the fixed combination were chosen mainly based 
on  clinical  experience  in  order  to  allow  the  common  dose-span  for  the  insulin  component  while  not 
exceeding  the  maximal  recommended  dose  for  the  GLP-1  analogue.  Although  this  argumentation  is 
sound, this means that at the lowest recommended IDeg doses, the liraglutide dose is below the lowest 
dose shown to be efficient (0.36 mg compared to 0.6mg). From dose findings studies with liraglutide, it 
can  be  concluded  that  the  effect  decreases  with  doses  below  0.6  mg  but  it is  not  totally  absent.  The 
analyses  presented  support  that  liraglutide  contributes  to  the  effect  also  at  low  doses  of  IDegLira. 
Whether this contribution is of clinical relevance or not remains uncertain.  
However,  judging  from  study  data,  it  can  be  expected  that  in  clinical  practice  most  patients  will  be 
uptitrated to at least 16 dose steps of Xultophy, i.e. receiving at least 0.6 mg of liraglutide. In study 3912, 
< 2% were treated with a dose below 16 dose steps at any time point during the study, and in study 3697, 
the vast majority of patients had a dose above 20 dose steps after 26 weeks of treatment. 
Thus it is considered acceptable to recommend a starting dose of 10 and 16 dose steps for patients on 
OADs and insulin, respectively. 
Trial 3697 investigated the use of IDegLira therapy as add-on to metformin with or without pioglitazone, 
thus compared IDegLira to both the mono-components; IDeg and liraglutide. In Trial 3912 IDegLira was 
compared to IDeg (with a maximum dose of 50 units) as add-on to metformin, thereby investigating the 
contribution of the liraglutide component.  
With regards to the inclusion criteria, in trial 3697 patients were to be insulin-naïve and treated with 1-2 
OADs. Furthermore the lower HbA1c limit was set at 7.0 %. Thus the included population may not be 
totally  representative  of  patients  where  insulin  therapy  is  considered,  since  patients  may  not  be 
considered for insulin therapy unless failing on at least two OADs. Intensifying treatment at HbA1c levels 
above 7.0 % is however in line with current practice guidelines and the inclusion criteria are therefore 
acceptable. For trial 3912, a population with more advanced diabetes was aimed at. Exclusion criteria 
were relevant and were in all essential parts in line with the given advice. No upper age limit was applied 
which is important in order to allow inclusion of sufficient numbers of elderly patients. Withdrawal criteria 
were adequate. 
In both studies, background medication was restricted to metformin and in study 3697, pioglitazone was 
also allowed. Starting doses were lower (10 units of IDeg) in study 3697 where the patients were insulin 
naïve. This is in line with the dosing recommendation for IDeg. The corresponding liraglutide starting dose 
in the fixed combination, however, then is lower than recommended for use of liraglutide in its SmPC. A 
somewhat  higher  starting  dose  (16  dose  steps)  was  used  in  study  3912,  where  patients  were  insulin 
treated at baseline resulting in a liraglutide dose of 0.6 mg as recommended in the current liraglutide 
SmPC. 
In both studies, uptitration of IDegLira and IDeg and liraglutide was based on pre-breakfast (fasting) 
SMPG and the titration schedule is acceptable. 
No rescue medication was allowed, instead withdrawal criteria related to self-monitored fasting plasma 
glucose (SMPG) were used. This is acceptable from a patient safety perspective but carries the risk of 
higher drop-out from the studies.  
62 
 
Considering that it should be shown that both components contribute to the combination, the objective of 
only showing non-inferiority for IDegLira vs. IDeg in trial 3697 is debatable unless secondary objectives 
would be met. It has to be shown that the combination provides other benefits to the patient than the 
mono-component,  which  was  the  case  for  some  of  the  secondary  outcome  parameters.  It  should, 
however, be taken into account that in this study there was no upper limit for the IDeg dose whereas IDeg 
was to be titrated until target glucose levels were met. 
Trial 3912 only compared IDegLira with IDeg and the maximum dose was 50 units in both arms, thus this 
study investigated the contribution of liraglutide in the combination. 
The primary and secondary endpoints were adequate and in line with current guidelines.  
Trial 3697 was conducted as an open-label study due to the differences in titration schedules between the 
treatment  arms.  This  is  acceptable.  Trial  3912  was  conducted  as  a  double  blind  study  which  is 
acknowledged. However, due to the difference in safety profile, i.e. gastrointestinal side effects of the 
liraglutide component, the possibility to maintain the blind could be questioned. 
The sample size calculations were appropriate.  A non-inferiority margin of 0.3% is generally accepted. 
The randomisation procedure and the stratification in each study seem appropriate.  
Trial 3951 investigated the use of IDegLira therapy as add-on to SU with or without metformin using 
placebo as control. The placebo-controlled design shows the absolute additional effect of IDegLira when 
added to SU+/- metformin, but does not compare to another treatment approach (for example, addition 
of a DPP-IV inhibitor) or the addition of insulin or liraglutide alone. The study was double-blind which is 
acknowledged. The dosing of IDegLira (starting dose, titration and maximum  dose) is line with study 
3697, apart from a higher upper FPG target limit. The study duration and the overall efficacy endpoints 
are also similar. 
Statistical methods are generally acceptable.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In  trial  3697,  withdrawal  rates  were  generally  low,  although  slightly  higher  in  the  liraglutide  treated 
group.  In  this  group  more  patients  withdrew  due  to  AEs.  Since  withdrawal  rates  were  low  and  fairly 
balanced, the use of LOCF for the handling of missing values was acceptable. The vast majority of patients 
were included in the FAS and the proportion of patients excluded from the PP analysis set did not differ 
between the IDegLira and the IDeg treatment arms. 
In trial 3912, withdrawal rates were balanced between groups as was the reasons for withdrawal. The 
number of patients excluded from the FAS was low and balanced between groups. 
Both studies included an adequate proportion of European subjects (24 % in study 3697 and 44 % in 
study 3912), thus the data is considered representative for the European target population. 
In  trial  3697,  baseline  demographic  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  groups  as  were  the 
baseline diabetes characteristics. It is, however, noted that there were cases of HbA1c at inclusion outside 
the  range  in  all  three  groups  with  the  lowest  values  for  IDegLira.  Means  and  medians  did  not  differ 
between groups. Mean diabetes duration was relatively short as could be expected in an insulin naïve 
group of patients with T2DM, but the range was very wide. All patients were on metformin treatment at 
inclusion and about 17 % were on concomitant pioglitazone treatment. 
The  primary  endpoint  was  met  showing  superiority  for  IDegLira  both  when  tested  against  IDeg  and 
liraglutide. The absolute difference in HbA1c reduction was in the range of 0.5 % between IDegLira and 
63 
 
IDeg and about 0.6 % between IDegLira and liraglutide. This additional HbA1c reduction when combining 
the two mono-components is considered of moderate clinical significance. 
Significantly  higher  proportions  of  patients  achieved  treatment  targets  with  IDegLira  than  with  the 
mono-components. In the study file, both unadjusted data and the above data where LOCF has been 
applied,  is  provided.  The  data  show  that  the  number  of  missing  values  was  rather  low  and  evenly 
distributed between groups. The data also show that in this context LOCF is a conservative method. When 
responder  rates  were  calculated  during  the  assessment  of  the  dossier,  assigning  all  missing  data  the 
status  of  non-responder,  only  marginal  changes  the  outcome  are  observed,  thus  the  results  are 
considered robust and no further sensitivity analyses are warranted. The observed increase in responder 
rates with the combination is considered clinically relevant irrespective of the cut-off used (HbA1c <7 % 
or <6.5 %). 
The  proportion  of  patients  achieving  HbA1c  targets  without  weight  gain  or  hypoglycaemia  was 
comparable for IDegLira and liraglutide. The data indicate that the liraglutide effect on body weight is 
maintained  when  given  in  combination  with  IDeg.  Further  to  this,  the  risk  of  hypoglycaemia  was 
attenuated by the co-administration of IDeg and liraglutide. The higher proportions of patients achieving 
the targets with IDegLira compared to IDeg are clinically relevant.  
At 26 weeks, significantly  lower insulin doses were used in the  IDegLira group compared to the IDeg 
group while reaching similar mean fasting SMPG. Notably, in the IDegLira group, the mean IDeg dose was 
well below the maximum dose of 50 units. The reduced need for insulin with the combination is considered 
beneficial. 
A significantly greater reduction in FPG was observed for IDegLira compared to liraglutide, whereas no 
difference was observed between IDegLira and IDeg. This finding is expected since both IDegLira and 
IDeg was to be titrated to target and IDeg has been shown to be efficient in reducing FPG. 
The postprandial glucose levels following a standardised meal showed a smaller glucose increment for 
IDegLira  compared  to  IDeg  treatment  alone  and  a  comparable  increment  for  IDegLira  compared  to 
liraglutide  treatment  alone.  The  data  show  that  the  pharmacodynamic  characteristics  of  IDeg  and 
liraglutide were preserved when administered as IDegLira. 
The  observation  of  lower  post-prandial  glucose  increments  with  IDegLira  compared  to  IDeg  after  a 
standardised  meal  was  supported  by  the  SMPG  measurements  in  the  entire  study  population.  The 
postprandial increments (when corrected for fasting plasma glucose levels) were comparable for IDegLira 
treatment and liraglutide indicating that this effect is mainly attributable to the liraglutide component. 
Significantly lower rates of confirmed hypoglycaemias (irrespective of the definition used) were observed 
with IDegLira compared to IDeg; however, the proportion of patients experiencing hypoglycaemia was 
comparable  between  groups.  As  expected,  the  lowest  rates  of  hypoglycaemia  were  observed  in  the 
liraglutide treated group. An analysis of the rate of hypoglycaemia by HbA1c shows that hypoglycaemia 
rates were lower with IDegLira irrespective of the metabolic control. 
IDegLira treatment was weight neutral as opposed to the weight gain seen with IDeg treatment and the 
weight reduction seen with liraglutide treatment. 
Data  from  the  52  week  extension  have  been  included  in  the  application.  The  proportion  of  patients 
included in the extension was slightly lower for the liraglutide arm compared to the IDegLira and IDeg 
arms; however drop-out rates were comparable between all three study arms in the extension period. 
The data show maintained efficacy over the study period. This is achieved with stable doses of IDegLira, 
whereas IDeg doses continued to increase over time. 
In  trial  3912,  baseline  demographic  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  groups  as  were  the 
baseline  diabetes  characteristics.  Mean  diabetes  duration  was  rather  long  as  could  be  expected  in  an 
64 
 
insulin treated group of patients with T2DM, but the range was very wide. About 50 % of patients were on 
dual OAD treatment at inclusion. Data to support the external validity of the inclusion limit of 20-40 units 
of basal insulin in Trial 3912 has been provided. The data show that relevant proportions of patients are 
treated with basal insulin doses in the range of 20-40 units in clinical practice. 
When the maximum IDeg dose was fixed at 50 units, the treatment difference (attributable to liraglutide) 
between  treatment  arms  was  about  1  %.  Thus  liraglutide  contributes  significantly  to  the  effect  of 
IDegLira.  Responder rates were higher in the IDegLira treated group. The rates were lower than in study 
3697 which could be explained by the higher HbA1c at inclusion, however, the observed difference is 
clinically relevant. 
In this study, FPG at week 26 was significantly lower with IDegLira than with IDeg. This is somewhat 
unexpected  considering  that  treatment  was  to  be titrated  to  target  and 33 % of  patients  in  the  IDeg 
treated  group  did  not  reach  the  maximum  IDeg  dose.  Indeed,  the  insulin  doses  were  similar  in  both 
groups  and  the  proportion  of  patients  reaching  the  maximum  dose  was  also  similar  between  groups. 
In study 3697, the curves describing the daily insulin dose started to separate already at week 12. The 
issue is whether patients in the  IDeg group treated with an optimal dose or if some could have been 
uptitrated to a higher dose. The analyses of FPG in subjects with an IDeg dose below 50 Units shows that 
the mean FPG in subjects completing study 3912 was close to 5 mmol/L and therefore, further uptitration 
was not indicated. The difference in FPG between the IDeg and IDegLira is therefore likely due to the 
liraglutide-component.  As  in  study  3697,  IDegLira  resulted  in  an  improved  post-prandial  control 
compared to IDeg alone although the difference appears small and mainly attributable to the difference in 
FPG.  
No  significant  difference  in  hypoglycaemia  rates  was  observed  although  the  rates  per  100  PYE  were 
higher for IDeg. 
Some weight decrease was observed with IDegLira whereas patients in the IDeg groups maintained their 
body weight.  
In  trial  3951,  baseline  demographic  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  groups  as  were  the 
baseline diabetes characteristics. Around 90% of patients at baseline were on a SU+ metformin, the rest 
on SU alone. Throughout the trial, OAD treatment was to be maintained at the stable, pre-trial dose and 
frequency,  although  dose  adjustments  for  safety  reasons  were  allowed.  As  expected,  the  addition  of 
IDegLira in subjects on a SU +/- metformin with a baseline HbA1c of 7.0−9.0% (narrower range than 
study 3697) resulted in improved glycaemic control. The decrease from baseline in the IDegLira group 
was -1.45%, less than seen in study 3697, and probably reflecting the better baseline glycaemic control 
in study 3591 (mean HbA1c at baseline 7.9% compared to 8.3%). 
HbA1c decreased from baseline by 0.46%-points to 7.4% in the placebo group, 28.8% of patients in the 
placebo group reached the target of <7.0% and 12.3% reached the target of HbA1c ≤ 6.5%. This is quite 
a large placebo effect but reflects the effect of study participation and the lack of a long run-in period.  
Subgroup analyses were performed separately for studies 3697 and 3912 due to differences in study 
design and study populations. The analysis showed no influence on the effect by age group, sex or BMI. 
The  small  difference  in  treatment  effect  observed  between  non-Hispanic/Latino  patients  compared  to 
Hispanic/Latino patients is based on a rather small number of patients in the Hispanic/Latino groups and 
findings were not consistent across the studies. Thus this finding is not considered clinically relevant. As 
expected, an association between treatment effect and baseline HbA1c was observed for all treatment 
arms with no obvious difference between groups. Diabetes duration, renal function or hepatic function 
showed no relevant treatment interaction. There were no clinically relevant differences in treatment effect 
by diabetes treatment or by concomitant drugs. 
65 
 
In the supportive study (3948), patients were treated with the free combination IDeg and liraglutide. The 
mean  IDeg  dose  at  26  weeks  was  about  60  units  and  the  majority  of  patients  (65.5%)  were  taking 
liraglutide 1.8 mg/day. With this dosing a relevant HbA1c reduction of -0.73 % was achieved. This is less 
than observed in the pivotal studies in spite of the higher IDeg doses given, but it should be taken into 
account that the HbA1c was lower at baseline in this study. When compared to the combination IDeg + 
IAsp, more patients reached the target criteria and did so with less hypoglycaemias. A reduction in body 
weight was also observed. Thus the data from this study support the findings in the pivotal studies. 
The  Applicant  has  further  analysed  the  data,  focussing  on  issues  related  to  the  proposed  dose 
recommendations.  Transferring  patients  on  basal  insulin  applying  a  starting  dose  of  16  dose  steps 
IDegLira appears feasible and did not result in loss in metabolic control during the transition period. 
In study 3697, only few patients remained on the lowest dose (10 dose steps) at 26 weeks, at what may 
be a suboptimal liraglutide dose (0.36 mg). Importantly, in both studies a large proportion of patients 
were  on  the  maximum  dose  (39.7%  and  65.3%  in  study  3697  and  3912,  respectively)  at  week  26. 
Although data from the extension period in study 3697 indicate that efficacy is maintained over at least a 
year without the need for further dose increase the possibility to continue treatment over time will be 
limited, considering the progressive nature of the disease. However, a substantial proportion of patients 
will be satisfactorily controlled on ≤ 50 dose steps of IDegLira. Adequate information is included in the 
SmPC in order to prevent dosing of IDegLira above 50 dose steps per day. As a precautionary measure, 
the pen is constructed such that it can deliver a maximum of 50 dose steps of IDegLira with each injection. 
No  association  was  observed  between  the  effect  on  HbA1c  and  dosing  time,  thus  supporting  the 
recommendation that IDegLira may be given at any time of the day. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  fixed  combination  of  liraglutide  and  insulin  degludec  combines  two  drugs  with  complementary 
mechanisms of action by a) substituting for the relative insulin deficiency in T2DM and b) stimulating 
endogenous  insulin  secretion.  This  rationale  is  adequate  and  carries  the  potential  (although  not  yet 
established) of sparing beta-cell function over time. 
The additive effect of the two components have been adequately shown and although the benefit in terms 
of additional reduction of HbA1c may be of moderate clinical relevance (about 0.5 %) compared to the 
mono-components, there are other benefits in terms of insulin dose requirements, weight control and 
hypoglycaemia risk 
The target population for IDegLira includes patients not adequately controlled on metformin and insulin 
(study 3912) and  those not controlled on OAD alone (study 3697).For the first group, IDegLira provided 
a superior glycaemic control compared to insulin alone combined with the benefit of weight stability. An 
alternative treatment strategy could have been to increase the insulin dose further, but this would very 
likely have been associated with increased risk of hypoglycaemia and weight increase.  
For  patients  failing  on  OAD,  in  study  3697,  adding  IDegLira  was  beneficial  compared  to  adding  only 
insulin  with  respect  to  reduction  of  HbA1c  and  a  lower  risk  of  weight  increase  and  hypoglycaemia. 
Conversely, adding IDegLira was associated with an increased risk of gastrointestinal adverse events.  
Compared to adding only liraglutide, the benefits are less obvious considering that weight decrease was 
more  pronounced  with  Lira  compared  to  IDegLira.  In  addition,  IDegLira  was  associated  with  more 
hypoglycaemic  events  than  Lira.  However,  the  glucose  lowering  effect  was  higher  with  IDegLira.  For 
these patients IDegLira could represent one of several alternative treatments. 
66 
 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The safety evaluation primarily focuses on the data from the 2 therapeutic confirmatory trials (Trials 3697 
and 3912, called the (pooled) safety analysis set). The safety analysis set includes data from the 26-week 
main and 26-week extension periods of Trial 3697 and from the 26-week Trial 3912. In the 2 therapeutic 
confirmatory trials combined, 1024 patients were exposed to IDegLira for a total of 797.5 PYE out of 
which 623 have been exposed for at least 52 weeks. The combined exposure to comparator treatments 
(insulin degludec; IDeg and liraglutide; Lira) was of a similar magnitude (n=1023). Safety data is also 
available from study 3948 examining the combination of the mono-components (88 patients randomised 
to the combination).  
All patients in the 2 confirmatory therapeutic studies were exposed to IDegLira on a background therapy 
of metformin.  In addition, in trial 3697, 17.0% were using a combination of metformin and pioglitazone.  
Table 10 Exposure by trial – pooled safety analysis set 
In Trial 3697, the mean average daily insulin dose during treatment was 31.0 units/day in the IDegLira 
group  compared  to36.9  units/day  in  the  IDeg  group.  The  mean  average  daily  liraglutide  dose  in  the 
IDegLira group was 1.1 mg/day compared to 1.7 mg/day in the Lira group. 
In  Trial  3912,  the  mean  average  daily  insulin  dose  during  treatment  in  the  IDegLira  group  was  38.2 
units/day compared to38.6 units/day in the IDeg group. 
In  addition,  together  with  the  responses  to  the  day  120  LoQ,  the  results  from  trial  3951  has  been 
submitted (IDegLira as add-on to SU+/- Met compared to placebo). In this study, 288 subjects were 
exposed to IDegLira and 146 subjects to placebo. The majority of the subjects (87.2% in the IDegLira 
group and 74.7% in the placebo group) were exposed to trial product for 25−28 weeks. 
The mean insulin dose at Week 26 in the IDegLira group was 28 units/day. 
Adverse events 
In Trial 3697, the percentage of subjects reporting AEs during the first 26-week treatment period was 
63.2%, 60.2% and 72.6%, for IDegLira, IDeg and Lira respectively with corresponding rates 482.8 and 
430.0 and 640.5 events per 100 PYE. In Trial 3912, the percentages were 57.8% (rate; 398.1 events per 
100 PYE) with IDegLira and 61.3% (355.5 events per 100 PYE) with IDeg. 
The AE rates over the 52-week period in study 3697, were 407.9, 383.3 and 507.3 events per 100 PYE for 
IDegLira, IDeg and Lira, respectively.  
67 
 
 
 
Table 11 Adverse events possibly or probably related to investigational trial product in ≥ 1% of subjects 
by system organ class and preferred term – treatment-emergent - Trial 3697 (26 weeks) - safety analysis 
set 
Table 12 Adverse events possibly or probably related to investigational trial product in ≥ 1% of subjects 
by system organ class and preferred term treatment-emergent- Trial 3912 – safety analysis set 
In Trial 3951, the percentage of subjects reporting AEs during the 26-week treatment period was 64.2 
and 58.2% in the IDegLira and placebo groups respectively (401.4 vs367.0 events per 100 PYE). 
The most frequently reported AEs in the IDegLira group were ‘lipase increased’, ‘nasopharyngitis’, 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘dyslipidaemia’, ‘headache’ and ‘influenza’. At SOC level for AEs considered possibly or probably related to 
trial product, the rate was higher in the IDegLira group than in the placebo group for gastrointestinal 
disorders (24.1 vs. 11.3 events per 100 PYE), investigations (17.3 vs. 9.7 events per 100 PYE) and 
metabolism and nutrition disorders (9.8 vs. 1.6 events per 100 PYE). 
69 
 
 
Table 12b   Adverse events by system organ class and preferred term – most frequent [≥5%]-  
treatment-emergent- Trial 3951 – summary safety analysis set 
An external independent event adjudication committee (EAC) was constituted for the therapeutic 
confirmatory trials to perform ongoing adjudication, standardisation and classification of selected events. 
The EAC was blinded to the trial treatment. 
The following events were to be adjudicated by the external independent EAC: 
1.  Cardiovascular events 
2.  Pancreatitis or suspicion of pancreatitis  
3.  Neoplasms 
4.  Thyroid disease requiring thyroidectomy 
Gastrointestinal events 
GI events were the most frequently reported AEs for IDegLira.  In study 3697, the rate of gastrointestinal 
AEs in the IDegLira group was 98.7 events per 100 PYE compared to 51.1 events for IDeg and 157.9 
events for Lira. Most gastrointestinal events were mild or moderate, and the rate of severe 
gastrointestinal AEs in the IDegLira, IDeg and Lira groups was 1.3, 0.7 and 5.1 events per 100 PYE, 
respectively. As seen for other GLP 1 agonists, the incidence decreased with time (figure 1).  
Table 13 Nausea, diarrhoea and vomiting events – Trial 3697 (52 weeks) – safety analysis set 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 18 Percentage of subjects with nausea by week and treatment - Trial 3697 (52 weeks) – safety 
analysis set 
In study 3912, the incidence of GI AEs was 21 % for IDegLira compared to 11.6% for IDeg. 
In Trial 3951, there were no consistent treatment differences in the reporting of ‘nausea’, ‘diarrhoea’ or 
‘vomiting’,  except  for  a  minor  increase  in  rate  of  ‘nausea’  in  the  IDegLira  group  during  treatment 
initiation. 
Hypo/hyperglycaemia 
All  statistical  analyses  were  based  on  ‘confirmed  hypoglycaemic  episodes’,  defined  as  severe 
hypoglycaemic  episodes  (patient  not  able  to  self-treat),  or  episodes  of  hypoglycaemia  with  plasma 
glucose < 3.1 mmol/L (56 mg/dL), regardless of symptoms. 
In study 3697, the percentage of subjects who experienced confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes during the 
first 26-week treatment period was 31.9% in the IDegLira group compared to38.6% in the IDeg group 
and 6.8% for liraglutide.   
In Trial 3912, the rate of confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes with IDegLira was 153.4 events per 100 PYE) 
and with IDeg 263.3 events per 100 PYE, although the proportion of subjects experiencing confirmed 
hypoglycaemic episodes were similar for IDegLira and IDeg (24.1% and 24.6%). 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 19 Confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes – treatment-emergent – Trial 3697 (52 weeks) - mean 
cumulative function - safety analysis set 
In  study  3951,  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  experienced  confirmed  hypoglycaemic  episodes  in  the 
IDegLira  and  placebo  groups  was  41.7%,  and  17.1%  and  the  corresponding  rates  of  confirmed 
hypoglycaemia were 351.7 and 135.2 episodes per 100 PYE, respectively.  
The  proportion  of  subjects  who  experienced  nocturnal  confirmed  hypoglycaemic  episodes  during  the 
treatment period in the IDegLira and placebo groups was 11.8% and 6.8% and the corresponding rates 
of  confirmed  hypoglycaemia  were  49.0  and  32.2  episodes  per  100  PYE,  respectively.  There  were  no 
severe nocturnal hypoglycaemic episodes. 
In study 3697, during the first 26 weeks of treatment, 4 hyperglycaemic events for 4 (0.2%) subjects 
were identified. These were 2 events in subjects with IDegLira and 2 events with liraglutide. In study 
3912, 1 event for 1 (0.5%) subject in the IDegLira group and 7 events for 7 (3.5%) subjects in the IDeg 
group  were  detected.  When  transferring  a  patient  from  basal  insulin  to  Xultophy,  the  recommended 
starting dose is 16 units and thus, for patients treated with higher insulin doses, hyperglycaemia could be 
expected to occur during uptitration of Xultophy. However, mean fasting SMPG levels in Trial 3912 did not 
indicate any transient deterioration of glycaemic control in subjects transferring from 20-40 units of basal 
insulin to 16 dose steps of IDegLira.  
Cardiovascular events 
There was an increase in mean pulse rate (2-3 bpm) in the IDegLira group in both studies. This was also 
seen for Lira, but not for IDeg. 
In study 3951, the pulse was statistically significantly higher after 26 weeks of treatment for subjects in 
the IDegLira group compared to the placebo group; estimated treatment difference was 3.8 beats/min 
[2.3; 5.4]95%CI, p <0.001. 
72 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 Mean pulse and change from baseline – Trial 3697– safety analysis set 
Mean  blood pressure  was  slightly  reduced  in  the  IDegLira  group  in  all  studies  (study  3697; -1.8/-0.0 
mmHg, Study 3912; -5.4/-1.4 mmHg). 
Of the 216 cardiovascular events identified by search, 40 cardiovascular events qualified for adjudication 
and were sent to the EAC for adjudication. In addition, 8 events reported by the investigator, but not 
captured  by  the  SMQ  search,  were  also  sent  for  adjudication.  Based  on  the  adjudication  process,  26 
adjudicated cardiovascular events for 17 subjects were confirmed by the EAC based on predefined criteria, 
and 25 of these events were treatment-emergent. Nine (9) of the 26 confirmed cardiovascular events 
were classified as MACEs based on the FDA criteria. 
Table 15 Cardiovascular adverse events confirmed by adjudication – treatment-emergent - completed 
therapeutic confirmatory trials – safety analysis set 
In study 3951, 4 events (all in the IDegLira group)were confirmed as cardiovascular events according the 
adjudication charter and 2 of these 4 events were identified as MACE. 
Pancreatitis  
In the pooled data from Trials 3697 and 3912, 5 events of pancreatitis for 5 subjects were identified. Of 
these, 2 events were treatment-emergent; 2 events were non-treatment-emergent (occurred after the 
defined treatment-emergent period) and 1 event was linked (as a symptom) to the event of ‘pancreatic 
carcinoma stage IV. All 5 pancreatitis events were adjudicated by the external EAC and 2 of these were 
confirmed  as  events  of  acute  pancreatitis  (1  with  IDeg  and  1  with  Lira).  No  confirmed  episodes  of 
pancreatitis were reported with IDegLira. No event of pancreatitis was reported in study 3951. 
Neoplasms/Thyroid disease  
In  the  pooled  data  from  Trials  3697  and  3912,  a  total  of  48  treatment-emergent  neoplasm  events 
reported for 43 (2.1%) subjects were identified by the SOC/SMQ search. The rate of neoplasm events in 
the IDegLira group was 3.3 events, for IDeg 2.5 events and for Lira 3.3 events per 100 PYE groups. 24 
73 
 
 
 
 
events of neoplasms were confirmed by the EAC. The event rate with IDegLira was mainly driven by skin 
events (4 events of ‘basal cell carcinoma’ and 1 event of ‘malignant melanoma’). One subject treated with 
Lira in study 3697 was initially diagnosed with acute and chronic pancreatitis but was finally diagnosed 
metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.  
In study 3951, 3 treatment-emergent events were confirmed as neoplasms by the EAC; 1 in the IDegLira 
group and 2 in the placebo group. 
Three (3) events of ‘thyroid neoplasm’ (2 with IDegLira and 1 with liraglutide) were sent for adjudication 
(as neoplasms); none of the events were confirmed according to predefined criteria for neoplasms. No 
medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) event was reported. 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
In total, 2 deaths (in the IDegLira group, classified as CV deaths) were reported in trial 3697, assessed as 
unlikely related to trial product by investigator and sponsor.  
In Trial 3697, the percentages of subjects reporting SAEs during the first 26-week treatment period was 
2.3%, 1.9% and 3.4%for IDegLira, IDeg and Lira, respectively. In Trial 3912, the percentage of subjects 
reporting SAEs was 3.5% in the IDegLira group and 5.5% in the IDeg group. There were 3 hypoglycaemia 
SAES reported in the IDegLira group but otherwise no clustering of events. 
In study 3951, the overall rates of SAEs were 20.3 and 8.0 events per 100 PYE in the IDegLira and placebo 
groups, respectively. Two subjects in the IDegLira group reported 7 and 4 SAEs, respectively. 
 No SAEs occurred in ≥1% of subjects. 3 SAEs reported in 2 subjects (both in the IDegLira group) were 
possibly or probably related to trial product (‘amylase increased’/’lipase increased’ and ‘hypoglycaemic 
unconsciousness). 1 death (‘pleural mesothelioma malignant’) occurred in the IDegLira group during the 
trial. 
Laboratory findings 
In trial 3697, based on the first 26 week treatment period, an increase in mean lipase was observed in the 
IDegLira group (mean change 11.4 U/L) and in the liraglutide group (mean change 15.3 U/L); whereas a 
decrease was seen in the IDeg group (mean change -6.8 U/L). A similar mean increase was observed for 
amylase  for  IDegLira  with  a  mean  change  at  Week  26  at  8.9 U/L,  for  IDeg  it  was  4.2  U/L,  and  for 
liraglutide it was 6.6 U/L.  
In study 3951, an increase in mean lipase activity during the trial was observed in the IDegLira group 
(mean change at Week 26 was 11.6 units/L); a decrease was seen in the placebo group (mean change at 
Week 26 was -3.1 units/L). 
In Trial 3697, a total of 28 subjects had calcitonin concentrations ≥ 20 ng/L at some time point over the 
52-week treatment period of the trial (16 subjects with IDegLira, 9 subjects with IDeg and 3 subjects with 
Lira). In Trial 3912, a total of 14 subjects had calcitonin concentrations ≥ 20 ng/L at some time point 
during the trial (6 subjects with IDegLira and 8 subjects with IDeg).. 
Blood creatinine increased ’was reported in 9 subjects with no difference among the treatment groups. 
‘Renal failure’/’renal failure acute’ were reported for 6 subjects (2 with IDegLira, 3 with IDeg and 1 with 
liraglutide. 
74 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
The extent of exposure to IDegLira in elderly subjects (≥ 65 years) was 154 subjects (121.7 PYE) and 
there were 14 (8.8 PYE) very elderly subjects (≥ 75 years) in studies 3912 and 3697. In study 3951, 58 
patients 65-74 years and 20 patients(≥ 75 years were exposed to IDegLira. The exposure to IDegLira was 
similar for male (541 subjects and 415.5 PYE) and female subjects (483 subjects and 382.0 PYE). The 
majority of exposure to IDegLira was in subjects with BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2 (926 subjects, 717.2 PYE) and 283 
of the subjects had a BMI ≥ 35 kg/m2 (214.2 PYE). 
The incidence of AEs were similar in patients below and above age 65 years. 
Table 16 Adverse events by age - treatment-emergent – completed therapeutic confirmatory trials – 
safety analysis set (study 3912 and 3697) 
The overall rate of AEs was somewhat higher in females compared to males. This was seen in all 
treatment groups. 
The overall incidences of adverse events were similar in patients with normal and mildly impaired renal 
function. The clinical experience of IDegLira in moderate renal impairment is very limited (n=11). 
Table 17 Adverse events by renal function based on estimated creatinine clearance at baseline - 
treatment-emergent – completed therapeutic confirmatory trials – safety analysis set 
75 
 
  
 
Immunological events 
The rate of allergic reactions in the IDegLira, IDeg and Lira groups was 0.9, 1.8 and 1.8 events per 100 
PYE, respectively.  The most frequently reported allergic reactions were ‘asthma’ and ‘urticaria’ with no 
major difference among treatment groups. 
In  the  pooled  data  from  Trials  3697  and  3912,  117  injection  site  reactions  reported  for  67  (3.3%) 
subjects. The rate of injection site reactions in the IDegLira, IDeg and Lira groups was 8.3, 5.7 and 7.8 
events per 100 PYE, respectively.  The most frequently reported injection site reactions were ‘injection 
site haematoma’, ‘injection site pain’ and ‘injection site reaction’.  
In study 3951, the rate of injection site reactions was higher, but comparable between groups (21.1 vs. 
20.9 events per 100 PYE). 
Five percent of the patients from the IDegLira group developed  antibodies towards insulin  compared to 
2% of the patients treated with IDeg in study 3697. In study 3912, the percentages were 5 and 3% for 
IDegLira and IDeg, respectively. None of these antibodies were shown to neutralize the activity of human 
insulin or insulin degludec.  
Few subjects developed anti-liraglutide antibodies (0.5-3% at different time points). Of these 5 (4 with 
IDegLira and 1 with liraglutide) were demonstrated to have an in vitro neutralising effect at Week 53 in 
trial 3697. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In general, IDegLira is not expected to be influenced by other drugs due to the fact that it is a combination 
of peptides subject to standard proteolytic processes and degraded to small peptides and amino acids. 
A  search  was  performed  to  identify  events  of  congestive  heart  failure  or events  potentially  related to 
congestive heart failure for subjects treated with IDegLira in combination with pioglitazone or without 
pioglitazone. The rates of  these AEs for subjects  using vs. not  using pioglitazone in combination with 
IDegLira  were  4.1 vs.  3.1 events  per  100 PYE  based  on  5  events  in  5  subjects  and  18  events  in  12 
subjects, respectively). 
Discontinuation due to AES 
During  the  first  26-week  treatment  period  of  study  3697,  a  total  of  43  (2.6%)  subjects  out  of  1663 
randomised  subjects  were  withdrawn  from  the  trial  due  to  AEs:  11  (1.3%)  in  the  IDegLira  group, 
8 (1.9%) in the IDeg group and 24 (5.8%) in the liraglutide group.  
From 26−52 weeks, an additional 8 (0.5%) subjects were withdrawn from the trial due to AEs: 5 (0.6%) 
in the IDegLira group, 1 (0.2%) in the IDeg group and 2 (0.5%) in the liraglutide group.  The majority of 
AEs leading to withdrawal were in the SOCs ‘gastrointestinal disorders’ (mainly in the liraglutide group) 
and ‘investigations’. 
In study 3912, a total of 4 (1.0%) subjects out of 398 randomised subjects were withdrawn from the trial 
due to AEs: 1 (0.5%) subject in the IDegLira group and 3 (1.5%) subjects in the IDeg group. All AEs 
leading to withdrawal were considered unlikely to be related to trial product. 
In  study  3951,  the  proportion  of  the  subjects  with  AEs  leading  to  withdrawal  during  the  26-week 
treatment  period  was  higher  in  the  IDegLira  group  (9  subjects;  3.1%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (2 
subjects; 1.4%). 
76 
 
 
 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
In the pooled safety analysis set, 1,300 patients with type 2 diabetes have been exposed to IDegLira out 
of which 623 have been exposed for at least 52 weeks. All patients in the 2 confirmatory therapeutic 
studies  were  exposed  to  IDegLira  on  a  background  therapy  of  metformin.    In  addition,  in  trial  3697, 
17.0% were using a combination of metformin and pioglitazone.  Trial 3951, investigated IDegLira as add 
on to SU+/- metformin. 
Previous safety data are also available for the mono-components, Tresiba and Victoza, respectively. For 
Victoza (liraglutide), the combination with insulin has recently been approved. However, the extent of the 
exposure to the combination in the current application is considered as sufficient to assess short term 
safety. 
The most common adverse events associated with IDegLira are gastrointestinal side effects as expected 
due to the liraglutide component. In study 3697 the incidence for IDegLira, IDeg and Lira, respectively 
were;  nausea  (10.3,  3.9,  22.3  %),  diarrhoea  (10.2,  6.8,  16.3%),  vomiting  (5.0,  2.4,  9.2%).  These 
adverse events have previously been shown to be related to the actual liraglutide dose and also to the 
rate of dose uptitration. Since the actual dose of liraglutide was lower and the dose uptitration slower in 
the IDegLira compared to the Lira group, this could be considered an expected finding. The GI AEs were 
transient and after 15 weeks treatment, there were no major differences between treatment groups.  
The number of potential events of acute pancreatitis and pancreatic enzyme elevations was low and no 
confirmed episodes of pancreatitis were reported with IDegLira.  However, there was an increase in serum 
lipase  and  amylase  which  was  not  seen  in  the  IDeg  groups.  Acute  pancreatitis  has  been  previously 
identified as a potential safety issues for the GLP-1 receptor agonist class.  Acute pancreatitis has been 
included in the RMP as important identified risk.  
The incidence of allergic reactions seen in the IDegLira treated group in the pooled safety analysis set was 
low  (0.9%)  and  numerically  lower  than  for  the  other  treatments.    Injection  site  reactions  related  to 
IDegLira treatment was present in 2.9% of patients compared to 4.6% for liraglutide and 2.9% for IDeg. 
4.8%  of  patients  treated  with  IDegLira  developed  antibodies  towards  insulin    compared  to  1.9%  of 
patients treated with IDeg. No neutralising insulin anti-bodies were detected. Few subjects developed 
anti-liraglutide  antibodies  (0.5-3%  after  52  weeks  treatment),  4  subjects  treated  with  IDegLira  had 
anti-bodies that were demonstrated to have an in vitro neutralising effect towards liraglutide. Overall, 
antibody development has previously been detected for both liraglutide (8.6%) and IDeg.  
As expected, the incidence of hypoglycaemia was lowest in the liraglutide group in study 3697. The higher 
incidence for IDeg compared to IdegLira in that study is most likely due to the higher insulin dose. In 
study  3912  the  incidences  were  similar  in  the  two  groups.  In  conclusion,  there  is  no  indication  of  an 
additive effect with respect to the risk of hypoglycaemia when IDeg is combined with Lira. 
The rate of confirmed hypoglycaemia was higher in study 3951 when IDegLira was added to SU, both 
compared to placebo as well as compared to rates in other studies (351.7 and 135.2 episodes per 100 
PYE, for IDegLira and placebo respectively). Information that a reduction of the SU may be needed has 
been included in sections 4.2 and 4.4 of the SmPC. 
When transferring a patient from basal insulin to Xultophy, the recommended starting dose is 16 units 
and  thus,  for  patients  treated  with  higher  insulin  doses,  hyperglycaemia  could  be  expected  to  occur 
during  uptitration  of  Xultophy.  However,  mean  fasting  SMPG  levels  in  Trial  3912  did  not indicate  any 
transient deterioration of glycaemic control in subjects transferring from 20-40 units of basal insulin to 16 
dose steps of IDegLira.  
77 
 
 
An increase in pulse was  observed with IDegLira (mean change 2.8 beats/min) and liraglutide (mean 
change 2.6 beats/min). This has also been reported for other GLP 1 agonists. However, there were no 
signs of detrimental effects on blood pressure (rather a minor decrease in blood pressure). The clinical 
relevance of the increase in heart beats is currently not known. However, several CV outcome studies are 
ongoing for different products within the class. 
In the current safety data base, there were numerically more CV events in the IDegLira and IDeg groups 
compared to Lira. The safety data base is too small to draw any conclusions with respect to cardiovascular 
safety. As mentioned above, a CV outcome study is ongoing for liraglutide. A CV outcome study is also 
ongoing for IDeg. 
There is limited experience of use of Xultophy in patients with congestive heart failure NYHA class I-II. 
There is no experience in patients with congestive heart failure NYHA class III-IV.  
GLP-1 receptor agonists have been associated with thyroid C-cells proliferative/hyperplasia in non-clinical 
carcinogenicity studies, but the relevance for humans is unsure. The current data base is too limited and 
the duration of the studies too short to provide any useful information about thyroid or other neoplasms. 
The potential tumour growth promoting effect of insulin analogues due to their anabolic properties is an 
ongoing discussion. However, no firm association has been established between any insulin analogues 
and increased cancer risk. Considering the findings of C-cell tumours in rats when given liraglutide, an 
additive effect on the risk of malignancies when combining Lira and Ideg could be hypothesised. However, 
this risk seems very remote and is not considered strong enough to justify a request for specific PAS 
studies. Long term PAS studies are ongoing for  Lira which will provide more information about neoplasms. 
As a result of an Art 5(3) referral procedure in 2013, pancreatic neoplasms has been included in the RMP 
as a potential risk. In the current clinical development program, one subject treated with liraglutide was 
diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. No medullary thyroid cancer event was reported 
in any of the treatment groups.  
The incidence of AEs was similar in patients below and above age 65 years. The number of subjects ≥ 75 
years is limited. The clinical experience of IDegLira in patients with moderate renal impairment is very 
limited (n=11) and use of IdegLira is not recommended in line with recommendations for Victoza. 
In clinical practice it may be expected that some patients will transfer from basal insulin to Xultophy. 
These patients may also be treated with bolus insulin and may therefore have several pens at home. 
Efforts to mitigate the risk of mix-up have been implemented at the prescribing, dispensing and patient 
levels. In addition, in the usability test, no use errors were observed neither related to differentiation nor 
to handling of the device or cartons. The test included relevant comparators. It is considered that the 
Applicant has taken adequate measures to mitigate mix ups. 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  for  IDegLira  is  in  general  similar  to  the  two  included  mono-components  with  no 
indications  of  additive  toxicity.  Since  the  actual  liraglutide  dose  in  the  studies  was  lower  and  the 
up-titration  of  dose  somewhat  slower,  the  prevalence  and  severity  of  the  well-known  gastrointestinal 
side-effects  were  lower  compared  to  liraglutide  as  monotherapy.  No  new  safety  issues  have  been 
identified  for  this  combination.    The  incidence  of  confirmed  hypoglycaemia  was  higher  compared  to 
liraglutide, but lower compared to IDeg in the actively controlled studies. The incidence of hypoglycaemia 
was highest when IDegLira was combined with SU. Relevant information has been included in the SmPC. 
With regard to the long-term safety, the initial cardiovascular safety evaluation is acceptable with a 
potentially beneficial effect on systolic blood pressure in contrast to slight increase in heart rate in the 
78 
 
clinical studies. A CV outcome study is ongoing for liraglutide. Otherwise, the long-term safety concerns 
are the same as for the other GLP-1 agonist and insulin analogues, i.e. identified risk of pancreatitis and 
potential risks of malignancies e.g. pancreatic and thyroid tumours.  
2.7.  Additional expert consultations 
A SAG expert meeting of the Scientific Advisory Group Diabetes/Endocrinology was held on the 5th June 
2014 to obtain further input on the efficacy and safety of Xultophy in the treatment of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.  
ANSWERS FROM THE SAG ON XULTOPHY 
1)  Xultophy is proposed to be used in the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
to achieve glycaemic control in combination with oral glucose-lowering medicinal 
products when these do not provide adequate glycaemic control. 
a.  Is the available evidence base sufficient to draw conclusions on the risks and 
benefits of Xultophy as an add-on treatment in T2DM patients uncontrolled on 
oral agents alone?  If not, in what regard is it considered deficient? 
b.   Please discuss potential advantages and disadvantages of adding Xultophy 
compared to first adding either insulin or liraglutide in a sequential manner 
before using a combination of both products. 
As questions 1a and 1b are related, both parts of the question were discussed by the SAG together.  
SAG Answer:  
The experts had a split view: Some experts were in agreement to use the product as an option in patients 
uncontrolled on a therapy with oral antidiabetics alone. However, those experts also felt that not all such 
patients would be suitable to be switched to this therapy (see answer 1c and 2a). 
Other experts would not use the product for switching from a therapy with oral antidiabetics, but only for 
patients  who  were  already  additionally  either  on  insulin  or  on  a  GLP1-agonistic  therapy  and  needed 
further treatment escalation. The reasons given for preferring a sequential add-on of therapies were that 
usually there was some rational to escalate therapy with either insulin or a GLP-1 agonist, that a certain 
percentage of patients would unnecessarily be exposed to 2 additional drugs at the same time, and that 
establishing  a  side  effect  profile  relating  to  the  individual  components  of  Xultophy  for  the  individual 
patient would be hampered. The SAG noted, that a study investigating the switch of therapy from an 
add-on therapy with a GLP-1 agonist to Xultophy (trial 3851) is currently ongoing and the results not yet 
available. 
The  main  advantage  of  adding  Xultophy,  compared  to  first  adding  either  insulin  or  liraglutide  in  a 
sequential manner, was seen in a more effective achievement of glycaemic control, i.e. achievement of a 
lower HbA1C, higher percentage of patients reaching certain target goals (e.g. 7% HbA1C), and reaching 
those  goals  more  quickly,  as  well  as  convenience.  However,  the  benefit  of  this  “aggressive” 
glucose-lowering  approach  was  questioned  by  some  experts,  in  particular  for  prevention  of 
macrovascular  events,  and  particularly  in  older  patients.  It  was  mentioned  that  long-term  ambitious 
glucose-lowering treatment goals have been shown  to be associated with detrimental effects in some 
trials, e.g. ACCORD trial, but it was also pointed out by the applicant that this was in a very different 
population. In any case, treatment targets should be set for patients individually (in the studies treat to 
target principles applied), and may be less stringent in particular in older patients. 
79 
 
 
Main  disadvantages  were  seen  in  the  lesser  opportunity  to  individualize  the  therapy  (e.g.  in  terms  of 
dosing),  and  to  establish  a  link  between  side  effects  experienced  by  the  individual  patient  and  the  2 
components of Xultophy, respectively.  
One concern was raised regarding the use of Xultophy in diabetic patients with CKD; however the SmPC 
already recommends not to use the product in moderate to severe renal impairment, which is consistent 
with the same recommendation in the SmPC of Victoza (liraglutide). 
Overall, the experts pointed out areas of missing knowledge and/or guidance in the PI, in particular: in 
case of intercurrent illness or GI affections such as norovirus affliction, it is not clear whether a switch to 
insulin only should occur,  and under what circumstances, and how a restart of therapy with Xultophy 
should be managed; criteria when to stop therapy could be useful; it is also not clear, how change in 
therapy beyond >1 year should be handled in case of further progression of disease and higher insulin 
dose requirements, etc. More data regarding the latter question was advocated. A distinct lack of data in 
the elderly (> 75 years) was noted. Experts felt information in the PI should clearly inform patients and 
physicians  which  side  effects  of  Xultophy  are  most  likely  related  to  insulin  degludec  or  to  liraglutide, 
respectively (as otherwise e.g. side effects of liraglutide might be related to insulin, etc.). 
c. 
 Is there a specific patient population with type 2 diabetes that could benefit 
from Xultophy compared to other available treatment alternatives? 
SAG Answer: A scenario described by one expert where Xultophy might be particularly suitable could be 
patients in need of an add-on therapy with insulin, where Xultophy could have advantages such as weight 
neutrality  and  less  propensity  for  hypoglycaemia  compared  to  insulin.  Other  experts  would  prefer 
scenarios with patients already on a therapy with either one of the 2 components of Xultophy (i.e. insulin 
or a GLP-1 agonist). Most experts had concerns about a rather indiscriminate switch of patients on oral 
antidiabetic therapy only to add on Xultophy. 
d.   How does the proposed indication for Xultophy comply with current treatment 
algorithms (e.g. position statement of EASD and ADA, Diabetes Care, 35, June 
2012)? 
SAG  Answer: The experts felt that the place in treatment algorithms would remain to be established 
once the product is used, but felt that a positioning as an equal alternative to other available options for 
the  combination  with  metformin  (once  metformin  only  therapy  fails)  would  be,  with  few  exceptions, 
inappropriate. 
2)  There are some concerns with respect to dosing recommendations for Xultophy. 
a.  Xultophy  is  delivered  at  a  fix  dose  ratio  between  the  dose  of  liraglutide  and 
degludec  and  thus  the  doses  of  the  separate  components  cannot  be  titrated 
separately.    Please  comment  on  the  usability  of  Xultophy  in  this  respect 
compared  to  using  the  products  separately,  e.g.  considering  that  the  dose  of 
liraglutide cannot be maximized at lower dosages of insulin. Is this considered 
as a problem in clinical practice? 
SAG Answer: Some experts felt satisfied with the fixed dose-relationship, since they would titrate the 
product in their intended patients anyway. Others felt that this would not allow to adjust doses optimally, 
e.g. to prevent the use of the maximal liraglutide dose in some cases. One expert questioned the rational 
of  the  chosen  dose-relationship  and  felt  that  there  was  a  lack  of  data  that  this  was  the  best 
dose-relationship  for  the  vast  majority  of  patients.  Some  experts  saw  difficulties  when  switching  to 
Xultophy from either insulin or a GLP-1 agonist, as the SmPC recommends in that case to start with 16 
dose steps and the related low liraglutide dose, whereas patients may already have been on a maximal 
80 
 
dose of GLP-1 agonists, or a higher dose than 16 units/day of insulin (30 units/day on average in the 
studies, according to the applicant), respectively. 
b.  The  maximum  daily  dose  of  Xultophy  is  50 dose  steps  (50 units  insulin 
degludec  and  1.8 mg  liraglutide).    Please  comment  on  how  the  fact  that  the 
insulin dose cannot be increased above 50 units could impact the usability of 
the product.  
SAG Answer: Experts considered that there will be situations with a need for a higher insulin dose than 
50 units/day for patients on Xultophy, and noted a lack of guidance how to handle those situations (e.g. 
disease progression, severe illness). 
c.  The prefilled Xultophy pen will define and deliver the dose as ‘dose steps’ (1 to 
50  dose  steps)  with  one  dose  step  containing  1 unit  of  insulin  degludec  and 
0.036 mg of liraglutide. Thus, the actual liraglutide dose is not proposed to be 
visible in the pen window. Please comment on this strategy with respect to risk 
of  medication  errors.    Please  also  comment  on  possible  alternative  ways  to 
express the dose of insulin degludec and liraglutide in the product information 
for healthcare professionals and patients in order to minimise the possibility of 
medication error. 
SAG Answer: Experts felt that to express only the insulin dose in the window was acceptable (given the 
lack  of  space,  and  being  the  more  important  dosing  consideration  with  regard  to  the  possibility  of 
hypoglycaemia).  Some  experts  felt  it  might  be  beneficial  if  the  pen  was  more  easily  recognisable  to 
contain insulin, and the same instruction and training principles as for insulin-only pens should apply. It 
was briefly discussed whether it would still be safer to use “Units” instead of “Dose Steps” but considered 
to be difficult. The mock-up pen distributed during the meeting was considered to be potentially mixed up 
with existing similarly-coloured pens (similar pink colour). The use of the term “IDegLira” (not currently 
used  in  the  proposed  materials)  should  be  avoided  as  it  may  be  then  less  clear  that  the  product  is 
composed of insulin degludec and liraglutide. 
The  experts  emphasised  the  need  for  careful  instruction  of  use  for  HCPs  as  well  as  patients,  as  this 
product would introduce a new treatment paradigm (see also responses to questions 1a and 1b).  
2.8.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements. 
2.9.  Risk Management Plan 
The CHMP received the following PRAC Advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan: 
The PRAC considered that the risk management plan version 2.0 could be acceptable if the applicant 
implements the changes to the RMP as described in the PRAC advice relating to the implementation of 
additional risk minimisation measures in the form of educational material. The PRAC advice is attached. 
The CHMP endorsed this advice with the following changes:  
For the key elements to be addressed in the educational materials,  
81 
 
• 
• 
the key element “the licensed indications and circumstances for use” has been removed because 
the final indication wording agreed in section 4.1 of the SmPC was simplified; 
the key element “this product contains a fixed combination of insulin degludec plus liraglutide (a 
GLP1-based product)” has been changed to “this product contains a fixed combination of insulin 
degludec plus liraglutide (a GLP1-based product) which constitutes a new treatment paradigm in 
the treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes. In this context, relevant precautions as reflected 
in the SmPC should be emphasised” to reflect the fact that although it is a fixed combination, the 
dose  is  not  fixed  and  to  emphasise  the  fact  the  licensed  indication  reflects  a  change  in  the 
treatment paradigm for type II diabetes. 
• 
the key element “a reminder of the need to report all medication errors irrespective of whether or 
not they resulted in an adverse event” has been added to reflect the level of concern regarding 
the  potential  for  medication  errors  with  this  fixed  combination  and  the  need  to  monitor  this 
carefully. 
The applicant implemented the changes in the RMP as requested by PRAC and CHMP and the Annex II 
text of the SmPC has been amended accordingly. 
The CHMP endorsed the Risk Management Plan version 4.0 with the following content: 
Safety concerns 
The applicant identified the following safety concerns in the RMP: 
Table 1: Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
The PRAC agreed 
Immunogenicity (Allergic reactions) 
−  Gastrointestinal disorders 
−  Hypoglycaemia  
− 
−  Pancreatitis  
−  Altered renal function 
−  Cardiovascular disorders 
− 
Lack of efficacy due to anti-IDeg or anti-liraglutide 
antibody formation 
−  Medication errors, including errors with transfer from 
injectable diabetes therapy 
−  Medullary thyroid cancer 
−  Neoplasms 
−  Pancreatic cancer 
−  Children and adolescents 
−  Congestive heart failure NYHA III-IV 
−  Drug–drug interaction with warfarin 
−  Off-label use in patients with T1DM 
−  Patients with hepatic impairment 
−  Patients with moderate and severe renal impairment 
−  Pregnant and lactating women 
−  Transfer from injectable diabetes therapy 
−  Use of Xultophy in the very elderly (≥75 years) 
82 
 
 
Pharmacovigilance plan 
The PRAC, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that routine pharmacovigilance is 
sufficient to identify and characterise the risks of the product. 
The  PRAC  also  considered  that  routine  PhV  is  sufficient  to  monitor  the  effectiveness  of  the  risk 
minimisation measures. The PRAC highlighted the need however, for all medication errors to be reported 
during  the  routine  pharmacovigilance;  reporting  should  not  be  restricted  to  the  medication  errors 
resulting in an adverse event. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Table 2.4: Summary table of Risk Minimisation Measures 
Safety 
concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Gastrointestin
al disorders 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dehydration 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions 
Hypoglycaemi
a 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Hypoglycaemia 
4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Hypoglycaemia 
4.9 Overdose 
Immunogenici
ty (allergic 
reactions) 
Pancreatitis 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.3 Contraindications 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
Allergic reactions 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precaution for use 
Altered renal 
function 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Dehydration 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
4.8 Undesirable effects 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Antibody formation 
Cardiovascula
r disorders 
Lack of 
efficacy due to 
anti-IDeg or 
anti-liraglutid
e antibody 
formation 
83 
Additional 
risk 
minimisati
on 
measures 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
(Proposed SmPC) 
4.2 Posology and method of administration 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
Medication 
errors, 
including 
errors with 
transfer from 
injectable 
diabetes 
therapy 
Medullary 
thyroid cancer 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
5.3 Preclinical safety 
Neoplasms 
Pancreatic 
cancer 
Children and 
adolescents 
None 
None 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.1 Therapeutic indication 
4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Paediatric population  
. 
Congestive 
heart failure 
NYHA III–IV 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Populations not studied 
Drug–drug 
interactions 
with warfarin 
Off-label use 
in patients 
with T1DM 
Patients with 
hepatic 
impairment 
(Proposed) SmPC  
Section 4.5 Interaction with other medicinal products and other 
forms of interaction 
(Proposed) SmPC  
Section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Patients with 
moderate and 
severe renal 
impairment 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Pregnant and 
lactating 
women 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Breast-feeding 
Fertility 
Transfer from 
injectable 
(Proposed) text in SmPC 
4.1 Therapeutic indication 
84 
Additional 
risk 
minimisati
on 
measures 
Educational 
material for 
healthcare 
professional
s in the EU, 
in the form 
of a 
brochure 
(See Annex 
11 of the 
RMP) 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
None 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Routine risk minimisation measures 
4.2 Posology and method of administration 
Transfer from basal insulin 
4.4 Special warning and precautions for use 
Populations not studied 
Additional 
risk 
minimisati
on 
measures 
(Proposed) SmPC 
Section 4.2 Posology and method of administration 
None 
Safety 
concern 
diabetes 
therapy 
Use of 
Xultophy® in 
the very 
elderly (≥ 75 
years) 
Abbreviations: NYHA = New York Heart Association; SmPC = summary of product characteristics; T1DM = type 1 
diabetes mellitus. 
2.10.  Product information 
2.10.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on the 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
IDegLira (Xultophy) is a fixed combination of the basal insulin insulin degludec (IDeg, active substance of 
Tresiba), and the GLP-1 analogue liraglutide (active substance of Victoza). The concomitant use of basal 
insulin and some GLP-1 analogues is accepted in free combination but no fixed combinations have been 
previously assessed or approved. 
The  efficacy  of  IDegLira  has  been  evaluated  in  three  studies  of  which  studies  3697  and  3912  were 
considered pivotal. The studies involved a total of 2481 subjects, of whom 1322 have received IDegLira. 
Study 3697 was a three-armed study including insulin-naïve patients with inadequate metabolic control 
on metformin+/-pioglitazone. In this study IDegLira, given at a maximum dose of 50 dose steps (50 units 
of IDeg and 1.8 mg liraglutide), was compared with  IDeg which  was titrated to target and liraglutide 
administered according to label. In the smaller study 3912, IDegLira treatment was compared with IDeg 
given at a maximum dose of 50 units, thereby evaluating the contribution of the liraglutide component. 
Study 3951 was a placebo-controlled study in patients who had failed on SU ± metformin. 
The studies were generally well designed and conducted.  
The outcome of study 3697 showed that the effect of IDegLira on HbA1c reduction was superior to both 
the mono-components (HbA1c decreased by 1.91%with IDegLira, by 1.44% with IDeg and by 1.28% with 
liraglutide). The differences were statistically significant. Data from the extension study showed that this 
effect was maintained up to 52 weeks with only marginally increased doses of IDegLira. The reduction in 
85 
 
 
HbA1c was also reflected in significantly higher responder rates with IDegLira, both when applying the 
HbA1c  cut-off  of  7  %  (80.6  %)  and  the  stricter  cut-off  of  6.5  %  (69.7  %)  compared  to  both 
mono-components (IDeg  65.1 % and 47.5 %; liraglutide 60.4 % and 41.1 %).  Higher proportions of 
patients reached the responder target without experiencing hypoglycaemia or weight gain in the IDegLira 
group compared to IDeg treated subjects whereas no difference was observed compared to liraglutide. 
Insulin doses were significantly lower in the IDegLira treated group compared to the IDeg treated group. 
At week 26 the mean insulin dose in the IDegLira group was 38 dose steps and 39.7% of subjects reached 
a daily insulin dose of 50 dose steps. In the IDeg groups the mean insulin dose was 53 units and 53.9 % 
of patients were on doses > 50 units. 
Other secondary endpoints supported the primary outcome. A comparable effect on FPG was observed 
with IDegLira and IDeg (-3.62 mmol/L vs. -3.61 mmol/L, liraglutide -1.75 mmol/L), whereas the effect on 
post-prandial  glucose  increment  was  comparable  for  IDegLira  and  liraglutide (iAUC0-4h:  -0.87 mmol/L 
vs. -0.78 mmol/L, IDeg -0.16 mmol/L). Body weight was reduced by 0.5 kg in the IDegLira group as 
compared to an increase by 1.6 kg in the IDeg group and a decrease by 3.0 kg in the liraglutide group. 
In study 3912, where the IDeg dose in both arms was maximised to 50 units, HbA1c decreased by 1.90 
% with IDegLira and by 0.89 % with IDeg. The reduction in HbA1c was statistically significantly greater 
with  IDegLira  compared  with  IDeg.  The  HbA1c  targets  of  7%  and  6.5%  were  reached  by  60.3%  and 
45.2%  of  IDegLira-treated  subjects  as  compared  to  23.1%  and  13.1%  of  IDeg-treated  subjects.  No 
difference in insulin dose was observed between treatment arms with a mean insulin dose of 45 units for 
both arms at week 26. 
The primary endpoint was supported by significant reductions in FPG with IDegLira compared to IDeg 
(-3.46  mmol/L  vs.  -2.58  mmol/L).  The  SMPG  profile  which  includes  both  the  effect  on  FPG  and 
post-prandial  glucose  increment  was  also  lower  with  IDegLira  compared  to  IDeg.  After  26  weeks  of 
treatment, a change in body weight from of -2.7 kg and 0.0 kg was observed for IDegLira and IDeg, 
respectively. 
Transferring patients on basal insulin applying a starting dose of 16 dose steps IDegLira appears feasible 
and did not result in loss in metabolic control during the transition period. 
In  study  3912,  which  included  patients  with  longer  and  more  heavily  treated  T2DM,  65.3%  of 
IDegLira-treated subjects reached a daily insulin dose of 50 dose steps after 26 weeks of treatment. As 
shown above, a substantial proportion of patients will be satisfactorily controlled on ≤ 50 dose steps of 
IDegLira. As diabetes is a progressive disease, the need for intensified treatment could be anticipated. 
Adequate information is included in the SmPC in order to prevent dosing of IDegLira above 50 dose steps 
per day. As a precautionary measure, the pen is constructed such that it can deliver a maximum of 50 
dose steps of IDegLira with each injection. 
In  study  3951,  IDegLira  was  given  as  add-on  to  patients  who  had  failed  to  reach  target  on  previous 
treatment with SU ± metformin. The addition of IDegLira, with a starting dose of 10 dose steps, resulted 
in a placebo-corrected decrease in HbA1c of -1.02 (95 % CI; -1.18-0.87). The target of HbA1c <7.0% was 
reached by 79.2% of patients in the IDegLira group and 28.8% of patients in the placebo group. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Patients on previous GLP-1 therapy have not been studied and there is consequently no data on whether 
transition from GLP-1 therapy to IDegLira is feasible. A study in this patient group is ongoing; until study 
results become available the SmPC has been amended to reflect the lack of experience to that regard.   
86 
 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The most common adverse events associated with IDegLira are gastrointestinal side effects. In study 
3697 the incidence for IDegLira, IDeg and Lira, respectively were; nausea (10.3, 3.9, 22.3 %), diarrhoea 
(10.2, 6.8, 16.3%), vomiting (5.0, 2.4, 9.2%). The GI AEs were transient and after 15 weeks treatment, 
there were no major differences between treatment groups. 
In study 3697, the percentage of subjects who experienced confirmed hypoglycaemic episodes during the 
first 26-week treatment period was 31.9% in the IDegLira group compared to 38.6% in the IDeg group 
and  6.8%  for  liraglutide.    In  Trial  3912,  the  proportions  of  subjects  experiencing  confirmed 
hypoglycaemic  episodes  were  24.1%  and  24.6%  for  IDegLira  and  IDeg,  respectively  (rate;  IDegLira 
153.4 events, IDeg 263.3 events per 100 PYE). The rate of confirmed hypoglycaemia was higher in study 
3951 when IDegLira was added to SU, both compared to placebo as well as compared to rates in other 
studies (351.7 and 135.2 episodes per 100 PYE, for IDegLira and placebo respectively). 
An increase in pulse was observed with IDegLira after (mean change 2.8 beats/min) and liraglutide (mean 
change 2.6 beats/min) 26 and 52 weeks treatment but not with IDeg. There were no signs of detrimental 
effects on blood pressure but rather a minor decrease in blood pressure.  
The incidence of allergic reactions seen in the IDegLira treated group in the pooled safety analysis set was 
0.9%. Injection site reactions related to IDegLira treatment was present in 2.9% of patients compared to 
4.6% for Lira and 2.9% for IDeg.  
Five (5)% of the patients from the IDegLira group developed antibodies towards  insulin compared to 2% 
of patients in the IDeg group in study 3697. In study 3912, the percentages were 5 and 3% for IDegLira 
and  IDeg,  respectively.  No  neutralising  insulin  anti-bodies  were  detected.  Few  subjects  developed 
anti-liraglutide antibodies (0.5-3% at different time points in the IDegLira group). 
No confirmed episodes of pancreatitis were reported with IDegLira.  However, a mean increase of serum 
lipase and amylase was seen the IDegLira and Lira groups compared to patients treated with IDeg. Acute 
pancreatitis has been previously identified as a potential safety issues for the GLP-1 receptor agonist class.  
Pancreatitis has been included in the RMP as important identified risk. 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
The rate of neoplasm events in the IDegLira group was 3.3 events, for IDeg 2.5 events and for Lira 3.3 
events per 100 PYE groups. The event rate with IDegLira was mainly driven by skin events (4 events of 
‘basal cell carcinoma’ and 1 event of ‘malignant melanoma’). In the current clinical development program, 
one  subject  treated  with  liraglutide  was  diagnosed  with  metastatic  pancreatic  adenocarcinoma.  No 
medullary thyroid cancer event was reported in any of the treatment groups. As a result of the recent art 
5(3) procedure, pancreatic neoplasms has been included in the RMP as a potential risk. 
There  were  numerically  more  CV  events  in  the  IDegLira  and  IDeg  groups  compared  to  Lira,  but  no 
difference with respect to oedema. The safety data base is too small to draw any conclusions with respect 
to cardiovascular safety. A CV outcome study is ongoing for both Lira and IDeg.  
There is limited experience of use of Xultophy in patients with congestive heart failure NYHA class I-II. 
There is no experience in patients with congestive heart failure NYHA class III-IV. This is reflected in the 
product information. 
The incidences of AEs were similar in patients below and above age 65 years, but the number of subjects 
≥ 75 years is very low. This is reflected in the product information. 
The clinical experience of IDegLira in patients with moderate renal impairment is very limited (n=11) and 
use is not recommended in line with recommendations for Victoza. 
87 
 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
The pivotal studies show that the combination of lDeg and liraglutide results in a clinically relevant effect 
in  terms  of  HbA1c  lowering  and  that  both  components  contribute  to  this  effect.  The  glucose  lowering 
effect was superior to the effect of the separate compounds titrated to target. IDegLira combines the IDeg 
effect on FPG and the liraglutide effect on post-prandial glucose increment. The data further show that the 
effect is achieved at lower insulin doses than with insulin mono-therapy. The effect on body weight was 
not entirely consistent across the studies, but IDegLira is at least weight neutral, compared to weight 
increase with IDeg, which is important in the T2DM population where overweight is often a problem. On 
the other hand, the effect on body weight was less beneficial compared to liraglutide monotherapy. The 
possibility  to  take  one  injection  instead  of  two  (if  the  components  would  be  used  separately)  is  an 
important benefit for the patient. 
The  safety  profile  for  IDegLira  is  in  general  similar  to  the  two  included  mono-components  with  no 
indications of additive toxicity. The incidence of GI adverse events is lower compared to liraglutide given 
as monotherapy since a lower dose of liraglutide was needed in the combination with IDeg in the pivotal 
study.  This  can  be  an  advantage  even  though  GI  adverse  events  diminish  over  time.  Risk  of 
hypoglycaemia is driven by the insulin dose and since (in study 3697) the necessary dose to achieve 
glycaemic control was somewhat lower for IDegLira compared to IDeg, consequently the risk is be lower. 
However, in combination with SU, the risk of hypoglycaemia is higher compared to placebo and a dose 
reduction  of  SU  may  be  needed.  This  is  reflected  in  the  product  information.  Further,  the  risk  of 
hypoglycaemia is higher compared to liraglutide monotherapy. 
No confirmed episodes of pancreatitis were reported with IDegLira, but have been reported for other GLP 
1 agonists. Acute pancreatitis has previously been identified as a potential safety issues for the GLP-1 
receptor agonist class and the risk, albeit small, should be taken into account when prescribing these 
products. 
Other issues discussed for the GLP 1 agonists include risk of thyroid and pancreatic neoplasm. The current 
data base is too limited and the duration of the studies too short to provide any useful information. Long 
term PAS studies are ongoing for Lira which will provide more information, but there are currently no 
indications  of  an  increased  risk.  As  a  result  of  the  recent  art  5(3)  procedure,  pancreatic  neoplasm  is 
included in the RMP as a potential risk.  
As for some of the other GLP 1 agonists, a mean increase in heart rate was seen for patients exposed to 
IDegLira. There was no negative effect on blood pressure. The clinical relevance of the increase in heart 
rate is currently not known. However, as has previously been discussed for other products, since several 
CV outcome studies are ongoing, no further action is needed at the moment. 
For Xultophy, both compounds are titrated simultaneously in a fixed ratio. Thus, for patients requiring low 
insulin doses, the liraglutide dose may be below the lowest dose considered to be effective. From the 
analyses presented by the Applicant, there is support that liraglutide contributes to the effect also at low 
doses of Xultophy. Whether this contribution is of clinical relevance or not can be discussed. However, 
judging from study data, it can be expected that in clinical practice most patients will be uptitrated to least 
16 dose steps of Xultophy, i.e. receiving at least 0.6 mg of liraglutide. 
On the other hand, the fact that the maximum dose is 50U/1.8 mg may imply a risk of too high liraglutide 
doses in the case of off label use to reach higher insulin doses. However, adequate information is included 
in the product information and it is foreseen that prescribers will inform the patients accordingly. 
88 
 
Benefit-risk balance  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The combination of basal insulin and a GLP-1 analogue in the treatment of T2DM has been previously 
evaluated and accepted for other products, however, the concept of a fixed combination is new. The main 
difference compared to the free combination is that the GLP-1 component will be titrated in smaller dose 
steps than currently recommended.  
The fixed combination combines two drugs with complementary mechanisms of action by a) substituting 
for the relative insulin deficiency in T2DM and b) stimulating endogenous insulin secretion. This rationale 
is adequate and carries the potential (although not yet established) of sparing beta-cell function over 
time. 
The target population for IDegLira includes patients not adequately controlled on metformin and insulin 
(study 3912) and  those not controlled on OAD alone (study 3697). For the first group, IDegLira provided 
a superior glycaemic control compared to insulin alone combined with the benefit of weight stability. An 
alternative treatment strategy could have been to increase the insulin dose further, but this would very 
likely have been associated with increased risk of hypoglycaemia and weight increase. The incidence of GI 
adverse events was higher compared to insulin alone, but these events were transient and the incidence 
decreased over time. 
For  patients  failing  on  OAD,  in  study  3697,  adding  IDegLira  was  beneficial  compared  to  adding  only 
insulin  with  respect  to  reduction  of  HbA1c  and  a  lower  risk  of  weight  increase  and  hypoglycaemia, 
whilstassociated with an increased risk of gastrointestinal adverse events.  
Compared  to  adding  only  liraglutide,  the  benefits  are  less  obvious  considering  that  GI  AEs  tend  to 
diminish  over  time  and  weight  decrease  was  more  pronounced  with  Lira  compared  to  IDegLira.  In 
addition,  IDegLira  was  associated  with  more  hypoglycaemic  events  than  Lira.  However,  the  glucose 
lowering  effect  was  higher  with  IDegLira.  For  these  patients  IDegLira  could  represent  one  of  several 
alternative treatments. It can be argued that adding two active components simultaneously instead of a 
sequential  addition  of  glucose  lowering  agents  is  not  in  line  with  current  EU  treatment  guidelines. 
However, in a recently published ADA/EASD position statement it is emphasised that individualisation of 
treatment  is  essential  for  successful  diabetes  management.  Metformin  is  still  considered  as  first  line 
treatment, but second line treatments should be based on the needs, preference and tolerance of each 
patient. Thus, to have several alternative treatment options can be considered to be in line with such 
recommendations.  As with any treatment decision, the advantages and disadvantages of the available 
options  for  treatment  intensification  should  be  considered  in  the  context  of  the  characteristics  and 
treatment goals of the individual patient.  
In some patients it might be preferred to titrate the 2 components separately to understand the initial 
patient response and tolerability to each of these.  The use of the 2 components separately may also 
simplify the management of treatment interruption.  In some insulin-naïve patients on oral therapies, the 
addition of a single agent will be adequate. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considers  by  majority 
decision that the risk-benefit balance of Xultophy in the treatment of adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
to improve glycaemic control in combination with oral glucose-lowering medicinal products when these 
89 
 
alone or combined with basal insulin do not provide adequate glycaemic control (see sections 4.4 and 5.1 
for available data on the different combinations) is favourable and therefore recommends  the granting of 
the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Periodic Safety Update Reports  
• 
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit the first periodic safety update report for this product 
within 6 months following authorisation. Subsequently, the marketing authorisation holder shall submit 
periodic safety update reports for this product in accordance with the requirements set out in the list of 
Union  reference  dates  (EURD  list)  provided  for  under  Article  107c(7)  of  Directive  2001/83/EC  and 
published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
• 
The  MAH  shall  perform  the  required    pharmacovigilance  activities  and  interventions  detailed  in  the  
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
agreed  RMP  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  and  any  agreeed    subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
Additional risk minimisation measures  
• 
The MAH shall provide educational materials prior to launch targeting all physicians and nurses who are 
expected to be involved in the treatment and management of diabetic patients and all pharmacists who 
are expected to dispense Xultophy.  
The  educational  materials  are  aimed  at  increasing  awareness  about  the  introduction  of  a  new  fixed 
combination  of  insulin  degludec  and  liraglutide  (a  GLP1-based  product)  in  the  European  market  and 
describing key aspects of the product to minimise the risk of medication errors with Xultophy. 
The educational materials should contain: 
- Summary of product characteristics and package leaflet; 
- Health care professional brochure that should contain the following key elements: 
• 
this  product  contains  a  fixed  dose  combination  of  insulin  degludec  plus  liraglutide  (a 
GLP1-based product) which constitutes a new treatment paradigm in the treatment of patients 
with type 2 diabetes. In this context, relevant precautions as reflected in the SmPC should be 
emphasised.  
• 
a  clear  explanation  of  the  posology  of  the  product  and  the  meaning  of  ‘dose  steps’  -  with 
reference to dose of each component for each dose step 
• 
a  reminder  of  the  need  to  report  all  medication  errors  irrespective  of  whether  or  not  they 
resulted in an adverse event. 
90 
 
The MAH shall agree the final content and modality of distribution for the educational materials together 
with  a  communication  plan,  with  the  National  Competent  Authority  in  each  Member  State  prior  to 
distribution of the educational materials in the Member State. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the Member States. 
Not applicable. 
Divergent position to the majority recommendation is appended to this report. 
91 
 
APPENDIX 
DIVERGENT POSITION 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Divergent Position 
The undersigned members of CHMP did not agree with the CHMP’s opinion to recommend the granting of 
a Marketing Authorisation for Xultophy.  
The reasons for divergent opinion were as follows: 
An  indication  that  includes  all  patients  who  do  not  obtain  adequate  glycaemic  control  on  oral 
glucose-lowering medicinal products alone is not supported.   It is appreciated that individualisation of 
treatment is important, and it is agreed that for certain patients uncontrolled on oral agents alone in 
whom the addition of insulin is the next step, Xultophy would be an alternative option.  However, in some 
insulin-naïve patients who do not obtain adequate glycaemic control on oral therapies, the addition of a 
single agent will be adequate to achieve glycaemic control, which means that some patients receiving 
Xultophy are exposed to a combination therapy unnecessarily.  In particular, Xultophy might lead to an 
unnecessarily early introduction of insulin in the treatment course of patients with type 2 diabetes, which 
may be undesirable considering the associated risks of weight gain and hypoglycaemia, and absence of 
long-term outcome data for cardiovascular events. However, the clinical programme for Xultophy showed 
no weight gain and less hypoglycaemic events compared to insulin. Xultophy, with its fixed ratio dosing, 
offers less flexibility to titrate the individual components and manage interruption of treatment, and at 
the initiation of treatment does not allow the prescriber to understand how the patient responds to or 
tolerates each component. 
93 
 
London, 24 July 2014 
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Alar Irs (ET) 
Bruno Sepodes (PT)  
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Daniel Brasseur (BE) 
Daniela Melchiorri (IT)  
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Greg Markey (UK) 
Hubert Leufkens (Co-opted Member)  
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Ingunn Hagen Westgaard (NO)  
Ivana Mikacic (HR)  
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Jacqueline Genoux-Hames (LUX) 
Jan Mazag (SK)  
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Jens Heisterberg (DK)   
Natalja Karpova (LV)  
……………..………………………….. 
……………..………………………….. 
Pieter de Graeff (NL) 
Robert Hemmings (Co-opted Member) 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
