EMA/467911/2014 
Summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for 
Xultophy (insulin degludec / liraglutide) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Xultophy, which details the measures to be 
taken in order to ensure that Xultophy is used as safely as possible. For more information on RMP 
summaries, see here. 
This RMP summary should be read in conjunction with the EPAR summary and the product information 
for Xultophy, which can be found on Xultophy’s EPAR page. 
Overview of disease epidemiology 
Xultophy is a medicine used to treat type 2 diabetes in adults. Type 2 diabetes is a condition in which 
the pancreas does not make enough insulin to control the level of glucose (sugar) in the blood or when 
the body is unable to use insulin effectively. In 2010, about 1 out of every 15 adults in Europe had this 
condition. Type 2 diabetes is more likely to develop in people who have family members with the 
condition, people with an ethnic background known to be associated with a higher risk (for example 
Asian or African), people aged over 40 years old, or who are overweight or obese, do not exercise, 
have high blood pressure, or smoke. 
People with type 2 diabetes tend to have other diseases at the time of diagnosis and they are at 
greater risk of developing conditions such as cardiovascular disorders, diabetic eye disease and kidney 
disease. 
Summary of treatment benefits 
Xultophy contains the active substances insulin degludec and liraglutide. It is given by injection under 
the skin, together with diabetes medicines given by mouth, in patients whose blood glucose (blood 
sugar) cannot be controlled with medicines by mouth alone. 
Once-daily injection of Xultophy has been shown to be of benefit in controlling blood glucose in two 
main studies in patients with type 2 diabetes. In both studies, the main measure of effectiveness was 
the change after 6 months of treatment in the level in the blood of a substance called glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well blood glucose is controlled.  
• 
The first study involved 1,663 patients whose diabetes was not adequately controlled with the 
diabetes medicines metformin or metformin and pioglitazone taken by mouth; adding Xultophy to 
their treatment was compared with adding either of its active substances, insulin degludec or 
liraglutide. The average HbA1c level was 8.3% at the start. After 6 months of treatment with 
Xultophy it fell to 6.4%, compared with 6.9% with insulin degludec and 7.0% with liraglutide. 
Comparable results were seen in a group of patients who continued treatment up to 1 year. 
• 
The second study involved 413 patients whose blood glucose was not adequately controlled by a 
combination of insulin and metformin with or without other diabetes medicines taken by mouth. 
Treatment with Xultophy and metformin was compared with treatment using insulin degludec and 
Page 1/6 
 
 
metformin. Average HbA1c at the start was 8.7% in the Xultophy group, which fell after 6 months 
of treatment to 6.9%. In the comparator group it fell from 8.8% to 8.0%. 
The majority of patients treated with Xultophy achieved control of their blood glucose (target levels of 
HbA1c below 7.0%) and many achieved HbA1c below 6.5%. The studies also looked at other effects of 
treatment, including on bodyweight; this was generally stable or fell slightly in patients treated with 
Xultophy, but tended to increase in those given insulin degludec and to decrease with liraglutide. 
Unknowns relating to treatment benefits 
Xultophy has not been studied in patients with liver problems or moderate and severe kidney 
problems. Studies used to license Xultophy did not include patients who had been treated with 
liraglutide or other medicines of the same class before transferring to Xultophy, or patients who were 
injecting more than 40 units of basal insulin before transferring to Xultophy, and it is not known if the 
effects of the medicine would be equivalent in such patients. 
Summary of safety concerns 
Important identified risks 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Diarrhoea or 
Up to 1 out of every 10 patients will 
Patients should be advised by their 
feeling or being 
get diarrhoea, feel sick or be sick. 
healthcare professional about the need to 
sick 
This is usually mild and happens at the 
drink sufficient fluids to avoid 
(Gastrointestinal 
disorders: 
diarrhoea, nausea 
and vomiting) 
start of treatment or when increasing 
dehydration if diarrhoea or vomiting 
the dose. It usually goes away after a 
occur. 
few days or weeks. However, if it is 
severe, it can cause dehydration due 
to loss of fluids from the body. 
Low blood sugar 
Low blood sugar is the most common 
The product information for Xultophy 
(Hypoglycaemia) 
side effect of Xultophy, seen in more 
contains warnings about the risk of low 
than 1 patient in 10. In rare cases (4 
blood sugar and how to manage it.If 
out of every 1,000 patients) this can 
patients notice signs of low blood sugar they 
be severe and may be life 
should eat glucose tablets or a high-sugar 
threatening. 
snack. Patients should monitor their blood-
When Xultophy is combined with a 
sugar levels regularly. 
type of diabetes medicine called a 
The risk of low blood sugar when 
sulphonylurea, hypoglycaemia may 
Xultophy is used with a sulphonylurea 
occur more frequently. 
can be lowered by a reduction in the 
dose of sulphonylurea. 
Allergic reactions  
Allergic reactions to Xultophy are 
The product information for Xultophy 
uncommon, with skin reactions such 
contains warnings for doctors and 
as itchy rash (urticaria) seen in less 
patients on the possibility of allergic 
than 1 patient in 100. More severe 
reactions. Patients must not use this 
allergic reactions, including swelling 
medicine if they are allergic to any of its 
of the tissues around the neck, face, 
ingredients. 
mouth and/or throat, are rare. 
Page 2/6 
 
Risk 
What is known 
Preventability 
Inflamed pancreas 
In very rare cases medicines that 
The product information for Xultophy 
(Pancreatitis) 
work like liraglutide may be linked to 
contains warnings for doctors and 
pancreatitis. 
patients about the risk of pancreatitis. 
Patients should tell their doctor if they 
develop a severe stomach ache which 
does not go away, as this could be a sign 
of pancreatitis. 
If pancreatitis is suspected, treatment 
with Xultophy should be stopped, and if 
it is confirmed, Xultophy should not be 
restarted.  
Caution should be exercised in patients 
with a history of pancreatitis. 
Important potential risks 
Risk 
What is known  
Kidney problems 
If patients get dehydrated due to diarrhoea and vomiting, it can reduce how 
(Altered renal 
function) 
well the kidneys work. 
Patients should be advised by their healthcare professional about the need to 
drink sufficient fluids to avoid dehydration if diarrhoea or vomiting occur. 
Heart disease and 
Patients with type 2 diabetes have a higher risk of  heart disease and stroke, 
stroke 
which might lead to death, and this risk may be increased further in patients 
(Cardiovascular 
disorders) 
Antibody 
development 
taking some diabetes medicines. The company that markets Xultophy is 
carrying out a study with liraglutide to evaluate whether it affects the risk of 
these conditions. 
Taking insulin or liraglutide may cause the immune system (the body’s natural 
defences) to produce antibodies against the medicine. In rare cases, these 
antibodies can neutralise the effects of the medicine so that the doctor has to 
change the dose or the medicine. However, this has not been seen in any 
studies of Xultophy. 
Medication errors 
Medication errors can occur if the patient takes the wrong dose, or if Xultophy 
is confused with another injectable diabetes medicine such as fast-acting 
(bolus) insulin.  The label must always be checked before each injection to 
ensure the right medicine is injected. 
The company that markets Xultophy has prepared educational material for 
doctors in the EU to help explain the use of the medicine and reduce the risk 
of medication errors. 
Cancer and tumours, 
There have been studies which raised concerns that insulins like the insulin 
including cancers of 
degludec in Xultophy might be associated with a small increased risk of 
the thyroid and 
cancer. However, no conclusive data exist to date that link these insulins with 
Page 3/6 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
pancreas 
such an increase in risk of cancer. 
(Neoplasms including 
When liraglutide, the other active substance in Xultophy, was given to rats 
medullary thyroid 
and mice for most of their lifetime, more thyroid cancers were seen. It is 
cancer and pancreatic 
unknown whether liraglutide causes these rare types of thyroid cancer 
cancer) 
(thyroid C-cell tumours, including medullary thyroid carcinoma), in humans. In 
addition, there have been concerns that medicines that work in the same way 
as liraglutide may increase the risk of cancer of the pancreas. Evidence to date 
from studies with liraglutide and results following its marketing does not 
indicate that treatment with liraglutide causes cancer. 
To date, studies with Xultophy itself have not raised concern about an 
association with an increased risk of cancer, including cancers of the thyroid 
and pancreas, but the number of events is too small to draw final conclusions; 
until better evidence is obtained it is therefore considered as a potential risk. 
Missing information 
Risk 
What is known  
Use in children and 
Xultophy has not been studied in people under 18 years of age so it is not 
adolescents 
known if Xultophy is safe and effective in this age group. 
Patients whose hearts 
Xultophy has not been studied in patients with severe congestive heart failure. 
cannot pump blood 
These patients also did not take part in studies with insulin degludec. 
around the body 
However, they are included in a study with liraglutide, which is ongoing at 
properly 
the moment.  
(severe congestive 
heart failure, NYHA 
III-IV) 
Using warfarin and 
Many medicines are known to affect the action of warfarin (a medicine used to 
Xultophy at the same 
thin the blood and stop it clotting). Up to now, there have been no reports of 
time 
problems of effectiveness or safety in patients taking warfarin who also used 
(Drug–drug 
interactions with 
warfarin) 
liraglutide or insulin degludec, and Xultophy has been safely used in some 
patients also taking warfarin. However, the number of patients using both 
Xultophy and warfarin in studies is too low to draw any conclusions. 
Patients who start Xultophy while taking warfarin or similar medicines should 
therefore check their blood clotting more often (called ‘INR monitoring’). 
Use of Xultophy by 
Xultophy has not been tested in patients with type 1 diabetes, and is therefore 
type 1 diabetes 
not approved for this indication. 
patients 
(Off-label use by 
T1DM patients) 
It is not known if Xultophy is effective and safe in type 1 diabetes patients. 
Page 4/6 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk 
What is known  
Patients with liver 
Xultophy has not been properly tested in patients with liver problems and 
problems 
there is not much information about Xultophy use in this group of patients. 
(Use in patients with 
hepatic impairment) 
This means Xultophy cannot currently be recommended for use in these 
patients. 
Patients with 
Xultophy has not been properly tested in patients with moderate and severe 
moderate and severe 
kidney problems. There is little information about Xultophy use by patients with 
kidney problems 
moderate kidney problems. There is no information about Xultophy use by 
(Use in patients with 
moderate and severe 
renal failure) 
patients with severe kidney problems. This means that Xultophy cannot 
currently be recommended for use in these patients. This includes patients with 
‘end-stage’ kidney problems. 
Women who want to 
become pregnant, are 
Xultophy has not been properly studied in pregnant or breastfeeding women. 
The medicine should not be used by women who are pregnant or are 
pregnant or are 
breastfeeding, think they are pregnant or are planning to have a baby. 
breastfeeding 
Transfer from injected 
Xultophy has not been studied in patients who have previously been treated 
diabetes medicines 
with liraglutide or other medicines of the same class, nor in patients being 
treated with more than 40 units of long-acting (basal) insulin daily.  
Patients who have been treated with these medicines may need more blood 
sugar checks when transferring to treatment with Xultophy. This should be 
discussed with a doctor. 
Use of Xultophy in 
Xultophy was tested in very few patients older than 75 years. 
patients older than 75 
years 
It is not known if Xultophy can be used safely by patients older than 75 years. 
Summary of risk minimisation measures by safety concern 
All medicines have a summary of product characteristics (SmPC) which provides physicians, 
pharmacists and other healthcare professionals with details on how to use the medicine, and also 
describes the risks and recommendations for minimising them. Information for patients is available in 
lay language in the package leaflet. The measures listed in these documents are known as ‘routine risk 
minimisation measures’. 
The SmPC and the package leaflet are part of the medicine’s product information. The product 
information for Xultophy can be found on Xultophy’s EPAR page. 
This medicine has special conditions and restrictions for its safe and effective use (additional risk 
minimisation measures). Full details on these conditions and the key elements of any educational 
material can be found in Annex II of the product information which is published on Xultophy’s EPAR 
page; how they are implemented in each country however will depend upon agreement between the 
marketing authorisation holder and the national authorities. 
These additional risk minimisation measures are for the following risks: 
Page 5/6 
 
 
 
 
Medication errors 
Risk minimisation measure: Educational material for healthcare professionals 
Objective and rationale: Xultophy is a new kind of treatment option for people with type 2 diabetes. 
The dose of Xultophy is measured in ‘dose steps’. The phrase ‘dose steps’ has been introduced to 
combine units of insulin degludec and milligrams of liraglutide as a single term that describes the dose 
of Xultophy. 
Since Xultophy is a new treatment option and ‘dose step’ a new way of describing doses, there could 
be a risk of medication errors (mistakes in the dosage). Selecting an incorrect starting dose or 
adjusting the dose incorrectly could result in too much or too little medicine being given, which in turn 
could lead to too high or low blood sugar or reactions like nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. It is 
therefore important that healthcare professionals advise patients correctly, and report all medication 
errors. 
Description: The company that markets the medicine is providing educational material to healthcare 
that Xultophy is a new kind of treatment option for people with type 2 diabetes; 
professionals in the EU, explaining: 
• 
•  how to administer Xultophy in dose steps and set the dose; 
•  how to select the recommended Xultophy starting dose; 
•  how to adjust the dose of Xultophy; 
• 
The content, format and distribution of these materials will be agreed with the health authorities of the 
that there is a need to report all medication errors. 
individual EU countries. 
Planned post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies of safety or efficacy planned after authorisation. 
Studies which are a condition of the marketing authorisation 
Not applicable. 
Summary of changes to the risk management plan over time 
Not applicable. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2014. 
Page 6/6 
 
 
 
