EMA/301016/2018  
EMEA/H/C/002647 
Xultophy (insulin degludec / liraglutide) 
An overview of Xultophy and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Xultophy and what is it used for? 
Xultophy is a medicine that is used for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Together with diet and 
exercise, Xultophy is added to treatment with diabetes medicines taken by mouth when these 
medicines, alone or with other injections, have not controlled blood glucose (sugar) levels.   
The active substances in Xultophy are insulin degludec and liraglutide. 
How is Xultophy used? 
Xultophy is available as pre-filled disposable pens and can only be obtained with a prescription. It is 
given as an injection under the skin of the thigh, the upper arm or the abdomen (belly). The site of 
injection should be changed with each injection to avoid changes to the skin (such as thickening) that 
can make the medicine work less well than expected. Patients can inject themselves with Xultophy if 
they have been trained appropriately. 
Xultophy is given once a day, preferably at the same time each day. The dose is adjusted individually 
for each patient, and the patient’s blood glucose should be regularly tested to find the lowest effective 
dose. 
For more information about using Xultophy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Xultophy work? 
Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the body does not produce enough insulin to control the level of 
blood glucose, or the body is unable to use insulin effectively. One of the active substances in 
Xultophy, insulin degludec, is a replacement insulin that acts in the same way as naturally produced 
insulin and helps glucose enter cells from the blood. By controlling the level of blood glucose, the 
symptoms and complications of diabetes are reduced. Insulin degludec is slightly different from human 
insulin as it is absorbed more slowly and regularly by the body after an injection and it works for a long 
time. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The other active substance in Xultophy, liraglutide, belongs to the class of diabetes medicines known 
as GLP-1 agonists. It acts in the same way as incretins (hormones produced in the gut) by increasing 
the amount of insulin that the pancreas releases in response to food. This helps with the control of 
blood glucose levels. 
What benefits of Xultophy have been shown in studies? 
Once-daily injection of Xultophy has been shown to be of benefit in controlling blood glucose in three 
main studies involving 2,514 patients with type 2 diabetes. In all studies, the main measure of 
effectiveness was the change after 6 months of treatment in the level in the blood of a substance 
called glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c), which gives an indication of how well blood glucose is 
controlled.  
• 
The first study involved 1,663 patients whose diabetes was not adequately controlled with the 
diabetes medicines metformin or metformin and pioglitazone taken by mouth. Adding Xultophy to 
their treatment was compared with adding either of its active substances, insulin degludec or 
liraglutide. The average HbA1c level, which was 8.3% at the start, fell to 6.4% after 26 weeks of 
treatment with Xultophy, compared with 6.9% and 7.0% respectively with insulin degludec and 
liraglutide.  
• 
• 
The second study involved 413 patients whose blood glucose was not adequately controlled by 
insulin and metformin with or without other diabetes medicines taken by mouth. Treatment with 
Xultophy and metformin was compared with treatment using insulin degludec and metformin. 
Average HbA1c at the start was 8.7% in the Xultophy group, and fell after 26 weeks of treatment 
to 6.9%. In the group using insulin degludec it fell from 8.8% to 8.0%. 
The third study involved 438 patients whose blood glucose was not adequately controlled by a 
combination of a GLP-1 agonist (liraglutide or exenatide) and metformin with or without other 
diabetes medicines taken by mouth. Patients in the study either continued with their current 
treatment or received Xultophy instead of the GLP-1 agonist. Average HbA1c was 7.8% before 
patients started to receive Xultophy, and fell after 26 weeks of treatment to 6.4%. In the group 
that kept on receiving the GLP-1 agonist, it fell from 7.7% to 7.4%. 
The majority of patients treated with Xultophy in these studies achieved control of their blood glucose 
(HbA1c below 7.0%) and many achieved HbA1c below 6.5%.  
What are the risks associated with Xultophy? 
The most common side effect with Xultophy (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) is 
hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose). Side effects on the digestive system occurred in up to 1 in 10 
patients and included nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea, vomiting, constipation, dyspepsia (indigestion), 
gastritis (inflammation of the stomach), abdominal pain (stomach ache), flatulence (wind), 
gastroesophageal reflux disease (passage of stomach acid back up towards the mouth), and distension 
(swelling) of the belly. For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Xultophy, see the package 
leaflet. 
Why is Xultophy approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Xultophy’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. Adding this medicine to other diabetes medicines offers better control 
of blood glucose and having an alternative treatment option is valuable in individualising treatment. 
Xultophy (insulin degludec / liraglutide)  
EMA/301016/2018 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Xultophy? 
The company that markets Xultophy will provide educational materials for healthcare professionals, 
explaining how to use the medicine safely, so as to reduce the risk of medication errors.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Xultophy have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Xultophy are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Xultophy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Xultophy 
Xultophy received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 September 2014.  
Further information on Xultophy can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports.  
This overview was last updated in 05-2018. 
Xultophy (insulin degludec / liraglutide)  
EMA/301016/2018 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
