PART VI:  SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR XYDALBA 
(DALBAVANCIN) 
This is a summary of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) for Xydalba. The RMP details 
important risks of Xydalba, how these risks can be minimised, and how more 
information will be obtained about Xydalba’s risks and uncertainties (missing 
information). Xydalba's Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC) and its 
Package Leaflet (PL) give essential information to healthcare professionals and 
patients on how Xydalba should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Xydalba should be read in the context of all this 
information, including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, which are part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates 
of Xydalba’s RMP. 
I The medicine and what it is used for 
Current: 
Xydalba is indicated for the treatment of acute bacterial skin and skin structure 
infections (ABSSSI) in adults (see the SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
dalbavancin as the active substance and it is given by intravenous use. 
Proposed: 
Xydalba is indicated for the treatment of ABSSSI in adults and paediatric patients 
aged 3 months and older. 
Further information about the evaluation of Xydalba’s benefits can be found in 
Xydalba’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the European 
Medicines Agency (EMA) website, under the medicine’s webpage link to the EPAR 
summary landing page. 
II Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or 
further characterise the risks 
Important risks of Xydalba, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Xydalba's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
Important advice on the medicine's packaging 
 
  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly 
  The medicine's legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g., with or without a prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. In 
addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and is regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR) assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of Xydalba is not yet 
available, it is listed under 'missing information' below. 
II.A  List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Xydalba are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Xydalba. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this 
medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not been 
established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and 
needs to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 46- Summary of Safety Concerns 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified risks 
Emergence of resistance 
Pseudomembranous colitis 
Hypersensitivity 
Important potential risks 
Hepatic disorder 
Otovestibular toxicity 
Nephrotoxicity 
Haematologic effects 
Missing information 
Use in immunocompromised patients 
Use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic 
impairment 
Use in patients with a CrCl<30 ml/min receiving 
haemodialysis 
Paediatric use 
Use in pregnant and lactating women 
II.B  Summary of important risks 
Table 47- Summary of Important Risks 
Important Identified risk: Emergence of resistance 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Module 2.5 Clinical Overview  
Module 5, Section 5.3.4.3.1 Summary of Microbiology 
Programme 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Scientific literature 
Hospitalised patients and persons living in institutions, 
such as long-term care facilities, are at risk for skin 
infections caused by selected bacterial pathogens 
resistant to antimicrobials, especially where hygiene 
habits (e.g. thorough hand washing, changing gowns 
and gloves) are insufficient. Adherence to infection 
control procedures is essential to the control of 
antimicrobial resistance spread in these settings. 
(WHO, 2002; Larson et al, 2007) 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Important Identified Risk:   Pseudomembranous colitis 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Module 2.4 Non-clinical Overview;  
Module 2.7.4 Summary of Clinical Safety. 
Scientific literature 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
In addition to the use of antimicrobials, certain host 
and environmental factors predispose patients to C. 
difficile colitis. Factors such as advanced age, renal 
 
insufficiency, ICU admission, severity of underlying 
disease, as well as setting (inpatient versus 
outpatient) and duration of hospitalisation play a role 
in developing CDAD. (Adams and Mercer, 2007; 
Thielman and Wilson, 2005) 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Important Identified Risk:   Hypersensitivity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Module 2.4 Nonclinical Overview 
Module 2.5 Clinical Overview 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Module 2.7.4 Summary of Clinical Safety 
Scientific literature 
Risk factors that place a person at an increased risk 
for an adverse cutaneous drug reaction include the 
offending medication, concomitant medications, 
underlying diseases and the severity of such 
conditions. (Demoly and Gomes, 2005) The 
prevalence of adverse cutaneous drug reactions 
shows that women are more affected than men, 
although gender differences may depend on the age 
group. (Demoly and Gomes, 2005) 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Important Potential Risk:   Hepatic disorder 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Module 2.4 Non-clinical Overview  
Module 2.5 Clinical Overview 
Module 2.7.4 Summary of Clinical Safety  
Scientific literature 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Patients may be at risk for hepatobiliary events due to 
underlying illness or concomitant medications (e.g., 
parenteral nutrition, analgesics, lipid lowering agents) 
or alcohol/IV drug abuse. Severe group A 
streptococcal infection, including cellulitis, has been 
associated with liver function test abnormalities. 
Patients with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of 
liver injury due to the high burden of non-alcoholic 
fatty liver disease. (Clark, 2006) 
Hepatobiliary AEs were reported in clinical trials more 
frequently in patients who had elevated baseline 
hepatobiliary values than those who did not. 
Increased risk for hepatobiliary disorder was not 
associated with any of the standard demographic 
variables (age, gender or ethnicity). 
No dose adjustment of dalbavancin is recommended 
for patients with mild hepatic insufficiency. In the 
absence of data to support a dosing recommendation 
for patients with moderate or severe hepatic 
insufficiency, caution should be exercised when 
prescribing dalbavancin to such patients. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Important Potential Risk: Otovestibular toxicity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Scientific literature 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Occupational exposure to noise can be a significant 
hazard to one’s hearing and it is often reported that 
the most common cause of hearing problems 
precipitating tinnitus is exposure to noise. Medications 
are frequently associated with permanent or 
temporary tinnitus. Age and underlying diseases or 
conditions, such as ear infection, allergies, head and 
neck trauma, are other factors associated with 
tinnitus. (Henry et al, 2005) 
Concomitant administration with ototoxic agents 
(such as NSAIDs, aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, 
diuretics, chemotherapy or narcotic analgesics) may 
be a risk factor. (Cianfrone, 2011) 
It has been postulated that vancomycin may affect 
the auditory system in a manner that results in 
augmentation of the usual ototoxicity of 
aminoglycoside antibiotics. (Brummett, 1993)  
In Phase 2/3 integrated dalbavancin clinical studies, 
adverse events in patients who received concomitant 
administration of aminoglycosides were evaluated. No 
adverse events associated with ear or labyrinth 
disorders were reported in either dalbavancin-treated 
or comparator-treated patients. 
Renal dysfunction has been reported as a risk factor 
for ototoxicity (Brummett and Morrison, 1990). 
Complete audiology testing was performed in subjects 
in Phase 1 clinical studies and included 10 subjects 
with mild to moderate renal impairment. Results of 
the audiology assessment indicate no evidence of 
ototoxicity. 
Ototoxicity data was also collected in paediatric Study 
DUR001-106.  Two AEs  of abnormal acoustic 
simulation tests (one in cohort 2 y – 6 y and one in 
cohort 6 y - 11 y) and two AEs of abnormal 
audiograms (one in cohort 3 mo – 2 y and one in 
cohort 2 y – 6 y) were reported. All four events were 
non serious and assessed as not related/unlikely 
related to study drug.  Three events were mild and 
one was moderate in severity.  One event was 
confounded by cystic fibrosis and a history of chronic 
aminoglycoside use. One event for abnormal acoustic 
simulation test was recovered/resolved and the 
remaining events were reported with an outcome of 
unknown. 
In general audiology testing was difficult to perform 
and interpret in this subject population. Difficulties 
included lack of cooperation due to age and 
underlying illness. Despite these limitations, there 
was no evidence of ototoxicity in a majority of 
subjects (21/34, 62%); for the remainder no 
determination could be made, as 2 were lost to 
follow-up, 4 were uncooperative, 4 needed additional 
testing or had missing raw data results, 2 had 
distortion product otoacoustic emissions data that was 
difficult to interpret without additional testing, and 1 
had a history confounded by chronic aminoglycoside 
use. 
In addition, the risk of ototoxicity in the children 
under 1 year is a potential risk. Audiologic testing has 
been conducted in a total of 18 children in Study 
DUR001-306 (1 in the birth to <3-months cohort; 6 in 
the 2-year to < 6-year cohort; 4 in the 6-year to < 
12-year cohort; 7 in the 12-year to 17-year cohort). 
Review of the audiology parameters at baseline and 
Day 28 in all tested subjects (overall and by age 
cohort) showed no evident signal of ototoxicity and 
test results at Day 28 remained within the clinically 
normal range. No bone conduction tests needed to be 
performed. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Important Potential Risk: Nephrotoxicity 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Module 2.7.4 Summary of Clinical Safety 
Module 2.4 Nonclinical Overview 
Module 2.5 Clinical Overview 
Scientific literature  
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Nephrotoxicity may be associated with concurrently 
administered nephrotoxic drugs, such as NSAIDs, 
antibiotics such as aminoglycosides, beta lactams or 
quinolones, ACE inhibitors, diuretics, PPIs, contrast 
dye, or chemotherapy. The clinical information 
obtained on concomitant drug therapy during 
dalbavancin treatment does not indicate any 
significant drug-drug interactions, but future 
examinations of concomitant treatments with drugs 
that are nephrotoxic (and/or ototoxic) is warranted.  
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Important Potential Risk: Haematologic effects 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Module 2.5 Clinical Overview 
Scientific literature 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Acute anaemia has a bimodal frequency distribution, 
affecting mostly young adults and persons in their late 
fifties. Causes among young adults include trauma, 
menstrual and ectopic bleeding, and problems of 
acute haemolysis. During their childbearing years, 
women are more likely to become iron deficient. In 
people aged 50-65 years, acute anaemia is usually 
the result of acute blood loss in addition to a chronic 
anemic state. This is the case in uterine and GI 
bleeding. Neoplasia increases in prevalence with each 
decade of life and can produce anaemia from 
bleeding, from the invasion of bone marrow with 
tumour, or from the development of anaemia 
associated with chronic disorders. Infectious 
aetiologies of anaemia include viral (hepatitis, 
infectious mononucleosis, cytomegalovirus), bacterial 
(Clostridia, gram-negative sepsis) and protozoal 
(malaria, leishmaniasis, toxoplasmosis) infections, as 
well as chronic infections in general. 
(Maakaron, 2013) 
Patients concurrently receiving other medications 
associated with leukopenia including neutropenia 
could be at higher risk. Numerous drugs have been 
associated with neutropenia, cytotoxic chemotherapy 
in particular. Other drugs in the highest risk 
categories are antithyroid medications, macrolides, 
and procainamides. Other antimicrobials associated 
with neutropenia include penicillin, cephalosporins, 
vancomycin, chloramphenicol, gentamicin, 
clindamycin, doxycycline, flucytosine, nitrofurantoin, 
novobiocin, minocycline, griseofulvin, lincomycin, 
metronidazole, rifampin, isoniazid, streptomycin, 
thiacetazone, mebendazole, pyrimethamine, 
levamisole, ristocetin, sulfonamides, chloroquine, 
hydroxychloroquine, quinacrine, ethambutol, 
dapsone, ciprofloxacin, trimethoprim, 
imipenem/cilastatin, zidovudine, fludarabine, 
acyclovir, and terbinafine. (Godwin, 2014) 
Medications known to cause thrombocytopenia include 
heparin, platelet glycoprotein (gp) IIb/IIIa inhibitors 
(eg, abciximab, eptifibatide, tirofiban), quinine, 
quinidine, sulfonamides (sulfa drugs), sulfalike drugs, 
chlorothiazide, chloroquine, rifampicin and gold salts. 
(Eke, 2014) 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Missing Information: Use in immunocompromised patients 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Anticipated 
risk/consequence of the 
missing information  
These patients were excluded from the clinical 
development program in order to assess the safety 
and efficacy profile in the intended patient population 
without the confounder of immunosuppression. 
Infections in immunocompromised patients are likely 
to be more severe, with more associated 
complications and potential confounders due to 
concomitant chemotherapy and underlying disorder. 
In addition, these patients are likely to be treated in 
secondary or tertiary centres with higher risk of 
exposure to multi-drug resistant organisms. 
Immunocompromised patients might present with 
infections caused by organisms that would not be 
pathogenic in healthy individuals, and therefore might 
have a different microbiological profile compared with 
those affecting the populations studied in clinical 
trials; therefore, the benefit profile in this population 
might not be as well characterized. 
Population followed up for further characterization: 
Patients with evidence of significant immunologic 
disease determined by the following: an absolute 
neutrophil count of less than 500/mm3, patients 
receiving chronic immunosuppressive drugs, and 
patients with known or suspected HIV with CD4 
counts less than 200/uL (or with a past or current 
AIDS-definining condition and unknown CD4 count). 
Routine pharmacovigilance surveillance of lack of 
efficacy and off label use can be used to identify 
immunocompromised patients who have reduced 
benefits from treatment with dalbavancin. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Missing Information: Use in patients with moderate and severe hepatic 
impairment 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Anticipated 
risk/consequence of the 
missing information  
Patients with known bilirubin >2x the upper limit of 
normal were excluded in the Vicuron Phase 2/3 
clinical trial program. These patients were allowed in 
the Durata Phase 3 studies, DUR001-301/302/303, 
and pharmacokinetic studies were conducted in 
patients with hepatic impairment. No dose adjustment 
of dalbavancin is recommended for patients with mild 
hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A). Caution should be 
exercised when prescribing dalbavancin to patients 
with moderate or severe hepatic impairment (Child 
Pugh B & C), as no data are available to determine 
appropriate dosing (SmPC sections 4.2, 5.2). 
The efficacy and safety has not been established in 
patients with moderate or severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh B & C). Thus, a potential consequence 
may be unpredictable pharmacokinetics, underdosing 
or overdosing. 
Population followed up for further characterisation: 
Patients with moderate and severe hepatic 
impairment. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Missing Information: Use in patients with a CrCl<30 ml/min receiving 
haemodialysis 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Patients with known CrCl ≤50 ml/min were excluded 
in the Vicuron Phase 2/3 clinical trial program; these 
patients were allowed in the Durata Phase 3 studies, 
DUR001-301/302/303, and pharmacokinetic studies 
were conducted in renally impaired and dialysis 
patients. Dose adjustment is recommended for 
patients with chronic renal failure if their CrCl <30 
mL/min and they are not receiving regularly 
scheduled renal dialysis. (SmPC Sections 4.2, 5.2). 
Anticipated 
risk/consequence of the 
missing information  
The efficacy and safety has not been established in 
this population. Thus, a potential consequence may 
be unpredictable pharmacokinetics, underdosing or 
overdosing. 
Population followed up for further characterisation: 
Patients with a CrCl<30 ml/min receiving 
haemodialysis 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
Missing Information: Paediatric use 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Children less than 18 years of age were not included 
in the adult clinical programme with the exception of 
two 16 year old subjects who were enrolled in 
VER001-4 trial. A paediatric investigation plan was 
agreed with the PDCO to assess ABSSSI in paediatrics 
prior to obtaining the marketing authorization in 
Europe and the paediatric investigations are ongoing. 
Ten adolescents age 12 to 16 years old were enrolled 
in the PK study A8841004, and 34 patients age 3 
months to 11 years old were enrolled in study 
DUR001-106. Eight patients (neonates to infants 
< 3 months) with suspected or confirmed bacterial 
infection were enrolled in PK study DAL-PK-02. A total 
of 198 patients with ABSSSI from birth to age 
< 18 years old were enrolled in Study DUR001-306. 
Overall in Study DUR001-306, a low proportion of 
subjects experienced a TEAE (8.9% of subjects in 
dalbavancin single-dose arm, 9.0% of subjects in the 
dalbavancin two-dose arm, and 3.3% of subjects in 
the comparator arm). There were no treatment-
related SAEs, no treatment related TEAEs, no TEAEs 
leading to discontinuation of study intervention or 
study, and no SAEs leading to death in the 
dalbavancin single-dose or 2-dose arms. Most TEAEs 
were mild or moderate in severity. There was no 
notable difference in safety across age cohorts. 
Overall safety findings from the DAL-PK-02, 
A8841004, and DUR001-106 studies were consistent 
with that reported for DUR001-306. 
The safety and efficacy of dalbavancin for the 
treatment of ABSSSI has been established in 
paediatric patients aged from 3 months to less than 
18 years. Use of dalbavancin for this indication is 
supported by evidence from adequate and 
well-controlled studies in adults with additional 
pharmacokinetic and safety data from paediatric 
patients. 
The recommended dose of dalbavancin in paediatric 
patients with ABSSSI with creatinine clearance of 30 
ml/min/1.73m2 and above is a single-dose regimen 
based on the age and weight of the paediatric patient, 
administered as a single infusion. 
The safety and efficacy of dalbavancin in children 
aged < 3 months old have not yet been established, 
therefore, no recommendation on a posology can be 
made. 
Anticipated 
risk/consequence of the 
missing information  
Paediatric patients might be treated empirically by 
paediatricians. Thus, underdosing with risk of 
inadequate treatment of the underlying infection, or 
overdosing is possible. 
Population followed up for further characterisation: 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Paediatric patients 
Routine RMMs only 
Missing Information: Use in Pregnant and Lactating Women 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Dalbavancin was not studied in pregnant or lactating 
women. 
No treatment-related malformations or embryo-fetal 
toxicity were observed in pregnant rats or rabbits at 
clinically relevant exposures of dalbavancin. 
Treatment of pregnant rats with dalbavancin at 3.5 
times the human dose on an exposure basis during 
early embryonic development and from implantation 
to the end of lactation resulted in delayed fetal 
maturation and increased fetal loss, respectively. 
Dalbavancin is not recommended during pregnancy, 
unless the expected benefit clearly justifies the 
potential risk to the foetus. 
Dalbavancin is excreted in the milk of lactating rats. It 
is not known whether dalbavancin or its metabolite is 
excreted in human milk; therefore, caution should be 
exercised when dalbavancin is administered to a 
nursing woman. 
Anticipated 
risk/consequence of the 
missing information  
Possible impact on the foetus, such as developmental 
or congenital abnormalities. Possible impact on the 
pregnancy such as early miscarriage.  
Population followed up for further characterisation: 
Pregnant women treated with dalbavancin. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs only 
II.C  Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1  Studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies that are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Xydalba. 
II.C.2  Other studies in the post-authorisation development plan 
Table 48- Studies in post authorisation development plan. 
 
Objectives  
Safety 
concerns 
addressed  
Status 
(planned, 
started)  
Complete 
Surveillance 
program to 
monitor the 
occurrence of 
resistance to 
dalbavancin (if 
any). 
To identify any 
key pathogens 
that have 
developed 
resistance to 
dalbavancin 
and 
characterize 
the 
mechanism(s) 
of resistance 
Study/activity 
Type, title 
and category 
(1-3)  
In vitro 
surveillance to 
monitor any 
changes in 
susceptibility of 
key label 
pathogens for 
five years post 
approval in the 
US as part of a 
PMR. Study 
also includes 
isolates 
collected from 
medical centers 
in Europe. 
Category 3 
Date for 
submission of 
interim or 
final reports 
(planned or 
actual)  
5-year study 
supplied by 
laboratories 
conducting 
surveillance 
activities. 
Yearly reports 
to be 
submitted to 
authorities and 
to be released 
in the public 
domain. 
Surveillance 
program 
results 
presented and 
published on a 
yearly basis in 
major 
Infectious 
Disease 
Congresses 
and Journals.  
 
