London, 1 March 2007 
Product name: Xyrem 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/593/II/01 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Narcolepsy fulfils the criteria for the classification as an Orphan Disease within the European Union 
(EMEA/14222/00  "Procedures  for  Orphan  Medicinal  Product  Designation:  General  Principles"). 
Sodium  oxybate  was  granted  Orphan  Drug  Designation  by  the  European  Commission  in  February 
2003.  
Sodium oxybate is the non-proprietary name for the sodium salt of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB), a 
naturally  occurring  compound  that  usually  exists  as  either  the  free  acid  or  the  sodium  salt.   Sodium 
oxybate  is  a  central  nervous  system  depressant  (Pharmacotherapeutic  group:  Other  Nervous  System 
Drugs, ATC code: NO7XX04). On 13 October 2005, the EU Commission Decision was issued for its 
marketing authorisation, for the indication "Treatment of cataplexy in adult patients with narcolepsy". 
This indication statement has a focus on cataplexy. Cataplexy is, however, a key feature of narcolepsy, 
but not the only one. With this type II variation procedure, the MAH applied for an extension of the 
originally approved indication, to broaden its scope and encompass the full narcolepsy syndrome. 
2. 
Clinical aspects 
2.1   GCP 
The Clinical  trials were performed in  accordance  with GCP, as  stated by the MAH. In addition, the 
MAH confirmed that the ethical requirements of the clinical trial directive 2001/20/EC were applied 
for clinical trials conducted outside the EU. 
2.2   Clinical Efficacy 
To broaden the scope of the originally approved indication to encompass the full narcolepsy disease, 
in practice, would mean to demonstrate an effect in daytime somnolence, as the other components of 
the syndrome are somnographic. Once an effect in cataplexy has been demonstrated, the most frequent 
clinical variable remaining to investigate would be Excessive Daytime Sleepiness (EDS), measured by 
the  Epworth  Sleepiness  Scale  (ESS).  The  Epworth  Sleepiness  Scale  measures  the  likelihood  of 
somnolence  on  a  scale  of  0-3  in  eight  everyday  situations  and  has  a  maximum  score  of  24.  In  this 
scale, a score of 10 or lower is considered normal. Patients with narcolepsy usually have scores of 13 
and  above  (representing  moderate  to  severe  sleepiness).  A  score  of  18  or  more  is  considered  high 
sleepiness. 
Data already assessed as part of the original Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) submission 
partly  contribute  to  support  the  broadened  indication  applied  for  with  this  procedure,  but  two  new 
trials were also conducted and the resulting data were submitted with this application. In addition to 
presenting  data  emerging  from  the  two  new  clinical  studies  (OMC  SXB  15  and  OMC  SXB  22,  see 
below),  the  MAH  submitted  also  a  complete  analysis  of  the  data  emerging  from  all  studies  to  date. 
This  across-trial  analysis  consisted  of  pooled  analysis  and  meta-analysis.  The  effects  on  Inadvertent 
Naps,  Changes  in  Sleep  Architecture,  Subjective  Number  of  Awakenings  per  Night,  and  Patient 
Assessment of Sleep Quality were presented. 
The following table summarises all data available (old and new). 
2/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brief Summary of Controlled trials 
• 
• 
• 
OMC-SXB-15 (see below for full description) 
OMC-SXB-22 (see below for full description) 
OMC-GHB-2 was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled comparison of 3, 6 and 9 g/d 
of sodium oxybate versus placebo in 136 patients treated for 4 weeks. 
OMC-SXB-21 was a randomized, long-term, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to compare 
continued sodium oxybate (3, 4.5, 6, 7.5 or 9 g/d in two divided doses) with placebo in 55 
patients over a 2-week treatment period following long-term sodium oxybate treatment. 
The Scrima trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover comparison of 
sodium oxybate (2 x 25 mg/kg/d) and placebo in 20 patients treated for 29 days. 
The Lammers trial was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover comparison 
of sodium oxybate (2 x 30 mg/kg/d) and placebo in 25 patients treated for 4 weeks. 
• 
• 
• 
The clinical efficacy programme for this application was, however, based on the two Clinical Trials 
novel  to  this  application  (OMC  SXB  15  and  OMC  SXB  22).  The  main  focus  of  this  Assessment 
Report  is  therefore  on  these  two  trials,  which  were  designed  to  confirm  the  beneficial  effects  of 
sodium oxybate on EDS  observed in the previously submitted clinical trials  and to demonstrate that 
3/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
these effects were associated with changes in sleep continuity and architecture. The two new studies 
differed from each other in antidepressant use.  In OMC-SXB-15, these drugs were withdrawn, while 
in  OMC-SXB-22,  use  of  antidepressants  for  any  purpose  (not  just  for  effects  on  cataplexy)  was 
continued  at  stable  dose.  Both  studies  OMC-SXB-15  and  OMC-SXB-22  were  designed  to  establish 
the  effects  of  sodium  oxybate  on  EDS.    Each  of  these  studies  used  both  the  ESS  and  the  MWT 
(Maintenance of Wakefulness Test).  
Study OMC-SXB-15 
• 
OMC-SXB-15  was  a  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  parallel-group  comparison  of 
three dosages of sodium oxybate (4.5, 6 and 9 g/d) with placebo in 246 patients treated for narcolepsy 
for 8 weeks. 
4/14 
©EMEA 2007 
  
 
 
Objectives 
In OMC-SXB-15, patients were randomized to treatment with placebo or sodium oxybate at doses of 
4.5,  6  or  9  g/d,  following  washout  of  previous  antidepressants  and  other  medications  taken  for 
cataplexy and a single-blind period on placebo.  Patients assigned to 4.5 g began at that dose, but those 
assigned to 6 g or 9 g were titrated to their final dose.  The primary measures of efficacy in the trial 
were  changes  in  Excessive  Daytime  Sleepiness  (EDS)  as  measured  by  the  ESS,  and  change  in  the 
overall severity of the patient’s narcolepsy symptoms as assessed blindly by the investigator using the 
CGI-c  measure.    Secondary  measures  of  efficacy  were  changes  in  EDS  as  measured  by  the  MWT, 
changes in the average number of cataplexy attacks per week (as recorded in patient diaries), number 
of inadvertent naps and effects on the PSG. 
Sample size 
A total of 401 patients were screened and 353 patients were enrolled. Of this latter number, 285 were 
randomly  assigned  to  treatment.  The  All  Treated  Population  included  246  patients  who  received  at 
least one dose of double-blind medication. The Intent-to-treat (ITT) Population included 228 patients 
who received at least one dose of double-blind medication and had efficacy data at baseline Visits 6 
and/or 7. The ITT population included 4 groups: placebo (59 patients), Xyrem 4.5 g/d (64 patients), 
Xyrem 6.0 g/d (58 patients), and Xyrem 9.0 g/d (47 patients). 
Statistical Methods 
When the clinical data sets were not normally distributed, non-parametric tests were used for analysis.  
Results  have  been  expressed  as  medians  when  data  are  not  normally  distributed.  The  change  from 
baseline within a group and the change from baseline between groups were tested. Samples sizes were 
based on the primary endpoints.  Significance levels were adjusted for multiple testing, as required. 
Results 
The primary measures of efficacy were changes in excessive daytime sleepiness as measured by the 
Epworth  Sleepiness  Scale  (ESS),  and  the  change  in  the  overall  severity  of  the  patient’s  narcolepsy 
symptoms  as  assessed  by  the  investigator  using  the  Clinical  Global  Impressions  of  Change  (CGI-c) 
measure.  These results are summarised in tables 1 and 2 below. 
Table 1   Summary of ESS in Trial OMC-SXB-15 
Dose Group [g/d (n)] 
Baseline 
Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS; range 0-24) 
Median Change 
from Baseline 
Endpoint 
Placebo (n = 60) 
4.5 (n = 68) 
6 (n = 63) 
9 (n = 55) 
17.3 
17.5 
17.9 
17.9 
16.7 
15.7 
15.3 
13.1 
-0.5 
-1.0 
-2.0 
-2.0 
Table 2   Summary of CGI-c in Trial OMC-SXB-15 
Change from Baseline 
Compared to Placebo 
(p-value) 
- 
0.119 
 0.001 
< 0.001 
Dose Group [g/d (n)] 
Clinical Global Impressions of Change (CGI-c) 
Responders* 
N (%) 
Placebo (n = 60) 
4.5 (n = 68) 
6 (n = 63) 
9 (n = 55) 
13 (21.7) 
32 (47.1) 
30 (47.6) 
30 (54.4) 
Change from Baseline 
Compared to Placebo 
(p-value) 
- 
0.002 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
* The CGI-c data were analysed by defining responders as those patients who were very much 
improved or much improved.   
5/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In  trial  OMC-SXB-15,  all  doses  of  sodium  oxybate  were  associated  with  a  significant  reduction  in 
ESS from baseline but the reduction at the lowest dose used, 4.5 g/d, was not statistically significantly 
different  from  the  (non-significant)  decrease  observed  with  placebo.  The  6  g  dose  did  not  increase 
MWT  significantly,  but  both  the  4.5  g  and  the  9  g/d  dose  did;  however,  only  the  9  g  dose  led  to  a 
significantly greater increase in MWT than was observed with placebo. 
In  agreement  with  the  effects  of  sodium  oxybate  shown  by  the  ESS  Scale  and  the  MWT,  sodium 
oxybate  treatment  was  also  associated  with  improvements  in  the  number  of  inadvertent  naps  in 
patients  (see  table  3  below).  Study  OMC-SXB-15  provided  evidence  of  a  dose-response  effect  on 
inadvertent  naps.  In  this  trial,  the  reduction  in  the  number  of  inadvertent  naps  from  baseline  was 
statistically significant at all active doses, but the reduction was significantly different from that in the 
placebo group only at doses of 6 and 9 g/day and not 4.5 g/day. 
Table 3 - Reduction in Number of Inadvertent Naps/Sleep Attacks in OMC-SXB-15  
OMC-SXB-15 (median naps/attacks / week) 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Change 
Placebo (n = 58) 
4.5 g/d (n = 62) 
6 g/d (n = 57) 
9 g/d (n = 45) 
13.96 
15.15 
18.00 
14.00 
12.50 
13.50 
13.00 
8.50 
-1.08 
-2.96 
-6.50 
-6.00 
P-value for within-
group change from 
baseline 
0.215 
<0.001 
<0.001 
<0.001 
P-value versus 
placebo for change 
from baseline 
⎯ 
0.099 
<0.001 
0.002 
In  OMC-SXB-15,  the  Clinical  Polysomnography  (PSG)  assessments  of  sleep  continuity  and 
architecture  showed  that  groups  treated  with  sodium  oxybate  6  g/d  and  9  g/d  had  clinically  and 
statistically significant prolongation of Stages 3 and 4 sleep and associated increases in delta activity 
and in non-REM sleep duration.  The most restorative components of sleep were thus improved. 
With  regards  to  Night-time  Awakenings,  in  OMC-SXB-15,  the  administration  of  sodium  oxybate 
improved  the  continuity  of  nocturnal  sleep  by  significantly  decreasing  the  number  of  objectively 
measured nocturnal awakenings.  This effect was statistically significant at the 6 g (p < 0.005) and 9 g 
(p < 0.001) doses. 
Globally,  the  MAH  reported  that  the  reduction  in  the  number  of  cataplexy  attacks  with  sodium 
oxybate treatment examined in trial OMC-SXB-15 was consistent with those reported previously. The 
MAH stated that in OMC-SXB-15 the proportion of responders was 22% with placebo and 50%, 52% 
and 64% with the 4.5, 6 and 9 g/d doses of sodium oxybate.  
The  CHMP  considered  that  this  was  a  relatively  complex  trial,  given  the  need  to  washout  patients 
from all anti-cataplectic drugs. Patients on stimulants were allowed in the study, provided they were 
stable during the trial. Given the different phases of trial, there has been a considerable attrition from 
patients screened (401) to patients randomized (285). In between, there was a single blind phase with 
placebo. The MAH claimed that all patients randomised and taking one dose contributed to the ITT 
analysis.  The  CHMP,  however,  considered  that  the  study  seemed  to  have  methodological  flaws  that 
hampered drawing conclusions on efficacy. In particular, the clinical relevance of the effect seen was 
questioned in a Series of Requests for Supplementary Information (RSI). Additionally, what happened 
during the above-mentioned single-blind phase with placebo was not clear, in particular with regards 
to  whether  placebo  responders  had  been  selected  out  and  to  how  many  patients  on  stimulants  were 
allowed  in  the  trial.  An  analysis  of  placebo  versus  all  Xyrem  dosage  and  versus  all  Xyrem  dosages 
combined, comparing the efficacy in patients using and not using stimulants concomitantly was also 
requested.  
The MAH therefore clarified several aspects, and provided the extra analyses and data as requested. 
According to their clarifications and subgroup analyses, it emerged that the fraction of patients not on 
stimulants was 20%, and their behaviour in terms of direction and effect size was of similar magnitude 
to  the  one  seen  in  the  overall  population.  The  re-analysis  proposed  by  CHMP  were  consistent  and 
reassuring that the effect seen is not due to bias or chance. 
6/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  endpoints  are  positive  for  the  both  doses  6  and  9  g/d  but  the  effect  size  and  the 
consistency of the secondary endpoints clearly favour the 9 g/d dose. 
Study OMC-SXB-22 
• 
OMC-SXB-22  was  a  randomized,  double-blind,  double-dummy,  placebo-controlled  parallel-group 
comparison  of  sodium  oxybate  (6  g/d  for  first  4  weeks  then  9  g/d  for  the  remaining  4  weeks), 
modafinil, and sodium oxybate + modafinil versus placebo in 231 patients treated with double-blind 
treatment for 8 weeks. 
Objectives 
In OMC-SXB-22, patients on established stable modafinil (200 – 600 mg/d) were assessed for daytime 
sleepiness  following  the  single-blind  baseline  period  were  then  treated  with  combined  single-blind 
modafinil  and  sodium  oxybate  placebo  for  2  weeks.  At  the  end  of  this  period,  overnight 
polysomnography  followed  by  MWT  established  the  baseline  for  these  measures.  They  were  then 
randomized  to  one  of  four  treatments:  sodium  oxybate  +  modafinil;  placebo  +  modafinil;  placebo  + 
placebo  or  sodium  oxybate  +  placebo  for  a  total  treatment  period  of  8  weeks.  Sodium  oxybate  was 
started  at  6  g/d  for  4  weeks  and  was  then  increased  to  9  g/d  (or  equivalent  volume  of  placebo). 
Modafinil  was  maintained  at  the  established  dose  (or  equivalent  placebo).  Outcome  measures 
compared each group to the placebo group at endpoint. 
In this trial, the primary measure of efficacy was excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) as measured by 
objective response in MWT.  Secondary measures of efficacy included EDS as measured by the ESS, 
change in overall severity of the patient’s narcolepsy symptoms (such as number of inadvertent naps) 
as  assessed  by  the  investigator  using  the  CGI-c,  and  effects  on  the  PSG.    The  number  of  cataplexy 
attacks was not a condition of study entry nor assessed in this study. 
7/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sample size 
A total of 278 patients were enrolled, and 231 were randomly assigned to treatment. The All Treated 
Population  included  231  patients  who  received  at  least  one  dose  of  double-blind  medication.  The 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) Population included 222 patients who received at least one dose of double-blind 
medication and had efficacy data at baseline and Visits 4 (4 weeks) and/or Visit 5 (8 weeks). The ITT 
population consisted of 4 groups: placebo (55 patients), Xyrem (50 patients), modafinil (63 patients), 
and Xyrem plus modafinil (54 patients). 
Statistical Methods 
OMC-SXB-22 was analyzed in a slightly different manner to OMC-SXB-15: the change from baseline 
was ascertained (and tested) for each treatment, but the groups were compared with regard to the result 
at endpoint (rather than the change from baseline). On the other hand, as for OMC-SXB-15, samples 
sizes were based on the primary endpoints and significance levels were adjusted for multiple testing, 
as required. 
Results 
These results of the MWT measurements in Trial OMC-SXB-22 are summarised in table 4. 
Table 4 - Summary of MWT in OMC-SXB-22 
TRIAL OMC-SXB-22 
Dose Group 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Mean Change from 
Baseline 
Placebo (n = 56) 
Sodium Oxybate 
(n=55) 
Modafinil (n = 63) 
Sodium Oxybate + 
Modafinil (n = 57) 
9.9 
11.5 
10.5 
10.4 
6.9 
11.3 
9.8 
12.7 
-2.7 
0.16 
-0.6 
2.3 
Endpoint 
Compared to 
Placebo 
- 
<0.001 
0.004 
<0.001 
In  trial  OMC-SXB-22  (ESS  =  secondary  endpoint),  sodium  oxybate  at  doses  of  6  g/d  or  9  g/d  was 
associated  with  a  significant  reduction  in  ESS  compared  with  placebo.  In  this  trial,  sodium  oxybate 
and  placebo,  and  sodium  oxybate  +  modafinil  each  led  to  a  reduction  in  ESS  from  baseline;  in  the 
group  continuing  modafinil  at  unchanged  dose,  there  was  no  change.    At  endpoint,  ESS  was 
significantly  lower  in  both  sodium  oxybate  groups  compared  with  placebo,  but  the  modafinil  only 
group did not differ significantly from placebo. 
As  observed  in  study  OMC-SXB-15,  in  agreement  with  the  beneficial  effects  of  sodium  oxybate 
shown  by  the  ESS  Scale  and  the  MWT,  sodium  oxybate  treatment  was  also  associated  with 
improvements in the number of inadvertent naps in patients (see table below). 
Table 5 - Reduction in Number of Inadvertent Naps/Sleep Attacks in OMC-SXB-22  
OMC-SXB-22 (median naps/attacks/week) 
Baseline 
Endpoint 
Change 
oxybate  
Placebo (n = 55) 
Sodium 
(n = 50) 
Modafinil (n = 59) 
Sodium  oxybate  + 
modafinil (n = 54) 
9.15 
5.63 
10.21 
9.04 
11.50 
4.00 
9.00 
3.06 
1.35 
-2.04 
-0.42 
-2.85 
P-value for 
within-group 
change from 
baseline 
0.079 
0.005 
0.075 
<0.001 
P-value versus 
placebo for 
endpoint 
⎯ 
<0.001 
0.073 
<0.001 
8/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With  regards  to  Clinical  Polysomnography  (PSG),  in  OMC-SXB-22,  there  were  statistically 
significant differences between the placebo group and groups treated with sodium oxybate and sodium 
oxybate  +  modafinil.    Stages  3  and  4  sleep  were  significantly  longer,  average  delta  activity  was 
significantly greater and non-REM sleep duration was longer in sodium oxybate-treated groups.  REM 
sleep was significantly shorter.  Sodium oxybate groups also experienced fewer awakenings per night.  
Treatment with modafinil alone did not result in significant changes in PSG parameters compared with 
placebo. 
In OMC-SXB-22, sleep quality and sleep disturbance were assessed using the Patient Assessment of 
Sleep Quality (PSQI).  Differences between the sodium oxybate and placebo groups were observed for 
subjective  sleep  quality  and  daytime  dysfunction.    There  were  no  significant  differences  for  other 
PSQI  measures  of  sleep  latency,  sleep  duration,  habitual  sleep  efficiency  and  sleep  disturbances  at 
endpoint. 
Globally,  the  MAH  reported  that,  during  the  active  treatment  phase,  patients  who  received  either 
placebo  or  modafinil  alone  showed  approximately  the  same  degree  of  clinical  improvement  (22% 
responders for placebo; 19% responders for modafinil alone, not statistically significant).  On the other 
hand,  patients  who  received  either  sodium  oxybate  alone  or  sodium  oxybate  +  modafinil  showed  a 
significant  improvement  over  placebo-treated  patients  (48%  responders  [p  =0.003]  and  46% 
responders [p = 0.004] respectively) when assessed for change from baseline while taking stable doses 
of modafinil. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  trial  OMC-SXB-22  had  some  drawbacks.  It  has  a  design  with  4  arms:  
1) Xyrem + placebo; 2) Modafinil + placebo; 3) Xyrem + Modafinil; 4) placebo + placebo. The design 
of  the  study was  such  that  the  placebo  arm  was  generated  by  patients  taken  out  of  modafinil.  Thus, 
withdrawal  from  modafinil  was  creating  an  artificially  deteriorated  placebo  group.  The  CHMP  was 
interested in seeing evidence that Xyrem works over and above modafinil and whether or not they are 
synergic.  The  MAH  was  therefore  requested  to  discuss  the  data  relating  to  the  withdrawal  from 
modafinil, the extent to which patients deteriorated in each outcome when they were washed-out from 
placebo  and  how  this  would  impact  in  the  overall  results.  Additionally,  the  CHMP  had  reservations 
over  that  fact  that  MWT  was  a  primary  endpoint  of  the  study.  The  MAH  was  therefore  asked  to 
clarify. 
To  address  the  former  concern  of  the  CHMP,  in  summary,  the  MAH  explained  that  in  Study  
OMC-SXB-22, the change from baseline was taken into account in determining the p-value. Results 
for  ESS,  the  most  reliable  subjective  measure  of  Excessive  Daytime  Sleepiness  (EDS)  in  this  trial, 
showed no worsening after withdrawal of modafinil (Visit 3) in the placebo arm compared to baseline 
(Visit 2). Results for MWT, the most specific and sensitive objective tool to assess EDS in this trial, 
followed a similar pattern from Visit 2 to Visit 3 in both median and mean changes. The MAH pointed 
out that, on aggregate, the data showed that Xyrem improves EDS in patients with narcolepsy using 
both  objective  and  subjective  measures  of  EDS.  After  treatment  with  modafinil  was  discontinued  at 
Visit  3,  daytime  sleep  latency  decreased  in  the  placebo  group.  The  fact  that  this  decrease  occurred 
incrementally  by  4  weeks  at  Visit  4  and  then  remained  stable   for  the  following  4  weeks  to  Visit  5 
establishes this group as representing a true placebo comparison. 
In contrast, all active treatment groups had significantly longer daytime sleep latency compared to the 
placebo group at Visits 4 and 5. In fact, both the Xyrem treatment arm and the Xyrem plus modafinil 
treatment  arm  had  longer  sleep  latency  from  Visit  3  to  Visit  4,  while  the  placebo  and  modafinil 
treatment arms had a shortened sleep latency during the same period. Both the Xyrem and the Xyrem 
plus  modafinil  groups  experienced  further  prolongation  of  sleep  latency  from  Visit  4  to  Visit  5, 
demonstrating  further  treatment  effect  with  treatment  time  and  Xyrem  dose.  Thus,  treatment  with 
Xyrem  alone  produced  a  daytime  effect  somewhat  better  than  that  seen  when  patients  were  treated 
with  stimulants  at  baseline.  Furthermore,  the  combination  of  Xyrem  plus  existing  stimulant  therapy 
produced  a  further  prolongation  of  sleep  latency,  suggesting  a  synergistic  or  enhanced  treatment 
benefit from the combined therapy. Additionally, the Visit 2 mean MWT in the Xyrem arm was 12.16 
compared  to  the  baseline  mean  MWTs  of  10.13,  10.12,  and  10.25  in  the  placebo,  modafinil,  and 
Xyrem  plus  modafinil  groups  respectively.  Therefore  patients  in  the  Xyrem  arm  on  average  were 
9/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
closer to normal than the other groups, making it more difficult to demonstrate a mean change from 
baseline in this group compared to the other treatment arms. Nevertheless the only treatment groups 
that showed prolongation of MWT from baseline to Visit 5 endpoint were the two arms with Xyrem 
active treatment. 
The  above-summarised  data  clearly  indicate,  in  the  view  of  the  MAH,  an  improvement  in  objective 
measures of EDS in those patients treated with Xyrem alone or in combination with stimulants. 
The CHMP considered the discussion from the MAH on this topic to be pertinent. In fact the placebo 
arm deteriorated from Visit 2 to Visit 5 while the other improved or stabilized. This suggests that for 
the  MWT  endpoint  this  trial  behaved  as  if  it  was  a  “randomised  withdrawal”  trial.  In  fact  patients 
previously on modafinil deteriorated without medication while the deterioration was prevented either 
by Xyrem or modafinil. The CHMP considered that the trial supports the claim of efficacy for Xyrem. 
In  this  sense,  the  trial  behaved  as  a  variant  of  randomized  withdrawal  trial.  However,  the  results 
favouring the beneficial effect of Xyrem are clear.  
With  regards  to  the  latter  concern  of  the  CHMP  (the  fact  that  MWT  was  the  primary  endpoint, 
although  it  does  not  have  a  functional  dimension  and  a  difference  in  it  might  not  have  clinical 
relevance)  the  MAH  was  asked  to  clarify.  The  CHMP  considered  that  this  drawback  was  actually 
balanced by the fact that the ESS as a secondary outcome, showed the same kind of effect. However, 
the  placebo  arm  in  the  ESS  and  in  the  MWT  seemed  to  follow  a  different  pattern.  The  MAH  was 
therefore asked to comment on the possible correlation of these 2 outcomes (MWT and ESS). 
In summary, the MAH pointed out that a decrease in the ESS and an increase in the MWT are both 
consistent with improvement in daytime sleepiness. Results of the ESS showed a consistent trend with 
the MWT for all treatment arms of this study OMC-SXB-22. Similarly, an analysis was produced by 
the  MAH  that  demonstrates  the  same  statistically  significant  directional  improvements  in  daytime 
sleepiness as measured by the number of inadvertent naps/sleep attacks per week in both the Xyrem 
and  the  Xyrem  plus  modafinil  treatment  arms.  The  clinical  significance  of  this  treatment  effect  is 
supported  by  measures  of  clinical  global  impression  of  change,  the  PSQI  subjective  sleep  quality 
scores,  and  daytime  dysfunction  as  measured  by  PSQI,  all  of  which  consistently  demonstrated  a 
clinically discernable effect. 
The CHMP concurred with the explanation from the MAH that the data of all secondary outcomes are 
consistent and point to the same direction as the primary MWT demonstrating a benefit of Xyrem on 
daytime  somnolence.  There  had  indeed  been  deterioration  in  the  placebo  group  after  being  washed 
from modafinil. The issue was that this deterioration was clearly apparent for MWT but not so much 
for ESS. The data presented by the MAH clarified the matter. 
Conclusions on Efficacy 
In  addition  to  the  data  already  available,  the  MAH  provided  data  on  two  new  Randomized  Clinical 
Trials,  which  altogether  add  approximately  450  patients  to  the  database.  These  trials  focused  in 
demonstrating  a  positive  effect  on  daytime  somnolence  rather  than  on  cataplexy,  which  was  a 
secondary  endpoint  of  the  trials.  The  new  trials  had  some  limitations.  However,  globally,  they 
demonstrated  a  clear  effect  on  daytime  somnolence  and  a  consistent  impact  on  the  secondary 
outcomes.  The  other  trials  where  daytime  somnolence  was  a  secondary  objective  show  a  consistent 
positive effect. The rates of responders calculated in the programme are reassuring that the effect of 
Xyrem on narcolepsy with cataplexy in adult patients is of clinical relevance. 
The primary endpoints are positive for both doses 6 and 9 g/d but the effect size and the consistency of 
the secondary endpoints clearly favour the 9 g/d dose. 
10/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3  Clinical Safety 
This  submission  integrates  data  from  all  completed  studies  up  to  7  October  2005.  Data  from  11 
clinical efficacy and safety trials are included, with data from 10 of the trials being integrated. The 10 
integrated  trials  included  a  total  of  781  patients  treated  with  sodium  oxybate  and  260  treated  with 
placebo. 
Events  that  affected  a  higher  proportion  of  sodium  oxybate-treated  patients  than  placebo  treated 
patients,  including  all  causalities  and  treatment-related,  consisted  of  abdominal  pain,  diarrhoea, 
nausea,  vomiting,  fatigue,  peripheral  oedema,  anorexia,  dizziness,  headache,  abnormal  dreams, 
confusional state, nightmare, sleep walking and enuresis. The most common adverse events associated 
with  sodium  oxybate  treatment  were  nausea,  dizziness  and  headache.  The  strongest  evidence  for  a 
relationship  between  incidence  and  dose  was  observed  for  nausea,  vomiting,  paraesthesia, 
disorientation, irritability, disturbance in attention, feeling drunk, sleepwalking and enuresis. For each 
of these events, the incidence (both all events and treatment-related events) was notably higher after 9 
g/day (and in some cases 7.5 g/d) than lower doses. Dizziness was most common at 9 and 3 g/day. The 
data indicate that female patients in clinical studies were more likely than male patients to experience 
nausea,  dizziness  and  headache  during  sodium  oxybate  treatment.  They  were  also  more  likely  to 
experience vomiting, enuresis, diarrhoea and somnolence, although the differences between the sexes 
were less marked for these adverse events. 
Certain  adverse  events  were  significantly  more  common  during  sodium  oxybate  than  placebo 
treatment: diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, disturbance in attention, dizziness, paresthesia, tremor, enuresis, 
and  hyperhydrosis.  Overall,  adverse  events  classed  under  the  SOCs  of  gastrointestinal  disorders, 
injury, poisoning and procedural complications, nervous system disorders, psychiatric disorders, renal 
and  urinary  disorders  and  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders  were  significantly  more  common 
during  sodium  oxybate  than  placebo  treatment.  Notably,  there  were  no  additional  statistically 
significant differences between sodium oxybate and placebo when events occurring in less than 2.0% 
of  patients  in  either  group  were  considered.  For  some  of  these  more  common  adverse  events,  there 
could be an indication of a relationship between dose and incidence: nausea, vomiting, feeling drunk, 
disturbance  in  attention,  headache,  somnolence,  tremor,  disorientation,  irritability,  sleep  walking, 
enuresis and hyperhidrosis. The incidence was higher at the highest dose. However, a high incidence 
of  some  of  these  events  was  also  observed  at  the  lowest  dose  used,  3  g,  and  so  the  relationship 
between dose and incidence is not clear-cut. 
According to the MAH, overall, the additional safety data generated in the OMC-SXB-15 and OMC-
SXB-22  trials  had  not  produced  any  additional  safety  concerns.  However,  the  CHMP  had  the 
following safety-related concerns: 
1.   As discussed in the Efficacy section, globally, the primary endpoints are positive for both the 6 
and 9 g/d doses but the effect size and the consistency of the secondary endpoints clearly favour 
the 9 g/d dose. However, the CHMP considered this to be a potentially problematic dose, given 
the  safety  concerns  raised  at  time  of  approval.  It  was  noted  that  the  proposed  dose 
recommendations  have  remained  unchanged  from  the  originally  approved  ‘cataplexy’ 
indication, although it seems that the relevant beneficial effect on daytime somnolence appear in 
the high dose range. The MAH was therefore asked to comment. 
The MAH, in their responses, concurred that, globally, the data do demonstrate a dose response 
with  higher  doses  having  an  increased  effect  size.  They  pointed  out  that  in  clinical  practice, 
clinicians typically initiate therapy at a low dose and titrate gradually (dosing recommendations 
call for 1.5 g increase every 1 to 2 weeks versus the increase from 6 to 9 g/night after 4 weeks in 
Study  OMC-SXB-22)  to  a  therapeutic  dose  that  is  both  efficacious  and  tolerable.  Since  this 
application aimed at Xyrem being used for patients with narcolepsy with and without cataplexy, 
it  is  appropriate  that  the  starting  dose  remain  at  4.5  g/night.  Clinicians  must  respond  to  the 
individual  symptom  pattern  of  each  patient  and  the  individual  response  and  ability  of  each 
patient  to  tolerate  a  particular  dose.  Individual  differences  in  tolerability  also  suggest  that  a 
lower starting dose is appropriate. In the clinical studies with Xyrem, roughly a third of patients 
11/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reached  the  9  g/night  dose,  indicating  that  it  is  an  effective,  tolerable  dose  for  a  substantial 
proportion of patients. In the view of the MAH, gradual and careful titration and good clinical 
judgment will dictate the appropriate treatment dose for each individual patient. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  the  MAH  could  not  add  much  to  this  point  because  dose  is  defined  as 
range  and  patients  will  be  titrated  to  response  by  the  prescribers.  The  CHMP  considered  that 
future  assessments  of  PSURs  will  allow  the  verification  if  patients  are  being  pushed  higher 
because of the daytime somnolence effect and what the consequences for the safety profile are. 
2.   On the grounds of the fact that the safety profile of GHB-derivate Xyrem is less favourable than 
for  modafinil,  the  MAH  was  also  requested  to  consider  if  Xyrem  should  only  be  applied  in 
patients  with  narcolepsy  without  cataplexy  as  a  second  line  treatment,  for  patients  who  are 
resistant to modafinil treatment. 
The  response  given  by  the  MAH  mainly  revolved  around  the  concept  that  the  indirect 
comparison  of  the  studies  available  is  not  particularly  enlightening,  and  argued  that  the  two 
drugs are alternatives. In other words, in the MAH’s view, rather than positioning Xyrem ad hoc 
as a second-line treatment behind modafinil, it would be more appropriate to let the prescribing 
physician  determine  the  best  treatment  for  each  individual  patient,  taking  into  account  that 
Xyrem would provide the convenience of a single medication. 
Since  the  number  of  patients  without  cataplexy  is  a  very  small  fraction  and  narcolepsy  is  a 
disease  treated  by  specialized  doctors  the  point  was  considered  resolved,  although  the  CHMP 
considered it is important to stress that the study quoted by the MAH to argue their point was 
designed  to  compare  the  efficacy  of  Xyrem  to  placebo  (and  not  to  modafinil),  and  its  design 
does  not  allow  for  a  comparison  of  the  efficacy  of  modafinil  versus  Xyrem  in  patients  with 
narcolepsy.  Comparisons  across  trial  of  Xyrem  versus  modafinil  are  not  straightforward,  as 
noted by the MAH. This highlights the importance of studies for a direct comparison of the two 
treatment options. 
3.  
The  treatment  duration  of  both  submitted  trials  (OMC-SXB-15  and  OMC-SXB-22)  was  very 
short, especially in relation to the chronic character of narcolepsy. These trials seem therefore 
insufficient to evaluate long-term safety and efficacy of Xyrem in the treatment of narcolepsy. 
For evaluation of maintenance of efficacy and long-term safety in narcoleptic patients without 
cataplexy or the new indication, additional long-term treatment data, reflecting all dose-levels, 
were requested by the CHMP. 
The MAH’s response, in summary stated that studies OMC-SXB-15 and OMC-SXB-22 support 
the  overall  safety  and  efficacy  of  Xyrem  over  an  8-week  treatment  period.  However,  the  two 
Xyrem trials were conducted in a population predominantly classified as having chronic disease 
(lasting  more  than  12  months  at  baseline).  In  addition  to  the  data  from  these  two  controlled 
studies, long-term safety and efficacy data are available from two previously submitted studies: 
OMC-SXB-21 and GHB-3. 
Study  GHB-3,  which  was  submitted  in  the  original  MAA  for  Xyrem  (March  2004),  was  an 
open-label  extension  trial  that  provides  data  on  the  safety,  and  secondarily  on  the  long-term 
efficacy,  of  Xyrem  over  a  12-month  period  (mean  exposure  21  months,  n=117).  These  data 
demonstrate  that  Xyrem  is  well  tolerated  over  the  long  term.  Adverse  events  were  consistent 
with those seen in controlled studies. Only a small number of adverse events were considered 
related to study medication at a frequency of ≤10% of the overall patient population, and these 
were almost  exclusively mild or moderate. In addition, Xyrem  produced significant long-term 
clinical  improvement  in  the  symptoms  of  narcolepsy,  measured  primarily  by  a  statistically 
significant  decrease  in  the  frequency  of  cataplexy  attacks.  Secondary  measures  of  clinical 
benefit  included  diminished  daytime  sleepiness  (ESS)  and  reduced  frequency  and  duration  of 
12/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inadvertent  naps/sleep  attacks.  Overall  clinical  benefit  was  evident  at  the  earliest  time  point 
(visit 3), and was maintained at all endpoints through the 12-month study. 
Study  OMC-SXB-21  was  a  double-blind  placebo-controlled  study  to  assess  the  long-term 
efficacy of Xyrem based on the return of cataplexy symptoms on cessation of at least 6 months 
of open-label treatment with Xyrem (n=55). Prior to enrolling in OMC-SXB-21, patients were 
using Xyrem for the treatment of narcolepsy for a period of 7 to 44 months (mean – 21 months). 
The  duration  of  the  trial  was  2  weeks.  Results  showed  consistent  maintenance  of  effect  in 
Xyrem-treated patients and a statistically significant increase in cataplexy attacks in the group 
randomized to placebo. Further, there is a long-term safety database of 781 patients, with 334 
(43%)  patients  treated  for  at  least  one  year  in  doses  ranging  from  3  g/night  to  9  g/night. 
Importantly,  placebo  patients  rarely  experienced  adverse  events  associated  with  possible 
withdrawal,  including  anxiety,  insomnia,  and  tremor.  The  conclusion  was  that  Xyrem  is 
effective and safe for the long-term treatment of the symptoms of narcolepsy. 
The  conclusion  of  the  MAH  was  therefore  that  these  data  support  the  long-term  safety  and 
efficacy of Xyrem in patients with narcolepsy. They also provide additional information about 
the effectiveness of Xyrem in the treatment of both EDS and cataplexy. Taken as a whole, the 
data  support  the  safety  and  effectiveness  of  Xyrem  in  treating  the  narcolepsy  symptoms  in 
several  of  all  its  aspects,  offering  a  therapeutic  benefit  in  treating  both  the  nighttime  and  the 
various daytime symptoms experienced by patients with this chronic disease. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  MAH’s  response  was  acceptable.  The  data  from  the  original 
dossier provide sufficient reassurance on the long term safety.  
4.  
Respiratory depression. 
Another  safety  issue  that  the  MAH  was  requested  to  provide  clarifications  on  was  the  risk  of 
respiratory depression. The MAH provided data on respiratory parameters as requested. Xyrem 
may induce respiratory disturbance. This problem seems to be related in particular to the high 
dose  9  g/day,  where  46.7%  of  patients  had  an  abnormal  Respiratory  Disturbance  Index  ≥  5. 
However, it is reassuring that the frequency of severe 02-de-saturation was not related to dose.  
In conclusion, the CHMP considered that Xyrem requires careful monitoring of respiratory depression, 
but nothing new appears in the new dataset. The concerns are the same as those expressed during the 
original ‘cataplexy’ approval. The sentence “Xyrem has the potential to induce respiratory depression” 
is  prominent  (in  bold  and  in  a  box)  at  the  beginning  of  section  4.4  (Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions for use) of the SPC. 
Conclusions on safety 
The 2 new Clinical Trials almost duplicate the placebo controlled trials safety database. The SPC has 
been updated in a number of events.  The safety profile obtained from the current, enlarged database is 
consistent with what has been established before with no new concerns. 
2.4.   Pharmacovigilance 
On  the  grounds  that  no  new  non-clinical  or  clinical  safety  concerns  have  been  identified,  and  the 
proposed indication is close to the initially approved indication, the MAH proposed no updates to the 
existing  risk  management  plan  (originally  approved  at  the  time  of  the  granting  of  the  currently 
approved indication “treatment of cataplexy in adult patients with narcolepsy”).  
The CHMP did not require the MAH to submit an updated risk management plan because the safety 
profile of Xyrem was not considered to be different for the new indication.   
3. 
CHANGES TO THE PRODUCT INFORMATION 
As a result of the various requests for supplementary information described above, their provision and 
assessment,  the  CHMP  considered  that  all  clinical  issues  had  been  addressed  to  satisfaction  by  the 
13/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MAH.  On  the  other  hand,  the  wording  of  the  indications  statement  initially  submitted  by  the  MAH 
with  this  application  (changing  “Treatment  of  cataplexy  in  adult  patients  with  narcolepsy”  to 
“Treatment  of  narcolepsy  in  adult  patients”)  was  considered  not  to  reflect  adequately  the  scientific 
findings emerging from the re-analyses carried out by the MAH in their responses to the RSIs. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  therapeutic  indications  statement  should  read  “Treatment  of 
narcolepsy with cataplexy in adult patients”. 
In  addition,  the  CHMP  considered  that  other  sections  of  the  SPC  (namely,  section  5.1)  required 
extensive  modifications,  to  reflect  appropriately  the  outcome  of  the  clinical  studies  supporting  the 
application. 
Additionally, section 5.1 of the SPC required extensive revision, according to the following points: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
the MAH was requested to specify the primary endpoints (CGI-c; ESS; MWT and number of 
cataplexy attacks) and present the results of the primary analysis individually for each of the 
studies; 
the number of patients included in the analysis of the primary endpoints should be corrected; 
overall, less emphasis should be put on the secondary endpoints; 
a statistical comparison of modafinil/Xyrem versus Xyrem/placebo and modafinil/Xyrem versus 
modafinil/placebo has not been presented. In addition, these comparisons were not specified as 
outcome of the study. Therefore the MAH should delete the sentence:  
"Trial 2 demonstrated that when patients are maintained on a stable dose of modafinil, patients 
taking both sodium oxybate and modafinil showed additional improvement over sodium oxybate 
or modafinil alone in these three measures of daytime sleepiness." 
The  MAH  agreed  with  the  requests  from  the  CHMP,  and  provided  Product  Information  amended 
accordingly.  
4.   OVERALL CONCLUSIONS AND BENEFIT/RISK ASSESSMENT 
The  data  provided  and  their  re-analyses  carried  out  at  the  request  of  the  CHMP  were  positive  and 
consistent, and have shown a clinical relevant effect on daytime  somnolence of narcoleptic patients, 
particularly in doses of 6 to 9gr/d. The MAH also provided satisfactory answers to the safety concerns 
raised by the CHMP during this procedure. 
Based on the CHMP review of data on safety and efficacy the CHMP considered that the risk-benefit 
balance of Xyrem in the treatment of narcolepsy with cataplexy in adult patients was favourable.  
5.   CONCLUSION 
On 24 January 2007 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II,  Labelling  and 
Package Leaflet.  
14/14 
©EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
