SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1 
Quality aspects 
1.1 
Introduction 
Sodium oxybate is a simple molecule, the sodium salt of gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) and is 
presented in the form of a stabilised oral solution, 500mg/ml 
1.2  Active Substance 
Sodium oxybate is the Common Name of the substance butanoic acid 4-hydroxy-monosodium salt. At 
the time of writing this report there is no INN for this substance. 
1.2.1  Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  process  is  very  simple  and  is  basically  a  one-step  hydrolysis  of  gamma 
butyrolactone under alkaline conditions with sodium hydroxide. 
Starting materials and critical steps are well defined; there are no intermediates. 
The active substance is obtained as a white solid which is dried, ‘de-lumped’ and packed. 
The characterisation of the substance arising from the documented method of synthesis confirms that it 
is  indeed  sodium  oxybate  and  this  has  been  done  by  the  usual  range  of  spectroscopic  methods 
including UV, IR & NMR together with elemental analysis and pKa determination. 
Since sodium oxybate is to be given in solution, polymorphism has not been investigated 
1.2.2  Specification 
The  specification  includes  test  for  identification  (IR,  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  related  impurities 
(HPLC)  together  with  tests  for  water  content  (KF)  residual  solvents  (GC)  and  heavy  metals,  all 
performed by validated methods. It is not necessary to control solid state properties. 
The impurities include a number of named impurities and one un-named impurity, the levels of which 
have all been qualified on a toxicological basis and are considered to present no unnecessary risk. 
Batch analyses (n = 45) from the site of manufacture defined in the dossier, demonstrate satisfactory 
compliance with the agreed specification and indicate good uniformity. 
1.2.3  Stability 
In addition to forced degradation studies in the solid state and in solution, stability studies have been 
performed  on  6  batches  of  sodium  oxybate  under  ICH  conditions,  accelerated  and  long  term.  No 
significant  negative  trends  or  out  of  specification  results  were  observed  in  the  formal  ICH  stability 
investigation, and on the basis of the accumulated results a satisfactory re-test period has been defined. 
1.3  Medicinal Product 
1.3.1  Pharmaceutical Development 
The product is a simple aqueous solution which is stabilised with malic acid (hydroxysuccinic acid) 
and adjusted to the pH of maximum stability. From a microbiological point of view, investigations on 
this formulation showed that the product also had intrinsic antimicrobial activity and passed the test 
for  efficacy  of  antimicrobial  preservatives;  therefore  it  was  considered  unnecessary  to  include  a 
preservative in the formulation. 
The product is presented as a plastic PET bottle with a child-resistant screw cap closure for the liquid, 
and in order to facilitate accurate dosage a separate dispensing or dosing system is attached at time of 
first use. This consists of a plastic adaptor to fit into the bottle, leading to a syringe dispenser allowing 
the patient to withdraw the accurate dose. In addition, two plastic dosing cups are provided with child-
resistant closures. 
1.3.2  Manufacture of the Product 
The active substance is dissolved in purified water and the pH adjusted with malic acid before dilution 
with  purified  water,  filtration,  and  bottling.  The  validation  of  this  simple  scheme  was  not 
problematical. 
1.3.3  Product Specification 
The product release specification includes relevant tests and limits for physical examination, identity  
(HPLC  &  IR),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (degradation  products,  HPLC),  volume  in  container, 
reproducibility  of  dosage,  pH,  microbiological  attributes  (PhEur),  etc.  Control  of  rheological 
properties is not considered necessary for a mobile liquid dosage form. 
Batch analyses (n = 18) indicate satisfactory compliance with the agreed specification and satisfactory 
product uniformity 
1.3.4  Stability of the Product 
In  all,  ten  batches  of  product  have  been  investigated  for  stability  under  ICH  conditions,  accelerated 
and long term, and in all cases the results support the shelflife and storage conditions as defined in the 
SPC. 
In  addition,  since  this  is  a  multidose  product  with  a  special  adapter  and  dosing  system,  additional 
studies were performed with these plastic components in place, in order to mimic the in-use situation, 
and a suitable in-use shelflife has been defined. 
In general the studies show that the plastic adapter and dosing system is compatible with the solution 
and does not encourage degradation. 
Apart  from  the  physical  chemical  analytical  studies  carried  out  during  the  stability  investigations, 
microbiological studies were also performed with satisfactory results. 
1.4  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  simple  synthesis  and  manufacture  of  the  product  are  described  and  controlled  in  a  relevant 
manner,  and  the  specifications  of  the  active  substance  and  medicinal  product  are  considered  to  be 
relevant for a product of this type. The stability of the product has been well-investigated, both in the 
unopened form, and with the adaptor and dosing system in place during use. 
Satisfactory uniformity of dose has been demonstrated, and there are no unresolved quality issues that 
could have an impact on the benefit/risk balance for the patient. 
2 
Non-clinical aspects 
2.1 
Introduction 
2.2  Pharmacology 
2.2.1  Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
 Oxybate  (GHB)  is  a  metabolite  of  γ-aminobutyric  acid  (GABA)  which  is  synthesised  and 
accumulated  by  neurones  in  the  brain.  It  is  present  at  µM  concentrations  in  all  brain  regions 
investigated  as  well  as  in  several  peripheral  organs,  particularly  in  the  gastro-intestinal  system. 
Neuronal  depolarisation  releases  GHB  into  the  extracellular  space  in  a  Ca2+-dependent  manner.  A 
family of GHB receptors in rat brain have been identified and cloned and most probably belong to the 
G-protein-coupled  receptors.  High-affinity  receptors  for  GHB  are  present  only  in  neurones,  with  a 
restricted specific distribution in the hippocampus, cortex and dopaminergic structures of rat brain.  
In  general,  stimulation  of  these  receptors  with  low  (physiological)  amounts  of  GHB  induces 
hyperpolarisation  in  dopaminergic  structures  with  a  reduction  of  dopamine  release.  However,  in  the 
hippocampus and frontal cortex, GHB seems to induce depolarisation with an accumulation of cGMP 
and  an  increase  in  inositol  phosphate  turnover.  However,  at  higher  (therapeutic)  exposures,  GHB 
Page 2/30 
receptors are saturated and probably de-sensitised and down-regulated. Such GHBergic potentiations 
induce  dopaminergic  hyperactivity,  strong  sedation  with  anaesthesia  and  EEG  changes  that  are 
consistent with normal sleep and/or epileptic spikes.  
The  pathogenesis  of  narcolepsy  is  still  unknown,  but  an  imbalance  between  monoamines  and 
acetylcholine is generally accepted. Recent research has found a marked reduction of the neuropeptide 
hypocretin type 1 in the cerebrospinal fluid of a majority of patients and a global loss of hypocretins in 
post-mortem brain tissue of narcoleptic subjects. The hypocretins are synthesised by a small group of 
neurones  predominantly  located  in  the  lateral  hypothalamic  and  perifornical  regions  of  the 
hypothalamus.  The  hypothalamic  system  directly  and  strongly  innervates  and  potently  excites 
noradrenergic,  dopaminergic,  serotoninergic,  histaminergic  and  cholinergic  neurones.  The  effect  of 
GHB on this system has not been investigated. However, the available data indicate that its mode of 
action is likely to relate to non-specific dopaminergic stimulation rather than the hypocretin system. 
Formal nonclinical pharmacology studies to investigate the primary pharmacodynamics have not been 
conducted  by  the  applicant,  rather  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  scientific  literature  has  been 
conducted.  The  publications  included  have  been  selected  based  on  their  relevance  to  the  proposed 
indications,  based  on  evidence  of  efficacy  from  early  clinical  studies.  In  addition,  animal  models  of 
cataplexy and narcolepsy are continuing to be developed, but have not yet been fully validated. Little 
nonclinical information is available on its effects on narcolepsy in general, and cataplexy in particular. 
Available,  directly  relevant  data,  from  the  published  literature,  has  been  reviewed  but  the  current 
understanding  of  the  role  of  GHB  in  the  CNS  does  not  provide  a  mechanistic  explanation  of  the 
positive  clinical  effects  reported  in  the  dossier.  GHB  had  no  effect  on  cataplexy  in  dogs  with 
hereditary narcolepsy when administered as a single dose of 500 mg/kg i.v. or 50 mg/kg/day p.o. for 3 
consecutive days. However, although such dogs have a mutation of the type 2 hypocretin receptor, the 
clinical  relevance  of  this  model  remains  to  be established. Moreover, a dose of 75 mg/kg/day for at 
least 14 days is required for efficacy in humans. 
Though the precise mode of action is unknown, the sedative properties of GHB and its effects on sleep 
may play a role in the efficacy observed in humans.  
Evidence  from  a  human  clinical  study  (Study  OMC-SXB-20)  where  GHB  was  administered  to 
narcoleptic patients and overnight polysomnograms (PSG) were recorded, suggests that GHB modifies 
sleep  architecture,  specifically  a  dose-related  increase  in  Stage  3  &  4  slow  wave  sleep  (SWS,  delta 
sleep). The cause of human narcolepsy and cataplexy is, as yet, unknown. Recent evidence points to 
the  loss  of  hypocretin-containing  neurones,  possibly  due  to  autoimmune  attack,  as  a  likely  cause 
(Scammell  2003).  Hypocretin  is  a  neurotransmitter  that  has  roles  amongst  others,  in  sleep-wake 
regulation.  Alterations  in  hypocretin  neurotransmission  have  also  been  observed  in  mouse  and  dog 
models of narcolepsy, although no studies have been undertaken with GHB in these models. Animal 
models  of  cataplexy  and  narcolepsy  are  continuing to be developed (Gerashchenko et al, 2003), but 
the effects of GHB in these models, have yet to be investigated. 
2.2.2  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Published  literature  reports  are  presented  that  discuss  the  potential  for  effects  on  the  respiratory, 
cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, renal and endocrine function, together with relevant findings from the 
toxicology studies. 
GHB may increase growth hormone secretion, but this effect is inconsistent across species and dose 
levels. GHB has no other relevant secondary pharmacodynamic effects in animals. 
GHB  consistently  decreases  respiration  by  effects  on  minute  volume  and  respiratory  rate,  with 
younger animals being more susceptible to these effects. In halothane-anaesthetized rats, GHB (187.5-
750  mg/kg  i.p.)  dose-dependently  decreased  basal  minute  volume  and  respiratory  rate  compared  to 
pre-injection  control,  with  a  maximum  decrease  to  about  60%  of  pre-injection  values  for  each 
parameter at the highest dose of GHB (Hedner et al, 1980).  
Effects on cardiovascular parameters were also studied as part of the repeat dose toxicology studies in 
dogs,  including  heart  rhythm  and  P-QRS-T  complexes  determined  from  ECGs,  and  there  was  no 
evidence of any dramatic changes in these parameters during the studies at doses up to 600 mg/kg/day 
(corresponding to male and female AUC0-24 of 3363.05 and 3631.35 µg·hr/mL and Cmax of 583.0 
Page 3/30 
and 726.7 µg/mL). Additionally, in several human clinical studies, there were no significant effects of 
GHB administration on ECGs. The applicant claims that given the relatively long established clinical 
use  of  GHB,  as  an  anaesthetic  and  sedative  and  other  uses  such  as  for  the  treatment  of  alcohol 
withdrawal,  the  undesirable  effects  and  risk  potential  of  GHB  are  well  known,  and  additional 
nonclinical  safety  pharmacology  studies  are  not  justified.  Results  of  some  studies  indicate  weak 
rewarding  effects  and  possible  development  of  tolerance  in  rats  and  mice,  however  there  is  no 
compelling evidence that GHB represents a significant drug dependence hazard. Interaction of GHB 
with ethanol and other central nervous system depressants generally result in greater central depressant 
effects than seen with either drug alone. Numerous case reports of GHB poisoning demonstrate that 
overdosing in humans is associated with many of the same signs and symptoms as in animals: a rapid 
onset  of  drowsiness,  nausea,  vomiting,  myoclonic  seizures,  respiratory  depression  progressing  to 
apnoea, and coma. 
2.2.3  Safety pharmacology 
The  applicant  has  not  conducted  animal  safety  pharmacology  studies.  However,  there  is  ample 
evidence in the published literature that GHB is a potent CNS depressant, may cause convulsions and 
potentially fatal respiratory depression and cardiac failure. 
and 
like 
acid 
valproic 
ethosuximide 
On  the  basis  of  available  information,  the  lack  of  conventional  safety  pharmacology  studies  is 
considered acceptable. However, since co-medication is probable, the effects of GHB on respiratory 
pattern  in  the  presence  of  other  CNS  depressing  agents  like  ethanol,  and  inhibitors  of  GHB 
SPC. 
metabolism 
A  weak  tolerance  to  GHB  administration  has  been  demonstrated  in  a  number  of  specific  animal 
behavioural studies and also the development of cross-tolerance between GHB and ethanol. Therefore, 
potentially,  an  acute  toxic  effect  (e.g.  acute  respiratory  depression)  could  be  experienced  after  drug 
intake following a period of drug withdrawal, sufficient for the disappearance of tolerance. Caution is 
advised  if  treatment  is  re-started  after  discontinuation.  (SPC,  section  4.2).  Clinical  data  (open  label 
study  OMC-GHB-3)  have  failed  to  show  any  major  development  of  tolerance  on  efficacy  and  the 
AUC after 8-weeks compared to the first dose was not significantly increased (study OMC-SXB-10, 
see  clinical  section).  However,  as  these  clinical  data  are  too  limited  to  draw  firm  conclusions,  the 
potential  for  development  of  tolerance,  especially  with  concomitant  intake  of  ethanol,  cannot  be 
excluded and is mentioned in the SPC. 
are  mentioned 
the 
in 
2.2.4  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Formal  studies  of  pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  have  not  been  conducted.  According  to  the 
published literature, concomitant administration of GHB and other CNS depressants (benzodiazepines, 
barbiturates, alcohol) results in an additive increase in sedation. 
2.3  Pharmacokinetics 
The  applicant  has  not  conducted  animal  PK  studies,  with  the  justification  that  the  more  relevant 
pharmacokinetic data are derived from human exposure. Some data have been compiled from a review 
of  the  published  literature.  Data  on  non-clinical  absorption,  distribution,  metabolism,  and  excretion 
have been compiled from a review of the published literature 
2.3.1  Absorption- Bioavailability 
In the rat, oral bioavailability was about 50-80%. Kinetics was non-linear, with oral dose increments 
resulting in an under-proportional increase in Cmax and an over-proportional increase in the AUC. By 
contrast, i.v. administration resulted in an over-proportional increase in Cmax. Thus, both absorption 
from the gut and elimination may depend on saturable mechanisms. Saturable absorption from the gut 
was confirmed in an everted rat intestine model. 
2.3.2  Distribution 
Whole-body  autoradiography  following  i.v.  injection  of  14C-GHB  in  mice  showed  a  fairly  uniform 
distribution pattern of radioactivity due to GHB and/or its metabolites.  Shortly after injection, lower 
radioactivity was found in fatty tissues such as thymus, brown fat, and the white and grey brain matter 
Page 4/30 
than  in  other  tissues,  including  plasma.    However,  by  30  minutes  after  injection,  radioactivity  was 
distributed throughout the body, including brain, skeletal muscle, myocardium, kidney, spleen, liver, 
lung, thymus, urinary bladder, stomach, intestines, and, in pregnant mice, the foetus. GHB distributed 
rapidly  to  the  brain  of  rats,  dogs  and  monkeys,  producing  brain  concentrations  several  orders  of 
magnitude above the physiological level. In the dog, the highest concentration was found in the white 
matter of the temporal lobe. There are no data on plasma protein binding in animals, but this is likely 
to be negligible. 
2.3.3  Metabolism (in vitro/in vivo) 
Metabolism of GHB is rapid and complete and proceeds via succinic semialdehyde, succinate and the 
Krebs cycle or through γ-hydroxybutyrate and β-oxidation. 
The potential for inhibition of CYP isozymes was tested in pooled human liver microsome fractions 
using standard markers for CYP1A2, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 and 3A. In all cases, the IC50 was > 3000 
µM (> 378 µg/ml). Since the average maximum human exposure is 142 µg/ml, GHB is not expected to 
show  pharmacokinetic  interactions  with  drugs  metabolised  by  these  isozymes.  Non  P450  mediated 
effects on GHB metabolism are unclear. 
A rat study found that co-administration of compounds stimulating or inhibiting GHB dehydrogenase 
were able to decrease or increase plasma levels of GHB by up to 1/3. The interactions resulting from 
the stimulation or inhibition of GHB dehydrogenase, namely with anticonvulsivant drugs and L-dopa 
are considered to be clinically relevant and are mentioned in the SPC. 
2.3.4  Excretion 
Clearance is predominantly by biotransformation, with limited amounts of unchanged drug recovered 
from  the  urine  or  faeces.  Radiospirometric  studies  in  rats  showed  that  14C-GHB  was  rapidly 
converted to exhaled CO2 and about 2/3 of the dose was excreted by respiration within 6 hours and an 
additional  10-  20%  over  the  next  18  hours.  After  oral  administration  of  14C-labelled  GHB 
(200 mg/kg)  to  rats,  the  urinary  recovery  over  48  hours  was  5.5%  of  the  radioactive  dose,  and  only 
1.5% was recovered in the faeces. There are no data on the excretion of GHB in the milk of lactating 
animals. The proposed SPC contains an appropriate statement to this effect. 
T½ in rats following oral administration of a single dose of 200 mg/kg was 0.75 h for the α- and 2.68 
h  for  the  β-phase.  Similar  T½  values  were  observed  in  dogs  and  monkeys.  In  rats,  Cmax  and  AUC 
values tended to be higher in females than in males, whereas the opposite applied to dogs. 
The  applicant  has  been  asked  to  discuss  the  comparative  pharmacokinetics  in  humans  and 
experimental animals and the implications for a critical appraisal of the relevance of the main species 
used in the toxicity testing for human safety assessment. In summary, the rat and dog showed similar 
pharmacokinetic  characteristics,  although  exposure  measured  as  AUC  was  higher  in  human  than  in 
either rat or dog at the NOAEL. The exposures measured in the maximum tolerated dose toxicokinetic 
studies (conducted in support of mouse and rat carcinogenicity studies) were, however, greater than in 
human subjects (Cmax 2.60- and 2.76-fold; AUC 1.21- and 1.64-fold for mouse and rat, respectively). 
2.4  Toxicology 
All toxicology studies were conducted by the applicant with the exception of data from literature for 
single dose toxicity and carcinogenicity in mice. 
2.4.1  Single dose toxicity 
Formal  single  dose  toxicity  studies  were  not  conducted.  A  review  of  published  literature  data 
identified  a  number  of  references  providing  LD50  values  in  several  species.  In  the  mouse,  LD50 
values  of  2960  –  3700  mg/kg  following  i.p.  injection  were  identified;  in  the  rat,  LD50  values  were 
9990 mg/kg following p.o. administration, and 1700 mg/kg following i.p. injection. In the rabbit and 
dog, LD50 values in excess of 1000 mg/kg were reported following i.v. administration, which could 
be increased to over 7000 mg/kg with artificial respiration without lethality. 
Page 5/30 
2.4.2  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  comprised  3-  and  6-month  toxicity studies in rats and 3- and 12-month 
studies  in  dogs.  Treatment-related  clinical  signs  were  mainly  related  to  sedation,  reduced  food 
consumption and secondary changes in body weight, body weight gain and organ weights. 
In rats, the only treatment-related clinical chemistry changes were a slight reduction of serum albumin 
and WBC in rats that may have been related to changes in nutritional status. The lowest NOAEL value 
was 350 mg/kg/day in rats (AUC ≈200 µg.h/ml) based on bodyweight changes.  
In  dogs,  three  repeat  dose  studies  have  been  conducted,  an  initial  rising  dose  study, followed by 90 
day  and  52  week  exposure  studies.  In  the  rising  dose  study  single  doses  ranging  from  150  –  1800 
mg/kg/day  were  investigated,  followed  by  a  5  day  continuous  dosing  phase  at  600  mg/kg/day. 
Treatment related clinical signs included emesis following dosing at 600 mg/kg and 1200 mg/kg and 
emesis,  hypersalivation,  ataxia  and  hypoactivity  following  the  1800  mg/kg  dose.  Emesis  and  ataxia 
were  also  observed  during  the  600  mg/kg/day  daily  dosing  phase.  Plasma  concentrations  were 
observed to increase in approximate proportion to increasing dose, with emesis leading to decreased 
plasma  concentrations.  These  signs  subsided  after  the  first  few  weeks  of  the  study,  and  led  to  the 
decision to increase the high dose to 900 mg/kg/day at Week 32. Following this dose increase, similar 
clinical signs were noted in the 900 mg/kg/day dose group. 
There  were  no  treatment-related  clinical  chemistry,  ophthalmology  or  ECG  findings.  Necropsy 
findings included a dark area on the ileal mucosa of one animal, as a result of emesis during the study. 
A  dose-dependent  atrophy  of  the  salivary  and  submucosal  oesophageal  glands  was  observed.  Such 
changes  are  not  uncommon  with  drugs  acting  on  the  parasympathetic  nervous  system.  The  NOAEL 
value  was  150  mg/kg/day  (AUC  ≈300  µg.h/ml)  based  on  bodyweight  changes  and  salivary  gland 
atrophy.  
The toxicokinetic parameters (mean values calculated from male and female data, since no apparent 
gender  difference  has  been  reported)  at  the  NOAEL  and/or  NOELs  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicology 
studies in rats and dogs are presented in the next table, together with pharmacokinetic parameters for 
humans from a study where the highest proposed dose of GHB was administered (2 x 4.5 g, 4 h apart, 
Study OMC-SXB-9). 
At the NOAEL observed in both rat repeat dose toxicology studies, mean AUC and Cmax values were 
approx 0.5 fold the values in humans. After the second 4.5 g dose in humans, the Cmax values for rats 
and humans were approximately the same. At the lowest NOEL for dogs, observed in the dog 52 week 
toxicology  study  (150  mg/kg/day),  the  exposure  margin  for  AUC  was  approximately  0.5  fold  the 
values observed in humans. The exposure margin for Cmax was approx 0.5 fold the value following 
the first dose in humans and approximately the same following the second dose in humans. Thus, with 
the exception of Cmax values following the second GHB dose in humans, exposure to GHB in both 
rats and dogs was less than observed for humans at the highest proposed therapeutic dose.  
2.4.3  Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Genotoxicity  studies  in  vitro  (bacterial  mutation  assays  in  salmonella  and  E.coli  and  chromosomal 
aberrations  in  CHO  cells  in  absence  and  presence  of  metabolic  activation)  and  in  vivo  (rat 
Page 6/30 
 
 
micronucleus  test) did not identify a cause for concern. Sodium oxybate may be considered as non-
genotoxic. 
2.4.4  Carcinogenicity (with toxicokinetics) 
There is available data on rat and mouse with γ-butyrolactone (GBL which converts in GHB rapidly in 
the  body)  in  two  NTP  (National  Toxicology  Program)  studies  and  with  sodium  oxybate  in  rats 
(applicant-sponsored  2-year  study).  In  the  rat  carcinogenicity  study  the  active  substance  was 
administered  as  sodium  oxybate (maximum dose 1000 mg/kg). In the National Toxicology Program 
mouse  carcinogenicity  study  (CAS  No.  96-48-0)  the  active  substance  was  administered  as  GBL 
(maximum  dose  525  mg/kg).  Provided  that  no  toxicokinetic  data  was  included  in  the  NTP  studies, 
single dose and 14 day dose bridging studies were conducted by the applicant in both rat and mouse to 
estimate the exposure in these species following administration of sodium oxybate or γ-butyrolactone 
(GBL)  in  support  of  these  carcinogenicity  studies.  The  exposures  in  rat  and  mouse  at  the  doses 
corresponding  to  the  maximum  doses  in  the  respective  carcinogenicity  studies  was  compared  to  the 
exposures  in  humans  at  the  maximum  recommended  dose  of  9g,  administered  as  two  4.5g  doses  4 
hours apart (OMC-SXB-9). The animal/human exposure ratios for Cmax were 2.60 and 2.76 for mouse 
and  rat,  respectively.  Similarly  the  animal/human  exposure  ratios  for  AUC  were  1.21  and  1.64  for 
mouse and rat, respectively. It is not clear whether data from short-term administration (up to 14 days) 
is informative regarding the exposure of animals at the end of the study, provided that accumulation 
seemed  to  occur  at  least  at  high  doses,  as  suggested  by  comparative  toxicokinetic  analysis  of  the 
values obtained in repeated dose studies in rats and dogs. Underestimation of exposure may therefore 
be given in the bridging studies. 
GBL has been classified by NTP as non-carcinogenic in rats and equivocal carcinogen in mice, due to 
slight  increase  of  pheochromocytomas  which  was  difficult  to  interpret  due  to  high  mortality  in  the 
high dose group. With GBL a non-significant increase of hyperplasia of adrenal medulla was observed 
also in rats, which poses the possibility of a drug-related effect in both species. Decreased incidence of 
several  neoplasm  types  in  mice  (hepatocellular  tumors)  and  rats  (mammary  fibroadenomas) 
administered with GBL were also observed in the NTP study. 
In  rats,  both  sodium  oxybate  (applicant-sponsored  study)  and  GBL  were  classified  as  non-
carcinogenic. In the oxybate study 2/50 pituitary carcinomas were observed in high-dose female rats 
compared  to  0/50  in  all  other  groups  including  controls.  However,  this  finding  was  of  doubtful 
statistical significance and the incidence was at the upper bound of historical controls. Since GHB was 
non-genotoxic and the pituitary carcinomas in the rat were of marginal statistical significance, there is 
sufficient information to assume that Xyrem is unlikely to be a potential carcinogen in humans. The 
safety ratios calculated against predicted human exposure were still low but new studies do not seem 
necessary as no concern has been raised from the available toxicological data. 
2.4.5  Reproductive and developmental studies 
GHB had no effect on mating, general fertility or sperm parameters and did not produce embryo-foetal 
toxicity in rats exposed to up 1000 mg/kg/day GHB. As there are no PK data in pregnant animals, the 
corresponding exposure margin, calculated from non-pregnant animals is 1.64 times the human one.  
In  rabbits,  foetotoxicity  was  slight  and  did  not  reach  statistical  significance.  The  only  notable 
abnormality was hydrocephalus in two foetuses from the same litter in a mid-dose female. Based on 
historical data provided and taking into consideration that there were no similar findings in any other 
litter or dose group, this finding was considered to be unrelated to treatment. The rabbit study included 
toxicokinetics. The highest Cmax recorded was 454 µg/ml, which is 3-fold higher than the predicted 
human value.  
GHB had no adverse effects on the F0 animals in a conventional Segment III study in rats, except for 
an  increase  in  the  incidence  of  post-dose  sedation,  low  bodyweight  gain  and  reduced  food 
consumption  in  the  high-dose  group.  Perinatal  mortality  was  increased  and  mean  pup  weight  was 
decreased during the lactation period in high-dose F1 animals. Though not dose related, a relationship 
of  these  mortalities  with  the  treatment  cannot  be  ruled  out.  GHB  is  not  to  be  recommended  during 
pregnancy or breast-feeding and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Page 7/30 
2.4.6  Other toxicity studies 
Immunotoxicity studies were not carried out. However, there were no signals of direct immunotoxicity 
in any of the repeat-dose toxicity studies. 
Dependance studies 
GHB is a known substance of abuse and in the United States the use of Xyrem is subject to a rigid risk 
management program. The applicant did not conduct specific animal tests for dependence. However, a 
review  of  the  published  literature  was  carried  out  to  collect  information  on  the  effects  of  GHB  in 
models  of  drug  discrimination,  self-administration  and  tolerance.  Drug  discrimination  studies  show 
that GHB produces a unique discriminative stimulus that in some respects is similar to that of alcohol, 
morphine and certain GABA-mimetic drugs. However, the characteristics of these effects differ with 
dose,  suggesting  the  involvement  of  multiple  receptor  systems  with  varied  affinities  for  GHB.  Self-
administration studies in rats, mice and monkeys have produced conflicting results, whereas tolerance 
to GHB as well as cross-tolerance to alcohol has been clearly demonstrated in rodents.  
The data generated in the file does not allow evaluation of the potential of sodium oxybate to induce 
withdrawal  phenomena.  The  literature  review  suggest  that  mild  effects  could  occur  in  mice and rats 
after  frequent  daily  administration  and  in  primates  after  continuous  long  term  administration  (more 
than  30  days)  of  750mg/kg/day  dose.  The  potential  for  withdrawal  seems  therefore  to  exist,  though 
limited.  This  is  reflected  in  the  SPC  and  will  be  further  evaluated  clinically  as  a  post-marketing 
commitment. 
2.5  Environmental risk assessment 
A formal environmental risk assessment has not been carried out. It is nevertheless agreed that sodium 
oxybate is unlikely to pose any perceivable risk to the environment. 
2.6  Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
The  precise  mechanism  by  which  sodium  oxybate  produces  an  effect  on  cataplexy  is  unknown, 
however  sodium  oxybate  is  thought  to  act  by  promoting  slow  (delta)  wave  sleep  and  consolidating 
night-time sleep. The cause of human narcolepsy and cataplexy is, as yet, unknown. Recent evidence 
points  to  the  loss  of  hypocretin-containing  neurons,  possibly  due  to  autoimmune  attack,  as  a  likely 
cause. Animal models of cataplexy and narcolepsy are continuing to be developed, but the effects of 
GHB in these models, have yet to be investigated. 
In  addition  to  its  sedative  properties,  GHB  is  a  potent  CNS  depressant  and  may  increase  growth 
hormone secretion. The potential for acute respiratory depression after reintroduction of treatment in 
patients who might have developed tolerance is mentioned in the SPC (4.2) as well as a warning in 
case of concomitant administration with other CNS depressant, and especially alcohol. (SPC, 4.4 and 
4.5) 
The  interactions  resulting  from  the  stimulation  or  inhibition  of  GHB  dehydrogenase,  namely  with 
anticonvulsivant  drugs  and  L-dopa  are  considered  to  be  potentially  relevant  in  the  clinic  and  are 
mentioned in the SPC.(section 4.5 and 5.3). 
The  bioavailability  in  rats  is  about  50-80%  and  the  clearance  is  rapid  (T½  ≈1h)  with  extensive 
biotransformation  which  is  not  P450  dependant.  The  kinetic  is  non-linear,  due  to  saturable 
mechanisms of both absorption and elimination resulting in reduced Cmax and increased AUC from 
linearity with increasing doses. As GHB is metabolised by γ hydroxybutyrate (GHB) dehydrogenase, 
there  is  a  potential  interaction  with  drugs  that  inhibit  this  enzyme.  This  is  reflected  in  the  SPC 
(sections 4.5 and 5.3) 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity,  treatment-related  clinical  signs  were  mainly  related  to  sedation.  Safety 
margins, based on body weight changes and salivary gland atrophy, are low or non-existent. This is in 
accordance  with  the  frequent  occurrence  in  humans  of  adverse  effects  such  as  nausea,  anorexia  and 
parasympathetic disorders (blurred vision, enuresis and sweating). 
GHB is non-genotoxic and not considered to present a carcinogenic risk to humans.  
In reproductive toxicity studies, foetoxicity was observed in rats and rabbits. The use of GHB is not 
recommended during pregnancy or breast-feeding and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Page 8/30 
Tolerance to GHB as well as cross-tolerance to alcohol has been clearly demonstrated in rodents. The 
potential of GHB to induce withdrawal phenomena, demonstrated in animal models, is low, and the 
relevance for humans will be monitored in the future during the post-authorisation phase. 
3 
Clinical aspects 
3.1 
Introduction 
Sodium oxybate is directed to the treatment of cataplexy in narcolepsy which is an orphan disease and 
the development plan reflects this status. The database is small and the claims are supported by studies 
that in part were conducted on the initiative of the investigators. The sponsor put particularly efforts in 
one main pivotal study which is of reasonable size with more than 100 patients enrolled.  
All analytical methods used were validated. An overview of the pharmacological studies is given in 
the following table: 
Protocol Code  Design 
Subject 
Dose of GHB 
Objectives 
OMC-SXB-11  Single-centre, 
open 
label,  two  period,  two 
treatment,  crossover, 
randomised design 
OMC-SXB-09  Single  centre,  open 
label,  two  period,  two 
treatment 
crossover 
randomised trial. 
OMC-SXB-08  Single  centre,  single 
dose, open label 
OMC-SXB-16  Blinded, 
placebo 
controlled 
OMC-GHB-04  Open label 
OMC-SXB-10  Open label, two period 
study. 
included,  34 
Two 
to 
36 
completed. 
dropout  due 
adverse events. 
All 
women. 
healthy 
Single doses GHB. 
4.5 g,  
After an overnight fast 
or  10  min  after  a high 
fat meal. 
Three  female  and 
10 
male 
Caucasian, 19 – 47 
years  of  age  and 
in 
61-90 
weight. 
kg 
Healthy subjects. 
18  males  and  18 
females. 
Healthy  Subjects 
(Orphan  Medical 
Inc. Staff.) 
6  male 
and  6 
female  (age  22  – 
55 years) 
Narcoleptic 
patients maintained 
on 
chronic 
treatment. 
4  male 
female. 
Narcoleptic 
patients. 
10  women  and  3 
men (age 23 –52). 
and  2 
Two doses GHB. 
2x2.25 g or 2x 4.5 g.  
First 
dose 
administered  2  hours 
after evening meal and 
second 
after 
dose 
additional 4 hours. 
Single doses GHB. 
4.5 g,  
Dose  administered  2 
hours after an evening 
meal. 
Single  dose  GHB  (3.0 
g). 
Oral  solution  swilled 
in mouth 
Two doses GHB. 
Total dose of 6 g (2x3 
g, 4 hours apart). 
A  meal  was  taken  3 
hours  before  the  first 
dose. 
Single dose GHB. 
4.5 g. 
A  meal  was  served 
about  2  hours  before 
dosing. 
Page 9/30 
the 
Study 
pharmacokineti
cs  of  a  single 
oral  dose  of 
Xyrem  after  a 
standard  high 
fat  meal  and 
after 
an 
overnight fast. 
To  study 
the 
pharmacokineti
cs  and  dose 
proportionality 
of Xyrem. 
To  study 
the 
pharmacokineti
cs  of  GHB  in 
healthy  male 
and females. 
To  compare  3 
placebo 
solutions  with 
active  solution 
with  regard  to 
taste. 
To assess PK in 
patients 
on 
chronic 
treatment. 
the 
To  assess  PK 
initial 
of 
single  dose  of 
GHB  and  of  a 
single 
dose 
after  8  weeks 
of  treatment  in 
narcoleptic 
patients  who 
not 
had 
Analytical 
method 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
(Not relevant since 
patients 
all 
expelled 
GHB 
solution) 
Gas 
Chromatography 
with mass selective 
detector. 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Protocol Code  Design 
Subject 
Dose of GHB 
Objectives 
OMC-SXB-12  Open 
label, 
three 
period, 
three-
treatment,  randomised 
crossover study. 
OMC-SXB-14  Open 
label, 
three 
three-
period, 
treatment,  randomised 
crossover study. 
OMC-SXB-17  Open 
label, 
three 
period, 
three-
treatment,  randomised 
crossover study. 
OMC-SXB-24  Open 
label, 
three 
period, 
three-
treatment,  randomised 
crossover study. 
Healthy Subjects 
5  female  and  10 
male (age 19 – 51) 
Single  doses  GHB 
(3.0 g) and zolpidem 5 
mg alone and together 
after an overnight fast.
Healthy Subjects 
5 male, 7 female 
Healthy Subjects 
6  female  and  7 
male. (age 19 – 51)
Healthy Subjects 
20  male  24  female 
(age 18 – 50) 
Two  doses  of  GHB 
(2x2.25  g,  4  hours 
apart) 
and 
protriptyline  (10  mg), 
together. 
alone  and 
were 
Doses 
administered  2  hours 
after a light breakfast. 
Single  doses  of  GHB 
(4.5 
and 
g) 
modenafinil (200 mg), 
alone 
together 
and 
after an overnight fast.
Single  doses  of  GHB 
(3 g) prior to and after 
omeprazole  40  mg 
once  daily  for  5  days. 
Doses 
were 
administered  4  hours 
after the evening meal.
previously 
received 
sodium 
oxybate. 
To  assess  any 
PK 
interaction 
between 
sodium oxybate 
and zolpidem 
To  assess  any 
interaction 
PK 
between 
sodium oxybate 
and 
protriptyline 
To  assess  any 
PK 
interaction 
between 
sodium oxybate 
and 
Modafinil 
To 
determine 
the  effect  of 
sub-chronic 
omeprazole  on 
absorption 
of 
oxybate.  
Analytical 
method 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
Liquid 
Chromatographic 
with  Fluorescence 
Detector 
(Zolpidem) 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
Chromatographic 
with  Fluorescence 
Detector 
(Protriptyline) 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
Liquid 
chromatographic 
with 
detection 
(modafinil). 
LC/MS/MS* 
(GHB). 
absorbance 
*High performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) with tandem mass spectroscopy (LC/MS/MS) 
3.2  Pharmacokinetics 
The following pharmacokinetic characteristics of sodium oxybate can be described as follows: 
3.2.1  Absorption and Bioavailability/Bioequivalence 
Xyrem is presented as an oral solution (500 mg/ml). As sodium oxybate is highly soluble and all the 
formulations used in the clinical trials were solutions with no excipients except for pH adjustment, no 
formulation effect is thus expected. Therefore the absence of bioequivalence studies is acceptable. 
Sodium  oxybate  was  rapidly  absorbed  following  oral  administration  in  solution.  The  mean  /median 
time  to  achieve  peak  plasma  concentration  (Tmax)  ranged  from  around  0.5  to  1.25  hours  in  both 
healthy volunteers and patients with narcolepsy. 
Absolute  bioavailability  was  not  studied  to  avoid  potential  safety  issues  following  intravenous 
administration.  In  the  literature,  limited  data  suggest  a  bioavailability  of  27%.  This  low  figure  is 
probably due to a high first pass metabolism.  
Influence of food 
A clear effect of food on the absorption of sodium oxybate was demonstrated in study OMC-SXB-11. 
Food  intake  reduces  Cmax  by  59%,  AUC  by  37%  and  variability  in  both  parameters  as  well. 
Administration after a high fat meal showed a slower absorption, resulting in a longer Tmax (2 hours) 
compared with administration after an overnight fast (0.75 hours). It is considered unlikely that these 
Page 10/30 
 
small  differences  in  Tmax  may  have  any  clinical  impact.  However,  as  the  concentration/response 
relationship  has  not  been  well  established,  it  is  recommended  that  the  proposed  posology  closely 
follows what has been used in the clinical trials and that patients should observe the same timing of 
dosing in relation to meals and upon retiring to bed. 
3.2.2  Distribution 
Palatini and colleagues (1993) showed that there was essentially no plasma protein binding (<1%) in 
their study of one volunteer at pre-dialysis concentrations of 3, 10, 20, 100, 200 and 300 mg/ml. 
In study OMC-SXB-11, the apparent volume of distribution tended to be higher after the high fat meal 
than in the fasted situation (Vz/F was 26.9 L and 13.4 L respectively, as referred to 70 kg with rsd% of 
84.4%  and  101%  respectively).  The  large  variability  is  probably  due  to  the  absolute  bioavailability 
factor (F). 
3.2.3  Elimination 
GHB  is  eliminated  via  two  metabolic  pathways:  beta-oxidation  and  TCA  cycle.  Renal  excretion  is 
negligible (3 to < 10%). Half-life ranges from 0.57 to 0.83 h with an average rsd% of 33.3% across all 
studies.  Total  clearance  (Cl/F  ml/min/kg)  ranges  from  2.51  to  5.07  with  an  average  rsd%  of  25.9% 
across all studies. 
The main PK parameters are summarised in the next 2 tables: 
Summary of Pharmacokinetic parameters of GHB in Healthy Volunteers 
Study (country) 
Treatment 
Mean (SD) PK parameters (median if no SD shown) 
Cmax (ug/ml) 
Tmax (h) 
T½ 
(h) 
AUC0-inf 
(ug.h/ml) 
Subjects  
entered/ 
completed 
males/females 
OMC-SXB-9 
(US) 
13/12  
10/3  
29 y (19-47) 
2  x  2.25  g(4h 
apart) 
Dose 1 
26.6 
(8.6) 
0.85 (0.36) 
0.59 (0.13) 
Dose 2 
60.1 (17.5) 
0.64 (0.31) 
2  x  4.5  g  (4h 
apart) 
Dose 1 
77.6 (24.4) 
1.17 (0.54) 
0.83 (0.19) 
Dose 2 
142 
(49.3) 
0.72 (0.45) 
138 
(49.8) 
518 
(195) 
OMC-SXB-8 
(US) 
36/36  
18/18  
30 y (18-55) 
OMC-SXB-11 
(US) 
36/36  
0/36  
30 y (18-55) 
4.5 g 
Men 
88.3 (21.4) 
1.00 
0.65 (0.23) 
241 (81.7) 
Women 
83.0 (18.7) 
1.00 
0.61 (0.12) 
233 (81.5) 
4.5 g 
Fasting 
state 
142 
(34.2) 
0.75 
0.57 (0.30) 
289 (109) 
60.1 (20.1) 
2.00 
0.68 (0.22) 
188 (80.0) 
30min  after 
high-fat 
breakfast 
Summary of Pharmacokinetic parameters of GHB in Patients with Narcolepsy 
Study (country) 
Treatment 
Subjects 
entered/completed 
males/females 
Mean (SD) PK parameters (median if no SD shown)
Cmax 
T½ 
(ug/ml) 
(min or h) 
AUC0-inf (Ug.min/ml 
or ug.h/ml) 
Tmax 
(min or h)
OMB-GHB- 
4 (US) 
6/6 
4/2 
51 y (19-62)
2 x 3g 
(4h apart) 
Dose 1 
628 
(27.4) 
400 
(6.2) 
530 (19.3) 
17732 (4867) 
Page 11/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study (country) 
Subjects 
entered/completed 
males/females 
Treatment 
Mean (SD) PK parameters (median if no SD shown)
T½ 
Cmax 
(ug/ml) 
(min or h) 
AUC0-inf (Ug.min/ml 
or ug.h/ml) 
Tmax 
(min or h)
OMC-SXB-10 
13/13 
3/10 
39 y (23-52) 
Dose 2 
4.5g 
Initial dose 
After 8 w 
912 
(25.6) 
900 
(30.8) 
104 
(31.3) 
357 
(7.0) 
0.75 
0.50 
0.67 
(0.17) 
0.67 
(0.21) 
226 (74 6) 
254 
(78 5) 
3.2.4  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Study  OMC-SXB-9  in  healthy  volunteers  and  studies  OMC-SX-10  OMC-GHB-4  in  patients 
respectively addressed the issue of dose dependency and steady-state.  
The  non-linearity  found  in  study  OMC-SXB-9  has  not  been  fully  explained.  Since  sodium  oxybate 
undergoes  extensive  first-pass  metabolism  (oral  absolute  bioavailability  is  about  28%),  the  non-
linearity can be due to saturation of either pre-systemic or systemic elimination. A slight increase in 
the  half-life  is  observed  (see  table  4  below),  but  statistical  significance  cannot  be  tested  due  to 
confounding factors such as divided dose and food effect. 
Studies OMC-SXB-10 and OMC-GHB-4 did not show evidence of a strong dose-dependency. 
Overall,  a  careful  monitoring  upon  individual  dose  titration  is  recommended  and  is  reflected  in  the 
SPC. 
Table 4: Dose proportionality study 
1st dose 
2nd dose 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Tmax (h) 
Cmax (µg/mL) 
Tmax (h) 
AUC 
(µg.h/mL) 
4.5 g 
26.6 
9 g 
77.6 
0.85 
1.17 
60.1 
142 
0.64 
0.72 
138 
518 
t1/2 (h) 
0.59 
0.83 
3.2.5  Special populations 
The  applicant  did  not  perform  studies  in  special  populations:  sodium  oxybate  is  not  intended  for 
children or elderly because narcolepsy/cataplexy has a very low prevalence in those age brackets.  
As  sodium  oxybate  is  eliminated  almost  exclusively  via  biotransformation,  no  renal  impairment 
effects are expected. Therefore the only recommendation in patients with compromised renal function 
is a possible reduction in sodium intake since 4.5 g of sodium oxybate contains 0.75 g of sodium. This 
is stated in the SPC. 
Based  on  a  published  study,  the  dosing  recommendation  in  the  SPC  for  patients  with  hepatic 
impairment, is to halve the starting dose in such patients, and to monitor closely the response to dose 
increments. 
3.2.6  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
GHB  is  metabolised  via  beta-oxidation  or  tricarboxylic  acid  cycle  (Krebs)  pathways.  Therefore  no 
involvement  of  CYP  isoenzymes  is  expected.  This  has  been  confirmed  by  in  vitro  studies  for 
CYP1A2, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4. 
Page 12/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Four  drug-drug  interaction  studies  have  been  performed  (OMC-SXB-12,-14,-17,-24).  No  significant 
interactions have been detected of either GHB on zolpidem, protriptyline and modafinil or of the same 
drugs on GHB. However, the rate of adverse events in co-administration with protriptyline, a tricyclic 
antidepressant,  was  increased  both  in  healthy  subjects  and  patients.  Therefore  a  potential 
pharmacodynamic interaction cannot be excluded with antidepressants. This is stated in the SPC. 
Omeprazole did not show significant interaction on GHB pharmacokinetics. 
There  is  also  a  suggestion  in  primates  that  the  antiepileptic  drugs  valproate,  ethosuximide  and 
phenytoin can influence activity of gamma-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase in the initial conversion of 
gammahydroxybutyrate to succinic semialdehyde (Snead 1978a, 1978b). As GHB is metabolised by 
gamma hydroxybutyrate (GHB) dehydrogenase, there is a potential interaction with drugs that inhibit 
this enzyme. These drugs include but are not limited to valproate, phenytoin, ethosuximide, salicylate, 
amobarbital, disulfiram and cyanide, and trimethadione. As the interaction of Xyrem with drugs that 
inhibit GHB dehydrogenase was not studied in human subjects, it is not known clinically what effects 
these  drugs  would  have  if  administered  concurrently  (i.e.  in  patients  being  treated  with 
anticonvulsants). L-DOPA, a precursor to dopamine, which increases dopamine levels, has also been 
shown  to  potentiate  Xyrem’s  hypnotic  effects,  although  studies  in  primates  have  shown  that  co-
administration of L-DOPA and GHB may result in a reduction in serum concentrations of GHB. 
3.3  Pharmacodynamics 
3.3.1  Mechanism of action 
The  mechanism  of  action  is  largely  unknown.  The  applicant  did  not  produce  any  original  data.  The 
summary below is based in the published literature. 
Sodium oxybate is an endogenous 4-carbon fatty acid that is thought to act as a neurotransmitter in the 
regulation of sleep cycles, blood flow, emotion, and memory. Its actions are thought to be mediated 
through  brain  receptors  specific  for  GHB  as  well  as  through  binding  to  GABA-B  receptors.  At  low 
doses, the drug inhibits presynaptic dopamine release, while at high doses, dopamine release may be 
stimulated. It is believed that sodium oxybate decreases the symptoms of narcolepsy by inducing REM 
sleep  and  increasing  delta  sleep.  The  precise  mechanism  by  which  sodium  oxybate  produces  anti-
cataplectic activity in patients with narcolepsy is unknown.  
3.3.2  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Sodium  oxybate  is  a  central  nervous  system  depressant,  pharmacotherapeutic  group:  Other  Nervous 
System Drugs, ATC code: N07XX04 hydroxybutyric acid. 
Sodium oxybate is directed to the treatment of cataplexy in Narcolepsy and the model to propose this 
indication is based on the current understanding that narcolepsy symptoms should be categorised in 2 
groups: 1) daytime sleepiness and sleep fragmentation; 2) Cataplexy and REM related symptoms. 
Anesthetic  induction  is  thought  to  occur  from  a  general  CNS  depressant  effect  on  the  cerebrospinal 
axis,  and  occurs  at  higher  dosages.  Intoxication  with  sodium  oxybate  or  GHB  can  produce  severe 
symptoms including seizures, respiratory depression, CNS depression, coma, and death. 
Endocrine effects 
It is known from the literature that GHB exhibits effects on growth hormone, cortisol and prolactin.  
Available  literature  data  from  human  studies  show  that  oxybate  (gammahydroxybutyrate;  GHB) 
consistently provokes small, short-lived increases in growth hormone (GH) release, whereas, the data 
from animal studies is less clear; vide infra. In contrast, evidence in the literature of any substantial 
effect  of  GHB  on  either  Prolactin  (PRL)  or  cortisol  release  is  weak.  Likewise,  neither  IGF-I  nor 
IGFBP-3, indices of hypersecretion of GH (MacGillivray, 2001), are consistently altered (van Cauter, 
et al, 1997) and other hormones of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis appear to be unaffected by GHB, 
there  being  little  or  no  effect  on  thyroid  stimulating  hormone,  thyroxine,  melatonin  or  luteinising 
hormone (Oyama et al, 1972, Gerra 1994a, van Cauter, et al, 1997). 
Pharmacodynamic interactions 
Page 13/30 
In the clinical trial database, more than 80 % of patients maintained concomitant stimulant use. 
Stimulants  such  as  methylphenidate,  dextroamphetamine,  methamphetamine,  pemoline  or  modafinil 
are used commonly to treat the symptoms of daytime sleepiness in patients with narcolepsy. Tricyclic 
antidepressants  (TCAs)  -  such  as  protryptiline,  amitriptyline,  chlomipramine,  imipramine  and 
trimipramine - or serotonin selective reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) – such as fluoxetine, sertraline and 
paroxetine  -  are  used  to  treat  the  REM-dissociation  phenomena  of  cataplexy,  hypnagogic 
hallucinations  and  sleep  paralysis.  The  seven  trials  that  comprise  the  clinical  trial  database  did  not 
include  a  trial  designed  to  specifically  investigate  the  potential  pharmacodynamic  interactions  of 
sodium  oxybate  with  other  concomitant  medications  in  this  patient  population.  A  re-analysis 
considering  subgroups  defined  by  the  concomitant use of stimulants or tricyclic antidepressants was 
performed  at  the  request  of  CHMP.  No  signals  of  a  pharmacodynamic  interaction  were  shown. 
However,  due 
limitation  of  post-hoc  analysis  a 
the 
pharmacodynamic interactions with CNS stimulants or TCA antidepressants cannot be ruled out and 
this is reflected in the SPC. 
the  small  numbers  and 
inherent 
to 
3.4  Clinical efficacy  
The use of sodium oxybate (sodium gamma hydroxybutyrate) in narcolepsy dates back to open-label 
clinical  trials  conducted  by  Broughton  and  Mamelak  (1979  and  1980).  These  trials,  along  with 
subsequent  open-label  trials  (Scharf  et  al,  1985;  Mamelak  et  al,  1986;  Montplaisir  and  Godbout, 
1986),  provided  early  evidence  that  sodium  oxybate  was  effective  in  the  treatment  of  narcolepsy 
symptoms. 
Efficacy  data  from  seven  completed  clinical  trials,  to  support  the  use  of  sodium  oxybate  for  the 
treatment of cataplexy associated with narcolepsy, are included in this application. 
Controlled studies 
There are four controlled studies: 
• Randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled comparison of 3, 6 and 9 g of sodium oxybate (given 
in two divided doses) versus placebo in 136 patients treated for 4 weeks (OMC-GHB-2); 
•  Randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  crossover  comparison  of  sodium  oxybate  (2  x  25 
mg/kg) and placebo in 20 patients treated for 29 days (Scrima). 
•  Randomized,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  crossover  comparison  of  sodium  oxybate  (2  x  30 
mg/kg) and placebo in 25 patients treated for 4 weeks (Lammers). 
•  Randomized,  long-term,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled  study  to  compare  continued  sodium 
oxybate (3, 4.5, 6, 7.5 or 9 g/night in two divided doses) with placebo in 56 patients over a 2-week 
treatment period following long-term sodium oxybate treatment (OMC-SXB-21). 
All  studies  included  patients  with  an  established  diagnosis  of  narcolepsy,  although  the  precise 
inclusion  and  exclusion  criteria  varied  between  studies.  In  all  four  studies,  the  number  of  cataplexy 
attacks  is  the  primary  efficacy  variable  (or  is  one  of  the  stated  primary  efficacy  variables)  and  was 
obtained from diary cards filled in by the patients. Pre-existing stimulant medication was maintained 
in all studies. 
The  two  pivotal  studies  for  determination  of  the  effects  against  cataplexy  are  OMC-GHB-  2  and 
OMC-SXB-21. 
All  four  controlled  studies  assessed  various  symptoms  of  narcolepsy,  in  addition  to  the  change  in 
number  of  cataplexy  attacks,  although  the  actual  assessments  varied  between  the  studies.  Several 
assessments  were  made  by  the  patient  (including  the  number  of  hypnagogic  hallucinations,  daytime 
naps, and daytime sleepiness). In the pivotal OMCGHB- 2 study, groups were compared for daytime 
sleepiness using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale and there was an investigator assessment of severity of 
the  patient’s  illness  by  the  Clinical  Global  Impression  of  Change.  The Scrima and Lammers studies 
Page 14/30 
included  polysomnogram  recordings,  but  data  were  not  available  for  the  Lammers  study  report. 
Scrima published the polysomnogram and multiple sleep latency test data from his study (Scrima et al, 
1990), but the results presented are based upon those presented in the Scrima study report. Patients in 
the Scrima study had a mean prevalence of cataplexy episodes of approximately 20 per week, whilst 
those in the Lammers study had approximately five episodes per week. 
The results from the controlled studies demonstrating a reduction l in the number of cataplexy attacks 
and  improvement  of  other  narcolepsy  symptoms  are  supported  by  those  from  three  open  label  non-
comparative studies: 
Open-label studies 
•  The  open  label  extension  trial,  OMC-GHB-3,  extended  the  analysis  of  efficacy  and  safety  from 
OMC-GHB-2 for an additional 12 months and served to further validate the endpoints in OMC-GHB-
2. Patients began treatment at 6 g/night and the dose was subsequently adjusted to effect. The study 
included 117 treated patients. 
• OMC-SXB-6 was an open-label 6-month study in 185 patients treated with 3, 4.5, 
6, 7.5 or 9 g/day, titrated from a starting dose of 4.5 g/night to effect. 
• OMC-SXB-20 was an open label study examining the effects of four doses of sodium oxybate (4.5 g, 
6 g, 7.5 g and 9 g) on overnight polysomnogram recordings in 25 treated patients. In addition, patients 
from OMC-GHB-3, OMC-SXB-6 or the Scharf (safety) study could enter the long-term study OMC-
SXB-7. An interim analysis, when 145/300 patients had been entered and treated, is included in this 
application. 
In OMC-GHB-3, the number of cataplexy attacks is recorded, amongst other assessments. In the other 
open  studies  a  narcolepsy  symptom  questionnaire  was  used  to  assess  symptoms  and  response.  The 
primary objective of study OMC-SXB-20 was not, however, to assess the effects against cataplexy but 
to characterise the polysomnographic sleep architecture in narcoleptic patients at the doses of sodium 
oxybate  that  were  to  be  used  therapeutically.  In  this  study,  patients  were  withdrawn  from  tricyclic 
antidepressant,  specific  serotonin-reuptake  inhibitors  and  hypnotics  over  a  2-week  period  and  were 
maintained for further 2-weeks without such medication. Overnight polysomnograms were recorded at 
the  beginning  and  end  of  the  4-week  period.  Patients  then  received  sodium  oxybate  at  4.5  g  for  4 
weeks, 6 g for 2 weeks, 7.5 g for 2 weeks and 9 g for 2 weeks and a polysomnogram was recorded on 
the last night of each dose level. The study assessments also included subjective determinations of the 
effects  of  sodium oxybate on daytime sleepiness (using the Epworth Sleepiness scale) and the well-
established Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT). 
The  pharmacokinetic  studies  have  assessed  a  night  time  equally  divided  dose,  between  4g  and  9g. 
Because of the non-linear kinetics of sodium oxybate a decision was made not to further elevate the 
maximum dose of 9g, because of the potential for tolerability problems. 
The  minimum  effective  dose  has  also  not  been  fully  assessed.  The  clinical  efficacy  studies  were 
designed to assess a lowest dose of 3g nightly in equally divided doses. This is based on the efficacy 
data that had been apparent in previous (non-sponsor, published literature) studies. 
A decision was made to clinically evaluate dosing at night time, based on the rationale of mechanism 
of  action,  which  propose  that  a  normalisation  of  night  time  REM  sleep  will  have  effect  on  daytime 
REM phenomena (such as cataplexy) and also based on clinical experience in earlier trials. 
3.4.1  Dose response studies 
The  studies  designed  by  SCRIMA  and  LAMMERS  were  randomised,  placebo  controlled  studies  of 
investigator  initiative  that  were  performed  several  years  before  the  pivotal  trials.  These  2  studies 
provide background data to the pivotal studies and can be considered therapeutic exploratory studies. 
SCRIMA STUDY: The effects of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB), 25 mg/kg orally at bedtime and 3 
hours  later,  on  cataplexy  and  sleep  in  narcolepsy  patients:  a  doubleblind,  placebo-controlled  study 
(Scrima). 
Page 15/30 
Objectives: To evaluate as primary variables average daily number of cataplexy attacks and objective 
daytime sleepiness using the sleepiness index determined by the multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT) 
in narcolepsy patients during treatment with GHB as compared with placebo (PLC) and baseline. 
To evaluate as secondary variables average number of sleep attacks, average number of awakenings 
per night, dosing requirement of methylphenidate, feelings on awakening, mood in the morning and 
evening, sleep patterns identified on the polysomnogram (PSG), and average number of REM onsets 
determined by the MSLT during treatment with GHB as compared with placebo and baseline 
Results: 
The mean number of cataplexy attacks is summarized below; the data indicate that GHB was superior 
to placebo at Weeks 3 and 4 and overall. There was no evidence of carryover. 
By  week  4,  GHB  was  superior  to  placebo  for  16/19  patients  (84  %).  No  cataplexy  attacks  were 
reported for 4/19 (21 %) of patients during week 4 of GHB compared with 1/19 (5 %) during week 4 
of placebo. 
Pre-study  mean  MSLT  sleepiness  index  was  88.5.  Although  the  mean  sleepiness  index  was  lower 
during  GHB  treatment  than  placebo  treatment  (87.2  versus  90.3)  there  was  no  significant  treatment 
effect (p = 0.085). 
The  PSG  results  revealed  statistically  significant  differences  between  GHB  and  placebo  which  are 
modest. With regard to overall sleep efficiency on Days 1 and 29 (84.4 % versus 88.1 %, p = 0.023), 
sleep latency (3.5 versus 2.5 min, p = 0.028), Stage 1 sleep (23.0 % versus 27.0 %, p = 0.042), Stage 3 
sleep  (5.5  %  versus  2.8  %,  p  =  0.003),  stage  shifts  (109.9  versus  129.2,  p  =  0.006),  and  number  of 
objective awakenings (21.8 versus 26.9, p = 0.012). On Day 1, GHB and placebo differed significantly 
with regard to sleep efficiency (83.5% versus 87.8 %, p = 0.019), stage shifts (102.9 versus 125.1, p = 
0.005),  and  number  of  objective  awakenings  (20.7  versus  25.1,  p  =  0.049).  On  Day  29,  GHB  and 
placebo differed with respect to stage 1 sleep (24.3 % versus 28.6 %, p = 0.026), Stage 3 sleep (6.7 % 
versus 2.3 %, p = 0.001), and number of objective awakenings (22.8 versus 28.6, p = 0.042).  
There were no differences with respect to Stage 2 sleep, Stage 4 sleep, REM sleep or REM latency. 
There was also no difference in relationship to the number of MSLT REM onsets. 
LAMMERS  Study:  Prospective,  double-blind,  cross-over,  randomised  study  to  assess  the  effect  of 
gamma-hydroxybutyrate in patients with narcolepsy (Lammers) 
Objectives: To investigate whether: 
•  gamma-hydroxybutyrate,  in  a  double-  blind  study,  has  an  effect  on  the  REM  -dissociation 
phenomena and possibly on the elevated inclination to sleep during the day; 
• gamma-hydroxybutyrate affects the alertness during the day; and· 
• gamma-hydroxybutyrate has a mood-improving effect. 
Results:  A  Significant  improvement  was  shown  in  the  two  primary  efficacy  parameters  (global 
improvement  and  number  of  cataplexy  attacks).  In  addition  significant  improvement  was  shown  in 
daytime sleepiness, number of daytime sleep attacks and number of night-time awakenings. Its long-
term  safety  was  not  determined  in  this  trial,  but  the  treatment  was  very  well  tolerated  by  the  vast 
majority of the trial patients over a 4-week course of therapy. 
3.4.2  Main studies    
The two pivotal studies for determination of the effects against cataplexy are OMC-GHB-2 and OMC-
SXB-21. 
Page 16/30 
 
 
 
In OMC-GHB-2, patients were tapered from their existing anti-cataplexy treatment over a period of 1 
day to 4 weeks and there was then a washout period of 5-28 days (dependent upon the half-life of the 
previous medication), followed by a baseline period of 2-3 weeks during which no cataplexy treatment 
was  given.  The  double-blind  comparative  phase  was  followed  by  a  3-5  day  period  without  any 
cataplexy treatment. Patients were randomized to a low (3 g), medium (6 g) or high (9 g) fixed dose of 
sodium oxybate, enabling comparison of each of the three doses against placebo. 
STUDY OMC-GHB-2 
Randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicentre trial comparing the effects 
of three doses of orally administered Xyrem (sodium gamma-hydroxy-butyrate or sodium oxybate or 
GHB) with placebo for the treatment of narcolepsy (OMC-GHB-2) 
DESIGN: 
•  Study Participants  
Diagnostic  criteria:  Current  diagnosis  of  narcolepsy  for  a  least  6  months  according  to  the  following 
two items of criteria A as established by the American Sleep Disorders Association (ASDA): recurrent 
daytime naps or lapses into sleep than occur almost daily for at least 3 months; sudden bilateral loss of 
postural tone in association with intense emotion (cataplexy). 
•  Treatments 
Sodium oxybate, 3 g, 6 g or 9 g, divided into two nightly doses 
•  Objectives 
To  evaluate  and  compare  the  efficacy  of  three  doses  (3  g,  6  g  and  9  g)  of  sodium  gamma-
hydroxybutyrate and placebo in the treatment of the symptoms of narcolepsy. 
To  evaluate  and  compare  the  safety  of  GHB  with  placebo  when  used  in  a  narcoleptic  patient 
population. 
•  Endpoints 
Primary efficacy parameter: total number of cataplexy attacks. 
Secondary efficacy parameters:  
•  number of complete and partial cataplexy attacks,  
•  hypnagogic hallucinations,  
• 
sleep paralysis episodes,  
• 
excessive daytime sleepiness as measured by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale, number and 
duration of sleep attacks/inadvertent naps,  
•  number of night-time awakenings, 
• 
total amount of sleep,  
Page 17/30 
 
• 
severity of the patient’s illness by Clinical Global Impressions of Change. 
•  Sample size 
Planned: 104 patients (26 in each of four groups) 
Studied: 136 patients (57 M, 79 F, mean 43.1 y); 34 (7 M, 27 F, mean 47.1 y) treated with 3 g/day, 33 
(21 M, 12 F, mean 43.5 y) with 6 g/day, 35 (17 M, 18 F, mean 40.9 y) with 9 g/day and 34 (12 M, 
22F, mean 40.8 y) with placebo. 
•  Outcomes and estimation 
At 9 g, 4.5 g taken at bedtime and 4.5 g taken 2.5-4 hours later, sodium oxybate produced a significant 
improvement in total number of cataplexy attacks per week; the reduction was also significant for the 
6 g dose in the FDA’s reanalysis of results by ANOVA. The following table shows the results for both 
ANCOVA and ANOVA; the latter are shown after the /, where appropriate. 
The results are expressed as median and median percentage change from baseline below for Weeks 2 
and  4/endpoint.  The  reduction  seen  at  Week  2  in  the  placebo  group  did  not  change  with  further 
treatment, but further improvement was observed with 3 g and especially 9 g doses of sodium oxybate. 
The percentage of subjects who became attack-free is relatively low (10 to 18%) but it is consistently 
higher  in  the  sodium  oxybate  9  g  dose  group,  both  by  visit  and  overall.  Results  are  shown  in  the 
following table: 
Page 18/30 
 
 
 
 
The clinical global impression is summarised below as responders (those who were much improved or 
very  much  improved)  and  non-responders  (minimally  improved,  no change, minimally worse, much 
worse, very much worse). 
The proportion of responders was notably and significantly higher in the 9 g group. 
The  median  change  in  excessive  daytime  sleepiness  as  assessed  by  the  Epworth  Sleepiness  Scale 
(ESS) is shown below. 
At baseline the number of patients with an ESS of 13 or higher in the placebo, 3 g, 6 g and 9 g groups 
was 30, 28, 27 and 25, respectively. At endpoint, 2, 7, 9 and 12 of these patients had scores of less 
than 13 and 1, 3, 3, and 6 had scores of less than 10 (= normal). 
Other  efficacy  variables  showed  a  positive  effect  of  sodium  oxybate.  The  median  change  from 
baseline in the number of inadvertent nap/sleep attacks in the placebo, 3 g, 6 g and 9 g groups from 
baseline to endpoint was -0.26, -0.20, -0.48 and -0.48 and the 6 g (p = 0.0497) and 9 g groups (p = 
0.0122) differed significantly from the placebo group. The median change from baseline to endpoint 
in the number of awakenings per night was 0.20 for placebo, -0.25 for 3 g, -0.21 for 6 g and -0.91 for 
9 g. The 9 g and placebo groups differed significantly (p = 0.0035). 
There  were  no  significant  differences  between  groups  with  regard  to  the  change  from  baseline  to 
endpoint  in  median  number  of  hypnagogic  hallucinations,  sleep  paralysis  episodes,  total  amount  of 
sleep and duration of inadvertent naps/sleep attacks. 
After treatment was stopped, the number of attacks of cataplexy increased: in the 9 g/day group, the 
median change in the number of attacks per week from end of treatment to follow-up 3-5 days later 
was +4.7 (p = 0.0017, n = 27) and in the 6 g/day group the median change was +6.1 (p = 0.0001, n = 
29). The changes in the placebo and 3 g groups were not significant (+1.9, n = 30, and +2.3, n = 29). 
There was no evidence of rebound: the median change in the number of weekly cataplexy attacks from 
baseline to 3-5 days after end of treatment was -11.6 for the 9 g/day group (p = 0.0001). The number 
of attacks was thus still lower than at baseline (median 29.2). 
Page 19/30 
 
 
 
 
3.4.3  STUDY OMC-SXB-21 
Randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled,  multicentre  trial  to  assess  the  long-term  efficacy  of 
orally administered Xyrem (sodium oxybate) when compared to placebo (OMC-SXB-21) 
DESIGN 
This  is  a  relapse-prevention  like  design  but  in  this  case  patients  were  already  treated  with  GHB  for 
several  years.  The  test  situation  consisted  in  withdrawing  patients  from  their  usual  treatment  by 
switching to placebo under double-blind conditions. This study allows the evaluation of the risk of a 
withdrawal and rebound phenomenon. 
•  Objectives 
To provide evidence for the long-term efficacy of Xyrem based on the return of cataplexy symptoms 
upon  cessation  of  a  minimum  of  6  months  of  open  label  treatment  with  Xyrem  and  to  evaluate  the 
safety of Xyrem. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy: Change in the number of cataplexy attacks from the baseline (2- week single-blind lead-in 
phase) to endpoint (2-week double-blind treatment phase). 
Safety:  Assessment  of  AEs  and  changes  in  clinical  laboratory  results,  vital  signs,  and  physical 
examinations. 
•  Results 
The baseline characteristics of the 2 groups differ in parameter that constitutes the primary endpoint – 
number  of  cataplexy  attacks.  At  baseline,  the  number  of  cataplexy  attacks  were  much  higher  in  the 
placebo  group  (median  =4.0)  than  in  the  active  group  (median=1.9).  This  is  due  to  the  wide  inter-
patient variability in the frequency of cataplexy attacks. 
There was no change in the number of cataplexy attacks from baseline (2-week single-blind treatment 
ith  Xyrem  only)  to  endpoint  (2-week  double-blind  treatment  with  Xyrem  or  placebo)  in  the  Xyrem 
Page 20/30 
  
 
 
 
 
group  (median  change  0.0),  while  cataplexy  attacks  increased  by  a  median  of  21.0  in  the  placebo 
group  (see  table).  This  difference  was  statistically  significant  (p  <  0.001)  when  analysed  by  an 
ANCOVA  model  containing  rank  baseline,  treatment  group,  and  baseline-by-treatment  group 
interaction. The change from baseline in the number of cataplexy attacks by week during the double-
blind period mirrors the overall change from baseline: no change in the Xyrem group (median change 
0.0, each week), while cataplexy attacks increased in the placebo group by a median of 4.2 in Week 1, 
and 11.7 in Week 2. 
The results (number of cataplexy attacks/week) are shown by week in the next table. 
Rebound reactions in term of efficacy were characterized as a return to a level of cataplexy attacks per 
week that exceeded the original (pre-treatment) baseline levels. 
Relative  to  subjects  who  remained  on  sodium  oxybate,  in  subjects  in the placebo group there was a 
small increase in the number of cataplexy attacks during the first and the second week of interruption 
of  treatment  with  sodium  oxybate  (Week  3  and  Week  4  of  the  study).  The  median  change  from 
baseline  in  the  number  of  cataplexy  attacks/week  was  4.2  during  the  first  week  after  cessation  of 
sodium oxybate, and 11.7 in the second week.  
Thus there is evidence of a gradual increase in incidence of cataplexy on withdrawal of treatment. This 
is reflected in the SPC (section 4.4) 
Withdrawal symptoms are discussed in the Clinical Safety section of this report. 
Open-label supportive studies 
Long-term,  open-label,  multi-centre  extension  trial  of  orally  administered  Xyrem  (sodium 
gamma-hydroxybutyrate) for the treatment of narcolepsy symptoms.  
OMC-GHB-3 (US) was a long-term, Phase III, open-label, multicentre extension trial with the primary 
objective  of  evaluating  the  safety,  and  the  secondary  objective  of  evaluating  the  efficacy  of  sodium 
oxybate when used for 12 months in patients with narcolepsy. 
The dose, calculated as the average dose used by the patient over the course of their involvement in 
the first 12 months of the trial, was 3 g for 15 patients, 4.5 g for 20, 6 g for 37, 7.5 g for 25 and 9 g for 
20 patients. The total number of patients included in the analysis of the number of cataplexy attacks 
was 103 at 1 month, and reduced to 75 at 12 months and 52 at 18 month. The greatest reduction in 
number of cataplexy attacks occurred during the first month of sodium oxybate treatment. The change 
was  significant  at  every  visit  (p  <  0.001).  There  was  no  difference  between  doses  (patients  being 
titrated to clinical effect). The improvement in the number of cataplexy attacks was paralleled by an 
improvement in excessive daytime sleepiness as assessed using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS). 
At  1  month,  the  median  change  in  the  number  of  cataplexy  attacks  per  week  was  -15.08  (-76.7% 
reduction from baseline), and the median change in ESS was -3.50. At 6 and 12 months, the median 
reduction in number of cataplexy attacks was -19.00 (-92.5%) and - 23.0 (-93.1%), respectively. The 
corresponding change in ESS was -5.0 at each of these time-points. 
Open-label, multicentre 6-month trial of Xyrem (sodium oxybate) oral solution for the treatment 
of narcolepsy in trial drug-naïve patients 
The OMC-SXB-6 trial (US) was a Phase III, open-label, multicentre trial with the primary objective of 
evaluating the safety and the secondary objective of evaluating the efficacy of sodium oxybate when 
Page 21/30 
 
 
titrated  from  a  starting  dosage  of  4.5  g/d  to  optimal  effect  in  patients  with  narcolepsy  for  up  to  6 
months. Total daily dosages were 3, 4.5, 6, 7.5, or 9 g/d. 
 A  total  of  185  patients  entered  and  140  patients completed the trial. Other than having a history of 
cataplexy (i.e., > 0), frequency of cataplexy was not specified by this protocol, and was not quantified 
at  baseline.  A  categorical  questionnaire  administered  at  baseline  (Visit  2),  indicated  that  in  the 
preceding week patients had experienced between 0 and 50 (or more) attacks per week. 
At  baseline  the  number  of cataplexy attacks per week was none for 41 patients (23%), 1- 10 for 86 
(48%), 11-25 for 35 (19%), 26-50 for 11 (6%) and more than 50 for 7 (4%). 
The  last  dose  of  sodium  oxybate  received  was  3  g  for  4  patients,  4.5  g  for  52  patients,  6  g  for  73 
patients, 7.5 g for 27 patients and 9 g for 29 patients. The 9 g group was predominantly male (others 
were predominantly female) and also had higher mean weight and height suggesting that male, heavier 
and/or taller patients may require higher dosage. 
Long-term,  open-label,  extension  trial  of  Xyrem  (sodium  oxybate)  oral  solution  for  the 
treatment of narcolepsy. 
OMC-SXB-7 was a long-term open label extension trial; patients who had participated in OMC-GHB-
3, OMC-SXB-6 or the Scharf (safety) study were eligible. 
Efficacy has been summarised as the change from baseline to last observation on trial medication. The 
proportion of patients with no cataplexy attacks or with a significant decrease since the previous week 
was 77% overall and 100%, 100%, 70%, 69% and 87% for those taking 3 g, 4.5 g, 6 g, 7.5 g and 9 g, 
respectively.  Improvement  in  daytime  sleepiness  had  also  occurred  with  52%  overall  showing  no 
sleepiness or an improvement; the proportion showing improvement on 3 g, 4.5 g, 6 g, 7.5 g and 9 g 
were  100%,  38%,  49%,  50%  and  62%.  The  overall  proportions  with  improvement  in  inadvertent 
naps/sleep attacks (day), awakenings at night, hypnagogic hallucinations, and sleep paralysis episodes 
were 57%, 55%, 90% and 92%. Overall, 92% of patients regarded themselves as much improved or 
somewhat improved in overall narcolepsy symptom assessment. 
Open-label, multi-centre trial evaluating the effects of four doses of orally administered Xyrem 
(sodium oxybate) on overnight polysomnographic recordings  
The primary objective of OMC-SXB-20 was to characterize the polysomnographic sleep architecture 
in narcoleptic patients at four escalating doses of sodium oxybate (4.5, 6, 7.5 and 9 g/day) over a 10-
week  exposure  period.  Daytime  function  was  also  assessed.  Safety  was  assessed  on  the  basis  of 
adverse events, clinical laboratory results, ECG, vital signs and physical examinations 
The  following  conclusions  are  derived  from  the  objective  and  subjective  measures  of  daytime 
sleepiness: 
•  The  administration  of  sodium  oxybate  produced  a  significant  increase  in  daytime  sleep  latency  as 
measured by the MWT. This dose-dependant increase averaged 3.7 minutes (p = 0.038) after 4 weeks 
of 4.5 g nightly that further increased to a mean improvement of 6.1 minutes (p < 0.001) following the 
nightly 9.0 g dose. 
This measured response is additive to that produced by concomitant stimulant dosing. 
•  The  presence  of  sleep-onset  REM  periods  (SOREMPs)  during  MWT,  which  occurred  in  18  of  21 
patients (86%) at baseline, decreased to 13 of 21 (62%) following 4 weeks of 4.5 g sodium oxybate 
nightly. SOREMPs further decreased to 6 of 20 patients (30%) following the 9.0 g dose. 
•  The  ESS  total  score  significantly  decreased  in  a  dose-dependant  manner  by  the  nightly 
administration  of  sodium  oxybate.  The  median  total  score  of  20  at  baseline  improved  by  2  points 
following the 4.5 g dose regimen (p<0.001), increasing across the dose range up to 7 points after the 
9.0 g dose (p<0.001). 
The patients in the current trial reported substantial improvements in subjectively determined daytime 
narcolepsy symptoms including the incidence of cataplexy attacks, the number of inadvertent naps as 
well  as  decreased  daytime  sleepiness,  and  increased  the  ability  to  concentrate  and  a  perception  of 
overall improvement in their narcolepsy while taking nightly doses of sodium oxybate. 
Page 22/30 
3.4.4  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Cataplexy is one of the hallmarks of narcolepsy although it is possible to have narcolepsy without the 
presence  of  cataplexy,  either  because  it  did  not  manifest  yet  or  because  the  clinical  situation  is  a 
variant  of  the  classical  narcolepsy.  At  a  given  moment  60  to  70%  of  the  patients  have  cataplexy 
attacks. Out of these only a fraction has cataplexy attacks that because of their frequency or severity 
need treatment. These patients are about 30% of all narcoleptic patients. 
Narcolepsy  symptoms  are  categorised  in  2  families  those  that  are  REM  related,  meaning  that  they 
result  for  the  intrusion  of  REM  phenomena  in  a  disrupted  sleep/wakefulness  cycle.  The  REM 
phenomena  are  cataplexy,  hypnagogic  hallucinations  and  sleep  paralysis.  The  other  family  of 
symptoms  are  related  with  excessive  daytime  sleepiness.  Nevertheless  these  2  families  are  not 
completely independent and it is likely that improvement in one of them will reflect in a benefit in the 
other. However it is possible to produce an independent effect which is the case of modafinil that have 
a  beneficial  effect  in  daytime  sleepiness  without  affecting  cataplexy.  Thus,  efficacy  must  be 
demonstrated either for cataplexy or daytime sleepiness or for both. 
In the case of GHB the applicant aimed to demonstrate the efficacy of GHB on cataplexy, although 
daytime sleepiness was also evaluated. 
No dose-finding studies were conducted but the pivotal trial tested 3 doses (3, 6 and 9g/day). 
There are 2 phase II trials (placebo controlled, crossover) which were of investigators initiative. One 
was GCP compliant the other not. In addition, there was a pivotal parallel, placebo-controlled trial. In 
these trials the duration of the double-blind treatment was not longer than 4 weeks. In the pivotal trial 
and  one  of  the  phase  II  trials  patients  had  about  20  cataplexy  attacks/week  at  baseline,  in  the  other 
phase  II  trial  patient  were  much  less  affected  -  5  attacks/week.  All  patients  were  older  than  16,  and 
most  of  them  older  than  18  years  old.  In  these  conditions  GHB  reduced  consistently  the  number  of 
cataplexy attacks. This reduction was translated in a global improvement only in the high dosage of 
the  pivotal  trial.  The  open-label  trials  and  extension  of  trials  that  are  present  in  the  dossier  are  also 
supportive of an effect in the number of cataplexy attacks. They also suggest that the positive effect of 
GHB is built up during time which makes 4 weeks a short time frame to assess the overall effect.  
In  conclusion  GHB  is  efficacious  in  reducing  cataplexy  attacks.  The  9g  dose  is  clearly  the  most 
efficacious dose (the only dose that produces also a consistent effect in other symptoms) but this extra 
efficacy is at cost of more side-effects. The current recommended posology is starting at 4.5 g/day and 
going upwards according to efficacy and tolerability although such a regimen has not been studied in a 
randomised controlled trial. The effect on cataplexy seems to be maintained during several years but 
the  proof  of  this  is  not  very  robust  because  it  is  based  on  the  open-label  trials  and  in  the  relapse 
prevention trial. This suggests that in fact, the effect is maintained, but is confounded by an imbalance 
of severity at baseline between placebo and active group and by putative withdrawal effects. 
The  data  available  is  consistent  with  the  existence  of  a  mild  withdrawal  syndrome  and  rebound 
cataplexy upon suspension of treatment. This is reflected in the SPC 
In addition to the effect in cataplexy, GHB seems to have a positive effect on daytime sleepiness when 
the higher doses are used (9 g in the OMC-GHB-2 trial) and in the long-term (open label extensions). 
Usually  the  effect  on  daytime  sleepiness  is  paired  with  less  inadvertent  naps/sleep  attacks  and  less 
awakenings during the night which are probably related to the increase in slow wave sleep seen in the 
polysomnograms. The data that supports an effect on daytime sleepiness is not as strong than the one 
on cataplexy. Therefore the effect on daytime sleepiness is not considered to be demonstrated. 
The populations studied do not include patients below 16 years of age, and the strata between 16 and 
18 years old is very small. Although the disease starts at adolescence, mainly with excessive daytime 
sleepiness, the cataplexy attacks, affecting a fraction of the patients, occur on average 6 year from the 
onset of the other symptoms. Therefore, the indication has been limited to adults and this is reflected 
in the SPC. 
3.5  Clinical safety 
Safety data were collected in all clinical studies included in this application.  
Page 23/30 
Analyses  of  adverse  events  in  phase  I  (clinical  pharmacology)  studies,  one  additional  study  (OMC-
SXB-24)  is  included,  but  one  study  OMC-GHB-4  is  excluded.  The  latter  study  included  only  six 
patients who were part of the main Scharf study and none of them experienced any adverse events. 
The  Scharf  study  is  a  long-term,  open-label,  retrospective  compilation  of  safety  data  from  143 
narcoleptic patients treated with sodium oxybate for up to nearly 16 years under an investigator-held 
IND.  The  majority  of  the  patients  were  treated  at  doses  in  the  range  established  by  previous 
investigators (3 g to 9 g) with most patients experiencing optimal benefit at doses of approximately 6 g 
(Scharf et al, 1985). 
There is also a retrospective study- the Scharf study- that only contributes with safety data and which 
was not described in the efficacy section. 
3.5.1  Patient exposure 
In total, 421 patients were treated with sodium oxybate for mean/median 219.7/174 days. 
In total, 81 patients received placebo. Of those, three patients received placebo only, as the others in 
the  placebo-controlled  trial  (Scrima)  crossed  over  to  sodium  oxybate  treatment  (or  vice  versa),  or 
entered studies in which they received sodium oxybate after receiving placebo in OMC-GHB-2. All 
placebo-treated patients in OMC-SXB-21 had previously received sodium oxybate treatment. 
The number of patients for whom data from clinical efficacy and safety studies have been analysed in 
MedDRA, is shown in the following table.  
Source of Adverse Event Data for Clinical Efficacy and Safety Studies 
Study 
Study 
SCRIMA 
OMC-GHB-2 
OMC-GHB-3 
OMC-SXB-6 
OMC-SXB-7 
OMC-SXB-20 
OMC-SXB-21 
Number (%) of patients 
20 (5%) 
136 (32%) 
118 (28%) 
185 (44%) 
145 (34%) 
22 (5%) 
56 (13%) 
The majority of subjects were prescribed sodium oxybate at doses below 9 g/d. In study OMC-SXB-6, 
over  two-thirds  of  subjects  received  4.5  or  6  g/d  as  the  last  dose;  in  the  Scharf  study,  over  three-
quarters  of  subjects  took  the  4.5  or  6  g/d  dose  for  the  longest  duration;  in  study  OMC-GHB-3,  just 
under 50% of subjects received an average dose of 4.5 or 6 g/d. This is summurised in the following 
table: 
Page 24/30 
 
 
 
 
Page 25/30 
 
3.5.2  Adverse events  
The results (shown for all events combined, irrespective of relationship to treatment) were, in general, 
good agreement with those from all integrated studies. The most common events in sodium oxybate-
treated  patients  that  were  observed  in  a  higher  proportion  of  sodium  oxybate-treated  patients,  when 
compared to placebo, were nausea, vomiting, dizziness, headache and enuresis. However, many more 
events were recorded for a low percentage of sodium oxybate-treated patients and for none or just one 
placebo  treated  patient.  These  included  sleep  paralysis,  abnormal  dreams,  nightmares  and  sleep 
disorder. Blurred vision is also listed as a common side effect for which a possible pharmacodynamic 
is not proven. 
3.5.3  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The  only  studies  in  which  there  were  any  deaths  were  the  long-term  Scharf  study  and  study  OMC-
SXB-7  (a  long-term,  open  extension  of  OMC-GHB-3,  OMC-SXB-6  and  the  Scharf  study).  Eleven 
deaths (7.7 %) were reported in the Scharf study. None of the deaths was considered related to sodium 
oxybate. 
Two  deaths  have  been  reported  in  study  OMC-SXB-7,  both  of  which  were  suicides.  One  suicide 
(patient  0531,  coded  as  death)  was  due  to  multiple  drug  toxicity  that  included  toxic  levels  of  six 
psychotropic drugs other than sodium oxybate. The second suicide (patient 0936) was a patient with a 
Page 26/30 
 
history  of  depression  and  a  subsequent  suggested  diagnosis  of  bipolar  disease.  This  event  was 
officially ruled as a death due to cardiovascular disease (without autopsy by the Medical Examiner) 
but later evidence pointed to a possible overdose that included lithium, Paxil, and Percocet as well as 
sodium oxybate. 
3.5.4  Laboratory findings 
None of the laboratory changes raises a concern. 
3.5.5  Safety in special populations and drug abuse 
GHB is a known drug of misuse producing purported euphoric and/or hallucinogenic states. 
The clinical trials and post-marketing data for Sodium oxybate have not revealed any clear evidence of 
abuse in patients. 
It should also be noted that 2,021 patients have registered for Xyrem use since US approval in July 
2002, and there have been no premature refill requests or reports of theft or loss. However in Europe a 
risk management system as strictly controlled as in the US will not be possible. 
3.5.6  Withdrawal and rebound 
Literature reports (Friedman et al, 1996, Galloway et al, 1997) indicate that abrupt discontinuation of 
high-dose chronic sodium oxybate results in withdrawal symptoms including insomnia, anxiety, and 
tremors.  Of  these,  insomnia,  which  generally  resolved  within  3  days,  was  the  most  consistently 
described symptom, even in less heavy sodium oxybate users. Hallucinations have also been reported 
(Hernandez et al, 1998). 
In study OMC-SXB-21, the incidences of subjects reported to have AEs, related AEs or severe AEs 
were higher in the group switched to placebo when compared to the group that continued with sodium 
oxybate therapy in the final 2-week double-blind treatment period, but these differences were small. 
Five of the individual AEs might represent possible symptoms of sodium oxybate withdrawal. These 
were reported only in subjects in the placebo group: anxiety (n=2; 7%), dizziness (n=1; 3%), insomnia 
(n=1; 3%), sleep disorder (n=1; 3%) and somnolence (n=1; 3%). 
Although  these  symptoms  might  have  represented  possible  symptoms  of  mild  sodium  oxybate 
withdrawal, they may also be consistent with the recurrence of symptoms of narcolepsy. 
In  study  OMC-GHB-2,  during  the  3-5  day  follow-up  period  following  discontinuation  of  sodium 
oxybate, in each dose group (sodium oxybate 3 g/d, 6 g/d, 9 g/d and placebo), with the exception of 
headache (n=2 in the groups who had received sodium oxybate 6 g/d or 9 g/d) and pain (n=2 in the 
group  who  had  received  sodium  oxybate  9  g/d),  only  one  subject  was  reported  to  have  each  of  the 
individual AEs. 
Overall, although the data do not show clear evidence of a withdrawal syndrome, a mild withdrawal 
syndrome cannot be excluded. This is reflected in the SPC (section 4.4. and 4.8)  
Rebound reactions have been addressed in the clinical efficacy section of this report. 
3.5.7  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
There are no analyses of safety by concomitant treatments. Potential drug interactions with zolpidem, 
protriptyline, modafinil and omeprazole were analysed in Phase I studies (OMC-SXB-12, OMC-SXB-
14, OMC-SXB-17 and OMC-SXB-24, respectively). 
3.5.8  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Thirty-five sodium oxybate-treated patients and one placebo-treated patient in the integrated clinical 
studies were withdrawn due to adverse events. 
3.5.9  Post marketing experience 
The commonly reported adverse events are consistent with those identified in clinical studies. No new 
safety issues have been identified when analysing the post marketing safety data for Xyrem. 
Page 27/30 
3.5.10  Discussion on clinical safety 
A major concern regarding the safety profile of sodium oxybate is the narrow safety margin between 
the efficacious dose and the toxic doses. The frequency of AEs increases with dose and this is clear at 
the  dose  of  9g/day. This dose level is very close to the toxic doses taking as shown by 3 cases that 
suffered either from impaired consciousness or respiratory depression at doses that were 2x or 3X the 
recommended dose given as a single administration.  
Unfortunately,  the  clinical  studies  did  not  attempt  to  characterize  dosing  on  a  per/kg  body  weight 
basis.  Therefore,  the  recommended  method  of  administration  is  to  initiate  treatment  with  a  starting 
dose  of  4.5 g/d,  divided  in  two,  and  going  up  according  to  efficacy  and  tolerability.  In  addition 
prescribers should be warned that in patients with concomitant sleep apnoea the benefit-risk of going 
above 6 g/d should be stringently evaluated. 
Most  common  AEs  are  expected  (vomiting,  nausea,  dizziness,  sleep  disorders).Regarding  the 
occurrence of enuresis/incontinence, the mechanism is unknown, but as the phenomena is similar to 
“enuresis nocturna” the release of inhibitory mechanism is a putative mechanism. 
An  evaluation  of  the  most  likely  hormonal  changes  by  means  of  a  specific  study  is  planned  as  a 
follow-up measure. 
The  risk  for  withdrawal  reactions  is  mild  and  will  be  further  studied  in  a  post  marketing 
Pharmacovigilance study.  
The abuse/misuse potential will be also closely monitored in a risk management strategy. In addition 
to the limitations inherent to the legal status of GHB (schedule IV of the UN convention of 1971), the 
illicit use will be mitigated by means of education materials to health professionals and patients, strict 
control of distribution and non-interventional post-marketing surveillance 
4 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
4.1  Quality 
The  simple  synthesis  and  manufacture  of  the  product  are  described  and  controlled  in  a  relevant 
manner,  and  the  specifications  of  the  active  substance  and  medicinal  product  are  considered  to  be 
relevant for a product of this type. The stability of the product has been well-investigated, both in the 
unopened form, and with the adaptor and dosing system in place during use. 
Satisfactory uniformity of dose has been demonstrated, and there are no unresolved quality issues that 
could have an impact on the benefit/risk balance for the patient. 
4.2  Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
The  precise  mechanism  by  which  sodium  oxybate  produces  an  effect  on  cataplexy  is  unknown. 
However, sodium oxybate is thought to act by promoting slow (delta) wave sleep and consolidating 
night-time sleep. The cause of human narcolepsy and cataplexy is, as yet, unknown. Recent evidence 
points  to  the  loss  of  hypocretin-containing  neurons,  possibly  due  to  autoimmune  attack,  as  a  likely 
cause.  
In  addition  to  its  sedative  properties,  GHB  is  a  potent  CNS  depressant  and  may  increase  growth 
hormone secretion. The potential for acute respiratory depression after reintroduction of treatment in 
patients who might have developed tolerance is mentioned in the SPC (4.2) as well as a warning in 
case of concomitant administration with other CNS depressant, and especially alcohol. (SPC, 4.4 and 
4.5) 
The  interactions  resulting  from  the  stimulation  or  inhibition  of  GHB  dehydrogenase,  namely  with 
anticonvulsivant  drugs  and  L-dopa  are  considered  to  be  potentially  relevant  in  the  clinic  and  are 
mentioned in the SPC.(section 4.5 and 5.3). 
The  bioavailability  in  rats  is  about  50-80%  and  the  clearance  is  rapid  (T½  ≈1h)  with  extensive 
biotransformation  which  is  not  P450  dependant.  The  kinetic  is  non-linear,  due  to  saturable 
mechanisms of both absorption and elimination resulting in reduced Cmax and increased AUC from 
linearity with increasing doses. As GHB is metabolised by γ hydroxybutyrate (GHB) dehydrogenase, 
there  is  a  potential  interaction  with  drugs  that  inhibit  this  enzyme.  This  is  reflected  in  the  SPC 
(sections 4.5 and 5.3) 
Page 28/30 
In  repeat-dose  toxicity,  treatment-related  clinical  signs  were  mainly  related  to  sedation.  Safety 
margins, based on body weight changes and salivary gland atrophy, are low or non-existent, which is 
is in accordance with the frequent occurrence in humans of adverse effects such as nausea, anorexia 
and parasympathetic disorders (blurred vision, enuresis and sweating). 
GHB is nongenotoxic and not considered to present a carcinogenic risk to humans.  
In reproductive toxicity studies, foetoxicity was observed in rats and rabbits. The use of GHB is not 
recommended during pregnancy or breast-feeding and this is reflected in the SPC. 
Tolerance to GHB as well as cross-tolerance to alcohol have been clearly demonstrated in rodents. The 
potential of GHB to induce withdrawal phenomena, demonstrated in animal models, is low, and the 
relevance for humans will be monitored in the future during the post-authorisation phase. 
4.3  Efficacy 
The  clinical  programme  aimed  to  demonstrate  the  efficacy  of  GHB  on  cataplexy  although  daytime 
sleepiness was also evaluated. 
No dose-finding studies were conducted but the pivotal trial tested 3 doses (3, 6 and 9g/day). 
There are 2 phase II trials (placebo controlled, crossover) which were of investigators initiative. One 
was GCP compliant the other not. In addition, there was a pivotal parallel, placebo-controlled trial. In 
these trials the duration of the double-blind treatment was not longer than 4 weeks. In the pivotal trial 
and  one  of  the  phase  II  trials  patients  had  about  20  cataplexy  attacks/week  at  baseline,  in  the  other 
phase  II  trial  patient  were  much  less  affected  -  5  attacks/week.  All  patients  were  older  than  16,  and 
most  of  them  older  than  18  years  old.  In  these  conditions  GHB  reduced  consistently  the  number  of 
cataplexy attacks. This reduction was translated in a global improvement only in the high dosage of 
the  pivotal  trial.  The  open-label  trials  and  extension  of  trials  that  are  present  in  the  dossier  are  also 
supportive of an effect in the number of cataplexy attacks. They also suggest that the positive effect of 
GHB is built up during time which makes 4 weeks a short time frame to assess the overall effect.  
In  conclusion  GHB  is  efficacious  in  reducing  cataplexy  attacks.  The  9g  dose  is  clearly  the  most 
efficacious dose (the only dose that produces also a consistent effect in other symptoms) but this extra 
efficacy  is  at  cost  of  more  side-effects.  The  current  recommended  posology  is  starting  at  4.5  g/day 
divided  in  two  intakes  and  going  upwards  according  to  efficacy  and  tolerability  although  such  a 
regimen  has  not  been  studied  in  a  randomised  controlled  trial.  The  effect  on  cataplexy  seems  to  be 
maintained during several years but the proof of this is not very robust because it is based on the open-
label trials and in the relapse prevention trial. This suggests that in fact, the effect is maintained, but is 
confounded by an imbalance of severity at baseline between placebo and active group and by putative 
withdrawal effects. 
The  data  available  is  consistent  with  the  existence  of  a  mild  withdrawal  syndrome  and  rebound 
cataplexy upon suspension of treatment. This is reflected in the SPC 
In addition to the effect in cataplexy, GHB seems to have a positive effect on daytime sleepiness when 
the higher doses are used (9 g in the OMC-GHB-2 trial) and in the long-term (open label extensions). 
Usually  the  effect  on  daytime  sleepiness  is  paired  with  less  inadvertent  naps/sleep  attacks  and  less 
awakenings during the night which are probably related to the increase in slow wave sleep seen in the 
polysomnograms. The data that supports an effect on daytime sleepiness is not as strong as the one on 
cataplexy. Therefore the effect on daytime sleepiness is not considered to be demonstrated. 
The populations studied do not include patients below 16 years of age, and the strata between 16 and 
18 years old is very small. Although the disease starts at adolescence, mainly with excessive daytime 
sleepiness, the cataplexy attacks, affecting a fraction of the patients, occur on average 6 year from the 
onset of the other symptoms. Therefore, the indication has been limited to adults and this is reflected 
in the SPC. 
4.4  Safety 
A major concern regarding the safety profile of sodium oxybate is the narrow safety margin between 
the efficacious dose and the toxic doses. The frequency of AEs increases with dose and this is clear at 
the  dose  of  9g/day. This dose level is very close to the toxic doses taking as shown by 3 cases that 
Page 29/30 
suffered either from impaired consciousness or respiratory depression at doses that were 2x or 3X the 
recommended dose given as a single administration.  
Unfortunately,  the  clinical  studies  did  not  attempt  the  characterize  dosing  on  a  per/kg  body  weight 
basis.  Therefore,  the  recommended  method  of  administration  is  to  initiate  treatment  with  a  starting 
dose  of  4.5 g/d,  divided  in  two,  and  going  up  according  to  efficacy  and  tolerability.  In  addition 
prescribers are warned that in patients with concomitant sleep apnoea the benefit-risk of going above 6 
g/d should be stringently evaluated. 
Most  common  AEs  are  expected  (vomiting,  nausea,  dizziness,  sleep  disorders).  Regarding  the 
occurrence of enuresis/incontinence, the mechanism is unknown, but as the phenomenon is similar to 
“enuresis nocturna” the release of inhibitory mechanism is an hypothesis. 
An  evaluation  of  the  most  likely  hormonal  changes  by  means  of  a  specific  study  is  planned  as  a 
follow-up measure. 
The  risk  for  withdrawal  reactions  is  mild  and  will  be  further  studied  in  a  post  marketing 
Pharmacovigilance study. The objectives of the study are to obtain data about patients’ compliance to 
instructions  for  using  Xyrem,  to  monitor  the  adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs)  and  estimate  their 
frequency, to obtain data on the potential of dependence, withdrawal syndrome, overdose, of Xyrem 
and to broaden the knowledge about adverse drug reactions in special populations; elderly, young. 
The abuse/misuse potential will be also closely monitored in this post-marketing study as part of a risk 
management  strategy.  The  illicit  use  will  be  mitigated  by  means  of  education  materials  to  health 
professionals  and  patients,  strict  control  of  distribution  and  non-interventional  post-marketing 
surveillance. 
5 
Benefit/risk assessment 
The efficacy of sodium oxybate for reducing the number of cataplexy attacks in narcolepsy patients 
has been demonstrated. 
The tolerability profile is good, but the potential toxic dose is close to the highest therapeutic dose of 
9g/day and makes the adherence to a strict up-titration extremely important. Therefore the prescription 
is restricted to physicians with experience in sleep disorders.  
Due to the well known potential of abuse of sodium oxybate, Xyrem is under special prescription. 
Warnings and recommendations in order to use Xyrem are explained in the SPC, especially the dosing 
regimen (daily dose divided in two and not in fasting conditions), and several warnings in particular 
the risk of respiratory depression. 
In addition, a post-marketing pharmacovigilance plan has been agreed in order to monitor closely the 
safety regarding the possible occurrence of respiratory depression, as well as the potential for rebound 
and withdrawal reactions. This Pharmacovigilance plan includes also a risk management programme 
in order to minimise the risks of misuse/abuse. 
Overall, the benefit risk assessment of sodium oxybate is considered to be favourable. 
6 
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of  Xyrem  in  the  “treatment  of  cataplexy  in  adult  patients  with 
narcolepsy” was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing authorisation as 
a special and restricted prescription. 
Page 30/30 
 
 
