09 August 2012 
EMA/531378/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Xyrem 
(Sodium Oxybate) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000593/P45 012 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 45 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
Disclaimer:  The assessment report was drafted before the launch of the European Medicines Agency’s new corporate identity in December 2009. 
This report therefore has a different appearance to documents currently produced by the Agency.
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
ASSESSMENT 
Introduction 
This report covers the following post-authorisation commitments undertaken by the MAH: Submission of 
the available data under the framework of article 45 of the paediatric regulation EC/1901/2006 
Assessment 
The data provided are only 7 publications not related to internally available reports and that have 
nothing in common but the fact at least one paediatric patient has been exposed to sodium 
oxybate. 
Narcolepsy 
ADPE05F0107 
A retrospective study (review) was performed for the treatment of narcolepsy-cataplexy with 
sodium oxybate. In total 17 patients have been treated with sodium oxybate. One patient did not 
initiate drug owing to expense considerations. The mean age of patients was 36.9 years (range 9.5 
- 78) and the mean duration of treatment was 5.1 months (range 1 - 12). No information is 
available on the number of patients under the age of 18 years in this trial. Nine of 16 (56.5%) 
reported improvement in cataplexy, and 8/16 (50%) reported improved daytime alertness. A 
refreshed feeling upon awaking in the morning was indicated by 8/16 (50%) subjects. Tolerable 
side effects were seen in 9/16 subjects (56.5%) and have consisted of difficulty staying asleep 
between doses or early in the morning in 5/9, and constipation in 4/9 subjects. It is concluded that 
sodium oxybate was modestly effective in treating narcolepsy-cataplexy. Constipation and 
insomnia were the most common side effects. 
ADPE06J2109 
A retrospective / chart view was studied to evaluate the efficacy and side-effect profile of off-
label sodium oxybate (gamma hydroxybutyrate) therapy in severe childhood 
narcolepsycataplexy. 
A group of eight children aged between 8-15 years, with severe cataplexynacrolepsy was 
selected. Three of them had failed treatment for cataplexy with other medications. The frequency 
of cataplexy was routinely documented and severity was graded post-hoc on an arbitrary scale. 
All data were gathered retrospectively from chart review and analyzed. Differences between the 
base line and final ESS score and the estimated cataplexy frequency and severity were evaluated 
using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. The duration of therapy has ranged from 3 to 28 months. 
The dose has ranged from 3 to 7 gm per day. Before sodium oxybate therapy, all subjects had 
sub-optimally controlled sleepiness and cataplexy. 
Following treatment with sodium oxybate, 7/8 subjects (88%) improved. Cataplexy frequency 
decreased from a median of 38.5 to 4.5/week (p=0.0078). Cataplexy severity decreased from 
2.75 to 1.75 (p=0.06). The Epworth Sleepiness Scores improved from a median of 19 to 12.5 
(p=0.02). Suicidal ideation, dissociative episodes, tremor and constipation occurred in one 
subject each and terminal insomnia in two. Three of the eight (38%) discontinued therapy. Two 
stopped the drug owing to side effects and one due to problems with postal delivery of the 
medication. 
Xyrem 
2/4 
PACs AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anestesiology 
ADPE07L0530 
A prospective randomized trial was undertaken to compare two (gamma-hydroxybutyrate GHB 
max 150 mg/kg or chlorprothixene/Phenobarbital CP max 1 mg/kg) sedation protocols in 28 
pediatric patients. The mean age was of 32 months (range 8 - 75) with known or suspected 
malignancies undergoing MRI studies. The main outcome parameter was the difference in 
recovery time (defined as time interval between end of MRI procedure until awake with age-
appropriate behaviour). The study was performed according to principles established in the 
declaration of Helsinki. The target was deep sedation (level 5 on the Ramsay scale). Systolic and 
diastolic blood pressure have been continuously recorded before, during, and after MRI 
examination. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS. 
All patients completed the study, and all procedures were successfully carried out with no failure 
to complete planned MRI examinations. The time to induce sedation was less with CP (p<0.48) 
as compare to (GHB p<0.057). Recovery was significantly quicker with GHB (p<0.01) than CP 
(p<0.05).Despite premedication the most common side effect in GHB group was vomiting, but 
no child aspirated. There were no seizers in any group. CP sedation significantly increased mean 
maximal heart rate <p<0.01), tachycardia was the most frequent and prominent side effect in this 
group. Mean diastolic blood pressure fell in both groups (p<0.05), somewhat more markedly in 
the CP group. However, in none of the patients were reductions in either heart rate or diastolic 
blood pressure below age specific reference values. 
Only one patient, in the GHB group, experienced a brief and transient drop in oxygen saturation 
(<90%) during the procedure, which did not require any therapeutic intervention. It is concluded 
that GHB sedation provides a reasonable alternative sedative drug for children undergoing non-
invasive diagnostic procedures. 
ADPE07J1212 
A letter to editor; Meyer et al (ADPE07L0530) wrote comments on an article by Mencia et al. on 
analgesia. They add their experience on the use of gamma-hydroxybutyrate for sedation in 
children and recommended GHB sedation as a reasonable alternative for children undergoing 
noninvasive diagnostic procedures. The author (Mencia et al.) replies to the comments with no 
experience with this sedative drug in children and careful scrutiny needs for effectiveness and 
safety of this practice. 
2.5.4.3 Other 
ADPE06J1109 
A case report of an eight-year-old child with bithalamic lesions resulting from an episode of 
ADEM displaying insomnia, severely disrupted sleep and sever attention and behavioral 
regulation difficulties. He was treated with sodium oxybate after he failed to respond to 
traditional treatment interventions with stimulant medications in the daytime or chloral hydrate, 
melatonin, dyphenhydramine, and temazepam for sleep problems at night. After 6-months 
treatment with sodium oxybate, this child’s sleep profile was normalized with complete 
resolution of sleep fragmentation. There was also significant improvement in executive function 
skills and attention processing abilities, as well as improvement in frustration tolerance and 
impulse control. 
Xyrem 
3/4 
PACs AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II. 
RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND FURTHER 
ACTION IF REQUIRED 
Of the 7 publications only 2 pertain to the indication for which Xyrem is approved. Although the data 
available for these publications suggest that the efficacy seen in patients over 18 years old might also be 
present in children the data available are not sufficient to allow firm conclusions. From the adverse 
reactions reported in the publications the MAH make some comments about terms that are listed and not 
listed but these are not particularly relevant since authors in publications do not follow very systematic 
methods of reporting ADR and the numbers are quite low. A proper development in children should be the 
basis for any recommendation. 
The other publications pertain to an indication that is not approved and the doses that were used are much 
higher than approved (anaesthesia) thus the data are not informative for the Narcolepsy situation. 
Overall Conclusion: 
 PAC fulfilled (all commitments fulfilled) - No further action required  
This PAC is considered fulfilled and the SPC does not require any amendment at this stage in the light of 
the new data provided. 
Xyrem 
4/4 
PACs AR 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
