Summary of the risk management plan     
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Yargesa 100 mg hard 
capsules. The RMP details important risks of Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules, how these 
risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Yargesa 100 
mg hard capsules risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its 
package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on 
how Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules should be read in the 
context of all this information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its 
plain-language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules is authorised for the oral treatment of adult patients 
with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher disease. Yargesa may be used only in the 
treatment of patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy is unsuitable. It is also 
indicated for the treatment of progressive neurological manifestations in adult patients 
and paediatric patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease. 
It contains 100 mg of miglustat as the active substance and it is given by oral route of 
administration. 
Further information about the evaluation of Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules benefits can 
be found in Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules EPAR, including in its plain-language 
summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/yargesa link to product’s EPAR 
summary landing page on the EMA webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important  risks  of  Yargesa  100  mg  hard  capsules,  together  with  measures  to  minimise 
such risks and the proposed studies for learning more about Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules 
risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in 
the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare 
professionals; 
 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly; 
  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. 
with or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate 
action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules is 
not yet available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules are risks that need special risk 
management activities to further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal 
product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. 
Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of 
Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules. Potential risks are concerns for which an association with 
the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has not 
been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to 
information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to 
be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important identified 
risks 
  Peripheral neuropathy 
  Growth disturbance in paediatric patients with NP-C 
Important potential 
risks 
•  Adverse effects on spermatogenesis and sperm 
parameters and reducing fertility 
disease 
Missing information 
•  Reproductive toxicity, including dystocia 
• 
Increased incidence of large intestinal inflammation, 
adenoma and adenocarcinoma 
•  Crohn’s disease 
  Use in elderly patients with GD-1 
  Patients with a history of significant gastrointestinal 
disease, including inflammatory bowel disease 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference 
medicinal product. 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Yargesa 100 mg hard capsules. 
 
