EMA/460011/2017 
EMEA/H/C/001198 
EPAR summary for the public 
Yellox 
bromfenac 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Yellox. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Yellox. 
For practical information about using Yellox, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Yellox and what is it used for? 
Yellox is a medicine used in adults to treat inflammation in the eye that can occur after an operation to 
remove a cataract (clouding of the lens).  
Yellox contains the active substance bromfenac.  
How is Yellox used? 
Yellox is available as an eye drop solution and the recommended dose is one drop into the affected 
eye(s) twice a day. Treatment begins the day after the cataract operation and continues for two 
weeks.  
If more than one eye medicine is being used, they should be given at least five minutes apart.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information see the package leaflet. 
How does Yellox work? 
The active substance in Yellox, bromfenac, is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). It works 
by blocking an enzyme called cyclo-oxygenase, which produces prostaglandins, substances that are 
involved in the inflammation process. By reducing the production of prostaglandins in the eye, Yellox 
can reduce the inflammation caused by eye surgery. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
What benefits of Yellox have been shown during the studies? 
Yellox was found to be more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) at relieving inflammation in 
the eye following cataract surgery in two main studies involving a total of 527 patients undergoing 
cataract surgery. In both studies, the main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients with 
no sign of inflammation after two weeks. In one study, 66% of patients treated with Yellox (104 out of 
158) had no signs of inflammation after two weeks compared with 48% of patients receiving placebo 
(35 out of 73). In the second study, the figures were: 63% (124 out of 198) for patients treated with 
Yellox and 40% (39 out of 98) for those treated with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Yellox? 
The most common or most important side effects seen with Yellox are abnormal sensation in eye 
(0.5%), mild or moderate erosion of the cornea (the transparent layer in front of the eye) (0.4%), eye 
pruritus (itching) (0.4%), eye pain (0.3%) and eye redness (0.3%). For the full list of all side effects 
reported with Yellox, see the package leaflet. 
Yellox must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to bromfenac, to any of the other 
ingredients or to other NSAIDs. It must not be used in patients who get asthma attacks, urticaria 
(itchy rash) or acute rhinitis (stuffy and runny nose) from taking acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) or other 
NSAIDs.  
Why is Yellox approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Yellox’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Yellox? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Yellox have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Yellox 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Yellox on 18 May 2011.  
The full EPAR for Yellox can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Yellox, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2017.  
Yellox  
EMA/760205/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
