18 December 2014  
EMA/CHMP/41945/2015   
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Yellox 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms 
of the marketing authorisation 
International non-proprietary name: bromfenac 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/001198/PSUV/0010 
Period covered by the PSUR:  1 December 2013 – 30 May 2014
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Yellox, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
Following a request from the PRAC as part of the previous PSUR, the MAH within this PSUR evaluated 
the signal of “rebound effect” and “macular oedema” and assessed whether an update of the SmPC is 
warranted.  
Cumulatively, 29 cases reported rebound eye inflammation/macular oedema. Of these 26 cases were 
assessed as possibly related to bromfenac withdrawal, 2 cases were assessed as unlikely related, 1 
case had insufficient information for a causality assessment.  
The mechanism involved is suggested to be related to the effect of withdrawal of bromfenac. Once 
bromfenac is withdrawn, the anti-inflammatory effect seems to be removed and the underlying 
inflammatory mechanisms caused by tissue damage from the cataract surgery take over.  
Based on the reported cases and the suggested mechanism it is deemed appropriate to warn the 
physician about this potential flare up of inflammation and the following sentence is proposed to be 
added to section 4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use of the SmPC: 
“It has been observed in rare cases that upon withdrawal of Yellox, a flare-up of the inflammatory 
response, e.g. in the form of macular oedema, due to the cataract operation may occur.” 
The Patient Leaflet is updated accordingly. 
Therefore, in view of available data, the PRAC considered that changes to the product information were 
warranted. The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Yellox, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance bromfenac is favourable subject to 
the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied. 
Yellox  
EMA/CHMP/41945/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
