19 May 2011 
EMA/431843/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Yellox 
(bromfenac) 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/001198 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
Email  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 7 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 11 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 16 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 20 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 36 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 40 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 42 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 45 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 2/45 
 
 
 
 
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS 
ACP 
ADRs 
AE 
ASMF 
AST, ALT 
BAC 
BFSS 
BFSS-OS 
CHMP 
COX 
CRO 
EC 
EMA 
ERG 
GCP 
GLP 
GMP  
HPLC 
IMP 
INN  
ITT 
LOCF 
MAH 
NSAID 
PGs 
PK 
POI 
PSUR 
RMP 
SARs 
SmPC 
TLC 
Anterior chamber protein 
Adverse Drug Reactions 
Adverse Event 
Active Substance Master File 
Aspartate aminotransferase, Alanine aminotransferase 
Benzalkonium chloride 
Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate  
Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate ophthalmic solution 
Committee 
Cyclooxygenase 
Contract Research Organisation 
European Commission 
European Medicines Agency 
Electroretinography 
Good Clinical Practice 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
High-performance liquid chromatography 
Investigational Medicinal Product 
International Name  
Intent-to-treat 
Last Observation Carried Forward 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
Prostaglandins 
Pharmacokinetics 
Postoperative inflammation 
Periodic Safety Update Report 
Risk Management Plan 
Serious Adverse Reactions 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Thin layer Chromatography 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 3/45 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Croma-Pharma  GmbH  submitted  on  2  July  2009  an  application  for  Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Yellox,  through  the  centralised  procedure 
under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised procedure was 
agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 2 October 2007. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Treatment of postoperative ocular inflammation and 
pain. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or  bibliographic  literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
EMEA-000269-PIP01-08 on the granting of a product-specific waiver for the following conditions:  
 
 
Postoperative ocular inflammation 
Paediatric subsets: All subsets of the paediatric population from birth to less than 18 of age for 
eye drops, solution for ocular use 
On  the  grounds  that  the  specific  medicinal  product  does  not  represent  a  significant  therapeutic 
benefit as the needs are already covered. 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 4/45 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Jens Heisterberg 
Co-Rapporteur:  Tomas Salmonson 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 2 July 2009. 
The procedure started on 22 July 2009.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 9 October 2009 . 
The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  9  October 
2009.  
  During  the  meeting  on  16-19  November  2009,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions  to  be  sent  to  the  applicant.  The  final  consolidated  List  of  Questions  was  sent  to  the 
applicant on 20 November 2009. 
  A GCP inspection was carried out at two investigator sites in USA (13-15 April 2010 and 9-10 April 
2010)  and  at  the  sponsor  site  (18-20  May  20100),  in  relation  to  the  conduct  of  trial  ISTA-BR-
CS001. The final integrated inspection report was issued on 15 July 2010. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 21 May 2010. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Reports on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 5 July 2010 and 7 July 2010. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 19-22 July 2010 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to 
be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 19 August 2010. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Reports on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Outstanding Issues on 08 September 2010. 
  During  the  CHMP  meeting  on  20-23  September  2010  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  second  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
  A further GCP inspection was carried out at the two involved CRO sites (25-28 October 2010). The 
final integrated inspection report was issued on 10 January 2011. 
 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  second  CHMP  List  of  Outstanding  Issues  on  14 
February 2011. 
 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Joint  Assessment  Reports  on  the  applicant’s  revised  responses  to 
the second List of Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 03 March 2011. 
  During the meeting on 17 March 20111, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and 
the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to Yellox on 17 March 2011. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 16 March 2011. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 5/45 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Postoperative  inflammation  following  cataract  surgery  is  a  frequent,  possibly  unavoidable  condition, 
which can lead to significant complications in the anterior segment (iridocyclitis with miosis and pain, 
posterior  synecchiae)  or  in  the  posterior  pole  of  the  eye,  notably  the  Irvine-Gass  syndrome,  which  is 
also  known  as  pseudophakic  cystoid  macular  oedema,  although  it  can  be  seen  also  after  cataract 
surgery without implantation of an artificial intraocular lens. Topical anti-inflammatory is routinely used 
by some ophthalmologists to avoid such complications. 
The postoperative inflammatory reaction that follows uneventful cataract surgery is usually rather mild 
and  may  be  devoid  of  classic  signs  of  inflammation  such  as  aqueous  cells  and  flare,  posterior 
synecchiae  and  cellular  debris  in  the  anterior  chamber,  for  which  a  potent  mydriatic  in  combination 
with  topical or  systemic glucocorticoid  treatment  is  mandated.  Despite  being  inconspicuous  upon  slit-
lamp  biomicroscopic  examination,  the  inflammation  may  be  severe  enough,  however,  to  produce 
pseudophakic  cystoid  oedema.  This  reaction is  believed  to  be  mediated  by  prostaglandins  released  in 
the  anterior  segment.  Thus,  the  essential  pathophysiological  stimulus  of  the  inflammation  appears  to 
be  the  surgical  trauma,  although  a  potential  role  of  an  infectious  agent  cannot  be  ruled  out, 
hypothetically  being  masked  by  the  routine  use  of  prophylactic  antibiotics  during  and  after  cataract 
surgery. The rate of culture-positive endophthalmitis following cataract surgery is vastly inferior to that 
of pseudophakic cystoid macular oedema.  
A  typical  postoperative  regimen  to  reduce  the  inflammation  after  cataract  surgery  includes 
glucocorticoid eye drops instillation for one to three weeks, often in combination with a broad spectrum 
antibiotic.  Although  usual  care  comprises  such  anti-inflammatory  treatment,  a  significant  number  of 
patients develop postoperative complications such as cystoid macular oedema due to an insufficiently 
controlled inflammation. While corticosteroids are quite effective in controlling inflammation, the ocular 
side  effects  of  corticosteroids  are  well  recognised.  Not  only  are  there  patients  who  are  known  to 
respond to topical glucocorticoids with intraocular pressure elevation, but the average cataract patient 
has  not  previously  been  exposed  to  topical  glucocorticoids  and  therefore  cannot  be  known  not  to 
respond with pressure elevation. Consequently, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs provide surgeons 
with  an  alternative  therapy  for  the  reduction  of  inflammation  after  cataract  surgery.  Indeed,  some 
surgeons  prefer  to  use  a  topical  NSAID  as  the  first  choice  of  topical  postoperative  anti-inflammatory 
treatment.  
Bromfenac  sodium  sesquihydrate  (BFSS)  was  originally  developed  by  Wyeth-Ayerst  as  an  oral 
formulation  for  short-term  systemic  use  and  approved  in  the  USA  (Duract  capsules).  Subsequently, 
hepatotoxicity associated with high doses (25-100 mg) and long-term use of bromfenac, was observed 
in some users of the drug. The drug was voluntarily withdrawn from the market in June 1998. 
Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate ophthalmic solution (BFSS-OS) is authorised and marketed in Japan 
as  Bronuck  (Senju  Pharmaceutical  Co  Ltd)  for  ocular  inflammatory  disease  and  postoperative 
inflammation and in the US as Xibrom (ISTA Pharmaceuticals Inc) for the treatment of post-operative 
ocular inflammation following cataract extraction. 
The  formulation  in  Yellox  was  adapted  to  comply  with  the  Ph.Eur  requirements  since  the  original 
formulation  of  BFSS-OS  does  not  fulfil  the  limits  for  the  Ph.Eur.  test  “5.1.3.  Efficacy  of  antimicrobial 
preservation”. Therefore, 0.15% polysorbate 80, used in the original formulation, has been replaced by 
0.02% tyloxapol. This change made it possible to reduce the amount of benzalkonium chloride (BAK) 
from 0.005% to 0.003%. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 6/45 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  CHMP  questioning  if  the  reduction  of  BAK  from  0.005%  to  0.003%  could  impact  the 
efficacy  of  the  product  planned  for  the  market,  the  BAK  concentration  has  been  raised  to  a  level  of 
0.005%  as  in  the  tested  solution  used  in  the  pivotal  trials.  Thus  only  minor  differences,  i.e.  the 
exchange of polysorbate 80 to tyloxapol remain. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Yellox eye drops, is a yellow sterile eye drops solution packaged in 5 ml transparent bottles containing 
5  ml  drug  product.  The  eye  drops  solution  contains  bromfenac  sodium  sesquihydrate  1  mg/ml 
(nominally 0.1% (w/w) bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, equivalent to 0.09% (w/w) of the free acid 
bromfenac). A single drop of the drug product contains about 33 µg of bromfenac.   
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
The  INN  name  of  the  active  substance  is  bromfenac.  Its  chemical  name  is  sodium[2-amino-3-(4-
bromobenzoyl)phenyl]  acetate  sesquihydrate.  The  molecular  formula  of  active  substance  is 
C15H11BrNNaO3  1½H2O.  Its  relative  molecular  mass  is  383.17  and  its  structural  formula  is  shown 
below. 
Bromfenac  sodium  is  a  yellow  to  orange  non-hygroscopic  crystalline  powder,  freely  soluble  in  water 
and slightly soluble in ethanol.  Its pKa-value is 4.29. There is no evidence of polymorphism associated 
with bromfenac sodium. 
Manufacture 
An  ASMF  has  been  submitted  for  the  active  substance.  A  detailed  description  of  the  manufacturing 
process  and  process  controls  is  provided.  The  manufacturing  process  development  has  been 
thoroughly described, critical parameters are identified and the critical steps are adequately described 
and  controlled.  Specifications  for  raw  materials,  starting  materials,  solvents,  reagents,  catalysts 
materials used in the synthesis are provided and the control is appropriate. 
Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  (visual),  colour,  clarity  and  degree  of 
opalescence of solution (Ph.Eur.),  identification (active substance: FT-IR, HPLC; sodium: Ph.Eur.), pH 
(Ph.Eur.),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur.),  water  content  (Ph.Eur.),  assay  (HPLC),  purity  (HPLC),  impurities 
(HPLC), residual solvents (GC) and microbial contamination (Ph.Eur.). 
The  active  substance  specification  has  been  justified  and  is  considered  appropriate  to  ensure  the 
quality of the active substance. 
Batch  analysis  results  from  nine  production  batches  covering  the  proposed  batch  range  have  been 
provided. All results are within the specification limits. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 7/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
Ten  batches  of  bromfenac  sodium  manufactured  by  the  proposed  manufacturer  were  subjected  to 
long-term  stability  testing  at  25°C/60%  RH  and  accelerated  testing  at  40°C/75%  RH.  Results  were 
presented  for  up  to  48  months  long-term  and  for  six  months  in  accelerated  conditions.  Results  from 
another three full scale batches have been presented for up to six months at both conditions. 
All results are within the specification limits. No trends have been observed.  
Photostability  testing  according  to  “Note  for  Guidance  on  Photostability  Testing  of  New  Active 
Substances  and  Medicinal  Products”  was  carried  out.  Results  indicate  a  slight  degradation  of  the 
sample  exposed  to  light.  It  is  however  confirmed  that  the  container  closure  system  provides  suitable 
protection during storage of bromfenac sodium.  
Based on the overall results the proposed retest period and storage conditions are accepted. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 1 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Bromfenac  sodium  sesquihydrate  0.1%  eye  drops,  solution  is  currently  marketed  in  Japan  and  the 
U.S.A. 
Solubility studies showed that bromfenac is significantly soluble and stable in pH values above 7 which 
was  the  most  relevant  factor  leading  to  the  final  drug  product  formulation.  The  active  substance  is 
readily soluble in water making it a suitable active ingredient for an ophthalmic solution. Because of its 
aqueous solubility particle size is not a critical parameter. 
Generally the excipients contained and their concentrations in the proposed formulation are typical for 
ophthalmic  formulations.  The  proposed  formulation  is  similar  to  the  formulation  already  marketed  in 
Japan and the U.S.A, with the difference of the solubilising agent. 
Boric  acid  and  sodium  borate  were  chosen  as  the  buffer  system  due  to  good  buffer  characteristics  in 
the  chosen  range  of  pH.  Sodium  sulphite  anhydrous  is  added  as  antioxidant,  with  the  aim  of 
suppressing  the  degradation  of  bromfenac.  Benzalkonium  chloride  (BAC)  is  commonly  used  in 
ophthalmic formulations and was selected as preservative.  
No compatibility problems with regard to excipients were observed during the stability results. 
The choice of sterilisation procedure for the finished product has been justified. 
The  ingredients  are  added  in  a  predefined  order  to  water  for  injection,  while  mixing  to  ensure  full 
dissolution.  The  manufacturing  process  has  been  optimised  with  respect  to  minimising  the  risk  of 
degradation  of  bromfenac.  The  manufacturing  equipment  has  been  chosen  with  a  view  to  minimise 
possible  interaction  with  excipients  and  appropriate  measures  were  put  in  place.  The  bio-burden  is 
sufficiently monitored through the manufacturing process. 
Yellox is filled into sterile 5 ml transparent bottles without additives. This material complies with Ph.Eur 
3.1.3  and  3.1.4.  The  container  closure  system  and  the  label  materials  were  selected  based  on  the 
results  from  the  already  marketed  product  in  the  U.S.A.  They  were  also  selected  as  they  are 
1 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 8/45 
 
                                               
 
 
 
successfully and widely used for current marketed ophthalmic sterile solutions. The compatibility of the 
drug product with the selected closure system was shown by the stability results. The adhesive used in 
the  labels  complies  with  EU  directives  1935/2004,  2002/72/EC  and  85/572/EWG.  Migration  from  the 
packaging  material  and  label  has  been  investigated  and  it  is  demonstrated  that  there  is  no  relevant 
migration of container or label components into the formulation.  
Adventitious agents 
No excipients of animal or human origin are used. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  general  manufacturing  process  is  typical  for  aqueous  ophthalmic  solutions.  The  ingredients  are 
added in a predefined order to water for injection, while mixing to ensure full dissolution. Critical steps 
have been identified and appropriate in-process controls and acceptance criteria have been laid down. 
Validation of the manufacturing process for Yellox eye drops, solution was performed on two pilot and 
three  industrial  scale  batches  manufactured  by  one  of  the  proposed  manufacturer  and  on  three 
industrial batches manufactured by the second manufacturer. 
The manufacturing process has been successfully validated. These data were provided in the response 
to the D120 CHMP List of Questions. 
The  results  of  successful  media  fill  testing  carried  out  at  both  finished  product  manufacturing  sites 
were presented. 
Product specification 
The  release  and  shelf-life  specifications  include  tests  and  limits  for  appearance  (clarity  and  colour 
Ph.Eur.),  container  appearance  (visual),  particulate  matter  (Ph.Eur.),  pH  (Ph.Eur.),  osmolality 
(Ph.Eur.),  recovery  volume  (volumetric),  identification  (HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  impurities  (HPLC), 
sodium sulphite assay (ion chromatography), BAC assay (HPLC), EDTA assay (HPLC), sterility (Ph.Eur.) 
and antimicrobial effectiveness test (Ph.Eur.). 
Batch  analysis  results  from  two  development  batches  and  from  the  eight  validation  batches  were 
provided. All results were within the specification limits except for assay of benzalkonium chloride for 
one batch however this has been adequately justified. 
Stability of the product 
Preliminary  stability  studies  have  been  performed  up  to  24  months  at  25±2°C/40%±5%  RH, 
25±2°C/60%±5%  RH,  up  to  12  months  at  30±2°C/65%±5%  RH  and  up  to  6  months  at 
40±2°C/020%±5%  RH.  Two  development  batches  and  eight  validation  bathes  manufactured  by  the 
two proposed manufacturers have been studied. 
An  unknown  impurity  was  observed  during  stability  testing  but  it  has  not  been  finally  identified.  It  is 
likely  not  bromfenac  related.  Based  on  a  non-clinical  study  an  appropriate  shelf-life  limit  for  this 
impurity has been set considering the level seen in the long term stability studies on commercial scale 
batches.  However, the applicant should continue the identification attempts of this unknown impurity. 
Should  any  structural  elements  of  toxicological  concern  arise  from  the  identification  of  this  impurity, 
this  has  to  be  taken  into  account  by  the  applicant,  and  the  European  Medicines  Agency  has  to  be 
informed accordingly.  
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 9/45 
 
 
 
All  other  tested  parameters  are  within  the  specification  limits  and  no  trends  are  seen  except  for  a 
decrease in sodium sulphite, which is acceptable. 
A photostability study according to ICH guideline was performed on the drug product and it is shown 
that  the  drug  product  does  not  need  to  be  protected  from  light  and  therefore  transparent  containers 
are suitable.  
In-use stability 
An in-use stability study has been performed with two newly manufactured batches of the drug product 
over  a  period  of  four  weeks.  The  study  simulated  the  pattern  of  the  daily use  of  the  drug  product.  A 
complementary  in-use  stability  study  will  be  performed  with  samples  at  the  end  of  shelf-life,  when 
available.  
No changes were observed after opening the bottle and simulating the use of the drug product for 28 
days (4 weeks). Hence, the drug product is considered to be stable for four weeks after first opening.  
Based  on  the  overall  stability  results  the  proposed  shelf-life  and  storage  conditions  as  well  as  the 
proposed in-use stability are considered acceptable. 
In  accordance  with  EU  GMP  guidelines 2 ,  any  confirmed  out  of  specification  result,  or  significant 
negative trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The quality of Yellox eye drops solution is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with 
the conditions defined in the SmPC. Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug 
substance  has  been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  quality  of  the  active  substance  is 
considered  sufficiently  described  and  adequately  supported  by  data.  Sufficient  chemical  and 
pharmaceutical  documentation  relating  to  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  product 
has been presented. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory  consistency  and  uniformity  of  important  product 
quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that  the  product  should  have  a 
satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Stability  tests  indicate  that  the  product  under  ICH  guidelines  conditions  is  chemically  stable  for  the 
proposed shelf life.  At the time of the CHMP opinion, there was a quality issue that will be addressed 
as  Follow-up  Measure  within  an  agreed  timeframe.  This  issue  relates  to  identifying  an  unknown 
impurity  observed  during  stability  studies.  However,  this  issue  is  not  expected  to  have  a  negative 
impact on the Benefit Risk balance of the product. 
. 
2 6.32 of Vol. 4 Part I of the Rules Governing Medicinal Products in the European Union 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 10/45 
                                               
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
To support the marketing authorisation application, the applicant has submitted the study reports from 
the  non-clinical  studies  conducted  by  Senju  Pharmaceuticals  and  Wyeth-Ayerst.  To  confirm  that  the 
changes  in  formulation  do  not  impact  the  safety  profile  of  the  eye  drop  solution,  the  applicant  has 
conducted non-clinical bridging studies: a 2-week ocular distribution study in rabbits (Study CRO28), a 
4-week repeat-dose toxicity study in rabbits (Study CRO27), and an in vitro phototoxicity study (Study 
GPT 100313). 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Bromfenac  is  a  well  known  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  drug  (NSAID).  The  basic  mechanism  of 
action along with anti-inflammatory, anti-pyretic, and analgesic effects of bromfenac were examined in 
earlier  studies  performed  by  Wyeth-Ayerst  using  various  in  vitro  techniques  and  in  vivo  models.  The 
pharmacological  basis  of  bromfenac’s  efficacy  in  ophthalmic  use  was  examined  by  Senju 
Pharmaceuticals and these data have been supplemented by published data. The safety pharmacology 
of bromfenac sodium was evaluated by Wyeth-Ayerst in a battery of standard tests following oral and 
i.v. dosing in several species. 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
NSAIDs  produce  anti-inflammatory  and  analgesic  effects  by  inhibiting  the  activity  of  cyclooxygenase 
(COX)  enzymes  that  catalyse  the  conversion  of  arachidonic  acid  to  prostaglandins.  Prostaglandins 
(PGs)  mediate  many  forms  of  systemic  and  localized  inflammation  including  inflammation  in  ocular 
tissues. In animal models, PGs have been shown to produce disruption of the blood-aqueous humour 
barrier,  vasodilatation,  increased  vascular  permeability,  and  leukocytosis  (Oka  et  al.  2004;  Guex-
Crosier 2001).  
Bromfenac  is  a  potent  inhibitor  of  recombinant  human  COX-2  (IC50  of  0.0066  µM)  with  a  lower 
inhibiting  activity  towards  COX-1  (0.21  µM).  Ophthalmic  bromfenac  treatment  (0.02-0.2%  b.i.d.  or 
q.i.d.)  inhibited  experimentally  induced  uveitis  in  male  rabbits.  Moreover,  bromfenac  inhibited 
prostaglandin synthesis in rabbit iris ciliary body ex vivo with an IC 50 of 1.1 µM. Bromfenac eye drops 
(0.02-0.2%) reduced the conjunctival oedema in rats resulting from local injection of arachidonic acid 
or  carrageenan  with  up  to  45%.  Furthermore,  bromfenac  exerted  an  inhibitory  effect  on  the  trauma 
(paracentesis  and  laser  irradiation)  induced  ocular  inflammation.  Hence,  bromfenac  (≥0.005%) 
suppressed  prostaglandin  E2  induced  breakdown  of  the  blood–aqueous  barrier  and  the  concomitant 
increase  in  aqueous  humour  protein  concentration  in  rabbits.  Similarly,  bromfenac  (0.09%)  pre-
treatment  resulted  in  near  complete  inhibition  (>95%)  of  i.v.  LPS-induced  increases  in  FITC-dextran 
and prostaglandin E2 concentrations in the anterior chamber and aqueous humour, respectively. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Bromfenac  did  not  affect  the  in  vivo  epithelial  wound  healing  of  the  rabbit  cornea.  The  potential  for 
bromfenac  to  bind  to  secondary  enzymes,  receptors  or  ion  channels  has  not  been  evaluated.  In 
addition,  no  evaluation  of  potential  effects  on  intraocular  pressure  and  retinal  functioning  (ERG)  has 
been conducted. Considering the topical ocular administration and the accumulated clinical experience 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 11/45 
 
 
 
 
with  ophthalmic  bromfenac,  the  lack  of  an  in  vitro  binding  assay  was  considered  acceptable  by  the 
CHMP. 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Bromfenac’s  effect  on  the  core  organs  was  investigated  in  safety  pharmacology  studies  applying  p.o. 
and  i.v.  dosing.  An  analgesic  effect  was  observed  in  mice  at  p.o.  doses  ≥  3  mg/kg.  No  effect  was 
observed on the gastrointestinal tract while increased blood pressure was seen in anaesthetized Beagle 
dogs  i.v.  administered  10  mg/kg  bromfenac.  Moreover,  a  decrease  in  urinary  volume  and  in  the  Na+ 
and Cl- ions excreted was detected in rats p.o. administered bromfenac doses ≥ 1 mg/kg. Considering 
that  ocular  administered  bromfenac  is  not  expected  to  reach  the  systemic  circulation  to  a  significant 
extent, the results from these studies were considered of limited relevance for the present indication. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No non-clinical studies were considered necessary to address this aspect. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Methods of analysis 
No validation reports for the methods of analysis have been submitted. A pivotal study for the present 
application  is  the  ocular  distribution  study  CRO28.  Validation  of  the  LC/MS/MS  method  has  been 
performed. The quality of the validation report although not GLP compliant was acceptable. 
Absorption 
Bromfenac-related  radioactivity  was  detected  in  plasma  following  instillation  into  the  conjunctival  sac 
of  male  Japanese  rabbits  at  a  dose  of  0.1  mg  (0.05  mg/eye).  Tmax  occurred  30  minutes  post-dosing 
and the calculated half-life was 2.2 hours.  
The  systemic  absorption  of  bromfenac  was  investigated  in  mice,  rats  and  monkeys  following  ocular, 
oral and i.v. administration. The terminal plasma half-life was 1.2 hours, 3.6-10 hours, 4.3-6.4 hours 
and 1-1.2 hours in mice, rats, rhesus monkeys and cynomolgus monkeys, respectively. The half-life in 
rats varied depending on whether bromfenac was administered to rats in a fed or fasted state. The oral 
bioavailability in cynomolgus monkeys was 45% following intragastric administration of bromfenac. No 
further non-clinical pharmacokinetic absorption studies were deemed necessary. 
Distribution 
Bridging  data  between  the  “old”  bromfenac  formulation  (Bronuck/Xibrom)  were  provided  in  study 
CRO 28  that  compared  the  concentration  of  0.1%  bromfenac  in  the  ocular  tissues  (lens,  cornea, 
vitreous  and  aqueous  humour)  of  pigmented  Chinchilla  Bastard  rabbits  (n=7  males/group)  following 
repeated ocular administration of Bronuck and Yellox bromfenac formulations. Both eyes of the rabbits 
were instilled with a drop corresponding to 0.05 mg bromfenac/eye BID for 14 consecutive days.  
This study was inconclusive as the following main deficiencies were identified:  
- The sensitivity of the analytical method was insufficient since too many of the samples (28/54) from 
bromfenac-treated animals were below the method’s limit of quantification or detection;  
- Sampling of tissues/aqueous humour was made after 20 minutes when the maximal intraocular levels 
of bromfenac would have been expected after 30 minutes – 2 hours.  
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 12/45 
 
 
 
- No bromfenac absorption into the aqueous humour could be demonstrated for Yellox while bromfenac 
concentrations were determined in 3/7 animals receiving the Bronuck formulation. This last issue was 
solved  by  the  applicant  by  increasing  the  BAC  content  to  0.5  %,  identical  to  the  BAK  content  in  the 
marketed formulation.  
To  further  substantiate  the  data  set  on  comparability  of  the  both  formulations,  an  additional 
comparative GLP study in rabbit with single topical administration in the eye was performed. This study 
clearly showed that the bioavailability of the two formulations was similar.  
Bromfenac  had  a  moderate  affinity  to  melanin  but  distribution  studies  in  pigmented  rats  did  not 
suggest  any  retention  in  pigmented  tissues  (e.g.  the  eyes).  Following  oral  and  i.v.  administration, 
bromfenac distributed well throughout the body and high amounts were found in the liver and GI-tract 
of  rats.  Radioactivity  was  observed  in  foetal  placenta  and  plasma  following  oral  administration  to 
pregnant rats although the levels were lower than that observed in the dams. Bromfenac showed high 
plasma protein binding in all species (>97%) and the plasma free fraction seemed to slightly increase 
with the plasma concentration in rats, monkeys and humans. 
Metabolism 
CYP2C9  was  identified  as  the  principal  enzyme  responsible  for  bromfenac  metabolism  in  vitro  (only 
CYP1A2, CYP2C9*1/2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 and CYP3A4 were evaluated).  
The in vivo metabolism of bromfenac appeared to differ between rats, rabbits and monkeys. Following 
ocular  administration  of  bromfenac,  the  parent  compound  and  the  metabolites  AHR-10240,  AHR-
11652, AHR-11665, WAY-127039 were detected in rabbit aqueous humour and plasma. Based on non-
clinical  studies  conducted  with  these  metabolites,  they  are  expected  to  possess  a  significantly  lower 
pharmacodynamic  activity  as  well  as  toxic  potential  than  bromfenac.  In  addition,  three  unidentified 
metabolites  constituted  less  than  2%  of  total  plasma  reactivity  were  detected  in  rabbit  plasma. 
Following  oral  administration  of  14C-bromfenac,  AHR-11665  was  the  only  metabolite  detected  in  rat 
plasma. In rat urine, two additional metabolites were identified. AHR-11665 and AHR-10240 were also 
noted in rat bile. Only unchanged bromfenac was detected in the plasma of rhesus monkeys, orally and 
i.v.  administered  14C-bromfenac.  However,  bromfenac  and  four  metabolites  were  identified  in  the 
urine.  Plasma  metabolites  were  not  evaluated  in  cynomolgus  monkeys  but  five  metabolites  were 
detection in the urine; two pair of glucuronide conjugates and the cyclic amide AHR-10240.  
The  in  vivo  metabolism  of  bromfenac  has  not  been  investigated  in  mice.  Moreover,  it  has  not  been 
studied in humans. 
However,  based  on  data  from  human  liver  microsomes  and  human  liver  microsomes  expressing 
CYP450  cDNA,  AHR-10240,  AHR-11652,  AHR-11665  and  WAY-127039  may  be  formed  in  humans.  In 
addition, two unidentified metabolites denoted M1 and M2 were detected. M2 was found to be the main 
human  metabolite  with  a  M2/parent  compound  ratio  around  1/8.  The  structure  of  M2  has  not  been 
characterized. M2 does not appear to be formed in the animal species applied in the toxicology studies. 
Accordingly,  the  applicant  was  requested  to  discuss  the  validity  of  the  performed  genotoxicity  and 
reproductive  toxicity  studies.  The  applicant  stated  that  Bromfenac  was  only  to  a  minor  extent 
metabolised in the eye due to low expression of CYP 2C9, and therefore the human systemic exposure 
to M2 would be negligible and the non-clinical species, predictive of reproductive- and genetic toxicity. 
It was acknowledged by the Committee that the risk of toxicity related to systemic exposure of the M2 
metabolite was low.     
In  a  discussion  on  any  potential  for  pharmacokinetic  interactions  due  to  concomitant  or  subsequent 
administration of other ocular drugs, the applicant stated that drugs usually co-administrated were not 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 13/45 
 
 
 
 
substrates  of  CYP2C9;  furthermore  it  was  highlighted  that  Bromfenac  was  not  an  inhibitor  of  major 
cytochrome enzymes and that no interactions of Bromfenac with other drugs had been recorded in the 
clinical or post-marketing phases.  
The CHMP acknowledged that interaction of Bromfenac with other drugs was not likely. 
Excretion 
Approximately 20-50% of the dose was excreted via the urine in both rats and monkeys following PO 
and  IV  administration.  In  rats,  approximately  40-60%  of  the  dose  was  excreted  via  the  bile.  Much 
lower  amount  of  bromfenac-related  radioactivity  was  obtained  in  monkeys  (4-22%).  However,  the 
recovery  in  these  studies  was  also  significantly  lower  (approximately  60%  vs.  90%  in  rats  and 
monkeys, respectively).  
Bromfenac was detected in milk from lactating rats in levels similar or lower than that observed in the 
dams. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
A  single  PO  administration  of  bromfenac  caused  haemorrhagic  injury  of  the  GI  tract  in  rats  at  doses 
≥12.5  mg/kg.  Mortalities  were  observed  in  25  mg/kg.  Findings in  cynomolgus  monkeys  administered 
up  to  1000  mg/kg  consisted  of  vomiting  and  reduced  food  consumption.  One  1000  mg/kg  animal 
showed evidence of GI bleeding. 
Repeat dose toxicity 
The  pivotal  4-week  repeat-dose  toxicity  study  compared  the  effects  following  administration  of  Yellox 
and the “old” ophthalmic 0.1% bromfenac formulations (Bronuck/Xibrom). One drop (30 µL) of vehicle 
or  test  substance  was  administered  into  the  conjunctival  sac  of  the  right  eye  of  each  rabbit.  The 
animals were evaluated with respect to clinical signs, slit lamp ocular observation following instillation 
of  fluorescein,  ocular  observation  according  to  the  Draize  scoring  system,  body  weight,  food 
consumption,  haematology  and  clinical  biochemistry,  necropsy  and  histopathology  of  both  eyes.  No 
findings  were  made  in  any  of  the  treatment  groups;  hence  the  NOAEL  was  four  drops  Yellox  per  eye 
per day (0.12 mg bromfenac/eye/day).  
However, the slit lamp and histopathology results were only reported as two very laconic tables in the 
report,  which  was  considered  unacceptable.  The  applicant  supplied  additional  animal  data,  and 
although  data  in  existing  sub-reports  from  the  involved  experts  still  lacked  details,  no  further 
documentation was deemed necessary. 
A comprehensive ocular toxicity programme, comprising repeat dosing for up to 13 weeks with up to 
five  times  the  clinical  and  increased  instillation  frequency,  was  conducted  by  Senju  using  the  ‘old’ 
formulation  of  bromfenac  sodium.  Follow-up  was  concentrated  on  ocular  toxicity,  using  specialised 
methods, such as fundus photography, ERG and slit lamp examination with and without fluorescein, in 
addition  to  traditional  histopathology.  The  findings  were  sparse  and  discrete,  mainly  lesions  to  the 
corneal  epithelium  and  mild  eosinophilia  and  hyperplasia  of  lymph  nodes  adjacent  to  the  corneal 
epithelium,  after  very  frequent  instillations.  As  such  findings  were  present  also  in  the  control  group 
they were considered to be due to the frequent instillations rather than to bromfenac. 
Oral  administration  of  bromfenac  caused  gastrointestinal  toxicity  in  rats,  rhesus  and  cynomolgus 
monkeys. The ulcerogenic effect of NSAIDs on the GI tract is well-described in the literature. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 14/45 
 
 
 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity 
Bromfenac was negative in a standard battery of genotoxicity tests.  
In line with ICH S1A, carcinogenicity studies are not warranted for Yellox, since it will be indicated for a 
treatment period of only two weeks, and there is no special concern regarding carcinogenic potential. 
Still,  long-term  oral  carcinogenicity  studies  showed  that  bromfenac  had  no  carcinogenic  potential  in 
mice at doses up to 5 mg/kg/day and in rats at doses up to 0.6 mg/kg/day ish.  
Reproduction Toxicity 
Orally  administered  bromfenac  did  not  affect  the  fertility  of  male  rats  administered  up  to  0.9 
mg/kg/day  bromfenac  (900  times  the  recommended  ophthalmic  dose).  A  reduction  in  total 
implantations  and  an  increased  incidence  of  post-implantation  losses  was  observed  at  doses  ≥0.3 
mg/kg/day  in  rats.  A  slight  increase  in  the  percent  of  post-implantation  loss  was  also  observed  in 
rabbits administered 7.5 mg/kg/day bromfenac (7500 times the recommended ophthalmic dose) from 
gestation  day  6  to  18  PO.  Bromfenac  treatment  during  embryo-foetal  development  had  no  effect  on 
sex  ratio,  and  external,  visceral  and  skeletal  findings  in  neither  rats  nor  rabbits.  In  the  oral  rat  pre- 
and post-natal development study, no changes were observed in gestation length, delivery processes, 
nursing behaviours and viability of the newborn pups in any group. However, pup survival was reduced 
in the group receiving 0.9 mg/kg/day. Hence, the NOAEL was 0.3 mg/kg/day for the F1 pups.  
Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  measurements  were  not  included  in  either  the  oral  repeat-dose  toxicity,  carcinogenicity 
or  the  reproductive  toxicity  studies.  However,  these  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  prior  to  the 
release of the ICH S3A guideline which requests the inclusion of toxicokinetic measurements in pivotal 
toxicity  studies.  Nevertheless,  judged  on  the  clinical  signs  and  reported  adverse  findings  sufficient 
systemic exposure was obtained in the toxicity studies. 
Other toxicity studies 
Phototoxicity 
In  vitro  results  obtained  in  Balb/c  3T3  cells  showed  that  bromfenac  did  not  possess  a  phototoxic 
potential. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  Applicant  has  submitted  en  environmental  risk  assessment  (ERA),  concluding  that  log  Kow  for 
bromfenac was below 4.5 at pH ≥ 4 (with rapid decomposition under more acidic conditions) and the 
predicted PECsurface water was lower than the threshold (0.01 µg/L). 
Within  a  pH  range  of  approximately  5  to  13,  the  log  Kow  did  not  exceed  a  value  of  1.6.  No  further 
screening for persistence, bioaccumulation and toxicity was therefore considered necessary. 
Altogether,  it  was  considered  that  ocular  treatment  with  Yellox  would  not  pose  a  risk  to  the 
environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
The  non-clinical  data  did  not  reveal  any  special  hazard  for  human  based  on  conventional  studies  of 
safety,  pharmacology,  repeated-dose  toxicity,  genotoxicity  and  carcinogenicity  potential.  However, 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 15/45 
 
 
 
studies in animals showed reproductive toxicity. The potential risk in human is unknown but since the 
systemic  exposure  in  non-pregnant  women  is  negligible  after  treatment  with  Yellox,  the  risk  during 
pregnancy  is  considered  low.  However,  because  of  the  known  effects  of  prostaglandin  biosynthesis-
inhibiting  medicinal  products  on  the  foetal  cardiovascular  system,  the  use  of  bromfenac  during 
pregnancy should be avoided. 
Animal  studies  have  also  showed  that  bromfenac  was  excreted  in  breast  milk  when  applied  orally  at 
high doses. However, following ocular administration, plasma levels were not detectable. 
It  is  unknown  whether  bromfenac  is  excreted  in  human  milk.  However  no  effects  on  the  breastfed 
newborn/infant are anticipated since the systemic exposure of the breastfeeding woman in negligible. 
Yellox can therefore be used during breastfeeding. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In general, the non-clinical properties of bromfenac have been  adequately documented and meet the 
requirements to support this application. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. However, please 
see section 3.5.3. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 16/45 
 
 
 
 
Type 
Study 
of 
Study 
Identifier 
Objective(s) 
Study 
of 
Study  Design  and  Type  of 
Control 
No. Subjects 
Healthy  Subjects  or  Diagnosis  of 
Patients 
Senju F-27 
Pharmaco-kinetics 
Phase I, open-label 
6 
Healthy subjects 
Pharmaco-
kinetics 
Pharmaco-
kinetics 
Pivotal  Phase 
III,  Efficacy 
and safety 
Pivotal  Phase 
III,  Efficacy 
and safety 
Efficacy  and 
safety 
Efficacy  and 
safety 
Efficacy  and 
safety 
Dose 
frequency 
response 
Dose 
concentratio
n response 
Efficacy  and 
safety 
Efficacy  and 
safety 
Senju G-01 
ISTA-BR-
CS001-WR 
ISTA-BR-
CS001-ER 
Pharmaco-kinetics, 
safety, tolerability 
Efficacy and safety 
Efficacy and safety 
Senju G-05 
Efficacy and safety 
Senju G-02 
Efficacy and safety 
Senju G-06 
Efficacy and safety 
Phase I, open-label 
III, 
Phase 
multicentre, 
randomised,  double-masked, 
placebo-controlled study. 
III, 
multicentre, 
Phase 
randomised,  double-masked, 
placebo-controlled study. 
Phase  III  randomised,  double-
masked, 
reference-therapy 
controlled. 
Phase  II,  randomised,  double-
masked, 
reference-therapy 
controlled. 
Phase III, randomised, double-
reference-therapy 
masked, 
controlled. 
Phase  I,  randomised,  double-
blind 
active-comparator 
controlled. 
Phase  II,  randomised,  double-
masked, multicentre. 
Phase  II,  randomised,  double-
masked, multicentre. 
14 
7 in each group 
231 
158 bromfenac 
73 placebo 
296 
198 bromfenac 
98 placebo 
232 
116 bromfenac 
116 pranoprofen 
160 
87 bromfenac 
73 pranoprofen  
222 
111 bromfenac 
111 pranoprofen 
40 
20 in each group 
116 
58 in each group 
226 
76: 0.01% 
75: 0.1% 
75: 0.2% 
96 
29 
51 
Safety 
tolerability 
and 
Croma  Pharma 
0503-ct/1 
Phase I, 
safety, tolerability 
Senju G-03 
Senju G-04 
  safety 
Efficacy, 
and  frequency  of 
dose 
Efficacy, 
and 
concentration 
  safety 
dose 
Senju  
G-08 / -09  
G-support.  01 
/ -02 
Senju G-07 
Efficacy and safety 
Phase II, open-label 
Efficacy and safety 
Phase III, open-label 
Efficacy  and 
safety 
Senju  
G-10  
G-support. -03 
Efficacy and safety 
Phase III, open-label 
Duration 
of 
Treatmen
t 
Single dose 
28 days 
14 days 
Healthy subjects 
Patients  ≥18 years  old  after  unilateral 
cataract  surgery  with  summed  ocular 
inflammation score ≥3. 
Patients  ≥18 years  old  after  unilateral 
cataract  surgery  with  summed  ocular 
inflammation score ≥3. 
Patients  >15  years  old  with  ocular 
inflammation after intraocular lens implant. 
14 days 
14 days 
Patients    ≥18 years  with  inflammation  after 
cataract surgery or with anterior uveitis. 
14 days 
Patients    ≥18 years  with  inflammation  of 
external  segment  of  eye,  e.g.,  blepharitis, 
conjunctivitis 
Healthy subjects 
14 days 
14 days 
Patients    ≥18  years  after  intraocular  lens 
implant with ocular inflammation 
14 days 
Patients  ≥18  years  after  intraocular  lens 
implant with ocular inflammation 
14 days 
Patients ≥15 years old, who were scheduled 
to undergo intraocular lens implant. 
Single dose 
Patients    ≥18 years  with  inflammation  of 
external  segment  of  eye,  e.g.,  blepharitis, 
conjunctivitis 
2 weeks 
Patients  ≥6  years  of  age  with  anterior 
uveitis  with  a  flare  of  15  to  200  photon 
counts/msec. 
to  14 
2 
weeks 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 17/45 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No  ocular  or  systemic  PK  studies  have  been  conducted  with  Yellox.  However,  two  PK  studies  were 
conducted with the BFSS-OS formulation.  
Study  G-01  was  a  study  in  14  healthy  Japanese  volunteers  designed  to  assess  the  safety  and  blood 
concentrations of 0.1% (n=7) and 0.2% (n=7) BFSS-OS instilled in the eyes twice daily for 28 days. 
Samples were taken pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.5, 1 and 2 hrs post-dose day 1; 4hr post dose day 14 and 
16hr  post  dose  day  28  and  7  days  post-study.  No  detectable  plasma  concentration  was  found  in  any 
subject. 
Study F-27 was a study in healthy Japanese to characterize the metabolic disposition of a single dose 
of  14C-bromfenac  (as  the  sodium  salt)  following  oral  administration.  This  study  included  6  healthy 
volunteers. Excretion data were discharged for two of these due to mishandling.  
Absorption  
In  the  Phase  I  healthy  volunteer  study  G-01  the  systemic  concentration  of  bromfenac  was  below  the 
limit of quantification (<50 ng/ml). The findings were consistent with the theoretical maximal systemic 
availability of bromfenac after ophthalmic instillation. Aqueous humour data were collected in a phase-
II confirmatory study in 54 subjects undergoing cataract surgery (Miyake et al, 2008). Peak aqueous 
humour  concentrations  occurred  between  150  and  180  min  following  dosing.  Concentrations  were 
maintained  for  12  hours  in  aqueous  humour  with  measurable  levels  up  to  24  hours  in  major  ocular 
tissues including the retina.  
Following twice daily dosing with bromfenac eye drops plasma concentrations were not quantifiable. 
Distribution 
Based  on  data  following  i.v.  administration  of  bromfenac  (Gumbhir-Shah  et  al,  1997),  the  volume 
distribution  was  approximately  0.15  L/kg.  The  in  vitro  plasma  protein  binding  of  14C-bromfenac  was 
assessed by equilibrium dialysis. At a bromfenac concentration of 1.4 µg/ml, the percent unbound was 
0.16 in human plasma. A similar extent of binding was seen at a drug concentration of 10 µg/ml. At 53 
µg/ml, however, the percent unbound increased from 0.16 to 0.21. 
Bromfenac  showed  high  binding  to  plasma  proteins.  In  vitro,  the  99.8%  were  bound  to  proteins  in 
human plasma. No biological relevant melanin binding was observed in vitro. 
Elimination 
Based on data obtained following oral administration, the elimination pathways have been identified as 
metabolism  followed  by  renal  excretion  of  metabolites.  Renal  excretion  of  unchanged  bromfenac  only 
accounts for a very small part of the elimination. After ocular administration parent compound and/or 
metabolites were below measurable concentrations in the systemic circulation. 
Based on literature data (i.v and oral), approximate values of bromfenac CLtot, CLr and t½ were 100 
ml/min, 0.15 ml/min and 1.5 h, respectively. 
In  study  F-27,  the  mean  recovery  of  radioactivity  in  urine  was  82.4%;  and  the  mean  recovery  of 
radioactivity  in  faeces  was  13.2%.  The  overall  mean  recovery  of  radioactivity  was  95.6%.  No  free  or 
conjugated  bromfenac  was  detected  in  urine.  Excretion  into  urine  was  rapid  with  most  of  the  urinary 
radioactivity (66.5%) excreted during the first 8 hours.  
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 18/45 
 
 
 
 
Metabolism 
In-vivo 
In study F-27, it was seen that except for an unidentified minor metabolite, unchanged bromfenac was 
the  major  component  in  plasma.  The  elimination  rate  of  this  minor  metabolite  appeared  similar  to 
bromfenac.  Excretion  into  urine  was  rapid  with  most  of  the  urinary  radioactivity  (66.5%)  excreted 
during  the  first  8  hours.  Profiles  of  the  urinary  metabolites  changed  over  time.  In  the  urine  up  to  4 
hours post-dose, cyclic amide (AHR-10240) was the major metabolite. In the urine 4 to 12 hours post-
dose,  the  AHR-10240  peak  decreased  in  size  and  four  polar  peaks  predominated.  These  peaks 
appeared  to  be  glucuronide  conjugates  of  unidentified  aglycones.  A  total  of  13.2%  of  the  dose  was 
recovered  in  faeces.  No  characterisation  of  the  faecal  radioactivity  was  performed.  The  overall  mean 
recovery of radioactivity in the study was 95.6%.  
In-vitro 
One in vitro study with the aim of identifying P450 enzymes involved in metabolism of bromfenac was 
performed.  Thin  layer  Chromatography  (TLC)  was  selected  as  the  appropriate  method  to  identify 
human  P450  enzymes  (1A2,  2C9,  2D6,  2E1,  CYP2C9,  3A4)  involved  in  metabolism  of  bromfenac 
sodium.  Bromfenac  sodium  was  14C  labelled.  The  experiments  were  performed  in  human  P450- 
expressing  microsomes  and  in  human  liver  microsomes.  Results  suggest  that  a  single  P450  enzyme, 
CYP2C9*1 (Arg), is responsible for bromfenac’s metabolism.  
Special populations 
The  PK  of  bromfenac  following  ocular  administration  has  not  been  investigated  in  any  special 
populations. 
Following oral administration, no marked effects of gender, age and renal disease on bromfenac´s PK 
was  seen.  Hepatic  impairment  led  to  a  change  in  bromfenac´s  PK  where  patients  with  mild  to 
moderate  cirrhosis  had  a  40  %  lower  clearance  as  compared  with  healthy  volunteers.  The  potential 
impact of race and weight has not been reported. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No  formal  PK  interaction  studies  have  been  conducted  with  BFSS-OS.  In  the  Phase  III  studies,  most 
patients  received  topical  or  intracameral  antibiotics  to  minimize  the  risk  of  post-operative 
endophthalmitis, which is a rare complication of cataract surgery.  
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No specific pharmacodynamic studies in humans have been performed. Available data come from pre-
clinical studies and have been discussed in the corresponding section. 
No  specific  pharmacodynamic  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  This  was  considered 
acceptable.  However,  if  more  than  one  topical  ophthalmic  medicinal  product  is  being  used,  an 
appropriate  time  of  at  least  5  minutes  between  the  two  administrations  is  recommended.  This  is 
reflected in section 4.2 of the SmPC. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 19/45 
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
No PK studies have been performed with Yellox and only limited data exist from studies performed with 
the formulation approved in US and Japan.  
The most important PK study was the phase I healthy volunteer study G-01 where it was shown that 
the systemic exposure of bromfenac following ocular administration was very low compared to what is 
observed following oral administration.  
A  rough  estimation  of  a  worst  case  systemic  exposure  to  bromfenac  following  ocular  administration 
gave a theoretical maximum plasma concentration of approximately 20 ng/ml (52 nM).  
While it is accepted from extrapolation that systemic exposure is likely to be low, the IC50 with respect 
to  COX-2  and  COX-1  inhibition  is  about  7  and  210  nM,  respectively.  It  is,  however,  very  reassuring 
that the currently sought formulation has been used in clinical practice with only very rare reports of 
suspected systemic adverse reactions. 
Metabolism was studied in human P450- expressing microsomes (1A2, 2C9, 2D6, 2E1, CYP2C9, 3A4) 
and in human liver microsomes. Results suggested that a single P450 enzyme, CYP2C9, catalyzed the 
metabolism of bromfenac. 
Clinically  relevant  drug-drug  interactions  were  not  considered  to  be  an  issue  as  systemic  exposure, 
while undefined, was below 130 nM.  
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The pharmacokinetics of bromfenac is of limited relevance in this application as the plasma levels are 
below  limit  of  quantification  following  ocular  administration.  The  only  part  contributing  to  the 
benefit/risk assessment was from a safety perspective where the pharmacokinetic data described the 
low systemic exposure following ocular administration as compared to oral administration. 
Given  the  low  systemic  exposure  of  bromfenac,  the  risk  for  systemic  PK  interactions  and  potential 
differences  in  certain  special  populations  (gender,  age,  renal  impairment,  hepatic  impairment  etc.) 
from a PK point of view was considered to be low. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
The  phase  II  studies  encompassed  2  studies  conducted  in  Japan:  G-03,  where  a  twice  daily  regimen 
was compared to a 4 times daily regimen, and G-04 in which 3 different concentrations of bromfenac 
(0.1 %, 0.2 %, and 0.01 %) ophthalmic solution were compared. 
Study G-04 
The  study  aim  was  to  determine  the  efficacy,  safety  and  optimum  concentration  of  the  ophthalmic 
bromfenac solution of the 3 concentrations 0.2 %, 0.1 %, and 0.01 % in patients with anterior uveitis 
following intraocular lens transplantation. 
The study population encompassed patients who had undergone intraocular lens implant, had anterior 
uveitis  (inflammation)  and  had  received  preoperative  ophthalmic  indomethacin  solution  were  eligible 
for study enrolment. The main exclusion criteria were a flare value on postoperative day 1 of ≤20 or 
≥400 photon counts/msec. The planned sample size was 300 patients, 100 patients in each group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 20/45 
 
 
 
Patients  were  randomised  to  receive  BFSS-OS  0.2%,  0.1%  or  0.01%.  One  drop  of  test  agent  was 
administered twice daily (morning and evening). The planned treatment duration was 2 weeks. 
Assessments  were  performed  preoperatively  and  on  postoperative  days  1  (prior  to  study  drug 
administration), 3, 8 and 15. Investigators made a global assessment of efficacy based on the degree 
of  improvement  in  anterior  chamber  protein  (ACP)  and  overall  clinical  findings  with  the  following 
guidelines:  markedly  effective  (+/-  to  –  in  ACP);  effective  (improvement  in  ACP  by  one  or  more 
levels); ineffective (no changed in ACP); deteriorated (worsening in ACP by one or more levels). 
The patient disposition is shown in the table below. 
Table 1: Patient Disposition, No. Patients – Senju Study G-04 
BFSS-OS 
0.01% 
77 
Enrolled 
76 
Safety Population 
Investigator Evaluable Population  72 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution 
0.1% 
75 
75 
71 
The evaluation of efficacy is summarised in the table below. 
0.2% 
76 
75 
69 
Table 2: Evaluation of efficacy by investigators, No Patients (%) – Senju Study G-04. 
BFSS-OS 
0.01%, N=72 
0.1%, N=71 
0.2%, N=69 
Effective or markedly effective 
46 (63.9) 
64 (90.1) 
59 (85.5) 
Markedly effective 
11 (15.3) 
18 (25.3) 
16 (23.2) 
Effective 
Ineffective 
Deteriorated 
35 (48.6) 
46 (64.8) 
43 (62.3) 
20 (27.8) 
6 (8.3) 
4 (5.6) 
3 (4.2) 
8 (11.6) 
2 (2.9) 
Kruskal-
0.01% vs 0.1% vs 0.2%  χ2
0=12.3106 (df=2); P0=0.0021 
Wallis 
[H] test 
0.2% vs 0.1% 
Z0=0.6081; P0=0.5431 
0.2% vs 0.01% 
Z0=2.6691; P0=0.0076 
0.1% vs 0.01% 
Z0=3.2176; P0=0.0013  
Patient base: Investigator Evaluable Population 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; df: degrees of freedom; vs: versus  
The  conduct  of  the  study  raised  numerous  major  problems.  In  this  respect,  the  extension  of  the 
duration  of  treatment  to  more  than  15  days  (2  weeks  were  planned)  for  a  considerable  part  of 
patients, namely 48/112, was remarkable – particularly as the observation point for the efficacy results 
was unknown. In addition, the maximal duration of treatment was stated to be ≥ 50 days in 2 of the 3 
treatment  groups.  Exact  time  point  of  observation  for  these  results  was  not  provided.  The  treatment 
period was stipulated to be 2 weeks. No observation after Day 8 has been given in the study report.  
The  planned  sample  size  of  300  was  not  reached  as  only  212  subjects  were  included  in  the  study. 
Moreover, 44 patients received concurrent medication, which is not specified in a way to detect ocular 
medication, which might influence the outcome. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 21/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With  due  reservations,  a comparable  effect  of  the  0.1 %  and  the  0.2 %  bromfenac  concentrations  in 
the ophthalmic solutions was considered likely. 
Based  on  this  study,  no  firm  conclusions  could  be  drawn  on  the  efficacy,  safety  and  optimum 
concentration of the ophthalmic bromfenac solution of the 3 concentrations 0.2 %, 0.1 %, and 0.01 %. 
Study G-03 
The study aim was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bromfenac eye drops in two different dosing 
regimens: Twice daily or 4 times daily administration in patients with inflammation following cataract 
surgery. 
Patients  who  had  undergone  intraocular  lens  implant  and  had  received  preoperative  ophthalmic 
indomethacin solution were eligible for study enrolment. The main exclusion criteria were a flare value 
on postoperative day 1 of ≤20 photon counts/msec. 
A single drop of BFSS-OS 0.1% was instilled by the subject into the study eye twice daily (morning and 
night)  or  4  times  daily  (morning,  noon,  evening,  and  night)  starting  approximately  24  hours  after 
cataract surgery and continuing for up to 14 days. 
Overall degree of improvement based on the findings in the anterior chamber determined by laser flare 
meter  and  by  overall  clinical  findings.  The  Investigator  graded  as  follows:  Markedly  improved, 
Improved, Slightly improved, Unchanged, or Worse. 
Table 3: Patient disposition, No.patients – Senju Study G-03 
Enrolled 
Safety Population 
Prohibited Medication 
Secondary implant of anterior chamber lens 
Only one dose of test agent 
Investigator Evaluable Population 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution  
BFSS-OS 0.1% 
Twice Daily 
58 
58 
1 
1 
2 
54 
4-times Daily 
58 
58 
6 
0 
1 
51 
The results obtained for the main parameters are shown in the table below. 
Table 4: Evaluation of efficacy by investigators, No Patients (%) – Senju Study G-03. 
BFSS-OS 0.1% 
Twice Daily, N=54 
Improved or markedly improved  32 (59.3) 
Markedly improved 
Improved 
Slightly improved 
Unchanged 
Deteriorated 
Kruskal-Wallis (H) test 
Patient base: Investigator Evaluable Population 
7 (13.0) 
25 (46.2) 
20 (37.0) 
2 (0.4) 
0 
Z 0=0.1543; P0=0.8773 
4-times Daily, N=51 
30 (58.8) 
5 (9.8) 
25 (49.0) 
20 (39.2) 
0 
1 (0.2) 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution  
The  Applicant  stated  that  the  rate  of  patients improvement  and  marked  improvement  was  similar  for 
BFSS-OS  b.i.d  (59.3%,  32/54)  and  BFSS-OS  q.i.d.  (58.8%,  30/51),  with  no  significant  difference 
between groups (Z0=0.1543; P0=0.8773, Kruskal-Wallis [H] test). 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 22/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  on  the  obtained  figures,  it  appeared  to  be  no  differences  in  efficacy  when  comparing  BID  with 
QID  administration  of  0.1 %  BFSS-OS.  However,  no  clear  conclusions  could  be  drawn  based  on  this 
trial as the conduct of the study raised numerous major problems.  
The planned sample size of 150 was far from being reached with the number of 105 subjects available 
for efficacy analysis. Furthermore, the study was not double-masked as no “double-dummy” technique 
was employed. In addition, the time for the observed results was not stated and the extension of the 
duration  of  treatment  to  more  than  15  days  and  the  maximum  treatment  duration  of  29  days  were 
also  an  unexplained  matter.  Finally,  some  patients  received  concurrent  medication,  which  was  not 
specified in a way to catch ocular medication.  
In conclusion, the optimal dosing regimen has not been unequivocally determined. 
For both phase II studies G-04 and G-03, although the proposed concentration and dosing frequency 
(0.1 % BFSS-OS, BID) did not appear unreasonable, overall, the value of the 2 trials to determine the 
optimal  dosing  regimen  and  the  optimal  drug  concentration  was  considered  limited  because  of  grave 
methodological and procedural shortcomings.  
2.5.2.  Main studies 
ISTA-BR-CS001-ER and ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
Methods 
Two  pivotal  trials,  ISTA-BR-CS001-ER  and  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  were  conducted  following  the  same 
protocol.  They  were  randomised  multi-centre  double  masked  parallel  study  investigating  the  efficacy 
and  safety  of  topical  Bromfenac  ophthalmic  solution  0.1  %  versus  placebo  for  treatment  of  ocular 
Inflammation following cataract surgery. They were both conducted in the USA.  
  Study Participants  
Patients  were  male  or  female  subject  of  at  least  18  years  of  age  scheduled  for  unilateral  cataract 
surgery  (phacoemulsification  or  extracapsular  extraction)  with  posterior  chamber  intraocular  lens 
implantation. A summed score of ≥ 3 for anterior chamber cells (scale 0-4) and flare (scale 0-4) at the 
baseline  examination  (visit  1,  study  day  1)  was  required.  No  concurrent  use  of  anti-inflammatory 
drugs, topical or systemic, during the study (treatment and follow-up stages) was allowed.  
  Treatments 
Each  subject  self-instilled  a  one-drop  dose  of  test  agent,  either  bromfenac  0.1%  or  placebo  control, 
twice daily, beginning 16 to 32 hours after surgery and continuing for duration of 14 days (total of 28 
doses).  
The therapy was scheduled for up to 14 days with study visits at Day 3, Day 8, Day 15, Day 22, Day 
29, and at early discontinuation of the study. 
  Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  those  two  studies  was  to  investigate  the  efficacy  of  bromfenac  sodium 
ophthalmic  solution  0.1  %  for  the  treatment  of  post-operative  ocular  inflammation  in  subjects 
undergoing  cataract  extraction  with  posterior  intraocular  chamber  lens  implantation.  The  secondary 
aim was to investigate the safety and tolerability of the eye drops in this condition. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 23/45 
 
 
 
  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients in the ITT group with cleared ocular inflammation 
in  the  study  eye  at  visit  4  (day  15).  Cleared  ocular  inflammation  was  defined  as  a  summed  ocular 
inflammation score (anterior chamber cell score plus flare score, each measured at a 5-point scale) of 
zero. 
A  number  of  16  secondary  endpoints  were  used.  The  most  relevant/pertinent  secondary  endpoints 
were  time  to  resolution  of  pain  and  time  to  resolution  of  ocular  inflammation,  and  the  proportion  of 
patients who used rescue medication. 
The definitions of determination of the grading of the ocular inflammation parameters are shown in the 
table below. 
Table  5:  Anterior  chamber  cell  counts  and  flare  grade  for  determining  the  summed  ocular 
inflammation score patients 
Anterior Chamber Cells 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
The summed Ocular Inflammation Score (SOIS) was obtained by adding the anterior chamber cell and flare scores. 
The minimum SOIS was zero and the maximum was 8. 
For  evaluation,  a  slit-lamp  biomicroscopy  was  used  at  a  ×16  magnification  with  a  1×1-mm  oblique  high-intensity 
beam.  
Anterior Chamber Flare 
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Complete absence 
Very slight 
Moderate 
Marked 
Intense 
None-5 (trace) 
6-15 
16-25 
26-50 
>50 
  Sample size 
Assuming  that  60%  of  the  bromfenac-treated  patient  and  35%  of  the  vehicle-treated  patient  would 
have  cleared  the  ocular inflammation (a  sum  inflammation  score  of  zero)  at  Day  15  a  sample  size  of 
202 patients (135 bromfenac and 67 placebo) and a two-sided α of 0.049 and a power of 0.90 % was 
necessary.  Allowing  safety  data  for  at  least  300  patients  in  the  two  protocols  a  total  of  450  patients 
were needed in the two trials corresponding to 225 in each study. 
  Randomisation 
Subjects were sequentially assigned, according to a computer-generated randomisation list, to one of 
two treatment groups in a 2:1 ratio to receive either bromfenac ophthalmic solution 0.1% or placebo. 
Within each centre, subjects were randomised using a blocked randomisation scheme with a block size 
of six. 
  Blinding (masking) 
The  Applicant  claimed  that  those  two  studies  were  double-blind  studies.  However  the  GCP  inspection 
that  was  performed  revealed  that  the  active  and  the  placebo  of  the  Investigational  Medicinal  Product 
(IMP)  were  different  in  appearance.  The  active  IMP  was  yellow  and  the  placebo  was  colourless.  The 
yellow  appearance  of  the  active  drug  also  gave  a  yellow  appearance  to  the  bottles.  The  IMP  did 
therefore not qualify as double-blinded. 
In  addition,  blinded  staffs  such  as  nurses  or  study  coordinators  handled  the  IMP,  opened  the  boxes, 
pealed  of  the  seal  from  the  immediate  containers  of  the  blinded  IMP  and  were  present  immediately 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 24/45 
 
 
 
next  to  the  trial  subjects  during  administration  of  the  blinded  IMP.  The  nurses  or  study  coordinators 
also handled the labels from both bottles and boxes.  
  Statistical methods 
The primary analysis employed the proportion of subjects who achieved cleared ocular inflammation at 
the Day 15 visit. Differences were examined with either chi square or Fisher’s exact test. 
  Recruitment 
In  ISTA-BR-CS001-ER  20  centres  east  of  Mississippi  and  in  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  19  centres  west  of 
Mississippi recruited patients. 
In both trials the first patient was randomised in May 2003 and the last visit was terminated in January 
2004. 
  Conduct of the study 
A  long  list  of  protocol  amendments  was  issued;  however,  no  participants  were  enrolled  prior  to  the 
changes. 
Results 
  Participant flow 
The  disposition  of  patients  in  studies  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  and  ISTA-BR-CS001-ER,  respectively,  is 
shown in the tables below. 
STUDY ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
Table 6: Disposition for randomised patients, No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
N 
Completed study 
Discontinued treatment 
Lack of tolerability of test agent 
Adverse event 
Disallowed concurrent medication 
Lack of efficacy 
Other reason 
BFSS-OS 
0.1% 
158 
155 (98.1) b) 
16 (10.1) 
1 (0.6) 
4 (2.5) 
3 (1.9) 
5 (3.2) 
3 (1.9) 
Placebo 
P value a) 
73 
73 (100) 
29 (39.7) 
0 
11 (15.1) 
1 (1.4) 
16 (21.9) 
1 (1.4) 
--- 
--- 
<0.0001 
NS 
0.0007 
NS 
<0.0001 
NS 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
a) Based on Chi-square or Fisher’s exact test.  
b)  Reasons  for  premature  study  discontinuation  for  the  three  patients  in  the  bromfenac  group  were  withdrawal  of 
consent/compliance; hospitalisation for severe stroke; and accidental randomisation of an ineligible subject. 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; NS: not significant  
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 25/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STUDY ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Table 7: Disposition for randomised patients, No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
N 
Completed study 
Discontinued study 
of 
Withdrawal 
compliance 
Loss to follow-up 
Other reason b) 
Discontinued treatment 
consent/non-
Lack of tolerability of test agent 
Adverse event 
Disallowed concurrent medication 
Lack of efficacy 
Other reason c) 
BFSS-OS 
0.1% 
198 
193 (97.4) 
5 (2.5) 
2 (1.0) 
1 (0.5) 
2 (1.0) 
18 (9.1) 
0 
6 (3.0) 
2 (1.0) 
6 (3.0) 
4 (2.0) 
Placebo 
P value a) 
98 
93 (94.9) 
5 (5.1) 
2 (2.0) 
1 (1.0) 
2 (2.0) 
39 (39.8) 
1 (1.0) 
14 (14.3) 
2 (2.0) 
21 (21.4) 
1 (1.0) 
NS 
NS 
NS 
NS 
<0.0001 
NS 
0.0003 
NS 
<0.0001 
NS 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; NS: not significant. 
a) Based on chi-square or Fisher’s exact test.  
b) “Other” reasons for premature study discontinuation were 1 patient with prolonged hospitalisation in the bromfenac 
group  (narrative  in  Section  14.3  of  report)  and  1  patient  who  had  been  accidentally  enrolled  in  the  placebo  group 
(insufficient baseline ocular inflammation score).  
c) “Other” reasons for premature treatment discontinuation were lack of patient compliance (3 patients) and accidental 
enrolment (baseline flare <3) in the BFSS-OS group; and 1 patient with lack of compliance in the placebo group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 26/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 2: SUBJECT DISPOSITION – ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
  Baseline data 
The  demographic  distribution  of  patients  in  studies  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  and  ISTA-BR-CS001-ER, 
respectively, is depicted below. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 27/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  8:  Patient  Demographics  and  Baseline  Characteristics  (Pre-surgery  screening  Visit), 
No.Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
BFSS-OS 0.1%  Placebo 
158 
N 
Age 
Gender, No. (%) 
Race, No. (%) 
Study Eye 
Iris 
No. (%) 
colour, 
Mean ± SD  70.3 ± 9.4 
Median  
Min-Max 
Male 
Female 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Black 
Other  
72.0 
42.0 – 93-0 
69 (43.7) 
89 (56.3) 
134 (84.8) 
14 (8.9) 
5 (3.2) 
5 (3.2) 
Brown 
Blue 
Hazel 
Green 
Other 
Min 
Max 
69 (43.7) 
57 (36.1) 
17 (10.8) 
8 (5.1) 
7 (4.4) 
0.0 
0.0 
P value  
0.3183 a) 
0.0499 b) 
0.8824 b) 
0.0284 b) 
73 
68.8 ± 11.4 
69.0 
32.0 – 91.0 
42 (57.5) 
31 (42.5) 
64 (87.7) 
4 (5.5) 
3 (4.1) 
2 (2.7) 
27 (37.0) 
20 (27.4) 
17 (23.3) 
8 (11.0) 
1 (1.4) 
0.0 
0.0 
Total 
231 
69.9 ± 10.0 
72.0 
32.0 – 93.0 
111 (48.1) 
120 (51.9) 
198 (85.7) 
18 (7.8) 
8 (3.5) 
7 (3.0) 
96 (41.6) 
77 (33.3) 
34 (14.7) 
16 (6.9) 
8 (3.5) 
0.0 
0.0 
Summed  Ocular 
Inflammation 
Score 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
P-value  for  bromfenac  versus  placebo  based  on:  a)  T  test;  b)  chi-square  or  Fisher’s  exact  test;  c)  Wilcoxon  rank 
sum test 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution 
1.0000 c) 
Table  9:  Patient  Demographics  and  Baseline  Characteristics  (Pre-surgery  screening  Visit), 
No.Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Placebo 
Total 
P value  
N 
Age 
Gender, No. (%) 
Race, No. (%) 
Study Eye 
Iris 
No. (%) 
colour, 
BFSS-OS 
0.1% 
198 
69.3 ± 10.1 
71.0 
35.0, 88.0 
93 (47.0) 
105 (53.0) 
162 (81.8) 
11 (5.6) 
20 (10.1) 
5 (2.5) 
Mean ± SD 
Median  
Min-Max 
Male 
Female 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
Black 
Other  
98 
70.4 ± 9.2 
71.0 
40.0, 93.0 
42 (42.9) 
56 (57.1) 
73 (74.5) 
9 (9.2) 
14 (14.3) 
2 (2.0) 
296 
69.7 ± 9.8 
71.0 
35.0, 93.0 
135 (45.6) 
161 (54.4) 
235 (79.4) 
20 (6.8) 
34 (11.5) 
7 (2.4) 
Brown 
Blue 
Hazel 
Green 
Other 
Min 
Max 
85 (42.9) 
58 (29.3) 
33 (16.7) 
19 (9.6) 
3 (1.5) 
0.0 
0.0 
45 (45.9) 
32 (32.7) 
10 (10.2) 
9 (9.2) 
2 (2.0) 
0.0 
0.0 
130 (43.9) 
90 (30.4) 
43 (14.5) 
28 (9.5) 
5 (1.7) 
0.0 
0.0 
0.3429 a) 
0.5038 b) 
0.5304 b) 
0.6662 b) 
Summed  Ocular 
Inflammation 
Score 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
P-value  for  bromfenac  versus  placebo  based  on:  a)  T  test;  b)  chi-square  of  Fisher’s  exact  test;  c)  Wilcoxon  rank 
sum test 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution  
1.0000 c) 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 28/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Table  10:  ITT,  ITT  censored,  and  PP  populations  in  Studies ISTA-BR-CS001-ER  and 
ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
BFSS-OS 0.1%  
Placebo 
ITT, LOCFa) 
Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
ITT, 
Censored b) 
LOCF 
Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
Per  protocol 
c) 
Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
198 
158 
198 
158 
117 
90 
98 
73 
98 
73 
33 
33 
BFSS-OS:  bromfenac  sodium  sesquihydrate,  ophthalmic  solution;  ITT:  Intent-to-treat  Population  (all  patients 
randomised to test agent); LOCF: last observation carried forward. 
 a) Primary analysis, not censored; represents not only the test agent but also the rescue medication at study day 
15. 
b)  Data  for  patients  who  discontinued  test  agent  and  received  rescue  medication  were  counted  as  treatment 
failures. 3 
c) Patients had no disallowed medications, met eligibility criteria, had a Visit 4 on study day 14-16 and other study 
visits according to the statistical analysis plan and had at least 22 doses of test agent. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary efficacy parameters 
Results  of  the  primary  efficacy  parameters  for  the  ITT  (last  observation  carried  forward,  LOCF)  are 
depicted in the tables below. 
For  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  test  agent  and  were  provided  with  an  alterative  anti-
inflammatory  medication,  this  analysis  represents  not  only  the  test  agent  but  also  the  rescue 
medication at Study Day 15.  
STUDY ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
Table  11:  Primary  Efficacy  Analysis:  Summed  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  Equal  to  Zero  on 
Visit 4 (Day 15), LOCF, No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
BFSS-OS 0.1% 
158 
104 (65.8) 
Placebo 
73 
35 (47.9) 
N 
Primary  analysis,  LOCF  (no  censoring) 
a) 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; LOCF: last observation carried forward. 
a)  For  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  test  agent  and  were  provided  with  an  alterative  anti-inflammatory 
medication, this analysis represents not only the test agent but also the rescue medication at Visit 4. 
b) chi-square test 
0.0099 b) 
P value  
3 Text according to study report: Data for patients who discontinued test agent were censored at the visit closest to (on or 
before) the receipt of the alternative medication for inflammation (that is, analysis represents the percentage of subjects 
who cleared while only receiving test agent treatment). 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 29/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               
The primary analysis (ITT, LOCF) showed a statistically significant higher proportion of patients in the 
BFSS-OS  group  (65.8%,  104/158)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (47.9%,  35/73)  to  have  experienced 
clearance of ocular inflammation of Visit 4 (Day 15, EOT) (P=0.0099).  
STUDY ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Table  12:  Primary  Efficacy  Analysis:  Summed  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  Equal  to  Zero  on 
Visit 4 (Day 15), LOCF, No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
Placebo 
98 
39 (39.8) 
N 
Primary  analysis,  LOCF  (no  censoring) 
a) 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; LOCF: last observation carried forward. 
a)  For  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  test  agent  and  were  provided  with  an  alterative  anti-inflammatory 
medication, this analysis represents not only the test agent but also the rescue medication at Visit 4. 
b) chi-square test 
BFSS-OS 0.1% 
198 
124 (62.6) 
0.0002 b) 
P value  
The primary analysis (ITT, LOCF) showed a statistically significant higher proportion of patients in the 
BFSS-OS  group  (62.6%,  124/198)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (39.8%,  39/98)  to  have  experienced 
clearance  of  ocular  inflammation  at  Visit  4  (Day 15,  EOT)  (P=0.0002,  chi-square  test).  There  was  no 
significant site-by-treatment interaction (P=0.5339).  
The tables below summarise an analysis of the ITT, in which data from patients were censored at the 
time of discontinuation of test agent (receipt of an alternative anti-inflammatory medicine).  
STUDY ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
In the absence of other anti-inflammatory medications in the ITT population (censoring of data at the 
time  receipt  of  an  alternative  anti-inflammatory  medicine  in  both  treatment  groups),  the  rate  of 
clearance of ocular inflammation was higher for the BFSS-OS group (62.0%, 98/158) than the placebo 
group (31.5%, 23/73), and the difference was statistically significant (P<0.0001).  
Table  13:  Summed  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  Equal  to  Zero  on  Visit  4  (Day  15),  LOCF, 
Censored, No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
BFSS-OS 0.1% 
158 
98 (62.0) 
N 
With test agent only a) 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
a)  Patient  data  were  censored  at  the  visit  closest  to  (on  or  before)  the  receipt  of  the  alternative  medication  for 
inflammation  (that  is,  analysis  represents  the  percentage  of  subjects  who  cleared  while  only  receiving  test  agent 
treatment). b) chi-square test or Fisher’s exact test 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; LOCF: Last observation carried forward.  
Source: ISTA-BR-CS001-WR Study Report, Section 14.2, Table 18 
Placebo 
73 
23 (31.5) 
<0.0001 b) 
P value  
STUDY ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
In the absence of other anti-inflammatory medications in the ITT population (censoring of data at the 
time  receipt  of  an  alternative  anti-inflammatory  medicine  in  both  treatment  groups),  the  rate  of 
clearance  of  ocular  inflammation  was  higher  for  the  BFSS-OS  group  (57.1%,  113/198)  than  the 
placebo group (23.5%, 23/98), and the difference was statistically significant (P<0.0001, chi-square or 
Fisher’s exact test).  
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 30/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  14:  Summed  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  Equal  to  Zero  on  Visit  4  (Day  15),  LOCF, 
Censored, No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
BFSS-OS 
0.1% 
Placebo 
P value  
N 
With test agent only a) 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
a)  Patient  data  were  censored  at  the  visit  closest  to  (on  or  before)  the  receipt  of  the  alternative  medication  for 
inflammation  (that  is,  analysis  represents  the  percentage  of  subjects  who  cleared  while  only  receiving  test  agent 
treatment).  
b) chi-square test or Fisher’s exact test 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; LOCF: last observation carried forward. 
198 
113 (57.1) 
98 
23 (23.5) 
<0.0001 b) 
In both trials, the signs of ocular inflammation disappeared faster in the bromfenac group than in the 
vehicle group, as shown in the tables below. 
N 
Table  15:  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  of  Zero  by  Study  Visit,  LOCF,  Censored, 
No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR 
Visit 2 
Day 3 
17 (10.8) 
1 (1.4) 
0.0133 
Visit 4 
Day 14, EOT 
98 (62.0) 
23 (31.5) 
<0.0001 
Visit 6 
Day 29 
126 (79.7) 
38 (52.1) 
<0.0001 
Visit 5 
Day 22 
106 (67.1) 
27 (37.0) 
<0.0001 
Visit 3 
Day 8 
60 (38.0) 
11 (15.1) 
0.0005 
BFSS-OS  
Placebo 
P value a) 
158 
73 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
Patients who received a rescue medication were censored at the time of receipt of the medication 
a) chi-square or Fisher’s exact test 
BFSS-OS:  Bromfenac  sodium  sesquihydrate,  ophthalmic  solution;  EOT:  end  of  therapy;  LOCF:  Last  observation 
carried forward 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 31/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  16:  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  of  Zero  by  Study  Visit,  LOCF,  Censored, 
No. Patients (%) – Study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER 
N 
BFSS-OS  
Placebo 
198 
98 
P value a) 
Visit 2 
Day 3 
13 (6.6) 
1 (1.0) 
0.0403 
Visit 3 
Day 8 
64 (32.3) 
12 (12.2) 
0.0002 
Visit 4 
Day 14, EOT 
113 (57.1) 
23 (23.5) 
<0.0001 
Visit 5 
Day 22 
128 (64.6) 
40 (40.8) 
<0.0001 
Visit 6 
Day 29 
159 (80.3) 
47 (48.0) 
<0.0001 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
Patients who received a rescue medication were censored at the time of receipt of the medication. 
a) chi-square or Fisher’s exact test 
BFSS-OS:  Bromfenac  sodium  sesquihydrate,  ophthalmic  solution;  EOT:  end  of  therapy;  LOCF:  Last  observation 
carried forward 
Secondary efficacy parameters 
In  the  two  studies,  the  secondary  efficacy  findings  were  consistent  with  the  results  obtained  for  the 
primary  efficacy  parameters.  Of  particular  interest  were  the  median  time  to  resolution  of  ocular  pain 
and the proportion of patients whose discontinued the test agent due to lack of efficacy.  
Time to resolution of ocular pain was defined as the number of days from baseline, visit 1, to the visit 
at which the score was 0 (none). Ocular pain was obtained from the subject diary and defined as none, 
mild,  moderate  or  severe  within  one  hour  after  instillation  of  the  medication.  Analysis  included  only 
subjects with ocular pain on study day 1. Subjects were right censored at receipt of rescue medication 
or at the last visit if the pain was not cleared.  
In study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR, the median time to resolution of ocular pain was 2 days for the BFSS-OS 
group  and  5.0  days  for  the  placebo  group  (P<0.0001,  log  rank  test,  comparison  of  Kaplan-Meier 
curves)  (ITT)  and  the  proportion  of  patients  who  discontinued  test  agent  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  was 
significantly lower for patients in the BFSS-OS group (3.2%, 5/158) than in the placebo group (21.9%, 
16/73) (P<0.0001, chi-square or Fisher’s exact test). 
In study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER, the median time to resolution of ocular pain was 2 days for the BFSS-OS 
group and 4 days for the placebo group (P<0.0001, log rank test, comparison of Kaplan-Meier curves) 
(ITT)  and  the  proportion  of  patients  who  discontinued  test  agent  due  to  lack  of  efficacy  was 
significantly lower for patients in the BFSS-OS group (3.0%, 6/198) than in the placebo group (21.4%, 
21/98) (P<0.0001, chi-square or Fisher’s exact test). 
Ancillary analysis 
A  large  window  (16-32  hours)  for  the  interval  from  surgery  to  the  first  dose  of  the  test  drug  was 
allowed  by  the  study  protocol.  During  the  review  process,  the  Applicant  was  asked  to  discuss  the 
possible differences in the outcome depending of how soon the therapy is initiated.  
Nearly all patients started randomised treatment within this time window: 96.9% (344/355) of patients 
in the BFSS OS group and 98.2% (168/171) in the placebo group. This subset of patients (those who 
started  treatment  between  16  and  32  hours  following  cataract  surgery)  showed  no  difference  in  the 
rates  of  treatment  success  (SOIS=0  at  Visit 4)  for  those  who  started  treatment  between  16  and  24 
hours following surgery compared to those who started treatment >24 to 32 hours following surgery.  
A  second  analysis  was  done  for  all  patients,  including  the  few  patients  who  started  randomized 
treatment  outside  the  limits  of  16  to  32  hours  following  cataract  surgery.  Whether  treatment  was 
initiated  within  24  hours  following  surgery  or  afterwards  had  no  effect  on  treatment  outcome.  In  the 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 32/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITT LOCF BFSS-OS group, treatment success (SOIS=0 at Visit 4) was reported for 62.3% (114/183) of 
the  patients  who  started  randomized  treatment  within  24  hours  following  cataract  surgery  versus 
65.7%  (113/172)  for  patients  who  started  randomized  treatment  after  24  hours  (P=0.510,  Fisher's 
exact test)). In the ITT LOCF placebo group, treatment success was reported for 46.4% (39/84) of the 
patients  who  started  randomized  treatment  within  24  hours  following  cataract  surgery  versus  39.1% 
(34/87) for patients who started randomized treatment after 24 hours (P=0.357, Fisher's exact test).  
It  could  be  concluded  from  these  analyses  that  most  patients  started  randomized  treatment  within 
16 to 32  hours  following  cataract  surgery;  and  that  treatment  outcome  was  consistent  regardless  of 
whether  treatment  was  started  within  16  to  24  hours  following  surgery  or  >24  to  32  hours  following 
surgery. 
Analysis performed across trials 
The two pivotal trials conducted with the same protocol have been pooled, and results for the primary 
analysis are shown below: 
Table  17:  Primary  Efficacy  Analysis:  Summed  Ocular  Inflammation  Score  Equal  to  Zero  on 
Visit  4 
LOCF,  No. Patients (%)  –  Studies ISTA-BR-CS001-ER  and 
(Day  15), 
ISTA-BR-CS001-WR, Pooled Analysis 
N 
Primary  analysis,  ITT,  LOCF  (no 
censoring) a) 
N 
ITT, LOCF censored c) 
N 
PP population 
BFSS-OS 0.1%  Placebo 
356 
228 (64.0) 
171 
74 (43.3) 
356 
211 (59.3) 
207 
139 (67.1) 
171 
46 (26.9) 
66 
30 (45.5) 
P value  
<0.0001 b) 
<0.0001 b) 
0.0011 
Patient base: Intent-to-treat Population (all patients randomised to test agent). 
BFSS-OS: Bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate, ophthalmic solution; LOCF: last observation carried forward. 
a)  For  patients  who  prematurely  discontinued  test  agent  and  were  provided  with  an  alterative  anti-inflammatory 
medication, this analysis represents not only the test agent but also the rescue medication at Study Day 15. 
b) Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel procedure 
c) Data for patients who discontinued test agent were censored at the visit closest to (on or before) the receipt of 
the  alternative  medication  for  inflammation  (thus,  patients  who  cleared  while  receiving  rescue  therapy  were 
counted as treatment failures). 
The primary analysis (ITT, LOCF) showed a statistically significant higher proportion of patients in the 
BFSS-OS  group  (64.0%,  228/356)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (43.3%,  74/171)  to  have  experienced 
clearance of ocular inflammation at Visit 4 (Day 15, EOT) (P<0.0001, C-M-H). The result is supported 
by the secondary analysis in the PP population.   
With  censoring  at  the  time  of  treatment  discontinuation  (receipt  of  rescue  medication)  in  the  ITT, 
59.3% (211/356)  of  patients  in  the  BFSS-OS  group  and  26.9%  (46/171)  of  patients  in  the  placebo 
group had clearance of ocular inflammation at Visit 4 (Day 15, EOT) (P<0.0001). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
No studies have been performed in special populations 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 33/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supportive studies 
STUDY G-05 
This double masked study was conducted in Japan in 1993/1994. The aim was to compare bromfenac 
eye drops 0.1 % twice daily with pranoprofen eye drops 0.1% eye drops 4 times daily for 2 weeks in 
patients with anterior uveitis after cataract surgery. Since pranoprofen is approved in a number of EU 
countries  it  was  considered  to  be  a  valid  comparator.  The  primary  endpoint  was  the  Investigator’s 
evaluation  of  the  finding  in  patient’s  anterior  chamber  protein  (flare)  by  overall  clinical  finding: 
improvement,  defined  as markedly  effective,  effective,  ineffective  or  deteriorated  at  the  first  day  and 
the first week post-operative day.  
The “cumulative efficacy rate (which has not been defined) is stated to be 83.8% (markedly effective 
in 37.1%) in the bromfenac group and 67.6 % (markedly effective in 23.8%) in the pranoprofen group 
(p= 0.0040).  
Because of the numerous deficiencies in the trial methodology, the results were regarded as being of 
limited value. This study could not be regarded as contributing valuable safety data either.  
STUDY 0503-CT/1 
This  phase  I  study  was  conducted  to  compare  the  tolerability  of  the  sought  formulation  and  the 
formulation approved in the USA and Japan. 
No  major  differences  in  tolerability  between  the  test  product,  the  reference  product  and  the  control 
eyes  were  revealed.  However,  a  slightly  higher  frequency  of  epithelial  keratitis,  burning  and  swelling 
was recorded for the new formulation than in the marketed one.  
Clinically  appropriate  conclusions in  the  sought  therapeutic  indication  were, however, impeded  as  the 
study was conducted in elderly, healthy subjects, while the test product is intended for patients with an 
inflammatory  ocular  condition.  The  ocular  condition  after  a  traumatic  surgical  procedure  may  impact 
both the efficacy and the tolerability characteristics of the drug.  
In conclusion, this small tolerability trial in healthy subjects only was not considered sufficient to bridge 
the  efficacy  results  obtained  in  the  two  pivotal  trials.  However,  as  the  formulation  has  later  been 
changed, these results were not considered of major interest. 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
For both phase II studies G-04 and G-03, although the proposed concentration and dosing frequency 
(0.1 % BFSS-OS, BID) did not appear unreasonable, overall, the value of the 2 trials to determine the 
optimal  dosing  regimen  and  the  optimal  drug  concentration  was  considered  limited  because  of  grave 
methodological and procedural shortcomings.  
In the pivotal studies, there was a clear anti-inflammatory effect with the administration of bromfenac 
0.1 % eye drops solution twice daily in patients with postoperative inflammation after cataract surgery, 
as compared to vehicle eye drops. 
For the primary endpoint, the ITT analysis demonstrated a statistical significant difference between the 
two  treatments  in  both  trials.  In  the  ITT  population,  the  efficacy  results  are  dimmed  by  the  fact  that 
some patients received not only the test agent but also the rescue medication at study day 15. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 34/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical  significance  was  not  reached  in  the  PP  population  in  the  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  study 
(p=0.0637), although convincing in the ISTA-BR-CS001-ER study (p=0.0058). However, the effect size 
was similar in the two populations, which supports the primary analysis. 
In the absence of other anti-inflammatory medications in the ITT population (censoring of data at the 
time  receipt  of  an  alternative  anti-inflammatory  medicine  in  both  treatment  groups),  the  rate  of 
clearance of ocular inflammation was higher for the BFSS-OS group in both studies (P<0.0001).  
A  large  window,  i.e.  16-32  hours,  between  the  surgical  procedure  and  the  first  application  of  trial 
medication  may  not  be  optimal  in  a  clinical  setting.  Post-hoc  analyses  revealed,  however,  similar 
efficacy  independent  on  the  time  from  surgery  to  first  application  of  the  medication.  Initiation  of 
therapy prior to surgery may have a beneficial effect in the prevention/treatment of inflammation, but 
this was not investigated. 
Pain indication 
The  effect  of  Yellox  in  treating  post  operative  pain  was  not  considered  convincing  since  the  effect  on 
pain was measured within one hour of instillation of the test agent. Since BFSS-OS was administered 
BID,  it  would  have  been  preferred  to  measure  the  effect  before  taking  the  next  dose,  or  at  least 
between instillations. Available data consequently failed to demonstrate that the duration of effect was 
longer than one hour and the clinical relevance of such limited effect duration was questioned.  
The indication “pain” was removed from the sought indication as it was not supported by the provided 
data. 
Lack of bridging data between the sought formulation and the formulation approved in US and Japan. 
The initially sought formulation deviated from the formulation approved in the USA and Japan and used 
in  the  clinical  trials.  The  phase  I  study  0503-CT/1  performed  to  compare  the  tolerability  of  the  two 
formulations  was  not  considered  sufficient  to  bridge  the  efficacy  results  obtained  in  the  two  pivotal 
trials  as  the  study  was  conducted  in  healthy  subjects,  but  was  intended  for  patients  with  an 
inflammatory ocular condition.  
The  reduced  amount  of  BAK  in  the  formulation  was  considered  welcomed  per  se;  however, 
theoretically,  this  reduction  could  impact  the  efficacy  because  of  a  possible  diminished  penetration  of 
the active compound. 
No  data  for  efficacy  of  the  sought  formulation  were  provided.  Based  on  theoretic  considerations  the 
penetration  through  corneal  and  conjunctival  surface  may  be  smaller  because  of  the  decreased 
concentration  of  BAK.  In  line  herewith,  in  preclinical  studies  bromfenac  was  identified  in  the  anterior 
chamber with the approved formulation, but not with the new, sought formulation.  
By  increasing  the  level  of  BAK  to  the  same  concentration  as  in  the  original  (and  tested)  formulation, 
the major concern regardly an impaired transfer across the cornea was handled.  
The remaining difference between the formulations which may have had an additional impact was the 
exchange from polysorbate 80 to tyloxapol.  
Data  on  whether  the  additional  changes  to  the  formulation  may  affect  the  physical  properties 
(osmolarity,  pH  etc.)  of  Yellox  were  presented  (see  Quality  part).  These  parameters  were  essentially 
identical in the two formulations which indicated a low potential for the change of formulation to affect 
the tolerability.  
GCP issues 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 35/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Two GCP issues were observed during the review of the pivotal trials: inappropriate data management 
procedures and inadequate blinding of study medication. 
During the assessment of the responses provided by the Applicant, potential quality issues during post-
hoc analysis were identified. Subsequently, a GCP inspection was requested by the CHMP.  
The  procedures  used  by  the  Applicant during  analysis  were  not considered  completely  compliant  with 
basic GCP principles. However, the Applicant’s review of the procedures and the conducted reanalyses 
indicated  that  the  observed  deficiencies  had  not  significantly  influenced  the  study  results.  This  was 
considered to be satisfactory.  
The GCP inspection that was performed also revealed that the pivotal studies could not be regarded as 
truly double-blind. However, the primary endpoint and most of the secondary endpoints relied on the 
degree  of  inflammation  measured  as  a  score  defined  as  the  anterior  chamber  cell  score  plus  the 
anterior  chamber  flare  score,  that  were  considered  relatively  objective,  especially  the  cell  count, 
although  a  certain  subjective  component  cannot  be  excluded.  As  the  primary  endpoint  was  based  on 
zero scores (i.e. absence of inflammation), a possible unblinding was considered by the CHMP to have 
had no effect on the results. 
In conclusion, it was considered unlikely that a bias favouring Yellox would have changed the results of 
the primary endpoint (and secondary endpoints based on cell and flare scores) to a significant extent. 
Further, it was considered unlikely that possible unblinding could have favoured Yellox with regard to 
adverse event reporting. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The  phase  II  study  programme  conducted  in  Japan  in  the  early  1990’s  investigating  the  different 
concentrations of the active compound and the optimal dosing regimen bore major shortcomings and 
no firm conclusions could be drawn from these studies. 
However,  the  two  pivotal  trials  showed  superior  efficacy  to  vehicle  in  patients  with  anterior  ocular 
inflammation subsequent to cataract extraction. The indication pain was not supported by the provided 
data and therefore removed from the sought indication. 
A deficiency in the original dossier was the lack of data to bridge efficacy between the old formulation 
of bromfenac eye drops and Yellox. The formulation having been modified, all related issues have been 
considered solved. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
In all studies but Croma Pharma 0503-ct/1, the safety of BFSS-OS was evaluated. 
A  total  of  1171  patients  received  BFSS-OS  in  a  clinical  trial:  968  patients  for  postoperative 
inflammation (POI) following cataract surgery and 203 for another indication. All 356 patients from the 
U.S.  were  enrolled  in  the  trials  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  or  -ER  for  investigation  of  POI  following  cataract 
surgery.  Of  the  815  patients  in  Japan,  612  patients were  enrolled  in  a  trial for  POI  following  cataract 
surgery  and  203  patients  for  another  indication  (anterior  uveitis,  external  ocular  inflammation,  or 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 36/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inflammation  of  external  segment  of  the  eye,  e.g.,  blepharitis,  conjunctivitis,  keratitis,  scleritis, 
episcleritis). 
Table 18: Exposure to BFSS OS  
ISTA-BR-CS001-ER  and  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR,  BFSS  OS  0.1%, 
patients undergoing cataract surgery 
Senju  studies,  any  BFSS  OS  dose,  patients  undergoing  cataract 
surgery 
Senju studies, BFSS OS 0.1%, any indication 
BFSS OS: bromfenac sodium sesquihydrate ophthalmic solution 
a) Senju Studies G-02, G-03, G-04, G-05, G-06, G-07, G-08/09 and G-10  
b) Senju studies G-02, G-03, G-04, G-05 and G-08/09, N=617.  
N 
356 
Patients 
No. 
(%) 
356 (100) 
815 a)  617 (75.7) b) 
815 a)  664 (81.5) 
In  addition,  it  has  been  estimated  that  a  total  of  approximately  20  million  patients  had  received 
treatment with BFSS OS 0,1% worldwide during post-marketing, with more than 18 millions patients in 
Japan and around 1,3 millions patients in the United States. 
In  the  clinical  trial  programme,  the  majority  of  exposed  patients  were  from  Japan,  less  than  400 
subjects were of Caucasian origin and very few of other ethnicities. The majority of subjects were  65 
years of age. 
Adverse events  
In  the  clinical  studies  where  bromfenac  was  used  for  treatment  of  post-operative  inflammation 
following  cataract  surgery,  a  total  of  3.4%  of  patients  (6.7%  in  U.S.  studies  and  1.3%  in  Japanese 
studies) experienced one or more adverse reactions.  
The  adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs)  were  almost  exclusively in  the  Eye  Disorder  System  Organ  Class. 
The  most  frequently  reported  (≥3  [0.3%]  patients)  being  abnormal  sensation  in  eye  (0.5%),  corneal 
erosion  (mild  or  moderate)  (0.4%),  eye  pruritus  (0.4%),  eye  pain  (0.3%),  eye  redness  (0.3%),  iritis 
(0.3%) and macular oedema (0.3%).  
The  proportion  of  patients  with  iritis  was  significantly  lower  in  the  bromfenac  group  (7.0%,  25/356) 
than  in  the  placebo  group  (18.1%,  31/171)  (P=0.0001).  Frequently  reported  AEs  (≥5%  of  patients), 
which  showed  a  two-  to  five-fold  lower  incidence  in  the  bromfenac  group  than  in  the  vehicle  group, 
included  eye  pain  (4.2%  for  bromfenac  versus  11.7%  for  placebo),  eye  redness  (2.2%  versus  7.6%, 
respectively), conjunctival hyperaemia (2.2% versus 11.1%, respectively), photophobia (2.0% versus 
11.1%),  visual  acuity  reduced  (1.7%  versus  5.8%),  and  conjunctival  oedema  (1.4%  versus  5.3%). 
There  was  no  AE  reported  for  ≥2%  of  patient  in  either  group,  which  showed  a  two-fold  or  higher 
incidence in the bromfenac group than in the placebo group.  
The systemic AEs were very few and, in studies –WR and –ER, consisted essentially of few cases with 
nasopharyngitis  and  headache.  In  the  Japanese  studies  there  were  isolated  reports  of  systemic  AEs. 
None of them had clear relation with the treatment.  
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 37/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
In the pivotal trials no SAE was reported during study ISTA-BR-CS001-WR. In study ISTA-BR-CS001-
ER, a SAE was reported for 2/198 (1.0%) patients in the bromfenac group with cardiac arrest and with 
cellulitis  of  the  left  foot  secondary  to  a  hammer  toe  surgery,  and  1/98  (1.0%)  patient  in  the  placebo 
group  with  pyrexia.  None  of  the  events  involved  the  study  eye,  and  none  was  considered  to  be 
treatment-related.  
One  death  was  reported  during  study  ISTA-BR-CS001-WR  in  the  BFSS-OS  group;  the  patient  was 
hospitalised for a severe stroke nine days after dosing with BFSS-OS was completed, and died 19 days 
later,  28  days  after  the  last  dose  of  BFSS-OS.  The  event  was  reported  by  the  investigator  as  not 
related to test agent. There was no death reported in study ISTA-BR-CS001-ER. 
Laboratory findings 
Bromfenac  was  originally  developed  as  an  oral  formulation  for  short-term  analgesia  and  approved  in 
the USA. Subsequently, the drug was voluntarily withdrawn from the market due to hepatotoxicity. No 
relevant laboratory abnormalities would be expected from an NSAID to be administered topically since 
the  systemic  exposure  of  bromfenac  eye  drops  is  expected  to  be  very  low.  As  a  precaution,  the 
Applicant has set focus on hepatic enzymes and included such analysis in the majority of studies. No 
specific findings associated with changes in liver function tests (AST, ALT, bilirubin etc.) were identified 
and there have been no related post-marketing reports. 
Safety in special populations 
The safety in special populations has not been investigated. 
In  the  pivotal  studies,  the  analysis  of  adverse  events  was  based  on  the  intrinsic  factors  age  and 
gender. No gender differences were apparent in the nature or incidence of ocular AEs, irrespective of 
causality. Since cataract mainly is a condition in an elderly population, the majority of subjects in the 
clinical  trials  were    65  years  old.  There  were  few  apparent  differences  in  the  nature  or  incidence  of 
ocular AEs, irrespective of causality between the age groups. 
There  was  essentially  no  data  from  the  paediatric  population  and  no  experience  during  pregnancy. 
There was also no data from subjects with a hepatic impairment. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  formal  clinical  interaction  studies  with  BFSS-OS  and  other  ophthalmic  NSAID  solutions  have  been 
conducted.  In  the  course  of  clinical  studies,  BFSS-OS  was  commonly  used  in  combination  with 
ophthalmic antibiotics with no untoward effect. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  the  pivotal  trials  11/356  patients  (3.1%)  in  the  bromfenac  group  and  34/171  patients  (19.9%)  in 
the  vehicle  group  discontinued  treatment  because  of  adverse  events.  The  proportion  of  patients  who 
were  withdrawn  because  of  an  adverse  event  was  larger  in  the  placebo  group  than  in  the  active 
therapy  group.  This  may  be  a  reflection  of  the  inborn  post-cataract  surgery  inflammation  condition, 
which is naturally more pronounced with a vehicle therapy. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 38/45 
 
 
 
 
 
Post marketing experience 
There is no post-marketing data available for Yellox. However, an estimate of 20 millions patients were 
treated with BFSS OS 0,1% in Japan and United States.  
The  most  frequently  reported  ocular  AEs  were  eye  pain/ache/irritation  (16  patients),  blepharitis  (15 
patients),  corneal  erosion  (13  patients),  keratitis  superficial  diffuse  (12  patients),  corneal  epithelium 
defect  (11  patients),  corneal  ulcer  (10  patients),  corneal  epithelium  disorder  (8  patients),  corneal 
perforation/melt (6 patients), and abnormal sensation in eye (6 patients).  
In term of serious adverse reactions (SARs), corneal erosion was reported for a total of 13 patients (3 
serious) during post-marketing experience from 2000-2009. All cases were reported in Japan. 
Corneal perforation/melt was reported for a total of 6 patients (6 serious) (1 recovered with sequelae, 
2 recovered, 2 not recovered, 1 unknown outcome). Three of  the cases were from Japan and 3 from 
the United States. 
No deaths have been reported post-marketing. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The  total  size  of  the  data  base  for  controlled  clinical  studies  conducted  in  Western  populations  was 
limited, as only the two pivotal trials contribute such data. In total, only 527 patients were included, of 
who 356 received bromfenac eye drops. Including the Japanese  population, more than 1200 subjects 
were exposed to bromfenac eye drops during the development programme. According to ICH E5, since 
this is a compound that acts locally, it is unlikely that it will be affected by intrinsic ethnic factors that 
may affect the safety of the drug. Overall, the exposed patient population was considered sufficiently 
representative for the target population.  
The maximum duration of exposure has not been precisely determined in the dossier, but there were 
no firmly stated safety data beyond 2 weeks, which was considered relatively short. A limited duration 
of treatment of 2 weeks is therefore recommended (section 4.2 of the SmPC). 
The main concern with topical, ocular NSAIDs is the potential adverse effect on the cornea, especially 
in  cases  where  the  treatment  duration  is  prolonged  or  if  the  cornea  is  compromised.  There  were  no 
serious corneal adverse events in any of the studies. However, the majority of serious ADRs reported 
post-marketing  consisted  of  corneal  complications,  including  extremely  rare,  but  potentially  sight 
threatening cases of corneal ulcers and perforations. Information on the risk for corneal complications 
has been included in section 4.4 of the SmPC.  
Evaluations included a comprehensive battery of examinations, both ocular and systemic, although not 
uniformly  conducted  in  all  studies.  Laboratory  examinations  with  focus  on  hepatic  toxicity  were 
performed in almost all studies.  
No specific findings associated with changes in liver function tests, but since only subjects without any 
changes in liver function tests (WHO liver function toxicity grade < 1) were included in the studies, a 
risk for an induction of hepatic toxicity could not be excluded in pre-disposed subjects.  
Due  to  the  low  systemic  exposure,  there  is  no  relevant  risk  for  systemic  drug  interactions.  No  drug 
interactions  were  reported  in  any  clinical  study  involving  BFSS-OS  administered  in  conjunction  with 
other ophthalmic medications such as antibiotics and anaesthetics. However, there was no information 
on  the  safety  of  bromfenac  eye  drops  used  in  conjunction  with  corticosteroid  eye  drops.  As  NSAID, 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 39/45 
 
 
 
 
bromfenac may interact with topical corticoids. The warning that concomitant use of Yellox and topical 
steroids is not recommended has been included in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
There  were  no  adequate  data  from  the  use  of  bromfenac  in  pregnant  women  and  therefore  the 
potential  risk  for  human  is  unknown.  Since  the  systemic  exposure  in  non-pregnant  women  can  be 
considered  negligible  after  treatment  with  bromfenac,  the  risk  during  pregnancy  was  considered  low. 
However,  studies  in  animal  showed  reproductive  toxicity  and  prostaglandin  biosynthesis-inhibiting 
medicinal  products  have  a  known  effect  on  the  foetal  cardiovascular  system.  The  use  of  bromfenac 
during the third trimester of pregnancy should therefore be avoided, unless the benefit outweighs the 
risks. This has been addressed in the SmPC. 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Treatment  with  BFSS-OS  was  well  tolerated  and  there  were  few  adverse  events.  Besides  the 
important, but extremely rare risk for corneal complications, there were no safety concerns with Yellox. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.   
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan 
Table 19: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
(routine and 
additional) 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
be 
To 
monitored 
RMP and PSURs.   
closely 
in  the 
Important identified risks: 
Corneal epithelial 
events 
Corneal erosion  
Corneal perforation 
Corneal epithelial 
disorder / defect 
Corneal ulcer 
Corneal infiltrates 
Corneal scar  
terms listed as adverse reactions 
precaution  
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
 
“Patients with evidence of corneal epithelial breakdown 
should  immediately  discontinue  use  of  Yellox  and 
should be monitored closely for corneal health” 
SmPC, Section 4.4, Precautions 
 “Concomitant  use  of  NSAIDs  and  topical  steroids  may 
increase the potential for healing problems.” 
“In  susceptible  patients,  continued  use  of  topical 
NSAIDs,  including  Yellox  may  result  in  epithelial 
breakdown,  corneal  thinning,  corneal  erosion,  corneal 
ulceration or corneal perforation. These events may be 
sight  threatening.  Patients  with  evidence  of  corneal 
epithelial  breakdown  should  immediately  discontinue 
use of topical NSAIDs and should be closely monitored 
for corneal health.” 
”  ...patients  with  complicated  ocular  surgeries,  corneal 
denervation,  corneal  epithelial  defects,  diabetes 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 40/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Scleral adverse events 
Scleromalacia 
Infections of the eye  
Endophthalmitis 
Eye infection 
Corneal infection 
Events  related  to  a 
increased 
potential 
risk of bleeding 
Haemorrhagic 
retinopathy 
Conjunctival 
hyperaemia 
Eyelid bleeding 
Epistaxis 
Events  related  to  eye 
discomfort 
Eye pain 
Eye pruritus 
Eye irritation 
Eye redness 
Abnormal sensation in 
eye 
Ocular discomfort 
Photophobia 
Eye discharge 
Visual acuity events 
Visual acuity reduced 
Vision blurred 
Respiratory 
events 
adverse 
Asthma 
Cough 
Nasal Sinus drainage 
closely 
in  the 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
To 
be 
monitored 
RMP and PSURs.   
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
To 
be 
monitored 
RMP and PSURs.   
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
closely 
in  the 
mellitus  and  ocular  surface  diseases  e.g.  dry  eye 
syndrome,  rheumatoid  arthritis  or  repeat  ocular 
surgeries  within  a  short  period  of  time  may  be  at 
increased risk for corneal adverse reactions which may 
become  sight  threatening.  Topical  NSAIDs  should  be 
used with caution in these patients.” 
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
term listed as adverse reaction 
SmPC, Section 4.4, Precaution 
 “An  acute  ocular  infection  may  be  masked  by  the 
topical use of anti-inflammatory medicinal products.” 
PIL, Section 5 
“Discard  the  bottle  4  weeks  after  first  opening  to 
prevent infection even if there is solution remaining.” 
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
terms listed as adverse reactions 
SmPC, Section 4.4, Precaution 
“There have been reports that ophthalmic NSAIDs may 
cause  increased  bleeding  of  ocular  tissues  (including 
hyphaemias) in conjunction with ocular surgery. Yellox 
should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  known 
bleeding  tendencies  or  who  are  receiving  other 
medicinal products which may prolong bleeding time.” 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
terms listed as adverse reactions 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
terms listed as adverse reactions 
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
terms listed as adverse reactions 
SmPC, Section 4.3, Contraindication 
“Yellox  must  not  be  used  in  patients  with  known 
hypersensitivity to bromfenac, to any of the excipients, 
or  to  other  non-steroidal  anti-inflammatory  medicinal 
products  (NSAIDs).  Like  other  NSAIDs,  Yellox  is 
contraindicated in patients in whom attacks of asthma, 
urticaria  or  acute 
rhinitis  are  precipitated  by 
acetylsalicylic  acid  or  by other  medicinal  products  with 
prostaglandin synthetase inhibiting activity” 
SmPC, Section 4.4, Precaution 
“Yellox  contains  sodium  sulphite  which  may  cause 
anaphylactic 
allergic-type 
symptoms and life-threatening or less severe asthmatic 
episodes in susceptible patients. 
reactions 
including 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 41/45 
 
 
 
 
Cross-sensitivity:  There  is  the  potential  for  cross-
sensitivity  to  acetylsalicylic  acid,  phenylacetic  acid 
derivatives,  and  other  NSAIDs.  Therefore,  caution 
should  be  used  when  treating  individuals  who  have 
previously  exhibited  sensitivities  to  these  medicinal 
products  and  potential  risks  and  benefit  should  be 
carefully evaluated” 
SmPC, Section 4.8  
 
SmPC, Sections 4.3 and 4.4 
 
as described for respiratory adverse events 
terms listed as adverse reactions 
SmPC, Section 4.4, Precautions 
“Concomitant  use  of  NSAIDs  and  topical  steroids  may 
increase the potential for healing problems ” 
“Concomitant  use  of  ophthalmic  corticosteroids  with 
NSAIDs is not recommended, as this combination may 
lead to a higher risk of corneal adverse events.” 
SmPC, Section 4.2, Posology 
“The  dose  is  one  drop  of  Yellox  in  the  affected  eye(s) 
twice  daily,  beginning  the  next  day  after  cataract 
surgery and continuing through the first 2 weeks of the 
postoperative period ” 
n.a. 
Swelling/oedema 
adverse events 
Face swelling  
Eyelid oedema 
Important missing information 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Concomitant  use  of 
topical corticosteroids 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
More  than  15  days  of 
treatment  with  BFSS 
OS 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Potential  effect  on 
hepatic 
in 
patients with impaired 
liver function 
function 
Routine 
pharmacovigilance 
practices. 
Will  be  monitored  in 
RMP and PSURs. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application, is of the opinion that no additional 
risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
Two  pivotal  clinical  studies  conducted  after  the  same  protocol,  ISTA-BR-CS001-ER  and  ISTA-BR-
CS001-WR, contributed to efficacy data to the sought indication. Those studies were randomised multi-
centre,  double-masked,  parallel  studies,  investigating  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  topical  Bromfenac 
ophthalmic  solution  0.1  %  versus  placebo,  for  treatment  of  ocular  inflammation  following  cataract 
surgery. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 42/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients were subjects scheduled for unilateral cataract surgery with posterior chamber intraocular lens 
implantation. A summed score of ≥ 3 for anterior chamber cells (scale 0-4) and flare (scale 0-4) at the 
baseline examination (visit 1, study day 1) was required. The therapy was scheduled for up to 14 days 
The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients in the ITT group with cleared ocular inflammation 
in the study eye at visit 4 (day 15). 
The results of those two pivotal studies showed superior efficacy to placebo, in patients with anterior 
ocular inflammation subsequent to cataract extraction. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
Two major GCP issues were observed during the review of the pivotal trials: 1) Inadequate blinding of 
study medication; and 2) Inappropriate data management procedures.  
With regards to the impact of the lack of a strict double-masked trial conduct, it is considered unlikely 
that  a  bias  favouring  Yellox  would  have  changed  the  results  of  the  primary  endpoint  (and  secondary 
endpoints based on cell and flare scores) to a significant extent. Further, it is considered unlikely that 
possible unblinding could have favoured Yellox with regard to adverse event reporting.  
The  concerns  pertaining  to  the  GCP  issues  with  non-compliance  to  the  main  principles  for  data 
management in clinical trials for traceability of source data during the procedures of data verification of 
the  data  source  have  been  sufficiently  addressed.  There  were  no  indications  that  the  deficiencies 
observed significantly influenced the study results. 
There was insufficient information to conclude on whether the efficacy data with the originally sought 
formulation,  BFSS-OS  could  be  extrapolated  to  Yellox  since  the  small  tolerability  trial  in  healthy 
subjects was not considered useful to bridge the efficacy results obtained in the two pivotal trials, and 
the  rabbit  pharmacokinetic  study  (CRO  28)  comparing  the  ocular  penetration  of  the  old  formulation 
and  Yellox  lacked  assay  sensitivity.  However,  the  formulation  has  been  amended  and  these  concerns 
are no longer considered valid. 
It was discussed that the large window, i.e. 16-32 hours, between the surgical procedure and the first 
application  of  trial  medication  may  not  be  optimal  in  a  clinical  setting.  Post-hoc  analyses  revealed, 
however, similar efficacy independent on the time from surgery to first application of the medication. 
Initiation  of  therapy  prior  to  surgery  may  have  a  beneficial  effect  in  the  prevention/treatment  of 
inflammation, but this was not investigated. 
Overall,  the  claimed  therapeutic  indication  “pain”  was  not  supported  by  the  provided  data.  Since  this 
part of the sought therapeutic indication has been deleted, the problem was considered solved. 
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
The reported adverse events pattern is not concerning, either as regards the frequency or the nature 
of ocular adverse events. A significant post-marketing experience with an estimate of over 20 million 
exposed patients was reassuring.  
A  main  concern  with  topical,  ocular  NSAIDs  is  the  potential  risk  for  adverse  effect  on  the  cornea, 
especially in cases where the treatment duration is prolonged or if the cornea is compromised. This risk 
is  relevant  also  for  Yellox  as  there  are  post-marketing  reports  of  such  complications  including 
extremely  rare,  but  potentially  sight-threatening  cases  of  corneal  ulcers  and  perforations.  The  same 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 43/45 
 
 
 
 
 
risk is evident in case of off-label use, for example after corneal refractive procedures, or if used long-
term in other ocular inflammatory conditions like blepharitis and anterior uveitis.  
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Including  the  Japanese  population,  more  than  1200  subjects  were  exposed  to  bromfenac  eye  drops 
during  the  development  programme.  However,  the  quality  of  the  Japanese  data  might  be  questioned 
due to presumed differences in traditions in collection of safety data. 
Although  most  Japanese  studies  contained  a  representative  patient  population,  surprisingly  few 
adverse events were reported from these studies and there are uncertainties regarding the quality of 
reporting and whether this will affect the overall adverse event profile of Yellox.  
The  exact  duration  of  treatment  in  some  Japanese  studies  was  not  identifiable  in  the  dossier  -  the 
intended  treatment  duration  was  2  weeks  in  the  phase  II  studies  and  in  the  pivotal  trials,  but  a 
considerable, though not identifiable, part of the study population received longer therapy. With these 
uncertainties, the total exposure is rather limited. 
Approximately one third of the BFSS-treated population still had signs of a post-operative inflammation 
after  14  days  treatment  and  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  Yellox will  be  used  for  more  than  2  weeks  in 
this subpopulation. Since the experience from longer-term treatment is limited, the magnitude of the 
risk  for  corneal  complications  in  case  of  extended  use  is  not  characterised.  However,  with  the  SmPC 
text  in  section  4.2:  “The  treatment  should  not  exceed  2  weeks  as  safety  data  beyond  this  is  not 
available”, this has been addressed satisfactorily. 
Bromfenac  was  originally  approved  in  the  US  as  an  oral  formulation  for  short-term  analgesia,  but 
withdrawn  from  the  market  due  to  hepatotoxicity  associated  with  long-term  use.  No  relevant 
abnormalities  in  hepatic  enzymes  were  identified  in  the  studied  population  and  there  have  been  no 
such related post-marketing reports.  
Benefit-risk balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
  Clinical context  
Presumingly, it would have been in the best interest of the patients to start therapy before surgery, or 
at least as early as possible after surgery. However, such recommendations are not supported by the 
study  data.  The  wording  in  section  4.2  of  the  SmPC  “The  dose  is  one  drop  of  Yellox  in  the  affected 
eye(s)  twice  daily,  beginning  the  next  day  after  cataract  surgery  and  continuing  through  the  first  2 
weeks of the postoperative period” is in accordance with the pivotal clinical studies.  
  Benefit-risk balance 
The two pivotal trials showed superior efficacy to vehicle in patients with anterior ocular inflammation 
subsequent  to  cataract  extraction.  The  safety  and  tolerability  pattern  does  not  raise  major  concerns, 
neither  the  frequency  nor  the  nature  of  ocular  adverse  events.  A  reassuring  and  significant  post-
marketing experience with an estimate of over 20 million exposed patients adds to a positive picture. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 44/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Systemic or serious adverse events are not a prominent issue. However, the limited experience with a 
treatment exposure exceeding 2 weeks is a clear limitation. 
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
Overall, the benefits encompassing superior efficacy towards placebo in the treatment of postoperative 
ocular inflammation following cataract extraction in adults are considered to outweigh the risks. 
2.8.2.  Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
 
routine pharmacovigilance was adequate to monitor the safety of the product 
  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
decision  that  the  benefit-risk  balance  of  Yellox  in  the  treatment  of  postoperative  ocular  inflammation 
following cataract extraction in adults was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the 
marketing authorisation. 
Assessment report  
EMA/431843/2011  
Page 45/45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
