European Medicines Agency  
EMEA/H/C/545 
EUROPEAN PUBLIC ASSESSMENT REPORT (EPAR) 
YENTREVE 
EPAR summary for the public 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Yentreve? 
Yentreve is a medicine containing the active substance duloxetine. It is available as blue (20 mg) and 
orange (40 mg) capsules. 
What is Yentreve used for? 
Yentreve is used to treat moderate to severe stress urinary incontinence (SUI) in women. SUI is 
accidental leaks of urine during physical exertion or when coughing, laughing, sneezing, lifting or 
exercising. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Yentreve used? 
The recommended dose of Yentreve is 40 mg twice a day. Some patients may benefit from starting 
treatment at a dose of 20 mg twice a day for two weeks before increasing to 40 mg twice a day, to 
reduce nausea (feeling sick) and dizziness. The benefit of treatment should be re-assessed at regular 
intervals. Combining Yentreve with pelvic floor muscle training may provide additional benefit. 
How does Yentreve work? 
The active substance in Yentreve, duloxetine, is a serotonin-noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitor (SNRI). 
It works by preventing the neurotransmitters 5-hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin) and 
noradrenaline from being taken back up into nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. 
Neurotransmitters are chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with one another. By blocking 
their re-uptake, duloxetine increases the amount of these neurotransmitters in the spaces between these 
nerve cells, increasing the level of communication between the cells. How duloxetine works in SUI is 
not clear but it is thought that, by increasing the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine and noradrenaline at 
the level of the nerves that control the muscle of the urethra (the tube that leads from the bladder to 
outside), duloxetine causes a stronger closure of the urethra during urine storage. By closing the 
urethra more powerfully, Yentreve prevents the unwanted loss of urine during physical stress such as 
coughing or laughing. 
How has Yentreve been studied? 
Yentreve has been studied in a total of 2,850 women with SUI. The four main studies involved 1,913 
women and lasted 12 weeks, comparing Yentreve (mostly as 40 mg twice daily) with placebo (a 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dummy treatment). The main measures of effectiveness were incontinence episode frequency (IEF, the 
number of episodes of incontinence per week) recorded in patient diaries and the patients’ scores on 
an incontinence-specific quality-of-life questionnaire (I-QOL). 
What benefit has Yentreve shown during the studies? 
In all four studies, the patients treated with Yentreve had fewer episodes of incontinence after 12 
weeks, with about four or five fewer episodes of incontinence per week, in comparison with the 
number before the study. The IEF decreased by 52% in the Yentreve group, compared with a decrease 
of 33% in the placebo-treated group. The I-QOL questionnaire scores were also improved in the 
Yentreve group compared with the placebo group. Yentreve was more effective than placebo only in 
patients who had more than 14 incontinence episodes per week (moderate to severe SUI) at the start of 
the study. 
What is the risk associated with Yentreve? 
The most common side effects with Yentreve (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are nausea, dry 
mouth, constipation and fatigue (tiredness). For the full list of all side effects reported with Yentreve, 
see the Package Leaflet. 
Yentreve should not be used in people who may be hypersensitive (allergic) to duloxetine or any of 
the other ingredients. Yentreve should not be used in patients with certain types of liver disease or 
with severe kidney disease. Yentreve should not be used with monoamine oxidase inhibitors (a group 
of antidepressants), fluvoxamine (another antidepressant), or ciprofloxacin or enoxacin (types of 
antibiotic). Treatment with Yentreve should not be started in patients with uncontrolled high blood 
pressure, because of a risk of hypertensive crisis (sudden, dangerously high blood pressure). 
Why has Yentreve been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) decided that Yentreve’s benefits are 
greater than its risks for the treatment of moderate to severe SUI. The Committee recommended that 
Yentreve be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Yentreve: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union 
for Yentreve to Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. on 11 August 2004. 
The full EPAR for Yentreve is available here. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2008. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
