13 December 2013 
EMA/121591/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Ariclaim/Cymbalta/Xeristar/Yentreve 
(duloxetine hydrochloride) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000552/P46/039, 039.1 (Ariclaim)                          
EMEA/H/C/000572/P46/044, 044.1 (Cymbalta)           
EMEA/H/C/000573/P46/045, 045.1 (Xeristar)        
EMEA/H/C/000545/P46/040, 040.1 (Yentreve)  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
On 2 March 2012, the MAH submitted the final clinical study report for study F1J-MC-HMCL (HMCL), ‘A 
Double-Blind, Efficacy and Safety Study of Duloxetine versus Placebo in the Treatment of Children and 
Adolescents  with  Major  Depressive  Disorder’,  in  accordance  with  Article  46  of  Regulation  (EC)  No 
1901/2006,  as  amended.  On  11  April  2012  a  second  study,  F1J-MC-HMCK  (HMCK),  ‘A  Double-Blind, 
Efficacy  and Safety  Study  of  Duloxetine  versus  Placebo  in  the  Treatment  of  Children  and  Adolescents 
with  Major  Depressive  Disorder’  was  submitted  accompanied  by  a  clinical  overview  discussing  the 
results of both studies and any considerations for the Product Information.  
These studies are provided in line with the current 6 months reporting timeline. 
The MAH stated that a brief summary of the now submitted paediatric studies results will be proposed 
for  inclusion  in  the  SmPC  (Sections  4.2.  and  5.1)  within  2  months  of  the  CHMP’s  assessment  of  this 
Article  46  filing,  in  order  to  provide  appropriate  SmPC  wording  taking  into  consideration  the  CHMP’s 
review of the data. 
II. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
II.1  Information on the development program 
Duloxetine is a combined serotonin (5-HT) and noradrenaline (NA) reuptake inhibitor. It weakly inhibits 
dopamine  reuptake  with  no  significant  affinity  for  histaminergic,  dopaminergic,  cholinergic  and 
adrenergic receptors.  
Duloxetine is authorised in EU in adults for the treatment of major depressive episodes; the treatment 
of  diabetic  peripheral  neuropathic  pain;  the  treatment  of  generalised  anxiety  disorder  and  for  women 
for the treatment of moderate to severe stress urinary incontinence.  
Studies HMCK and HMCL were conducted to comply with a US postmarketing requirement. 
The Phase 2 paediatric study (F1J-MC-HMFN [HMFN1]) that preceded HMCK and HMCL was conducted 
as  part  of  a  paediatric  plan  committed  with  the  FDA  and  submitted  per  Article  46  in  April  2009  with 
CHMP outcome on 30 June 2009 (EMEA/412163/2009).  
On  19  October  2009  the  applicant  submitted  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  an  application  for  a 
paediatric investigation plan including a deferral and a waiver for Duloxetine hydrochloride in diabetic 
neuropathic  pain,  chronic  pain,  major  depressive  disorder,  generalized  anxiety  disorder  and  stress 
urinary  incontinence.  The  European  Medicines  Agency  adopted  a  decision  granting  a  waiver  for 
duloxetine hydrochloride for all subsets of the paediatric population from birth to less than 18 years of 
age; on the grounds that the specific medicinal product is likely to be unsafe. [EMA decision P/21/2010 
of 02 March 2010 revised 17 November 2010 (P/268/2010)].  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 2/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
At the time of submitting the application for the paediatric investigation plan, the phase II study HMFN 
was yet completed and the two phase III studies (HMCL and HMCK) were on-going.  
The EMA Paediatric Working Party in their Assessment of the Paediatric Needs – Psychiatry 
(EMEA/288917/2007), considered duloxetine to be devoid of interest to be developed in paediatric 
psychiatric indications or below the authorised age group.  
Two separate reports will be provided by the Company with pooled data from duloxetine paediatric 
studies: 
- a report on population PK 
- a report discussing observations regarding growth and development.  
No additional on-going or planned studies for the indication are declared. 
II.2  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
Duloxetine is authorised as 30 mg, 40 mg and 60 mg, hard gastro-resistant capsules. Duloxetine is not 
indicated for use in children. No suitable paediatric formulation is available.  
30-mg capsules of duloxetine hydrochloride (size 3 capsule) were dispensed in these two phase III 
studies. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Patients involved in the studies now submitted were treated with the currently marketed formulation. 
The commercial formulation seems to be acceptable for older children. 
20 and 30 mg capsules of duloxetine enteric-coated pellets were administered to patients participating 
in Phase II HMFN study, which included children and adolescents form 7 up to 18 years old. No further 
data on PK bioequivalence between both formulations are provided. 
II.3  Non-clinical aspects 
No information provided. 
Rapporteur’s comments:  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 3/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The MAH should submit relevant data from completed juvenile studies in order to evaluate the 
inclusion of this information in the SPC. 
II.4  Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The  MAH  provides  an  overview  of  2  completed  Phase  3  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled 
studies  of  duloxetine  [F1J-MC-HMCK  (HMCK)]  and  F1J-MC-HMCL  (HMCL)]  in  paediatric  patients  with 
major depressive disorder (MDD).  
The design of both studies are the same with the only difference that HMCK is a flexible dosing study 
(60 mg to 120mg once  daily) whereas HMCL is a fixed-dose study during the acute treatment period 
(30  mg  and  60  mg  once  daily).  Both  studies  included  a  fluoxetine  treatment  arm  to  test  assay 
sensitivity. 
A  number  of  plasma  samples  were  collected  in  both  studies  in  order  to  characterize  the 
pharmacokinetics of duloxetine at steady-state. 
•  Pharmacokinetic results 
The findings related to the descriptive summary statistics of duloxetine steady-state concentrations in 
Studies HMCL and HMCK have been summarized.  
HMCL Study 
A total of 1157 plasma samples (collected throughout the full 36-week study) were obtained from 268 
patients  for  the  measurement  of  duloxetine  concentrations.  730  quantifiable  plasma  concentrations 
from 214 patients were included in the PK evaluation.  
Of the 214 patients that contributed quantifiable plasma concentrations, 37% were children (aged 7 to 
11 years) and 63% were adolescents (aged 12 to 18 years). The number of males and females were 
similar at 48% and 52%, respectively. The majority of the patients were nonsmokers (92%), extensive 
CYP2D6 metabolizers (84%) and White (59%). Seventy percent (70%) of female patients had attained 
menarche.  Disposition  of  doses  for  the  quantifiable  plasma  concentrations  included  in  the  PK 
assessment was 20%, 30-mg; 46%, 60-mg; 14%, 90-mg; and 20%, 120-mg duloxetine administered 
once  daily.  Summary  statistics  for  duloxetine  concentrations,  age,  and  body  weight  by  dose  are 
presented in Table HMCL.11.25 below 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 4/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Typical duloxetine plasma concentrations increased in proportion to the increase in dose. This apparent 
dose proportionality was observed for both children and adolescents. For a given dose, the median 
duloxetine concentrations as well as the range of concentration were similar in children and 
adolescents. Because the PK of duloxetine are linear, dose-normalized plasma concentrations were 
utilized for subsequent evaluation of the effect of the various patient factors on duloxetine plasma 
concentrations. 
HMCK Study 
A  total  of  793  plasma  samples  were  obtained  from  the  patients  for  the  measurement  of  duloxetine 
concentrations.  532  quantifiable  plasma  concentrations  from  152  patients  were  included  in  the  PK 
evaluation.  
Of  the  152  patients  that  contributed  quantifiable  plasma  concentrations,  36%  were  children  (7  to  11 
years  old)  and  64%  were  adolescents  (12  to  18  years  old).  The  number  of  males  and  females  were 
similar at 51% and 49%, respectively. The majority of the patients were nonsmokers (89%), extensive 
CYP2D6  metabolizers  (93%)  and  Caucasian  (84%).  Sixty-four  percent  (64%)  of  female  patients  had 
attained menarche. Disposition of doses for the 532 quantifiable plasma concentrations included in the 
PK  assessment  was  <1%,  30-mg;  48%,  60-mg;  13%,  90-mg;  and  39%,  120-mg  duloxetine 
administered  once-daily.  Summary  statistics  for  duloxetine  concentrations,  age  and  body  weight  by 
dose are presented in Table HMCK.11.25 below. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 5/60 
 
 
 
   
 
Duloxetine plasma concentrations appeared to increase in a linear manner with increasing doses in the 
dose  range  of  60  to  120  mg  as  shown  in  Table  HMCK.11.25.  For  a  given  dose,  there  were  no 
discernible differences in median duloxetine concentration in children and adolescents; the distribution 
and  range  of  concentration  were  similar  in  the  2  populations.  The  median  dose-normalized 
concentration  in  females  is  similar  to  that  in  males  along  with  the  distribution  range  of  duloxetine 
concentration.  Similarly,  dose-normalized  steady  state  duloxetine  concentrations  were  similar  in 
subgroups  defined  by  ethnicity,  race,  age  and  body  weight.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  number  of 
patients is low for certain ethnicity (Hispanics) and race (Native American, Black, Multi-racial) relative 
to Caucasians. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
The results of the phase II study (HMFN) showed that duloxetine plasma concentrations increased in 
proportion to the increase of the dose, and that gender (and not age, body weight, creatinine 
clearance, CYP2D6 status, or dose) was the only characteristic that seemed to influence the 
pharmacokinetic of duloxetine. As it was observed in adults the inter- and intrapatient variability is 
very high, with an overlap in duloxetine concentration-time profile in females and males.  
In Studies HMCL and HMCK now submitted subjects received 30 to 120 mg duloxetine doses regardless 
of they were children or adolescents (30 to 120 mg in HMCL; 60 to 120 mg in HMCK). The steady-state 
duloxetine plasma concentrations increased with increasing dose in both children and adolescents. No 
relevant differences in Cmax and AUC were observed between the two age groups. Patient 
characteristics such as CYP2D6 metabolizer status, ethnicity, sex, age, and body weight did not appear 
to have an effect on steady-state duloxetine plasma concentrations. No dose adjustment seems to be 
required in the adolescent population with respect to the younger group.  
The MAH states that a comprehensive report on the population PK of duloxetine in children and 
adolescents using data collected from this study and others will be provided as a separate report. In 
that report, PK data from this study will be analysed using population modelling approaches along with 
data from Studies HMFN, HMCL and HMCK. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 6/60 
 
 
 
   
 
2. Clinical studies 
Study Description 
Study 
No. of 
Primary 
Treatments 
Subjects 
Endopoint 
F1J-MC-HMCK 
Phase 3, multicenter, 
Duloxetine 30 mg 
N=337  
Change from 
randomized, double-
to 120 mg QD 
US 
blind, flexible dosing, 
placebo-controlled 
Fluoxetine 20-40 
enter long-term 
(261 patients 
Eastern Europe 
Western Europe 
South Africa 
study to assess efficacy 
mg QD 
exposure) 
and safety of duloxetine 
(60 to 120 mg QD) in 
paediatric patients with 
Placebo 
MDD. A fluoxetine 
treatment arm is 
included for assay 
sensitivity. 
baseline to last 
visit of the 
acute treatment 
period in the 
CDRS-R total 
score  
F1J-MC-HMCL 
Phase 3, multicenter, 
Duloxetine 30 mg 
N=463  
Change from 
US 
Canada  
Mexico 
Argentina 
randomized, double-
to 120 mg QD 
blind, fixed-dose during 
acute period/flexible 
Fluoxetine 20-40 
enter long-term 
(322 patients 
dosing during long-term 
mg QD 
exposure) 
Placebo 
exposure, placebo-
controlled study to 
assess efficacy and 
safety of duloxetine in 
paediatric patients with 
MDD. A fluoxetine 
treatment arm is 
included for assay 
sensitivity. 
baseline to last 
visit of the 
acute treatment 
period in the 
CDRS-R total 
score 
  Methods 
•  Study design 
The  two  studies  had  4  periods  and  employed  stratified  randomization  by  age  (children  aged  7  to  11 
years; adolescents aged 12 to 17 years) to allow a separate assessment of efficacy and safety in these 
2 distinct subsets of the paediatric population. Enrolment was monitored to ensure at least 40% of the 
patient population was children.  
- Study period I: screening phase of no more than 30 days. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 7/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
-  Study  period  II:  10-week  acute  treatment  phase  which  included  a  2-week  titration  period  aimed  to 
improving tolerability 
- Study period III: a 6-month double-blind extension period. 
- Study period IV: a 2-week tapering phase to minimize discontinuation AEs. 
Placebo assigned patients in study period II were assigned to duloxetine flexible doses for study period 
III.  Patients discontinued the study if at any time they could not tolerate the study drug sufficiently to 
remain compliant based on the investigator’s judgment. Additionally, patients discontinued the study if 
in their or in the investigator’s opinion there was no adequate response or if patient safety may have 
been compromised. 
Study HMCK  (Flexible-dose study). 
During the acute and extension phases, the duloxetine dose could be adjusted within the study range 
(60 mg to 120 mg) based on the investigator’s clinical judgment of treatment response and tolerability 
at the current dose. If a dose decrease occurred, no further dose increases were permitted. 
Study HMCL (Fixed-dose study) 
Three fixed-dose arms were included: duloxetine 30 mg, duloxetine 60 mg, and fluoxetine 20 mg.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 8/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
•  Objectives 
Primary Objective 
To  assess  the  efficacy  of  duloxetine  (60  mg  once  daily  for  Study  HMCL;  60  mg  to  120  mg  for  Study 
HMCK) compared with placebo, as measured by CDRS-R total score, in the acute treatment of children 
(aged 7 through 11 years) and adolescents (aged 12 through17 years) with major depressive disorder 
without psychotic features, single or recurrent episode. 
Secondary Objectives 
• To test assay sensitivity by comparing fluoxetine with placebo during the acute treatment. 
• To evaluate the efficacy of treatment of duloxetine (30 and 60 mg or 60-120 mg QD) compared with 
placebo during acute treatment phase as measured by CDRS-R total score, CDRS-R subscales, 
Remission rates, Clinical Global Impression of Severity (CGI-S) scale. 
• To assess changes in depressive symptoms during a 6-month, double-blind extension phase 
using the above measures  
• To evaluate the safety and tolerability of treatment with duloxetine compared with placebo during 
acute treatment phase  
• To assess safety
 a n d  t o le r a b ilit y  o f d u lo x e t in e  d u r in g  a  6
-month, double-blind extension phase.  
• To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of duloxetine at steady-state.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 9/60 
 
 
 
   
 
• To compare the steady-state duloxetine PK with historical adult duloxetine PK using duloxetine 
steady-state concentration data and PK parameters. 
• To investigate the relationship between duloxetine exposure and efficacy endpoints during acute 
treatment using steady-state duloxetine plasma concentrations and CDRS-R total score. 
•  Study population /Sample size 
Inclusion Criteria 
Male and female outpatients 7 to17 years of age who met DSM-IVTR criteria for MDD, with a severity 
defined  by  CDRS-R  Total  Score  of  >40  and  a  Clinical  Global  Impression  of  Severity  (CGI-S)  of  >4  at 
each screening and randomization visit.  
The  Mini  International  Neuropsychiatric  Interview  for  children  and  adolescents  (MINI-KID)  was  also 
administered to support the diagnosis of MDD. 
Exclusion Criteria 
•Any  lifetime  psychotic  disorders,  bipolar  disorder  (or  those  with  1  or  more  first  degree  relatives 
[parents  or  siblings]  with  diagnosed  Bipolar  I  disorder),  OCD,  eating  disorders,  or  pervasive 
development disorder.  
•Suicide attempt within 1 year of Visit 1 or, in the opinion of the investigator, were currently at risk of 
suicide. 
•Any changes in psychotherapy within 6 weeks of Visit 1. Patients requiring changes to psychotherapy 
during  Study  Period  II  may  have  been  discontinued  from  the  study  if  such  changes  could  confound 
assessment of efficacy. Changes to psychotherapy were allowed during Study Period III.  
Sample size 
A  sample  size  of  100  patients  in  each  group  was  calculated  to  have  adequate  power  (approximately 
80%  power)  to  detect  an  effect  size  of  0.40  (duloxetine  efficacy  relative  to  placebo  on  CDRS-R  total 
score)  using  a  2-group  t-test  with  a  0.05  2-sided  significance  level.  Allowing  for  10%  of  patients  to 
have missing post-baseline data, at least 112 patients were randomized to each treatment arm. 
•  Treatments 
Enrolled patients were assigned to duloxetine once daily (30 mg or 60 mg for Study HMCL; 60 mg to 
120  mg  for  Study  HMCK),  fluoxetine  once  daily  (20  mg  for  Study  HMCL;  20  mg  to  40  mg  for  Study 
HMCK)  or  placebo.  Duloxetine  30  mg  and  Fluoxetine  10  mg  were  administrated  for  titration  and 
tapering.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 10/60 
 
 
 
   
 
Concomitant  medications  with  primarily  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  activity  were  not  allowed. 
Cough  and  cold  medications  containing  pseudoephedrine  and  antihistamines  (eg,  diphenhydramine) 
were allowed for ≤3 consecutive days or 15 cumulative days during Study Period II or 10 cumulative 
days per month in Study Period III. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  the  contrast  between  duloxetine  and  placebo  at  the  last  visit  in 
Study  Period  II  (Visit  8,  Week  10),  based  on  a  mixed  model  repeated  measures  (MMRM)  analysis  on 
change from baseline in the Children’s Depression Rating Scale-Revised (CDRS-R) total score. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints: 
•  Change from baseline to endpoint for CDRS-R total score, CDRS-R Item 13 (suicidal ideation), 
and CGI-S 
•  Change  from  baseline  at  each  postbaseline  visit  for  CDRS-R  total  score  (Study  Periods  II/III 
and  III),  CDRS-R  Total  Score  (excluding  age  and  age*visit  covariates),  CDRS-R  Subscale 
(mood, somatic, subjective, behavior) and Item 13 scores, CGI-S 
•  Categorical variable for Remission Rate (CDRS-R) at endpoint, CDRS-R Remission Rate at last 
2  nonmissing  visits,  30%  Response  Rate  (CDRS-R  total  score),  50%  Response  Rate  (CDRS-R 
total score), Continuous Responder Analysis (CDRS-R total score), and CGI-S Response Rate 
•  Categorical  Variable  at  each  postbaseline  Visit  Visitwise  for  Remission  Rate,  30%  Response 
Rate  (CDRS-R  total  score),  50%  Response  Rate  (CDRS-R  total  score),  and  CGI-S  Response 
Rate 
• 
Time to event for time to first remission (defined by the first visit that CDRS-R total score of ≤
28), and time to first - 50% Response on CDRS total score  
Safety endpoints:  
• 
Percentages  of  patients  that  reported  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs), 
discontinuation  emergent  adverse  events  (AEs),  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs),  and 
discontinuations due to AEs 
•  Mean  change  in  laboratory  analytes,  height,  weight,  vital  signs,  and  ECG  intervals  from 
baseline to endpoint 
•  Categorical analyses of potentially clinically significant (PCS) changes in vital signs and ECG 
• 
Proportion of patients with treatment-emergent abnormal laboratory values 
•  Columbia  Suicide  Severity  Rating  Scale  (C-SSRS)  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs),  treatment-
emergent  adverse  events  (TEAEs),  vital  signs  and  weight,  discontinuation  due  to  adverse 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 11/60 
 
 
   
 
events, laboratory measurements and ECGs. Suicide risk and suicide-related events (behaviour 
and/or ideation) were assessed via the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS).  
Efficacy Measures 
•  Children’s Depression Rating Scale-Revised (CDRS-R) (Poznanski et al. 1983, 1984, 1985) is a 
clinician-rated  instrument  designed  to  measure  the  presence  and  severity  of  depression  in 
children. The scale was modeled after the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAMD) for adults 
(Hamilton 1960) and includes questions about school. The scale consists of 17 items scored on 
a  1-to-5-  or  1-to-7-point scale. A  rating  of  1 indicates  normal functioning.  Total  scores  range 
from 17 to 113. In general, scores below 20 indicate an absence of depression, scores of 20 to 
30 indicate borderline depression, and scores of 40 to 60 indicate moderate depression. 
•  Clinical Global Impressions of Severity (CGI-S) Scale (Guy 1976): Evaluation of the severity of 
illness at the time of assessment. The score ranged from 1 (normal, not at all ill) to 7 (among 
the most extremely ill patients). The CGI-S had to be administered by a study physician in the 
presence of the patient or after having been in the presence of the patient. 
•  Remission rate (CDRS-R): CDRS-R total score of ≤ 28 at endpoint 
•  30% Response Rate (CDRS-R total score): ≥30% reduction from baseline to LOCF endpoint 
•  50% Response Rate (CDRS-R total score) 050% reduction from baseline to LOCF endpoin 
•  Statistical Methods 
Efficacy  and  safety  analysis  were  conducted  on  an  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  basis  unless  otherwise 
specified. All tests of hypotheses were to be based on the significance level of 0.05. No adjustments for 
multiple comparisons were made. 
The  primary  analysis  method  was  a  repeated  measures  analysis;  that  is,  a  restricted  maximum 
likelihood  (REML)-based,  mixed-effects  repeated  measures  (MMRM)  analysis  using  all  the  longitudinal 
observations  at  each  post-baseline  visit.  Significance  tests  between  duloxetine  (60  mg  for  HMCL,  60 
mg to 120 mg for HMCK) and placebo  were based on least-squares means (LSMean) using a 2-sided 
α=0.05.  
LSMean was used for the statistical comparison using ANOVA or ANCOVA. The last observation carried 
forward (LOCF) method was used for these analyses. 
Categorical  comparisons  between  treatment  groups  were  performed  using  Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
(CMH),  controlling  for  pooled  investigative  site,  and  Fisher’s  exact  tests,  where  appropriate,  or 
Pearson’s chisquared test 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 12/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The  secondary  efficacy  analyses  was  performed  on  the  secondary  variables  mentioned  above. 
Descriptive statistics were used to summarize these variables by treatment (fluoxetine and duloxetine) 
group  during  Study  Period  III.  The  treatment-by-investigator  interaction  was  tested  using  a  full 
ANCOVA  model.  When  the  interaction  was  statistically  significant,  the  nature  of  the  interaction  was 
investigated  and  the  appropriate  statistical  approaches  were  adapted  based  on  the  findings  from  the 
investigation. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
These two efficacy studies included children and adolescents diagnosed of Major Depressive Disorder 
according to standard criteria. Patients were required to have a minimum severity degree to be 
enrolled. No specific requirement regarding the concomitant or previous use of  psychotherapy was 
made.  
The main proof of efficacy relies on the relief of the depression symptoms after 10 weeks of treatment.  
In addition to the comparison with placebo an active arm (fluoxetine) was included in order to provide 
assay sensitivity to the trial. Fluoxetine is authorized in EU countries by Mutual Recognition Procedure 
with the indication in children and adolescents aged 8 years and above (Moderate to severe major 
depressive episode, if depression is unresponsive to psychological therapy after 4-6 sessions). It can 
be accepted as an adequate control treatment. After the acute phase, patients entered in an extension 
phase where only active treatments (duloxetine and fluoxetine) were administered.  
Standards methods of measurement were employed. Relief of MDD symptoms were measured through 
the CDRS-R  total score as primary endpoint and a global assessment (CGI-I) was included among the 
secondary endpoints. Additionally the relevance of the changes was estimated as remission and 
responder rates, which is agreeable.  
According to the Guideline on clinical investigation of medicinal products in the treatment of depression 
(CPMP/EWP/518/97) and also to the current draft revision (Rev.1) differentiation should be made 
between children and adolescents either in separate studies or stratifying for age group in the case of 
an only trial. In these studies stratification has been employed although no sample size calculation for 
demonstration of efficacy in each group independently has performed.   
  Results 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 1073 patients were screened and 800 patients were enrolled in the acute treatment phases 
of  Studies  HMCK  and  HMCL  combined.  A  total  of  590  (74%)  patients  completed  the  acute  treatment 
phase.  
A  total  of  376  patients  completed  the  extension  phase  of  these  studies.  For  Study  HMCK,  completion 
rates across the treatment arms were 67.5% for duloxetine patients, 70.6% for fluoxetine patients and 
80.2%  for  placebo/duloxetine  patients.  For  Study  HMCL,  completion  rates  across  the  treatment  arms 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 13/60 
 
 
 
   
 
were  58.9%  DLX60/DLX60120,  61.7%  DLX30/DLX60120,  58,3%  for  fluoxetine  patients  and  53.7% 
PBO/DLX60120. 
HMCL 
HMCK 
DLX60 
DLX30 
FLX20 
PBO 
DLX60-120 
FLX20-40 
PBO 
Planned 
112 
112 
112 
112 
112 
112 
112 
Randomized 
108 
116 
117 
122 
117 
117 
103 
Treated in 8 
wk Period II 
Completed 
Period II 
108 
116 
117 
122 
117 
117 
103 
75 
81 
84 
85 
87 
91 
87 
DLX 60/ 
DLX 30/ 
FLX20/FL
PBO/DL
DLX 60/ 
FLX20-40/ 
PBO/DLX
DLX60-120 
DLX60-120 
X20-40 
X60-120 
DLX60-120 
FLX20-40 
60-120 
Entered 26 wk 
73 
81 
84 
82 
83 
92 
86 
period III 
Completed 26 
43 
50 
49 
44 
56 
65 
69 
wk period III 
•  Baseline data 
Table 5.1 show the key baseline characteristics of enrolled patients. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 14/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Rapporteur’s comments  
Patients with moderate levels of depression were preferably recruited. Patients had a mean CDR-S 
total score around 60 and a CGI-Severity score around 4.5 at baseline. Diagnosis was confirmed by the 
Mini International Neuro psychiatric Interview for paediatric population. No relevant baseline 
differences between groups with respect to demographic characteristics (age, gender, baseline 
severity) are observed. However, no data regarding the use of non-pharmacological treatment 
(psychotherapy) have been provided.  
Patients were mainly recruited from non-EU regions (mainly USA). Only 130 patients (17 from Western 
Europe – Finland, France and Germany -; and 113 from Eastern Europe – Slovakia, Ukraine, Estonia 
and Russia) out of the total 800 randomised patients represent the European population included in 
both trials. The extrapolation of the results may be object of concern.  
Study designs were very similar except for the different regimen of drug administration (fixed dose in 
HMCL and flexible dose in HMCK).  No formal dose finding study has been performed in 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 15/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
children/adolescents. Doses of duloxetine and fluoxetine were those already administered to the adult 
population. Posology was determined by pK results. It was suggested that drug exposure was not 
influenced by factors such as the age, the gender or weight.  No dose adjustment was subsequently 
implemented.  
•  Efficacy results 
F1J-MC-HMCL Study 
 10-week acute treatment phase 
Mean  improvement  in  depression  symptom  severity  was  observed  for  the  duloxetine  60  mg-treated 
group  compared  with  the  placebo-treated  group  at  Week  10;  however,  the  difference  in  the  mean 
change  (baseline  to  Visit  8)  between  the  duloxetine  60  mg  treatment  group  and  placebo  was  not 
statistically significant.  
Similarly, mean improvement in depression symptom severity was observed for the duloxetine 30 mg-
treated group compared with the placebo-treated group at Visit 8; however, the difference in the mean 
change  (baseline  to  Week  10)  between  the  duloxetine  30  mg  treatment  group  and  placebo  was  not 
statistically significant.  
Mean  improvement  in  depression  symptom  severity  was  observed  for  the  fluoxetine  20  mg-treated 
group compared with the placebo-treated group at Visit 8; however, the difference in the mean change 
(baseline  to  Visit  8)  between  the  fluoxetine  20  mg  treatment  group  and  placebo  was  not  statistically 
significant. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 16/60 
 
 
 
   
 
The  study  is  considered  to  be  inconclusive  as  neither  the  investigational  drug  (duloxetine)  nor  the 
active  control  (fluoxetine)  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant  separation  from  placebo  on  the 
primary efficacy analysis of mean change from baseline to Week 10 on the CDRS-R total score. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 17/60 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Secondary  efficacy  analyses  of  the  10-week  acute  treatment  period  generally  showed  no  statistically 
significant  differences  between  the  active  drugs  (duloxetine  and  fluoxetine)  or  between  the  active 
drugs and placebo; except for a few exceptions.  
a)  both  the  duloxetine  60  mg  and  30  mg  treatment  arms  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant 
difference from placebo in the overall main effect of treatment analysis, 
b)  in  the  subgroup  analysis  of  mean  change  in  the  CDRS-R  total  score  by  gender,  statistically 
significant improvement was observed for duloxetine 60 mg- and for duloxetine 30 mg-treated females 
compared with placebo-treated females.  
c) in a cumulative responder analysis, there was a statistically significant difference for the distribution 
of responders between duloxetine 60 mgtreated patients and placebo-treated patients  
d)  there  was  a  statistically  significantly  greater  remission  rate  at  endpoint  for  the  duloxetine  30  mg-
treated group compared to the placebo treated group.  
e)  a  statistically  significantly  greater  proportion  of  duloxetine  60  mg-treated  patients  compared  with 
placebo-treated patients met remission criteria at the last 2 nonmissing visits. 
Two sensitivity analyses on the primary efficacy analysis were performed: 
1.  A  repeated measures analysis to address the impact of missing data (Missing at Random (MAR) 
versus Missing Not at Random (MNAR)) 
2.  A repeated measures analysis of the CDRS-R total score mean change from baseline, excluding 
age as a covariate. 
The results of these sensitivity analyses on the primary measure are consistent with the results of the 
primary  analysis.  The  secondary  analysis  of  mean  change  from  baseline  to  acute  period  endpoint  on 
the CDRS-R using LOCF methodology also did not result in a statistically significant separation between 
duloxetine and placebo.  
In  the  subgroup  analyses  based  of  mean  change  in  the  CDRS-R  total  score  during  acute  period 
(ANCOVA), the treatment-by-age, race, ethnicity, pooled investigator, and region interaction, was not 
statistically  significant.  The  treatment-by-gender  interaction  was  not  statistically  significant,  but  a 
statistically significant difference in LS mean change from baseline to endpoint (LOCF) in CDRS-R total 
score  was  observed  for  duloxetine  60  mg-treated  females  compared  with  placebo-treated  females 
(p=.039) and for duloxetine 30 mg-treated females compared with placebo-treated females (p=.017).   
No  statistically  significant  differences  at  Week  10  were  observed  for  the  duloxetine  60  mg-  or  the 
duloxetine  30  mg-treated  groups  compared  with  the  placebo-treated  group  for  any  of  the  CDRS-R 
subscales  (mood,  somatic,  subjective,  behavior)  and  item  13  score  (suicidal  ideation),  with  the 
exception of the CDRS-R somatic subscale where a statistically significant difference was  observed at 
Week 10 for the duloxetine 30 mg-treated group compared with the placebo-treated group (p=.023).   
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 18/60 
 
 
   
 
Response rates: there was not a statistically significant difference in the probability of meeting 30% or 
50%    response  on  the  CDRS-R  for  the  duloxetine  60  mg-,  duloxetine  30  mg-,  or  fluoxetine  20  mg-
treated  groups  compared  with  the  placebo-treated  group  at  the  last  visit  of  acute  period  (Week  10) 
/endpoint (LOCF).  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  on  remission  rate  (CDRS-R  total  score  of  ≤28  at 
LOCF  endpoint)  between  the  duloxetine  60  mg-treated  group  and  the  placebo-treated  group  (34% 
versus  24%,  respectively;  p=.071)  or  between  the  fluoxetine  20  mg-treated  group  and  the  placebo-
treated group (28% versus 24%, respectively; p=.606). There was a statistically significant difference 
on  remission  rate  at  endpoint  between  the  duloxetine  30  mg-treated  group  and  the  placebo-treated 
group (36% versus 24%, respectively; p=.041).  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  observed  for  the  duloxetine60  mg-,  duloxetine  30 
mg-, or fluoxetine 20 mg-treated groups compared with the placebo-treated group on the CGI-S mean 
change from baseline to Week 10 (MMRM). 
· Extension phase 
For patients initially randomized to duloxetine 60 mg QD or fluoxetine 20 mg QD for the 10-week acute 
treatment period and continued on flexibly-dosed duloxetine (60 to 120 mg QD) or fluoxetine (20 to 40 
mg QD) during the 6-month extension period, improvement in MDD symptoms was observed for both 
treatment  groups  based  on  the  mean  improvement  on  the  CDRS-R  total  score  and  CGI-S  score; 
however,  there  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  DLX60120-treated  group 
compared with the FLX2040-treated group at any time point during the 36-week study. Similarly, for 
both treatment groups  (DLX60120 and FLX2040), there were no statistically significant differences at 
any timepoint in the probability of achieving remission during the 36-week study.  
Rapporteur’s comments: 
After 10 weeks of treatment neither duloxetine nor fluoxetine did separate from placebo. No relevant 
differences were observed when the investigator made the global assessment of the response. The 
secondary endpoints results were consistent with the results of the primary analysis. In addition, no 
dose-response relationship could be identified when duloxetine 30 mg and 60 mg were administered.  
When doses were increased during the extension phase, both groups experienced an improvement in 
symptoms. The lack of a placebo arm and the flexible regimen of dosing administered hamper drawing 
sound conclusions. 
F1J-MC-HMCK Study 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 19/60 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
· 10-week acute treatment phase 
Mean  improvement  in  depression  symptom  severity  was  observed  for  the  duloxetine-treated  group 
over  the  10-week  course  of  acute  treatment;  however,  the  difference  in  the  mean  change  from 
baseline  between  the  duloxetine  treatment  group  and  placebo  was  not  statistically  significant  at 
endpoint (Week 10), or at any timepoint during Study Period II. 
Mean improvement in depression symptom severity was observed for the fluoxetine-treated group over 
the 10-week course of acute treatment; however, the difference in the mean change from baseline 
between the fluoxetine treatment group and placebo was not statistically significant at endpoint (Week 
10), or at any timepoint during Study Period II 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 20/60 
 
 
   
 
The  study  is  considered  to  be  inconclusive  as  neither  the  investigational  drug  (duloxetine)  nor  the 
active  control  (fluoxetine)  demonstrated  a  statistically  significant  separation  from  placebo  on  the 
primary efficacy analysis of mean change from baseline to Week 10 on the CDRS-R total score. 
Secondary  efficacy  analyses  of  the  10-week  acute  treatment  period  generally  showed  no  statistically 
significant  differences  between  the  active  drugs  (duloxetine  and  fluoxetine)  or  between  the  active 
drugs and placebo; however, there was 1 exception. In the subgroup analysis of mean change in the 
CDRS-R total score by race, the treatment by race interaction was statistically significant (p=.011) due 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 21/60 
 
 
 
   
 
to  different  responses  to  drug  vs.  placebo  within  each  race  subgroup.  In  Black  or  African  American 
patients, the placebo group had greater improvement than either active drug group. In White patients, 
both drug groups had greater improvement than the placebo group. In the pooled race (including  
Two sensitivity analyses on the primary measure were performed: 
1.  A  repeated  analysis  to  address  the  impact  of  missing  data  (Missing  at  Random  (MAR)  versus 
Missing Not at Random (MNAR)) 
2.  A repeated measures analysis of the CDRS-R total score mean change from baseline, excluding 
age as a covariate. 
The results of these sensitivity analyses on the primary measure are consistent with the results of the 
primary  analysis.  The  secondary  analysis  of  mean  change  from  baseline  to  acute  period  endpoint  on 
the CDRS-R using LOCF methodology also did not result in a statistically significant separation between 
duloxetine and placebo.  
In  the  subgroup  analyses  based  of  mean  change  in  the  CDRS-R  total  score  during  acute  period 
(ANCOVA),  the  treatment-by-age,  gender,  ethnicity,  pooled  investigator,  and  region  interaction,  was 
not statistically significant. The treatment-by-race interaction was statistically significant (p=.011). In 
Black or African American patients, the placebo group had greater improvement than either active drug 
group.  In  White  patients,  both  drug  groups  had  greater  improvement  than  the  placebo  group.  In  the 
pooled  race  group,  duloxetine  had  greater  improvement  compared  with  placebo,  and  placebo  had 
greater improvement compared with fluoxetine.  
No  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  at  Week  10  for  the  duloxetine-treated  group 
compared  with  the  placebo-treated  group,  on  all  CDRS-R  subscales  (mood,  somatic,  subjective, 
behavior) and item 13 score (suicidal ideation). No statistically significant differences in mean changes 
from  baseline  (MMRM)  in  the  CDRS-R  subscale  scores  at  Week  10  were  observed  for  the  fluoxetine  -
treated  group  compared  to  the  placebo-treated  group.  A  statistically  significant  mean  improvement 
from baseline (MMRM) in the CDRS-R Item 13 (suicidal ideation) score was observed for the placebo-
treated  group  (0.4  point  improvement)  compared  with  the  fluoxetine-treated  group  (0.2  point 
improvement) at Week 10 (p=.007). No statistically significant differences were observed at endpoint 
(LOCF)  for  the  duloxetine-treated  group  compared  with  the  placebo-treated  group  on  all  CDRS-R 
subscales  (mood,  somatic,  subjective,  behavior)  and  Item  13  score  (suicidal  ideation).  A  statistically 
significant mean improvement at endpoint was observed for the placebo-treated group compared with 
the fluoxetine-treated group for the CDRS-R Item 13 score (suicidal ideation [p=.045]). 
No statistically significant difference was observed in the probability of meeting 30% or 50% response 
on  the  CDRS-R  for  duloxetine-treated  patients  or  fluoxetine-treated  patients  compared  with  placebo-
treated patients at the last visit of the acute period (Week 10) / endpoint (LOCF).  
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  on  remission  rate  between  the  duloxetine  -treated 
group  and  the  placebo-treated  group  (35%  versus  36%,  respectively;  p=.990)  or  between  the 
fluoxetine -treated group and the placebo group (30% versus 36%, respectively; p=.817).  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 22/60 
 
 
   
 
At  Week  10,  no  statistically  significant  differences  on  the  CGI-S  mean  change  from  baseline  to  Week 
10  were  observed  for  the  duloxetine-  or  the  fluoxetine-treated  groups  compared  with  the  placebo-
treated group. 
· Extension phase 
For  patients  initially  randomized  to  flexible  dose  duloxetine  or  fluoxetine  for  the  10-week  acute 
treatment  period  and  continued  on  flexibly  dosed  duloxetine  or  fluoxetine  during  the  6  month 
extension  period,  improvement  in  MDD  symptoms  was  observed  for  both  treatment  groups  based  on 
the mean improvement on the CDRS-R total score and CGI-S score; however, there was no statistically 
significant difference between the DLX60120-treated group compared with the FLX2040-treated group 
at  any  time  point  during  the  36-week  study  on  the  CDRS-R  total  score.  There  was  a  statistically 
significantly  greater  improvement  observed  for  fluoxetine  compared  with  duloxetine  at  36-Weeks 
(study  endpoint)  on  the  CGI-Severity.  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the 
duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  treatment  groups  at  any  timepoint in  the  probability  of  achieving  remission 
during the 36-week study. The probability of achieving remission at 36 weeks was 72% for duloxetine 
and 83% for fluoxetine. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Similarly, in this study both active treatments (duloxetine and fluoxetine) did not behave differently 
from placebo after10 weeks of treatment. Almost  44% of patients titrated up to 120 mg, the 
remaining receiving 30 mg ( 11.1%); 60 mg ( 17.1%) or 90 mg ( 27.4%).The magnitude of the effect 
is similar to that observed in Study HMCL. The response measured by the secondary endpoints as well 
as the sensitivity analyses conducted by the MAH also mirror the primary effect.  
When patients were treated for further 6 months with duloxetine or fluoxetine showed an improvement 
in symptoms although of similar magnitude for both drugs.   
Overall conclusions on clinical efficacy and pharmacokinetic 
The  paediatric  clinical  development  for  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  Major  Depressive  Disorder 
consists  of  two  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel  trials.  These  studies  featured  a  10  week-  placebo 
and active (fluoxetine) controlled acute phase following a 6 month period of active controlled extension 
treatment.  Study  designs  were  very  similar  except  for  the  different  regimen  of  drug  administration: 
fixed dose in HMCL (duloxetine 30 mg, duloxetine 60 mg, fluoxetine 20 mg and placebo; and flexible 
dose in HMCK (duloxetine 60 mg to 120 mg, fluoxetine 20 mg to 40 mg and placebo).  Posology was 
determined according pK results, in which drug exposure appears not to be influenced by factors such 
as age, gender or weight.   
Children and adolescents (7 to 17 years) included had a MDD of moderate severity. Although accepted, 
the concomitant or previous use of psychotherapy was not standardised. The studies were stratified by 
age  although  no  sample  size  calculation  for  demonstration  of  efficacy  in  children  and  adolescents 
groups independently was performed.  
After 10 weeks of treatment neither duloxetine nor fluoxetine did separate from placebo in none of the 
studies.  No  relevant  differences  were  observed  when  the  investigator  made  the  global  assessment  of 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 23/60 
 
 
   
 
the response. The secondary endpoints results were consistent with the results of the primary analysis. 
In addition, no dose-response relationship could be identified when duloxetine 30 mg and 60 mg were 
administered.  When  doses  were  increased  during  the  extension  phases,  both  groups  experienced  an 
improvement in symptoms. The lack of a placebo arm and the flexible regimen of dosing administered 
hamper drawing sound conclusions. Subgroup analysis by age does not suggest benefit in a particular 
stratum.  The  antidepressant  effect  of  duloxetine  in  children  and  adolescents  has  not  been 
demonstrated.  
According  to  the  MAH  the  extension  of  the  therapeutic  indication  cannot  be  granted.  However,  it  is 
considered that the inclusion of a brief description of the studies (including the inconclusive results) in 
the product information could be of help for prescribers.  
•  Safety results 
The  safety  data  from  Study  HMCK  and  Study  HMCL  was  pooled  into  an  integrated  paediatric  safety 
database.  Subgroup  analyses  by  paediatric  subset  (ie.  7  to  11  years;  12  to  17  years)  were  also 
performed for TEAEs of individual studies in the HMCK and HMCL CSRs.  
Exposure 
In  Study  HMCK,  flexible  dosing  of  duloxetine  from  60  to  120  mg  QD  was  allowed  during  acute  and 
extension  treatment,  and  most  patients  were  escalated  to  higher  doses  (90  mg  to  120  mg).  The 
duloxetine dose was initiated at 30 mg QD for 2 weeks. During acute treatment, the mean duloxetine 
total dispensed dose was 66.1 mg and the last prescribed dose for duloxetine patients was a 30 mg-
titration  dose  (11.1%),  60  mg  (17.1%),  90  mg  (27.4%)  and  120  mg  (43.6%),  while  74%  of 
fluoxetine-treated  patients  had  a  final  dose  of  40  mg  QD.  During  extension  treatment,  the  mean 
duloxetine total dispensed dose was 88.8 mg. The last prescribed dose of duloxetine for patients in the 
DLX60120/DLX60120  group  was  60  mg  (14.5%),  90  mg  (16.9%)  and  120  mg  (68.7%).  The  last 
prescribed  dose  of  duloxetine  for  patients  in  the  PBO/DLX60120  group  was  a  30-mg  titration  dose 
(3.5%),  60  mg  (49.4%),  90  mg  (16.5%)  and  120  mg  (30.6%).  A  total  of  105  duloxetine-  and  56 
fluoxetine-treated patients had ≥ 6 months of exposure to the drug.  
In Study HMCL, the acute treatment phase included 2 duloxetine fixed dose arms (30 mg and 60 mg 
QD). During the extension phase of Study HMCL, flexible dosing of duloxetine from 60 to 120 mg QD 
was  allowed,  and  most  patients  were  escalated  to  the  higher  doses  (90  mg  to  120  mg).  During 
extension treatment, the mean duloxetine total dispensed dose was 84.3 mg. The last prescribed dose 
of duloxetine was 60 mg, 90 mg and 120 mg for 30.8%, 20.9% and 46.2% of patients, respectively. 
70%  of  fluoxetine-treated  patients  had  a  final  dose  of  40  mg  QD.  A  total  of  125  duloxetine-  and  45 
fluoxetine-treated patients had ≥ 6 months of exposure to the drug. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
In  order  to  assess  the  safety  profile  of  duloxetine  in  the  paediatric  population  the  global  number  of 
subjects (and by age subgroups) exposed to study medication should be provided. Information on the 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 24/60 
 
 
 
   
 
study  drug  exposure  by  total  daily  dose  (acute  and  extended  administration),  and  a  summary  of  the 
demographic characteristics of the involved population is also expected. 
Adverse Events 
Acute treatment phase 
No deaths due to completed suicides or other causes were reported during either study. 
No statistically significant difference in the frequency of patients reporting at least 1 SAE was observed 
between  duloxetine  and  placebo  during  the  acute  treatment  phase  of  either  study.  The  frequency  of 
SAEs for the pooled acute phases was 2.6% duloxetine vs. 1.3% placebo. 
As  it would  be  expected  based  on  previous  duloxetine  studies,  more  patients  in  the  duloxetine  group 
discontinued  due  to  an  AE  compared  with  those  in  the  placebo  group  (8.2%  duloxetine  vs.  3.1% 
placebo, p=.013 for pooled acute data) 
Rapporteur’s comments 
Depressed children and adolescents treated with duloxetine were more prone to withdraw for safety 
reasons than patients treated with placebo.  Duloxetine showed a higher incidence of adverse events, 
of SAEs and discontinuations with higher doses. The corresponding figures for fluoxetine should be 
provided in a global analysis of the studies.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 25/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
The  TEAEs  reported  at  least  twice  as  a  reason  for  discontinuation  in  Study  HMCK  or  HMCL  for 
duloxetine-treated  patients  were  (HMCK;  HMCL):  nausea  (2;  4),  intentional  overdose  (0;  2),  and 
depression (1; 2). 
A  similar  frequency  of  TEAEs  was  observed  between  duloxetine  (63%)  and  placebo  (62%)  based  on 
pooled acute phase data from both studies. The nature of the reported TEAEs was consistent with the 
know  safety  profile  of  duloxetine  and/or  the  patient  population,  primarily  involving  the  system  organ 
classes  of  gastrointestinal  disorders,  psychiatric  disorders  and  nervous  system  disorders.  For  the 
analysis of pooled data from both studies, individual TEAEs of nausea, diarrhoea, and abnormal dreams 
were  reported  statistically  significantly  more  frequently  with  duloxetine  (17%,  5.3%,  and  1.8%, 
respectively) than placebo (9.8%, 1.8%, and 0%, p-value<.05%). 
Treatment Emergent Adverse Events by Decreasing Frequency 
MedDRA Preferred Term. All Randomized Patients. Primary Placebo-Controlled 
Analyses Set 
HMCK and HMCL Acute Phase 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 26/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Extension treatment phase 
No deaths due to completed suicides or other causes were reported during either study. 
A  similar  frequency  of  SAEs  (1to  5%  across  duloxetine  treatment  arms)  was  observed  between 
treatment groups in the individual studies. 
The  frequency  of  discontinuation  due  to  an  AE  during  extension  treatment  was  consistent  with  the 
known profile of duloxetine. 
A  similar  frequency  of  TEAEs  was  observed  between  treatment  groups  and  across  both  studies. 
Consistent with the known safety profile of duloxetine, the nature of the reported TEAEs were similar 
to  that  observed  during  acute  treatment  though  with  a  greater  frequency  of  events  in  the  infections 
and  investigations  system  organ  classes  during  the  extension  than  the  acute  treatment  phase.  The 
frequency  of  infections  and  infestations  was  similar  in  all  treatment  groups  and  was  not  considered 
clinically meaningful. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Nature of adverse events reported, involving primarily gastrointestinal, psychiatric and nervous system 
disorders, is consistent with that of adult studies as stated in the SmPC. Nausea, headache, abdominal 
pain, somnolence, dizziness, decreased appetite, fatigue, diarrhoea, vomiting and insomnia were the 
most frequent reported AEs (>5%). All but headache and insomnia were also more frequently reported 
in duloxetine treated patients than those reported with fluoxetine. 
Suicide-Related Events 
With regard to suicidal ideation, behaviour, and non-suicidal self-injurious behaviour, the results of the 
C-SSRS  provide  the  most  complete  information  on  which  to  base  conclusions  for  Studies  HMCK  and 
HMCL,  and  differences  between  the  AE  database  and  the  C-SSRS  results  do  not  change  the 
interpretation  of  the  study  results  with  regard  to  suicide  related  events  (ideation  and  behaviour)  or 
non-suicidal self-injurious behaviour. 
C-SSRS Results (Acute – 10 weeks, placebo-controlled): 
Suicide-related  events  (ideation  or  behaviour)  as  well  as  non-suicidal  self-injurious  behaviour  were 
analyzed  compared  to  lead-in  baseline  to  determine  whether  the  events  were  treatment  emergent. 
That is, events during treatment that were new or more severe compared to baseline (study screening 
period  also  referred  to  as  lead-in)  were  considered  to  be  treatment-emergent.  In  addition,  suicidal 
ideation  was  analyzed  to  determine  if  there  was  treatment-emergent  improvement  for  patients  who 
had suicidal ideation during the study screening period. The frequency of treatment-emergent suicide-
related  events  (ideation  or  behaviour)  as  well  as  nonsuicidal  self-injurious  behaviour  reported  during 
acute treatment are presented in Table 5.3. 
There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  the  duloxetine  and  placebo  groups  with 
regard  to  treatment-emergent  suicide-related  events  (ideation  or  behaviour)  as  well  as  nonsuicidal 
self-injurious behaviour reported during acute treatment.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 27/60 
 
 
   
 
C-SSRS Results (Extension – 26 weeks, double-blind): 
During the extension phase for Studies HMCK and HMCL, all patients received duloxetine or fluoxetine. 
Patients  initially  randomized  to  placebo  were  transitioned  to  duloxetine  in  the  extension  phase 
(referred  to  as  the  PBO/DLX  group).  Statistical  comparisons  between  treatment  groups  were  not 
conducted  for  the  extension  phase  analyses  because  of  selection  bias.  In  other  words,  only  patients 
who completed the acute phase of the study were included in the extension phase analyses, therefore 
patient characteristics at the beginning of the extension phase were expected to be different between 
treatment groups due to lack of randomization. Suicide-related events (ideation or behaviour) as well 
as  non-suicidal  self-injurious  behaviour  were  analyzed  compared  to  lead-in  baseline  to  determine 
whether  the  events  were  treatment  emergent  during  the  extension  phase.  For  analyses  of  the 
extension  phase,  “lead-in”  baseline  refers  to  Visits  7  to  8  (that  is  the  end  of  the  acute  treatment 
phase). The frequency of treatment emergent suicide-related events (ideation or behaviour) as well as 
non-suicidal self-injurious behaviour reported during extension treatment are presented in Table 5.4.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 28/60 
 
 
 
   
 
The  frequency  of  treatment  emergent  suicide-related  events  (ideation  or  behaviour)  as  well  as  non-
suicidal  self-injurious  behaviour  reported  during  acute  and  extension  treatment  for  the  two  separate 
studies are presented below: 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Results from Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale reveal 0 (duloxetine), 2 (fluoxetine) and 1 
(placebo) suicidal behaviour events during the acute phase and 7 (duloxetine), 1 (fluoxetine) events 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 29/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
during the extension phase. Given these apparent differences between both products, a global 
comparison of duloxetine versus fluoxetine is of interest and deserves further discussion by the MAH.  
Cardiovascular-Related Events 
Acute Results (10 Weeks) 
•  Blood Pressure and Pulse 
Results  from  the  analyses  of  pooled  categorical  data  did  not  reveal  any  statistically  significant 
differences in potential clinical significant increases of blood pressure or pulse between duloxetine and 
placebo during acute treatment (Table 5.5). For HMCK, there was a statistically significant increase of 
pulse in duloxetine 60/120 group compared with placebo group. The mean increase in blood pressure 
observed with paediatric patients is also noted as a risk in the SmPC for adult patients.  
One  potential  cardiovascular-related  SAE  of  syncope  was  reported  in  a  duloxetine-treated  female 
patient who had previous episodes of syncope prior to entering the study. The etiology of the syncopal 
episodes  is  unknown.  Syncope  is  included  as  an  undesirable  effect  in  the  duloxetine  SmPC.  No  other 
serious cardiovascular events were reported during Studies HMCK and HMCL. 
•  Electrocardiogram 
In  acute  pooled  data,  a  statistically  significant  (p=.002)  mean  increase  in  heart  rate  of  2.4  bpm  was 
observed  for  the  duloxetine  group,  compared  with  a  mean  decrease  in  heart  rate  of  1.1  bpm  in  the 
placebo  group.  Abnormal  high  heart  rate  was  reported  in  1  (0.4%)  duloxetine-treated  patient  and  1 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 30/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
(0.6%)  placebo-treated  patient  during  acute  treatment.  Abnormal  low  heart  rate  was  reported  in  2 
(0.8%) duloxetine-treated patients and 5 (2.9%) placebo-treated patients during acute treatment. In 
the  pooled  mean  change  analysis  of  QTcF,  patients  in  the  duloxetine  group  had  a  mean  decrease  in 
QTcF, which is not considered clinically relevant. 
With  respect  to  categorical  analyses  of  QTcF,  1  male  patient  (0.6%)  in  the  duloxetine  group 
experienced an abnormal QTcF interval increase of >40 msec from baseline to a value 408 msec during 
acute treatment, which did not meet the gender-specific abnormal threshold of >450 msec. This was 
the  only  duloxetine-treated  patient  with  a  QTcF  observation  that  met  abnormal  criteria  (increase  or 
gender-specific) at anytime during the 10-week acute-treatment period of the studies. No duloxetine-
treated patients had a potentially clinically significant QTcF observation (>500 msec) at anytime during 
the 10-week acute treatment period of the studies. 
Combined Acute and Extension Results (up to 36 Weeks) 
•  Blood Pressure 
During the 36 weeks of treatment, the frequency of either potential clinical significant high systolic or 
diastolic blood pressure at any time was 15.9% and 18.3%, respectively, in the duloxetine group. The 
majority  of  these  events  resolved  during  the  study,  as  evidenced  by  the  lower  frequency  of  events 
noted at  endpoint (4.2%  high systolic and 3.4% high diastolic). For patients in the duloxetine group, 
less than 2% of patients (N=4 systolic, N=5 diastolic) with normal systolic or diastolic blood pressure 
at baseline met criteria for sustained elevation of systolic or diastolic blood pressure, which is less than 
the  rate  of  sustained  elevation  of  blood  pressure  reported  in  duloxetine-treated  adult  MDD  patients 
(Hudson et al. 2005). Of these patients, the majority met the sustained criteria at endpoint. The SmPC 
already includes language that duloxetine has been associated with an increase in blood pressure and 
clinically significant hypertension in some patients. 
• 
Pulse 
With  respect  to  pulse,  1  patient  in  the  duloxetine  group  met  potential  clinical  significant  high  criteria 
during  long-term  treatment.  Patient  HMCL  149-5901,  who  was on  duloxetine  120  mg  with  a  baseline 
pulse of 94 beats per minute (bpm), experienced a potential clinical significant  increase at Week 32 to 
126  bpm  that  decreased  to  a  non-potential  clinical  significant  value  of  108  bpm  at  the  36-week 
endpoint. 
•  Electrocardiogram 
In  pooled  data  across  36  weeks,  a  mean  increase  in  heart  rate  of  2.9  bpm  was  observed  for  the 
duloxetine group. In addition to the 2 duloxetine-treated patients who experienced abnormal low heart 
rate  during  the  10-week  acute  treatment  period,  abnormal  low  heart  rate  was  reported  in  3  more 
duloxetine-treated  patients  during  extension  treatment.  No  duloxetine-treated  patients  experienced 
abnormal high heart rate after the 10-week time point. One duloxetine-treated patient met criteria for 
abnormal increase in QTcF (>40 msec) to 408 msec during the acute treatment period. This was the 
only  duloxetine  treated  patient  with  a  QTcF  observation  that  met  criteria  for  abnormal  increase  (>40 
msec  from  baseline)  or  gender-specific  abnormal  value  (≥470  msec  for  females  or  ≥450  msec  for 
males)  at  anytime  during  the  36-week  studies.  No  duloxetine-treated  patients  had  a  potentially 
clinically significant QTcF observation (>500 msec) at anytime during the 36-week studies. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 31/60 
 
 
   
 
Conclusion 
The above data are consistent with the cardiovascular safety profile of duloxetine in adult patients; the 
increase in blood pressure is an identified risk and is included in the SmPC. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
The effect of duloxetine on blood pressure, cardiac frequency and ECG data (including QT interval) has 
been assessed in this paediatric population. The variations observed in cardiovascular parameters were 
apparently minimal and did not derive in major clinical events. 
Growth-Related Events 
Duloxetine has been known to lead to acute mean weight loss in adult patients followed by recovery to 
baseline  values.  As  the  impact  of  this  known  weight  loss  risk  could  be  greater  for  paediatric  patients 
compared with adult patients, due to active physiological growth, analyses of pooled data from HMCK 
and  HMCL  were  performed  to  assess  mean  and  individual  weight  changes  over  time  (Table  5.6). 
Weight loss was not reported as an SAE during either study and no patient discontinued from the study 
due to weight loss. 
It  is  important  to  evaluate  growth  relative  to  the  general  population  using  standardized  height  and 
weight  scores.  A  z-score  (or  the  standard  deviation  score)  is  one  such  analysis;  that  is,  a  z-score 
analysis  normalizes  a  patient’s  weight  to  their  age  and  sex-matched  peers  (specifically,  the  US 
population for the analyses below, since reference data from other countries were not available). A z-
score  of  zero,  therefore,  would  be  equivalent  to  the  median  weight  of  the  reference  population;  a  z-
score  of  -0.67  and  0.67  are  approximately  equivalent  to  the  25th  percentile  and  the  75th  percentile, 
respectively, of the reference population. This analysis was performed for the mean change of weight, 
height, and body-mass index (Tables 5.7 and 5.8) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 32/60 
 
 
   
 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 33/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
On  an individual  patient level, when  plotting  the  weight  z-scores  over  time  for  all  duloxetine  patients 
meeting PCS weight loss criteria (≥3.5% decrease at any time during 36 weeks of acute and extension 
treatment),  their  weight  z-score  decrease  did  not  persist.  Even  though  some  patients,  such  as  those 
meeting  PCS  criteria  at  endpoint  (8.4%),  had  not  yet  recovered  to  their  baseline  weight  value,  most 
patients trended towards recovery to their baseline weight z-scores by their study endpoint. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
In principle there appear to be no signal of safety concerns on potential growth effect in paediatric 
patients treated with duloxetin. The MAH is committed to provide a report discussing observations 
regarding growth and development from pooled data obtained in paediatric studies.  
Overall conclusions on safety  
A  total  of  341  patients  were  randomized  to  duloxetine  in  these  to  studies.  Mean  duloxetine  total 
dispensed dose during extension treatment was 88.8 mg in study HMCK and 84.3 mg in study HMCL. 
The  MAH  should  provide  the  global  number  of  subjects  (and  by  age  subgroups)  exposed  to  study 
medication.  Information  on  the  study  drug  exposure  by  total  daily  dose  (acute  and  extended 
administration),  and  a  summary  of  the  demographic  characteristics  of  the  involved  population  is  also 
expected. 
In principle there appear to be no new signal of safety concerns in children and adolescents related to 
duloxetine  treatment.  The  nature  of  the  adverse  events  reported,  involving  primarily  gastrointestinal, 
psychiatric  and  nervous  system  disorders,  is  consistent  with  that  of  adult  studies  as  stated  in  the 
SmPC.  Nausea,  headache,  abdominal  pain,  somnolence,  dizziness,  decreased  appetite,  fatigue, 
diarrhoea,  vomiting  and  insomnia  were  the  most  frequent  reported  AEs  (>5%).  Qualitatively, 
duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  appear  to  be  similar;  however,  duloxetine  safety  profile  seems  to  be  more 
adverse  than  that  reported  for  fluoxetine.  Duloxetine  showed  a  higher  incidence  of  most  of  adverse 
events;  children  and  adolescents  treated  with  duloxetine  were  more  prone  to  withdraw  for  safety 
reasons than patients treated with fluoxetine.   
The clinical differences in safety profile across the age subgroups, if any, should also be provided.  
According  to  the  findings  identified  during  the  continuous  safety  assessment  of  duloxetine  in  its 
different indications in adults a number of key events are closely monitored. Among them:  
a)  Suicidality:    Results  from  Columbia  Suicide  Severity  Rating  Scale  reveal  0  (duloxetine),  2 
(fluoxetine)  and  1  (placebo)  suicidal  behaviour  events  during  the  acute  phase  and  7  (duloxetine),  1 
(fluoxetine)  events  during  the  extension  phase.  Given  these  apparent  differences  between  both 
products,  a  global  comparison  of  duloxetine  versus  fluoxetine  is  of  interest  and  deserves  further 
discussion by the MAH.   
b)  Hepatic  risk:  Neither  the  effect  of  duloxetine  on  laboratory  parameters  nor  the  changes  in  liver 
enzymes/hepatic adverse events have been described. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 34/60 
 
 
 
   
 
c) Cardiovascular events: The effect of duloxetine on blood pressure, cardiac frequency and ECG data 
(including QT interval) has been assessed in the paediatric population. The data on the cardiovascular 
safety profile are consistent with that of duloxetine in adult patients; the increase in blood pressure is 
an identified risk and is included in the SmPC. 
c) Severe cutaneous reactions: No data have been provided. 
d) Growth effect: In principle there appear to be no signal of safety concerns on potential growth effect 
in paediatric patients treated with duloxetine. 
3. Discussion on clinical aspects 
Duloxetine is authorised in EU in adults for the treatment of major depressive episodes; the treatment 
of  diabetic  peripheral  neuropathic  pain;  the  treatment  of  generalised  anxiety  disorder  and  for  women 
for the treatment of moderate to severe stress urinary incontinence. It is not recommended for use in 
children and adolescents due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy. 
The  MAH  has  submitted  the  results  of  two  phase  III  randomized,  double-blind,  placebo  controlled 
studies of duloxetine in paediatric patients with major depressive disorder (F1J-MC-HMCL and F1J-MC-
HMCK). A fluoxetine control arm was included for assay sensitivity.  
After 10 weeks of treatment neither duloxetine nor fluoxetine did separate from placebo in none of the 
studies.  No  relevant  differences  were  observed  when  the  investigator  made  the  global  assessment  of 
the response. The secondary endpoints results were consistent with the results of the primary analysis. 
In addition, no dose-response relationship could be identified when duloxetine 30 mg and 60 mg were 
administered.  When  doses  were  increased  during  the  extension  phases,  both  groups  experienced  an 
improvement in symptoms. The lack of a placebo arm and the flexible regimen of dosing administered 
hamper drawing sound conclusions. Subgroup analysis by age does not suggest benefit in a particular 
stratum.  The  antidepressant  effect  of  duloxetine  in  children  and  adolescents  has  not  been 
demonstrated.  
Respecting  pharmacokinetics,  the  steady-state  duloxetine  plasma  concentrations  increased  with 
increasing  dose  in  both  children  and  adolescents.  No  relevant  differences  in  Cmax  and  AUC  were 
observed  between  the  two  age  groups.  Patient  characteristics  such  as  CYP2D6  metabolizer  status, 
ethnicity,  sex,  age,  and  body  weight  did  not  appear  to  have  an  effect  on  steady-state  duloxetine 
plasma  concentrations.  No  dose  adjustment  seems  to  be  required  in  the  adolescent  population  with 
respect  to  the  younger  group.  For  enrichment  of  these  data,  an  additional  analysis  population  PK 
modelling on the integrated dataset from HMFN, HMCK and HMCL studies comprised by the company is 
expected. 
In principle there appear to be no new signal of safety concerns in children and adolescents related to 
duloxetine  treatment.  With  regard  to  the  comparison  with  fluoxetine,  both  medications  products 
appear  to  be  qualitatively  similar;  however,  duloxetine  safety  profile  seems  to  be  more  adverse  than 
that reported for fluoxetine. This information is deemed useful for prescribers and therefore it should 
be translated to the SmPC. Additional data for clarification is requested.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 35/60 
 
 
 
   
 
4. Product Information 
Currently,  the  SmPC  of  duloxetine  reflects  that  it  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  children  and 
adolescents due to insufficient data on safety and efficacy (4.2) / should not be used in the treatment 
of children and adolescents under the age of 18 years (4.4).  The MAH proposes to reflect the clinical 
relevant data obtained in these two studies in the SmPC (sections 4.2 and 5.1). 
According  to  the  MAH  the  extension  of  the  therapeutic  indication  cannot  be  granted.  However,  it  is 
considered that the inclusion of a brief description of the studies (including the inconclusive results) in 
the product information could be of help for prescribers. The Rapporteur also considers that submission 
of the two pending additional PK and safety analysis before completting the ongoing procedure, in case 
the timeline is not very delayed, will contribute to finally present  a more complete information in the 
SmPC.  
III. 
 Rapporteur’s Overall Conclusion and Recommendation 
  Overall conclusion 
Given  the  results  of  these  two  phase  III  efficacy  and  safety  trials in  which neither  the  investigational 
drug  nor  the  active  control  separated  significantly  from  placebo,  the  studies  are  considered 
inconclusive.  A  positive  benefit  of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  paediatric  patients  with  major 
depressive disorder has not been demonstrated. There appear to be no new signal of safety concerns 
in children and adolescents related to duloxetine treatment. 
  Recommendation  
As  a  positive  benefit  for  paediatric  population  has  not  been  demonstrated  with  these  two  studies,  no 
recommendation about the use of duloxetine in paediatric population can be made. For reflecting the 
clinical  relevant  data  obtained  in  the  product  SmPC,  sections  4.2,  4.4,  4.8,  5.1  and  5.2  should  be 
updated. 
In this sense, the MAH should commit to submit the responses to the questions below together with a 
type II variation to include the comments no the SPC proposed. This information should be received in 
September 2012. 
FUM not fulfilled 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 36/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
IV.  ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS REQUESTED  
List of questions adopted 
Non-clinical 
1.  The MAH should submit relevant data from completed juvenile studies in order to evaluate the 
inclusion of this information in the SPC. 
Clinical 
2.  The  MAH  is  encourged  to  submit  within  this  procedure,  the  two  additional  planned  analysis 
claimed: 
o  A population PK modelling on the integrated dataset from HMFN, HMCK and HMCL 
o  A report discussing growth and development using pooled data form several studies. 
Safety 
3.  The  MAH  should  provide  the  global  number  of  subjects  (and  by  age  subgroups)  exposed  to 
study  medication.  Information  on  the  study  drug  exposure  by  total  daily  dose  (acute  and 
extended  administration),  and  a  summary  of  the  demographic  characteristics  of  the  involved 
population is also expected. 
4.  The  clinical  differences  in  safety  profile  across  the  age  subgroups,  if  any,  should  also  be 
provided. 
5.  Further  discussion  on  the  global  comparison  of  duloxetine  versus  fluoxetine  is  expected, 
including the disposition of the patients and the AEs reported. A specific duscussion for suicide-
related events is expected. 
6.  The MAH should provide the data regarding monitoring of some key events that has not been 
discussed in this report:  
o  Hepatic  risk:  effect  of  duloxetine  on  laboratory  parameters  and  changes  in  liver 
enzymes/hepatic adverse events. 
o  Severe cutaneous reactions. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 37/60 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
SmPC changes 
o  4.2 Posology and method of adminsitration 
Paediatric population 
The  safety  and  efficacy  of  duloxetine  in  children  and  adolescents  under  the  age  of  18 
years have not been established. Currently available data are described in sections 4.4, 
4.8, 5.1 and 5.2 but no recommendation on a posology can be made. 
o  4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Paediatric population 
Information regarding use in children and adolescents under 18 years of age should be 
replaced with the data from these two now submitted studies. 
o  4.8 Undesirable effects 
Paediatric population 
Information about undesirable effects from the submitted studies should be included. 
o  5.1. Pharmacodynamic properties 
Paediatric population 
A  brief  summary  of  the  submitted  paediatric  study  results,  including  comparative 
safety data with fluoxetine should be included. 
o  5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties 
Paediatric population 
Information  from  paediatric  clinical  studies  and  adittional  analyses  when  available 
should be reflected. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 38/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
V.  ASSESSMENT OF THE RESPONSES PROVIDED 
On  June  21,  2012  the  MAH  submitted  the  Response  to  CHMP’s  Assessment  Report  for  Paediatric 
Duloxetine Studies F1J-MC-HMCK and F1J-MC-HMCL. 
Nonclinical Request 1 
The  MAH  should  submit  relevant  data  from  completed  juvenile  studies  in  order  to  evaluate 
the inclusion of this information in the SPC. 
MAH Response 
Four  nonclinical  studies  of  duloxetine  in  juvenile  rats  were  conducted  to  support  the  paediatric 
development as shown in Table 4.1 below.  
The results of these studies demonstrate that: 
• 
• 
• 
The general toxicity profile of duloxetine in juvenile rats was similar to that in adult rats. 
The main effects occurred at 45 mg/kg/day and included: significantly decreased body weight 
and food consumption; hepatic enzyme induction; and hepatocellular vacuolation. 
There was no effect on male or female fertility. 
•  Minor, transient effects on neurobehaviour at 45 mg/kg/day, consisted of an increased number 
of  errors  in  the  Path  B  configuration  of  the  Cincinnati  water  maze  test  performed  during  the 
treatment period, suggesting that these animals had difficulty with “elective-choice” sequential 
learning. The number of errors and the time taken to complete the maze (both Path A and Path 
B)  were  comparable  to  controls  at  all  dose  levels  during  the  posttreatment  period.  Motor 
activity and auditory startle habituation were unaffected.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 39/60 
 
 
 
   
 
Based on these changes, the no-adverse effect level was determined to be 20 mg/kg/day.  
In  conclusion,  the  toxicology  studies  in  juvenile  rats  demonstrated  that  the  general  toxicity  profile  of 
duloxetine in juvenile rats was similar to that in adults. There was no effect on fertility in the juvenile 
rat studies. Minor effects on neurobehaviour at 45 mg/kg/day in a water maze test were transient and 
did not persist. Therefore, these findings have no clinically meaningful impact and do not indicate any 
safety  concerns  relevant  to  a  paediatric  population.  We  propose  to  add  the  important  clinical  safety 
information  from  the  paediatric  studies  in  the  SmPC  as  per  CHMP’s  request.  For  duloxetine,  the  MAH 
consider the paediatric clinical data to be the most relevant information for the prescriber, as opposed 
to the nonclinical juvenile data which did not reveal any safety concerns or clinically relevant findings. 
Additionally,  since  the  duloxetine  paediatric  data  do  not  support  an  indication  in  this  population,  it  is 
our view that the inclusion of the juvenile toxicity data, even if it were for completeness’ sake, is not 
warranted. Thus, results from the nonclinical juvenile rat studies are not proposed for inclusion in the 
SmPC. 
Rapporteur’s comment 
The MAH’s response is mainly endorsed, nonetheless data on the juvenile studies should be adequately 
mentioned and updated in section 5.3 of the SmPC.  
Clinical Request 2 
The MAH is encouraged to submit within this procedure, the two additional planned analysis 
claimed: 
- A population PK modelling on the integrated dataset from HMFN, HMCK and HMCL. 
- A report discussing growth and development using pooled data from several studies. 
MAH Response 
1.- Population PK Report  
• 
The  PK  of  duloxetine  were  well  characterised  by  a  1  compartment  model  parameterised  with 
first-order  absorption,  clearance  (CL/F)  and  volume  of  distribution  (V/F).  Unexplained 
interpatient  variability  remained  high  for  CL/F  (68%),  V/F  (87%),  and  the  residual  error 
(57%). 
•  Body weight, age, sex, CYP2D6 predicted phenotype, race and ethnicity did not appear to have 
a clinically meaningful effect on duloxetine exposure. Dose, body surface area (BSA) and race 
were  the  only  factors  found  to  have  a  statistically  significant  effect  on  duloxetine  PK 
parameters; however, these did not appear to have a clinically meaningful effect on duloxetine 
exposure. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 40/60 
 
 
 
   
 
• 
The  model-predicted  duloxetine  concentration-time  profile  at  steady  state  concentrations  in 
paediatric  patients  appear  to  be  slightly  lower  than  those  in  adults  and  are  mostly  within  the 
concentration range observed in adult patients. 
•  No  conclusions  related  to  dosing  recommendations  can  be  made  because  of  the  inconclusive 
efficacy results of Studies HMCK and HMCL. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 41/60 
 
 
 
   
 
The steady-state duloxetine plasma concentrations increased with increasing dose in both children and 
adolescents  being  concentration-time  profile  lower  than  in  adults  although  mostly  within  the 
concentration  range  observed  in  them.  Interpatient  variability  was  seen  for  clearance  and  volume  of 
distribution. None patient-related characteristics appear to have an effect on duloxetine exposure that 
could  result  in  a  clinical  relevant  effect.  Although  no  dose  recommendation  is  proposed,  these 
pharmacokinetic data should be reflected in the SmPC.  
2.- Growth Report 
Patients in the duloxetine group (initially randomised to duloxetine and continuing on duloxetine during 
extension  treatment)  experience  a  mean  decrease  in  weight  upon  initiating  treatment  followed  by 
weight  recovery.  These  data  further  support  the  observations  from  the  previously  provided  analyses. 
Similar  results  were  observed  for  fluoxetine.  The  mean  change  (MMRM)  by  the  end  of  the  study  was 
1.4 kg (standard error [SE] 0.18) for duloxetine and 2.1 kg (SE 0.18) for fluoxetine. 
The  quartile  analysis  of  mean  change  in  z-score  by  weight  quartiles  also  indicated  a  trend  towards 
baseline weight z-score upon continued duloxetine treatment in the long-term analyses set. Patients in 
the  upper  3  duloxetine  quartiles  (of weight)  experienced  a  smaller  mean  decrease  in  weight  z-scores 
(see table below) by the end of longterm treatment compared with the mean weight z-score at end of 
acute  treatment.  For  patients  in  which  a  decrease  in  weight  would  be  of  most  concern,  those  in  the 
first quartile (≤25th percentile), the weight z-score actually increased by study endpoint.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 42/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
There is little to no impact of duloxetine on mean change in height during the study. 
Analyses  of  mean  change  in  height  indicated  a  similar  height  increase  between  the  duloxetine  and 
placebo  groups  during  acute  treatment,  with  continued  increase  during  extension  treatment.  While 
notable differences between patients in the duloxetine and placebo groups were observed, the majority 
of patients who lost weight during acute treatment experienced recovery or a trend towards recovery 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 43/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
by  the  end  of  the  study,  whether  assessed  by  mean  change  over  time  or  by  z-score  as  a  way  to 
normalise  results  to  age-  and  sex-matched  peers.  Additionally,  no  serious  adverse  events  (SAEs)  or 
discontinuations due to weight-related events were reported during either study.  
Rapporteur’s comment: 
Mean decrease in weight gain was observed mainly during short term treatment with duloxetine. It is 
not known whether weight recovery in the long-term is completed. Also the effect of duloxetine on 
weight gain during treatment periods longer than the studied is unknown. Height was not affected by 
duloxetine treatment during the study period. No data are available respecting sexual maturation 
(pubertal development). Adverse effects of duloxetine on growth should be reflected in section 4.8 as 
well as in section 5.1 of the SmPC. 
Clinical Request 3 
The MAH should provide the global number of subjects (and by age subgroups) exposed to 
study  medication.  Information  on  the  study  drug  exposure  by  total  daily  dose  (acute  and 
extended  administration),  and  a  summary  of  the  demographic  characteristics  of  the 
involved population is also expected. 
MAH Response 
The  mean  days  of  duloxetine  exposure  were  comparable  between  children  and  adolescents.  Children 
had  fewer  patient  years  of  exposure,  driven  by  the  smaller  proportion  of  children  than  adolescents 
within  the  overall  patient  population.  Approximately  half  of  both  children  and  adolescents  patients 
remained on drug for at least 6 months. 
With regards to duloxetine dosing during the studies (acute and extension phases), the mean dose for 
adolescents  was  higher  at  endpoint  than  the  mean  dose  for  children  in  both  the  DLX  and  PLA/DLX 
groups.  This  result  was  driven  by  adolescents  being  on  a  120-mg  dose  for  longer  than  children,  as 
evidenced by a greater proportion of adolescents than children having a modal dose of 120 mg. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 44/60 
 
 
 
   
 
No statistically significant differences in patient demographics or baseline characteristics were observed 
between duloxetine or placebo in the complete patient population or within the age subgroups. Within 
the  adolescent  subgroup,  the  observed  statistically  significant  differences  between  duloxetine  and 
fluoxetine  was  mean  age  (greater  mean  age  for  fluoxetine,  p=.043)  and  race  distribution  (larger 
proportion  of  white  patients  for  fluoxetine,  p=.040).  These  differences,  however,  were  likely  to  have 
little  to  no  impact  on  the  interpretation  of  safety-related  results.  Overall,  therefore,  this  study 
population  was  representative  of  the  general  child  and  adolescent  population  with  MDD.  No  clinically 
meaningful differences were observed between treatment groups. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 45/60 
 
 
 
   
 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
The  mean  duration  of  the  patients  in  the  studies  was  about  5  months  being  similar  in  children  and 
adolescents.  Approximately  half  of  both  children  and  adolescents  remained  on  drug  for  at  least  6 
months. Mean daily dose was between 64-75 mg with higher doses in adolescents than in children at 
endpoint.  There  were  not  meaningful  demographic  differences  between  treatment  groups  or  between 
age groups that could affect the trials outcome.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 46/60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Clinical Request 4 
The  clinical  differences  in  safety  profile  across  the  age  subgroups,  if  any,  should  also  be 
provided. 
MAH Response 
The  analyses  provided  in  this  response  are  subject  to  increased  Type  I  error  due  to  the  fact  that  we 
have  conducted  multiple  analyses  and  there  was  no  multiplicity  adjustment.  In  addition,  conclusions 
are limited due to small numbers within the subgroups. Because the primary focus of this section is to 
assess whether the safety profile is similar between the children and adolescent subgroups, the results 
discussed here include treatment by-subgroup interactions and within-subgroup treatment (duloxetine 
versus placebo) comparisons. 
Overall,  during  the  acute-  or  extension-treatment  phases,  few  statistically  significant  treatment-by-
subgroup interaction were observed in the analyses of SAEs, DC due to AE, TEAEs, standard laboratory 
and vital signs, indicating that the safety profile of duloxetine was similar between age subgroups.  
The  reported  SAEs  during  the  acute  treatment  phase  in  the  adolescent  duloxetine  group  were  drug 
abuse,  hallucination,  intentional  overdose  (2  reports),  panic  attack,  self-injurious  behaviour,  social 
phobia,  suicidal  ideation,  and  syncope.  In  the  children  duloxetine  group,  the  2  reported  SAEs  were 
depressive symptoms and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Of note, the SAE of IBS is captured in both 
Study Period II and Study Period III because the patient had the preexisting event of irritable bowel at 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 47/60 
 
 
 
   
 
study  entry  but  the  event  did  not  become  serious  until  hospitalization  during  Study  Period  III.  In 
summary,  no  new  safety  signals  were  identified.    The  only  statistically  significant  finding  was  more 
discontinuations due to adverse events in the adolescent duloxetine group (9.5%) than the adolescent 
placebo group (2.2%, p=.009) during acute treatment. This rate of DC due to an AE is consistent with, 
and lower than, that observed in adult clinical studies of duloxetine. The only event reported by more 
than  2  patients  in  one  subgroup  was  nausea,  which  was  more  frequent  in  the  duloxetine-treated 
adolescent (4 events) than child (2 events) subgroup, with no discontinuations due to nausea in either 
placebo group. When compared with the adult patient population, the rate of discontinuation was lower 
in  paediatric  patients.  The  frequency  of  TEAEs  was  similar  between  treatment  groups  and  across 
subpopulations  and  no  statistically  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was  observed. 
Headache  was  the  most  frequently  reported  TEAE  in  duloxetine-treated  adolescents  (n,  %:  41,  20% 
duloxetine;  11,  8.0%  placebo),  followed  closely  by  nausea  (n,%:  38,  19%  duloxetine;  15,  11% 
placebo). Nausea was the most frequently reported TEAE in duloxetine-treated children (n,%: 21, 15% 
duloxetine; 7, 8% placebo), followed by headache (n,%: 17, 12% duloxetine; 14, 16% placebo). The 
other  TEAEs  reported  in  duloxetine-treated  patients  also  were  consistent  with  the  know  safety  profile 
of duloxetine. Thus, no notable differences in the nature or frequency of TEAEs were observed between 
subgroups. 
During  extension  treatment  phase  two  children  and  2  adolescents  reported  a  suicide  attempt.  One 
male  adolescent  patient  was  hospitalized  for  the  SAE  of  suspected  Stevens-Johnson  Syndrome.  The 
other reported SAEs are either not unexpected in a psychiatric population or most likely not related to 
study drug. The frequency of DC due to an AE and TEAEs was similar between treatment groups and 
between subgroups. No single event was reported more frequently as the reason for discontinuation in 
either  treatment  group  or  subpopulation.  These  DC  due  to  an  AE  rates  are  comparable  to  those 
observed  in  longer-term  adult  clinical  studies  of  duloxetine.  The  most  commonly  reported  (≥5%) 
TEAEs  in  the  duloxetine-treated  adolescent  subgroup  were  nausea,  headache,  vomiting,  abdominal 
pain upper, nasopharyngitis, and dizziness. The first 4 of these TEAEs were also commonly reported in 
the  duloxetine-treated  children  subgroup.  Additionally,  children  commonly  reported  pyrexia  and 
influenza.  Overall,  however,  the  reported  TEAEs  did  not  form  an  obvious  differential  pattern  between 
children  and  adolescents.  As  noted  above,  these  events  are  consistent  with  the  safety  profile  of 
duloxetine within the adult population. 
Analyses of Laboratory Data 
Abnormal laboratory values were defined as outside of the Covance reference range of normal. Overall, 
no clinically meaningful differences were observed between duloxetine and placebo (acute) or DLX and 
PLA/DLX (extension) groups with regards to abnormally high or low laboratory values. Similarly, while 
statistically  significant  treatment-by-subgroup  interactions  were  observed  for  some  analytes,  the 
differences  were  not  considered  clinically  meaningful  either  due  to  the  direction  of  the  abnormal 
change or the apparent resolution of abnormal values at endpoint. Further, no SAEs or discontinuations 
related to abnormal laboratory values were reported. 
During  the  acute  treatment  phase  one  statistically  significant  interaction  was  noted  for  low  total 
bilirubin. This finding was driven by a greater duloxetine/placebo difference in children compared with 
duloxetine/placebo  difference  in  adolescents.  However,  low  total  bilirubin  was  not  considered  a 
clinically relevant finding. The frequency of patients meeting abnormal criteria on any laboratory value 
at endpoint was lower, in general, than that observed at any time. Abnormally high platelet count and 
abnormal red blood cell morphology was observed statistically significantly more frequently at endpoint 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 48/60 
 
 
   
 
within  the  adolescent  duloxetine  group  compared  with  the  adolescent  placebo  group;  however,  these 
were not considered a clinically relevant finding. 
For extension-phase analyses, the baseline is the end of the acute phase. In general, the frequency of 
patients meeting abnormal criteria at any time and at endpoint was lower during extension treatment 
than acute treatment. The following abnormal criteria at any time occurred more frequently in children 
than adolescents and were reported by at least 5% of patients in the total duloxetine group (DLX/DLX 
plus PLA/DLX arms): high alanine aminotransferase, low bilirubin total, high calcium, high cholesterol, 
high  creatinine,  high  eosinophils,  high  platelet  count,  and  high  hematocrit.  Conversely,  the  following 
abnormal criteria were met at any time by at least 5% of patients in the total duloxetine group and by 
adolescents  more  frequently  than  children:  high  albumin,  high  alkaline  phosphatase,  high  creatine 
phosphokinase,  low  glucose,  high  uric  acid,  low  erythrocyte  count,  low  mean  cell  hemoglobin 
(concentration),  urinalysis  (UA)  occult  blood,  UA  protein.  Overall,  when  considering  results  from  the 
acute  and  extension  treatment,  while  the  frequency  of  patients  meeting  some  abnormal  laboratory 
analyte  criteria  was  higher  in  one  subgroup  over  another,  no  clinically  meaningful  pattern  was 
observed.  Therefore,  no  clinically  meaningful  differences  in  the  safety  profile  were  observed  between 
the children and adolescent subgroups. 
Analyses of Vital Signs and Electrocardiogram Results 
Analyses of categorical data were performed in addition to mean change from baseline to identify the 
frequency  of  patients  meeting  Potentially  Clinically  Significant  (PCS)  increases  for  the  specified 
parameters.  Overall, the results did not reveal a clinically meaningful differences between adolescents 
or  children  with  respect  to  vital  signs  or  ECGs.  Nevertheless,  these  data  should  be  interpreted  with 
caution due to the limited number of patients meeting abnormal categorical criteria. 
No  statistically  significant  differences  in  mean  change  in  systolic  blood  pressure,  diastolic  blood 
pressure,  pulse  were  observed  between  duloxetine  and  placebo  in  either  the  children  or  adolescent 
subgroups.  Both  duloxetine-treated  children  and  duloxetine-treated  adolescents  experienced  mean 
decrease in weight that was statistically significant when compared with placebo-treated children and 
adolescent  patients,  respectively.  A  statistically  significant  within-subgroup  difference  in  low  systolic 
blood  pressure  was  observed  in  children,  but  the  frequency  was  higher  in  placebo  (3,  3.6%)  than 
duloxetine  (0,  0%).  No  other  within-subgroup  differences  in  blood  pressure  or  pulse  were  observed 
during  the  acute-treatment  period.  Few  patients  in  any  treatment  group  met  criteria  for  sustained 
elevation  (that  is,  meeting  PCS  criteria  for  at  least  3  consecutive  visits)  during  the  acute-treatment 
period. For sustained elevation in diastolic blood pressure, a total of 2 adolescents, both in the placebo 
group,  and  1  child  in  the  duloxetine  group  met  sustained  diastolic  blood  pressure  criteria.  No 
discontinuations due to sustained elevation in blood pressure were reported. For sustained elevation in 
systolic  blood  pressure,  1  adolescent  in  the  duloxetine  group  and  2  adolescents  in  the  placebo  group 
met  sustained  criteria.  No  children  met  sustained  elevation  in  systolic  blood  pressure  criteria  during 
acute treatment. Treatment-by-subgroup interaction test could  not be  performed due to  no events in 
some  subgroups.  Overall,  however,  few  patients  experienced  sustained  elevation  in  blood  pressure, 
suggesting that elevations in blood pressure during acute treatment were sporadic. 
For  electrocardiogram  results,  few  treatment-by-subgroup  interactions  were  calculated  due  to  lack  of 
events in at least 1 treatment arm.  
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 49/60 
 
 
 
   
 
For  patients  randomised  to  duloxetine  and  remaining  on  duloxetine  during  extension  treatment, 
children  generally  experienced  a  greater  mean  increase  in  blood  pressure  and  pulse  when  compared 
with  adolescents.  However,  the  differences  in  the  mean  changes  were  small  (≤2  mm  Hg)  and  not 
likely clinically significant. These results observed during extension treatment are consistent with those 
observed during acute treatment. Conversely, for patients initially randomised to placebo and switched 
to  duloxetine  during  the  extension  treatment,  the  mean  increase  in  blood  pressure  and  pulse  was 
generally  greater  in  adolescents  than  children.  These  observations  are  not  likely  clinically  significant 
because  the  adolescents  transitioning  from  placebo  to  duloxetine  had  vital-sign  changes  similar  to 
those  seen  by  the  adolescents  treated  with  duloxetine  in  the  acute  phase.  A  greater  frequency  of 
children  (13%)  met  PCS  high  diastolic  blood  pressure  at  any  time  when  compared  with  adolescents 
(9%) in the duloxetine group. A similar result was observed for PCS high systolic blood pressure at any 
time, where children (12%) met the criteria more frequently than adolescents (9%) in the duloxetine 
group.  Few  duloxetine-treated  patients  met  criteria  for  PCS  high  pulse,  with  a  total  of  2  (0.8%) 
adolescents  meeting  criteria  at  any  time  during  extension  treatment.  These  observations  do  not 
support  a  differential  tolerability  regarding  blood  pressure  between  the  child  and  adolescent 
duloxetine-treated subgroups. No duloxetine-treated children or adolescents met criteria for sustained 
elevation  in  diastolic  blood  pressure  during  extension  treatment.  One  adolescent  in  the  duloxetine 
group  met  criteria  for  sustained  elevation  in  systolic  blood  pressure  during  extension  treatment.  As 
with the acute-treatment phase, few patients met criteria, limiting the ability to draw conclusions and 
suggesting  that  any  noted  abnormal  elevations  in  blood  pressure  were  sporadic.  A  total  of  2  (0.9%) 
duloxetine-treated adolescents and 4 children (3%) in the duloxetine group met low heart rate criteria. 
For QTcF results, no duloxetine-treated children or adolescents met high or abnormal increase criteria. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 50/60 
 
 
 
   
 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
Adverse  events, laboratory data, vital signs and electrocardiogram were analyzed. Overall, the safety 
profile  of  duloxetine  was  similar  between  age  subgroups.  Statistical  significant  interactions  were 
founded  although  they  were  not  considered  clinically  relevant.  Adverse  events  were  consistent  with 
those in the adult population.  There was more discontinuation due to adverse events in the adolescent 
duloxetine  group  than  in  the  adolescent  placebo  group  (statistically  significant).  Children  and 
adolescent  treated  with  duloxetine  experienced  a  statistically  significant  mean  decrease  in  weight 
compared with placebo. Suicide-related events (by subgroup) are not discussed in this section. Safety 
profile of fluoxetine by age-subgroups is not presented.  
Clinical Request 5 
Further  discussion  on  the  global  comparison  of  duloxetine  versus  fluoxetine  is  expected, 
including  the  disposition  of  the  patients  and  the  AEs  reported.  A  specific  discussion  for 
suicide-related events is expected. 
MAH response 
For  the  acute-treatment  phase,  completion  rates  were  comparable  across  treatment  groups  in  Study 
HMCL  (approximately  70%)  and  Study  HMCK  (75%  and  78%  for  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine 
respectively). The most frequently reported reason for discontinuation was an AE, with patients in the 
duloxetine group DC due to AE more frequently than patients in the fluoxetine group, primarily due to 
the  event  of  nausea.  For  the  extension  period,  completion  rates  were  approximately  60%  across 
treatment  groups  in  Study  HMCL  and  approximately  80%  in  Study  HMCK.  The  most  frequently 
reported  reason  for  discontinuation  in  the  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  groups  was  patient  or  caregiver 
decision.  
Because the comparison of interest is between duloxetine and fluoxetine, characterization of the safety 
profiles  over  long-term  treatment  requires  analysis  of  only  those  patients  initially  randomised  to 
duloxetine or to fluoxetine. This avoids selection bias by not including patients initially randomised to 
placebo who are then switched to duloxetine during extension treatment. 
The  frequency  of  DC  due  to  an  AE  in  the  acute  treatment  phase  was  statistically  significantly  higher 
with  duloxetine  than  with  fluoxetine.  This  difference  was  primarily  driven  by  discontinuations  due  to 
nausea:  6  (1.8%)  reports  with  duloxetine  and  0  reports  with fluoxetine.  The  frequency  of  TEAEs  was 
also  similar  across  the  treatment  groups.  The  individual  TEAEs  of  nausea  (17%,  11%)  and  dizziness 
(8.5%,  3.8%)  were  reported  statistically  significantly  more  frequently  with  duloxetine  compared  with 
fluoxetine.  Discontinuation  due  to  an  AE  remained  higher  in  the  duloxetine  group  than  the  fluoxetine 
group  at  study  endpoint;  as  noted  above,  this  was  primarily  driven  by  the  greater  frequency  of 
discontinuations due to nausea with duloxetine (7, 2.2%) than fluoxetine (0, 0%, p=.032). The median 
time  to  discontinuation  due  to  nausea  was  41  days.  Of  note,  6  of  the  7  nausea  events  reported  as  a 
reason  for  discontinuation  from  duloxetine  occurred  during  the  acute-treatment  period.  This  is 
consistent  with  the  known  profile  of  duloxetine,  where  nausea,  a  commonly  reported  AE  upon 
duloxetine initiation, tends to resolve with continued duloxetine treatment. The only other AEs reported 
by  more  than  2  patients  in  a  treatment  group  as  a  reason  for  discontinuation  was  depression  for 
duloxetine  (4,  1.2%,  versus  0,  0%  with  fluoxetine)  and  aggression  for  fluoxetine  (3,  1.3%  versus  1, 
0.3% with duloxetine). 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 51/60 
 
 
   
 
Analyses  of  mean  change  in  laboratory  analytes  during  acute  treatment  revealed  few  significant 
differences  between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine.  Due  to  the  direction  or  magnitude  of  change,  these 
were  not  considered  clinically  meaningful.  Analyses  of  treatment-emergent  abnormal  laboratory 
analytes did not reveal any statistically significant differences between duloxetine and fluoxetine during 
acute treatment. During extension treatment, low levels of lymphocytes and neutrophils were observed 
at  least  2  times  more  frequently  with  fluoxetine  than  duloxetine  (that  is,  the  DLX/DLX  group).  Low 
levels of mean cell hemoglobin and neutrophils, as well as high neutrophil and abnormal protein levels 
occurred at least 2 times more frequently with duloxetine than fluoxetine. These differences were not 
considered clinically meaningful, however.  
With respect to mean change from baseline (blood pressure and pulse), PCS abnormalities (blood 
pressure  and  pulse)  and sustained  elevations  of  blood  pressure,  no  statistically  significant  differences 
were observed between duloxetine and fluoxetine. A statistically significant difference for mean change 
in  QTcF  was  observed  between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine,  with  patients  in  the  duloxetine  group 
experiencing a mean decrease and those in the fluoxetine group experiencing a mean increase. Overall 
mean  changes  were  small  (increase  or  decrease  of  less  than  4  msec),  however,  and  not  considered 
clinically relevant for either drug. Categorical analyses of QTcF identified 1 male patient (0.4%) in the 
duloxetine  group  who  experienced  an  abnormal  increase  in  QTcF  interval  (that  is,  an  increase  of 
greater than 40 msec from baseline). One male patient (0.6%) in the fluoxetine group met the gender-
specific high QTcF criteria (≥450 msec). Neither patient met PCS criteria for QTcF (an absolute interval 
>500  msec).  Abnormal  high  heart  rate  was  reported  in  1  (0.4%)  duloxetine-treated  patient  and  no 
fluoxetine-treated  patient  during  acute  treatment.  There  were  no  SAEs  or  TEAEs  related  to  QTc 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 52/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
prolongation  reported  for  patients  in  the  duloxetine  or  fluoxetine  groups  in  the  acute  analyses  set. 
Overall, therefore, no new signal regarding QTcF data was identified. 
Longer-term data are important for assessing cardiovascular risk. To this end, data from the combined 
acute  and  extension  phase  treatment  periods  (36  weeks)  were  pooled  from  both  studies  to  ascertain 
the frequency and duration of PCS vital signs and sustained elevation in blood pressure. In this pooled 
analyses,  only  patients  randomised  to  duloxetine  or  fluoxetine  at  the  beginning  of  the  studies  were 
analysed.  In  other  words,  patients  randomised  to  placebo  were  excluded  since  these  patients  were 
only exposed to duloxetine for 26 weeks and not the complete study duration. Categorical analyses of 
blood pressure at endpoint compared with at any time suggest that the majority of PCS events at any 
time  occurring  in  the  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  groups  tended  to  resolve  during  the  studies,  as 
evidenced  by  the  lower  frequency  of  events  at  endpoint  (Table  8.3).  With  respect  to  sustained 
elevation  of  blood  pressure,  less  than  2%  of  patients  in  the  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  groups  met 
criteria for sustained elevation of systolic or diastolic blood pressure. Overall, therefore, no new signal 
with respect to pulse and blood pressure was identified. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 53/60 
 
 
 
   
 
With respect to ECG results, a mean increase in heart rate of 2.8 bpm was observed for the duloxetine 
group, while a mean decrease (-2.3 bpm) was observed in the fluoxetine group over the 36 weeks of 
the  study.  Patients  in  the  duloxetine  group  experienced  a  mean  decrease  in  QTcF  (-1.9  msec)  while 
those  in  the  fluoxetine  group  experienced  a  mean  increase  (2.3  msec).  The  difference  between 
treatment  groups  for  both  heart  rate  and  QTcF  were  both  statistically  significant  (<.001  and  .005, 
respectively). Over the entire study, 1 duloxetine-treated patient experienced abnormal high heart rate 
and  1  duloxetine-treated  patient  experienced  abnormal  increase  in  QTcF  interval,  and  both  events 
occurred  during  acute  treatment.  There  were  3  patients  in  the  fluoxetine  group  who  experienced 
gender-specific high QTcF (≥470 msec for females and ≥450 msec for males), with 1 event occurring 
during acute treatment. There were 3 patients in the fluoxetine group with abnormal increase in QTcF 
interval (>40 msec increase) from study baseline. 
In  order  to  provide  more  robust  comparisons  for  suicide-related  events  between  duloxetine  and 
fluoxetine  accounting  for  differences  in  number  of  patients  assigned  to  each  treatment  group  and 
duration of exposure, an exposure adjusted analysis was conducted for the overall population, and also 
for  each  age  subgroup  (children  and  adolescent).  Exposure  adjusted  incidence  rate  (EAIR),  that  is, 
number of patients with events divided by the total patient years, was calculated separately for acute 
phase, extension phase, as well as acute and extension phase combined. EAIR was compared between 
treatment  groups  for  acute  phase  or  acute  and  extension  phase  combined  using  Miettinen  and 
Nurminen  (MN)  method  (Miettinen  and  Nurminen  1985;  Chan  and  Wang  2009).  There  were  no 
completed suicides in Studies HMCK and HMCL. The frequency of treatment emergent suicidal ideation 
and  non-suicidal  self-injurious  behaviour  as  collected  via  CSSR-S  was  similar  across  all  treatment 
groups  during  acute  treatment.  Suicidal  ideation  occurred  in  a  similar  proportion  of  patients  in  all 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 54/60 
 
 
 
   
 
treatment  groups  and  occurred  in  both  children  and  adolescents,  with  the  frequency  being  greater  in 
adolescents.  Suicidal  behaviour  as  collected  via  CSSR-S  occurred  in  <1%  of  patients  within  any 
treatment group during acute treatment. Three cases of suicidal behaviour were reported during acute 
treatment  with  2  cases  for  fluoxetine,  1  case  for  placebo,  and  0  cases  for  duloxetine.  Regarding 
exposure  adjusted  analyses  for  the  acute-treatment  phase,  there  were  no  statistically  significant 
differences  between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  for  EAIR  for  overall  population  or  for  the  adolescent 
subgroups. 
The  frequency  of  treatment  emergent  suicidal  ideation  as  collected  via  C-SSRS  was  similar  across  all 
treatment  groups  during  the  extension-treatment  period.  Suicidal  ideation  occurred  in  a  similar 
proportion of patients in all treatment groups and occurred in both children and adolescents, with the 
frequency generally being greater in adolescents. Suicidal behaviour as collected via C-SSRS occurred 
in <1% of patients within the PBO/DLX and FLX/FLX treatment groups and in 2.6% of patients in the 
DLX/DLX  treatment  group  during  extension  treatment.  A  total  of  8  cases  of  suicidal  behaviour  were 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 55/60 
 
 
 
   
 
reported  during  extension  treatment  with  7  cases  for  duloxetine-  and  1  case  for  fluoxetine-treated 
patients.  
Regarding  exposure  adjusted  analyses  for  the  extension-treatment  phase,  the  number  of  events 
(ideation  or  behaviour)  per  patient  years  was  similar  for  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine.  More  specifically, 
even  though  the  actual  number  of  suicide  behaviours  was  greater  for  duloxetine  compared  with 
fluoxetine,  the  difference  between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  treatment  groups  in  the  exposure 
adjusted incidence rate was smaller due to greater number of patients exposed to duloxetine. 
An additional exposure adjusted analysis using data from C-SSRS over the 36-week study for patients 
initially randomised to duloxetine or fluoxetine shows no statistically significant difference in the EAIR 
between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  in  the  overall  patient  population  or  within  the  child  or  adolescent 
subgroup. As noted in the discussion of the extension dataset above, even though the actual number 
of  suicide  behaviours  was  greater  for  duloxetine  compared  with  fluoxetine,  the  difference  between 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 56/60 
 
 
 
   
 
duloxetine and fluoxetine treatment groups in the exposure adjusted incidence rate was smaller due to 
greater number of patients exposed to duloxetine. 
No  new  signals  were  identified  with  regard  to  suicide-related  events  or  non-suicidal  self-injurious 
behaviour. Results with regard to the frequency of suicidality (ideation or behaviour) for Studies HMCK 
and HMCL are fairly consistent with previously published studies of antidepressants in the treatment of 
children  and  adolescents  with  MDD.  The  SmPC  currently  contains  a  class  labelling  warning  for  both 
duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  regarding  use  in  paediatric  patients  and  suicide-related  events  (ideation, 
behaviour)  (SmPC  section  4.4).  The  recommendation  for  carefully  monitoring  of  paediatric  patients 
with MDD for the appearance of suicidal symptoms remains a suitably cautious clinical approach. 
Overall,  no  clinically  important  differences  in  safety  and  tolerability  findings  were  noted  between 
duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  except  for  a  higher  rate  of  DC  due  to  an  AE  with  duloxetine,  which  was 
driven  by  nausea.  Results  of  laboratory  analyses  of  mean  change  and  treatment-emergent  abnormal 
values reveal similar mean changes and frequencies of abnormal laboratory values between duloxetine 
and  fluoxetine,  but  these  differences  were  not  considered  clinically  meaningful.  Similarly,  with  the 
possible exception of modest mean increase of QTcF interval with fluoxetine, no meaningful differences 
between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  were  observed  from  analyses  of  vital  signs  and  ECG  parameters 
during acute treatment or over the entire study. No new safety signals were identified with regard to 
suicide-related  events  (ideation,  behaviour)  or  non-suicidal  self-injurious  behaviour  during  acute 
treatment  or  extension  treatment.  Even  though  the  actual  number  of  suicide  behaviours  was  greater 
for  duloxetine  compared  with  fluoxetine,  the  difference  between  duloxetine  and  fluoxetine  treatment 
groups in the exposure adjusted incidence rate was smaller due to greater number of patients exposed 
to duloxetine. 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
More patients in the duloxetine than the fluoxetine group discontinued due to an adverse events in the 
acute treatment, principally due to nausea. Discontinuation rates due to an AE remained higher in the 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 57/60 
 
 
 
   
 
duloxetine group at study endpoint. A higher frequency of nausea and dizziness were reported with 
duloxetine compared with fluoxetine. These results are consistent with the known profile of duloxetine. 
Differences between duloxetine and fluoxetine observed in laboratory-related data were not considered 
clinically meaningful. Differences in results from analyses of vital signs (blood pressure, pulse) and 
ECGs were small for both duloxetine and fluoxetine in these studies, generally not considered clinically 
meaningful, and concordant with known safety profile of both compounds. A mean increase in heart 
rate and a mean decrease in QTcF were observed for the duloxetine group over the 36 weeks of the 
study (statistically significant compared with fluoxetine).  
An exposure adjusted analysis was conducted for suicide-related events including those patients 
initially randomized to placebo and switched to duloxetine in the extension phase. Suicidal ideation 
occurred in a similar proportion of patients in all treatment groups and occurred in both children and 
adolescents, with the frequency being greater in adolescent. In the acute phase the number of events 
(suicidal ideation or behaviour) per patient years was similar for duloxetine and fluoxetine. During 
extension treatment the number of suicidal behaviours was greater for duloxetine (2.6% ) compared 
with fluoxetine (0.6%) and placebo/fluoxetine (0.6%).  
When the incidence rate was adjusted by exposure, these differences between treatment for the 
extension-treatment phase were smaller (duloxetine: 0.04 Events per PY; fluoxetine: 0.01 Events per 
PY; placebo/duloxetine: 0.01 Events per PY). It must be due to greater number of patients exposed to 
duloxetine. When looking at the exposure adjusted analysis over the 36-week study, no statistically 
significant differences in the exposure-adjusted incidence rates for suicidal behaviour were observed 
between duloxetine and fluoxetine in the overall patient population or within the child or adolescent 
subgroup (duloxetine: 0.04 Events per PY; fluoxetine: 0.03 Events per PY; p=.646). There were not 
remarkable differences respecting non-suicidal self-injurious behaviour.  
The higher numbers of suicidal behaviour in patients treated with duloxetine compared with those 
receiving fluoxetine can be considered as a safety signal that, although it is not possible to objectively 
assign to duloxetin, could represent a matter of concern. 
In view of all of these uncertainties this information is considered sufficiently relevant for physicians to 
be included in the SmPC. 
Clinical Request 6 
The  MAH  should  provide  the  data  regarding  monitoring  of  some  key  events  that  has  not 
been discussed in this report: 
-  Hepatic  risk:  effect  of  duloxetine  on  laboratory  parameters  and  changes  in  liver 
enzymes/hepatic adverse events. 
- Severe cutaneous reactions 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 58/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
MAH response 
1.  Hepatic Risk.  
In Studies HMCK and HMCL, no patient had an SAE related to laboratory results, and no patient 
discontinued  due  to  abnormal  laboratory  values.  A  new  analysis  of  spontaneously  reported  hepatic-
related  TEAEs  was  performed  using  pooled  data  from  HMCK  and  HMCL.  Based  on  this  analysis,  few 
patients were identified who experienced a hepatic-related TEAE during the 36 weeks of either study. 
Specifically, during the acute phase,  1 patient in each treatment group experienced 1 hepatic-related 
TEAE: In the duloxetine group, ALT increased; in the fluoxetine group, hepatic steatosis; in the placebo 
group,  hepatic  enzyme  increased.  During  the  extension  phase,  1  (0.6%)  patient  who  continued 
duloxetine in the extension phase (DLX/DLX group) and 2 (1.1%) patients who continued fluoxetine in 
the  extension  phase  experienced  ALT  increase.  One  patient  who  switched  from  placebo  to  duloxetine 
for  the  extension  phase  experienced  ALT  increase.  An  analysis  of  mean  change  in  chemistry  and 
hematologic  laboratory  analytes  was  performed  using  the  acute  analyses  set.  For  chemistry  analytes 
related  to  hepatology,  the  difference  between  duloxetine  and  placebo  was  statistically  significant 
(p<.05) only for GGT (-1.20, -0.32). However, this finding is not considered clinically meaningful since 
a  decrease  is  not  indicative  of  liver  injury.  No  clinically  meaningful  differences  were  noted  between 
duloxetine and fluoxetine. No patients met Hy’s Rule criteria. Treatment-emergent ALT ≥3 times ULN 
was  reported  in  the  extension  analyses  set  for  1  patient  in  the  duloxetine  group  and  1  patient  in 
fluoxetine  group.  The  patient  in  the  duloxetine  group  (17  year  old  male)  was  initially  randomised  to 
placebo and then transitioned to duloxetine for the extension period. The patient had an abnormal ALT 
value  at  baseline  and  experienced  a  treatment  emergent  ALT  increase  to  ≥3  times  ULN  at  the  last 
study visit while taking duloxetine (Week 36). The patient completed the study by entering the taper 
phase, during which time the patient’s ALT levels decreased towards normal values by the end of the 
taper  phase.  For  the  patient  in  the  fluoxetine  group,  a  17  year  old  male,  had  a  treatment-emergent 
ALT  ≥3  times  ULN  that  reached  levels  ≥5  times  during  ULN  Study  Period  III.  The  patient’s  ALT 
elevation  persisted  for  approximately  9  weeks  reaching  a  maximum  of  216  U/L  (5  times  ULN) 
approximately  6  weeks  after  the  initial  ALT  elevation.  The  patient’s  ALT  returned  to  normal  at 
approximately the 28- and 32-week time points while the patient continued on fluoxetine 40 mg QD. 
Overall,  therefore,  no  new  hepatic-related  safety  concerns  for  duloxetine  were  noted  within  the 
paediatric population in these studies. 
2.  Severe Cutaneous Reactions 
A standard  MedDRA query was performed using the acute and long-term analyses sets. One possible 
case  of  Stevens-Johnson  Syndrome  was  identified  (this  case  was  reported  in  the  Risk  Management 
Plan (RMP) v9 submitted in October 2011). As summarised in the HMCL Study Report, this 15-year-old 
male  in  the  duloxetine  group  was  hospitalized  for  suspected  SJS  137  days  after  starting  duloxetine, 
and  discontinued  treatment  on  the  day  of  hospitalization.  The  patient  was  experiencing  symptoms  of 
sinus  infection,  temperature,  fatigue,  and  headache  for  approximately  2-3  months  prior  to  the 
hospitalization. The patient also developed blisters in the mouth, cough, and conjunctivitis. No rash or 
other signs of allergic reaction were reported. The patient recovered from the event. The investigator 
judged  the  event  to  be  possibly  related  to  the  drug.  The  risk  of  SJS  is  already  a  labeled  adverse 
reaction in the SmPC and an important identified risk noted within the RMP. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 59/60 
 
 
 
   
 
Rapporteur’s comments: 
No new hepatic-related safety concerns for duloxetine were noted within the paediatric population in 
these studies. One possible case of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome was identified. The risk of SJS is 
already a labelled adverse reaction in the SmPC. 
SmPC Related Request and Responses 
The  MAH  should  submit  a  proposal  for  the  SmPC  including  modifications  in  the  wording  of 
the following sections: 4.2; 4.4; 4.8; 5.1; 5.2 
Please 
refer 
to  WS0334  procedure 
(Ariclaim-EMEA/H/C/000552/WS0334/0054/G,  Cymbalta-
EMEA/H/C/000572/WS0334/0056/G, Xeristar-EMEA/H/C/000573/WS0334/0059/G 
Yentreve-EMEA/H/C/000545/WS0334/0043/G -Type II Variation: Safety Update to SmPC and Package 
Leaflet  –  Company  Core  Data  Sheet  (CCDS)  Update  &  Addition of  Clinically Relevant  Paediatric Data) 
for the final SmPC wording. 
VI.  CONCLUSION 
With the responses submitted by the MAH, all questions have now been resolved and this procedure 
could be considered finalized.  
As a positive benefit for paediatric population has not been demonstrated with the submitted studies, 
the use of duloxetine in the paediatric population is not recommended. 
However, changes in the PI other than section 4.1of the SmPC are being considered. These are being 
assessed within the procedure submitted in parallel: EMEA/H/C/ xxxx/WS/0334/G. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006  
Page 60/60 
 
 
 
 
   
 
