SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This  module  reflects  the  initial  scientific  discussion  for  the  approval  of  Yentreve.  For 
information on changes after approval please refer to module 8B. 
1. 
Introduction 
Eli  Lilly  Netherlands  B.V.    has  submitted  a  Marketing  Authorisation  Application  through  the 
Centralised  Procedure,  for  the  medicinal  product  Yentreve,  containing  duloxetine  hydrochloride,  for 
the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) 
This  is  a  complete  and  independent  marketing  authorisation  application,  as  stated  in  Art.  8  (3)  of 
Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended. The provided data cover all aspects of the clinical characterization 
of  safety  and  efficacy  of  duloxetine.  The  applicant  has  submitted  the  results  of  non-clinical  and 
clinical studies carried out for the application.  
Urinary  incontinence  is  defined  by  the  International  Continence  Society  as  the  complaint  of  any 
involuntary  leakage  of  urine.  It  is  a  common  and  chronic  condition  in  women.  While  not  life-
threatening,  it  can  have  a  significant  negative  impact  on  the  psychological  well-being,  social 
functioning and overall quality of life of those affected. 
Urinary incontinence not only causes considerable personal discomfort but also has a relevant health 
economic  impact.  It  has  been  reported  a  median  prevalence  in  adults  (of  any  type  or  amount  of 
incontinence) of 28% (range, 12% to 42%) in women younger than 60 years, and 35% (range, 17% to 
55%) in women 60 years and older. The prevalence of daily incontinence is 4% (range, 2% to 11%) in 
women younger than 60 years, and 14% (range, 3% to 17%) in women 60 years and older.  
Among women younger than 60 years who reported incontinence, about half had stress incontinence. 
For  women  60  years  and  older,  the  rate  of  stress  incontinence  was  lower,  with  only  approximately 
25%  of  incontinence  due  to  stress;  the  remainder  was  caused  by  either  urge  or  mixed  urge-stress 
incontinence. 
Urinary  incontinence  in  women  can  be  broadly  divided  into  two  main  types:  stress  (effort)  urinary 
incontinence and urge incontinence. The term mixed incontinence denotes the concomitant appearance 
of stress and urge incontinence.  
Stress  urinary  incontinence  is  defined  by  the  International  Continence  Society  as  the  complaint  of 
involuntary leakage of urine on effort or exertion, or on sneezing or coughing (Abrams et al. 2000).  
Anatomically,  most  SUI  results  from  diminished  function  of  the  pelvic  floor  structures  that  provide 
support for the pelvic organs, leading to hypermobility and descent of the bladder and urethra. SUI is 
the most common type of urinary incontinence in women, with 78% of incontinent women presenting 
with the symptom of SUI in either pure (43%) or mixed (29%) forms.  
In SUI leakage appears when the intra-abdominal pressure increases above the forces contributing to 
the urethral closure pressure. Under resting condition paraurethral muscles usually maintain a pressure 
(resting  urethral  closure  pressure-RUCP)  that  prevents  leakage  of  urine.  When  intra-abdominal 
pressure is increased above the RUCP, in continent women the abdominal pressure is transmitted to 
the urethra via surrounding tissues to maintain a positive UCP. A woman will leak urine on exertion if 
pressure  transmission  is  insufficient  and  the  force  (pressure  generation)  of  the  exertion  is  above  the 
UCP.  Thus,  there  are  two  factors  that  contribute  to  continence:  the  resting  urethral  pressure  and  the 
transmission of pressure from outside to the urethra on exertion. 
Treatment of SUI 
In  SUI  surgery  is  generally  regarded  as  the  method  with  best  chances  of  cure  or  significant 
improvement. 
Conservative  and  surgical  treatments  will  depend  on  the  patient’s  preference,  condition,  and 
urodynamic diagnosis.  
Conservative  treatment  is  indicated  when  patients  refuse  or  are  undecided  about  surgery,  they  are 
physically or mentally unfit for surgery, or childbearing is incomplete: 
a) Pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) is a non-invasive method and should be considered as the first 
option for all patients with stress incontinence. It concerns re-education of the pelvic floor muscles by 
encouraging  women  to  voluntarily  contract  their  pelvic  floor  muscles.  The  overall  rate  for  cure  or 
1/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
much improvement at five years is high. However, its success is reliant upon the patient’s motivation 
and commitment.  
PFMT has been the subject of a recent Cochrane review  1.  The reviewers conclude that "pelvic floor 
muscle  training  appeared  to  be  an  effective  treatment  for  adult  women  with  stress  or  mixed 
incontinence.  Pelvic  floor  muscle  training  was  better  than  no  treatment  or  placebo  treatment.  The 
limitations  of  the  evidence  available  mean  that  it  is  difficult  to  judge  if  pelvic  floor  muscle  training 
was better or worse than other treatments. Most trials to date  have studied the effect of treatment in 
younger, premenopausal women." The reviewers also state "Long term results of pelvic floor muscle 
training are unclear. Side effects of pelvic floor muscle training were uncommon and reversible." 
In the Cochrane review, studies that compared PFMT with no treatment in SUI have been pooled. Self 
reported cure appeared in 17% of treated women and in 2% of untreated women. Self reported cure or 
improvement was reported in 79% of treated versus 3.5% of untreated women. Both differences were 
highly  statistically  significant,  as  was  the  reduction  in  the  number  of  incontinence  episodes.  The 
review also  concluded,  based on three trials, that PFMT is better  than placebo treatment.   However, 
only one of the three placebo-controlled trials was a blinded trial using an imitation PFMT regimen.  It 
showed  identical  responses  for  the  real  and  placebo  PFMT  regimens.    The  results  of  this  study  are 
supported by the results of the Applicant’s study SBAF, considered later in this summary.  The other 
two placebo-controlled trials sited in the Cochrane report did not use a control for PFMT.  One used a 
placebo  pill  in  an  urge  incontinent  population  and  the  second  used  an  inactive  electrical  stimulation 
device in a stress incontinent population. 
b) Devices such as electrical stimulation (stimulation of the pudendal nerve with electrodes placed in 
the  vagina  or  anus),  elevating  devices  (that  support  the  bladder  neck)  or  occlusive  devices  (for 
occluding the urethra) are also been employed. Compliance seems to be a major problem, and patient 
also needs sufficient manual dexterity. Side effects include urinary tract infections, and soreness of the 
vaginal mucosa. 
c) Surgery is indicated when conservative treatment fails or the patient wants definitive treatment. The 
different techniques of continence surgery aim to elevate and stabilise the bladder neck and urethra via 
either  the  vaginal  or  abdominal  route;  sling  techniques  that  provide  midurethral  support,  and 
techniques that provide urethral compression increasing its resistance. In general, the first attempt at 
continence surgery produces better results than repeat procedures. Clinical features, urodynamic data, 
and operation characteristics influence the choice of surgery, and the success rates vary.  
Meta-analyses of published studies indicate that anterior repair procedures provide similar short-term 
results  to  colposuspension;  however,  long-term  efficacy  is  of  the  order  of  40%.  The  immediate  and 
long-term results of colposuspension and various sling procedures appear similar with efficacy in the 
70 to 90% range.  Side effects include prolapse, suture  pain or infection, new detrusor instability or 
lower tract damage.  
No pharmacological treatment has been widely approved for the treatment of women with SUI. 
Duloxetine is a  combined  serotonin (5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine) and  norepinephrine (NE) reuptake 
inhibitor  (SNRI).  It  weakly  inhibits  dopamine  reuptake  and  has  no  significant  affinity  for 
histaminergic, dopaminergic, cholinergic or adrenergic receptors. Due to its neuromodulatory action, 
duloxetine  is  believed  to  increase  urethral  tone  and  probably  bladder  capacity  and  thereby  reduces 
stress urinary incontinence (SUI).   
Yentreve  40  and  20  mg  capsules  contain  enteric-coated  pellets  of  the  active  substance  duloxetine 
((+)-(S)-N-methyl-γ-(1-naphthalenyloxy)-2-thiophenepropanamine 
hydrochloride 
hydrochloride) 
equivalent to 40 and 20 mg of duloxetine.  
Duloxetine is intended for women with Stress Urinary Incontinence (SUI). 
The  effectiveness  of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  SUI  is  belived  to  be  linked  to  its  inhibition  of 
presynaptic  neuron  reuptake  of  serotonin  and  norepinephrine  in  the  central  nervous  system  (sacral 
spinal cord) resulting in elevated levels of serotonin and norepinephrine in the synaptic cleft. 
1 Hay-Smith EJC, BøK, Berghmans LCM, Hendriks HJM, de Bie RA, van Waalwijk van Dorn ESC. 
Pelvic floor muscle training for urinary incontinence in women (Cochrane Review). In: The Cochrane 
Library, Issue 1, 2003. Oxford: Update Software. 
2/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
The recommended posology is a dose of 40 mg twice daily without regard to meals. After 2-4 weeks 
of  treatment,  patients  should  be  re-assessed  in  order  to  evaluate  the  benefit  and  tolerability  of  the 
therapy. If a woman experiences troublesome adverse events beyond 4 weeks, the dose can be reduced 
to 20 mg twice daily. 
Based on this posology, a combined package leaflet including both strengths has been adopted. 
Scientific Advice on the clinical development of Yentreve was given by the CHMP on November 19th, 
1998. 
2. 
Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
The product is presented in the form of hard gastro-resistant capsules containing enteric-coated pellets, 
and it contains duloxetine hydrochloride equivalent to 20 mg and 40 mg of duloxetine base as active 
substance.  Other  ingredients  are  sucrose,  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose,  sugar,  talc,  gelatine, 
colorants, etc. 
The 
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) blisters sealed with an aluminium foil. 
(PVC),  Polyethylene 
in  Polyvinylchloride 
packaged 
capsules 
(PE), 
and 
are 
Active substance 
Duloxetine hydrochloride is an active substance not described in any Pharmacopoeia. 
the  chemical  name  (+)-(S)-N-methyl-γ-(1-naphthalenyloxy)-2-
Duloxetine  hydrochloride  has 
thiophenepropanamine  hydrochloride  is  a  white  to  practically  white  solid,  and  is  slightly  soluble  in 
water; its solubility is not pH dependent. 
The  chemical  structure  of  duloxetine  hydrochloride  is  well  characterised.  It  is  an  optically  active 
molecule,  which  presents  1  asymmetric  carbon,  therefore  two  enantiomers  are  possible.  The  S 
enantiomer  has  been  selected  based  on  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies.  Selecting  the  correct  chiral 
starting  materials  controls  the  optical  purity  of  the  drug  substance.  According  to  the  manufacturing 
process  described,  the  S-enantiomer  is  routinely  obtained  and  the  R-enantiomer  is  considered  as  a 
specified impurity. 
Two  manufacturing  processes  synthesize  Duloxetine  hydrochloride.  Both  processes  are  equivalent. 
Batch analysis data allow for the conclusion that the analytical profiles are similar between batches.  
Adequate In-Process Controls are applied during the manufacture of duloxetine active substance. The 
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
Active substance specifications 
The active substance specification includes tests for physical characteristics of the active substance,, 
identity  ,  assay,  process  and  product  related  impurities,  as  well  as  additional  pharmacopoeia  testing 
requirements consistent with this dosage form. . 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the drug substance.  
Batch analysis data of a number of batches of active substance are provided. The results are within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
Stability 
Stability studies for primary batches (manufactured by one of two alternative processes) from storage 
under long term ICH conditions (30°C/60%RH) up to 24 months and under stress conditions (40ºC / 
75%  RH)  up  to  6  months  were  provided.  Supportive  data  was  provided  in  terms  of  data  from  six 
batches manufactured by the same process as for the primary batches and for six batches manufactured 
by the second process. The batches were packed in a linear low-density polyethylene liner (LLDPE) 
placed inside a laminated foil liner. The parameters  evaluated were stability indicating. Methods are 
validated and stability indicating.  
3/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  re-test  period  proposed  is  acceptable  taking  into  account  the  results  obtained  in  formal  stability 
studies and the supportive stability data. 
Other ingredients 
The  excipients  in  the  capsule  content  are:  hypromellose,  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose  acetate 
succinate sugar spheres, sucrose, talc, ammonium hydroxide, triethyl citrate, and titanium dioxide (E 
170)  and  in  the  capsule  shell  are:  gelatin,  sodium  lauryl  sulfate,  colorants  and  ink.  All  of  them  are 
included in compendial monographs.  
Analytical  certificates  of  excipients  are  included.  Specifications  and  analytical  certificates  for  the 
capsules and the printing ink are presented. 
Animal-derived  products  utilised  in  the  manufacturing  process  met  compliance  standards  for  the 
control of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE). The Gelatin used in the capsules shell is 
complies  with  EMEA/CHMP/4306/00  and  CHMP/BWP/1230/98  for  sourcing  and  processing  of 
gelatin for the control of TSE in products for human use. TSE certificates of suitability are presented. 
Duloxetine  capsules  are  packaged 
(PE),  and 
Polychlorotrifluoroethylene (PCTFE) blisters sealed with an aluminium foil. The choice of materials 
for the container is adequate for the type of product and moreover supported by the stability studies 
performed.  
(PVC),  Polyethylene 
in  Polyvinylchloride 
Product development and finished product 
Duloxetine hydrochloride is acid-labile substance; therefore, the product development has been focus 
to develop an enteric-coated dosage form in order to prevent degradation of the active substance in the 
acidic  environment  of  the  stomach.  Hard  gastro-resistant  capsules  with  enteric-coated  pellets  were 
selected after development of some formulations to be the optimal market formulation. 
The  product  is  manufactured  in  accordance  to  conventional  processes  for  this  pharmaceutical  form. 
The manufacturing process has been adequately validated by a number of studies for the major steps 
of the manufacturing process in three batches produced for stability studies and clinical trials. 
The validation show that the hard capsules can be manufactured reproducibly according to the agreed 
finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation 
Product Specification 
The specification includes tests by validated methods for physical appearance; identity assay product 
and process related impurities, as well as additional pharmacopeia testing requirements consistent with 
this dosage form.  
The test and limits of the release and shelf life specification for the finished product are appropriate to 
control the quality of this medicinal product for its intended purpose. 
Batch data are provided for pilot and production batches and indicate satisfactory uniformity as well as 
compliance with the specification. 
Stability of the Finished Product 
36  months  data  generated  under  ICH  conditions  are  presented  in  the  primary  stability  study.  The 
parameters evaluated were stability indicating. A supplementary stability study was also conducted to 
address the effect of the capsule shell colours in stability. 
Photostability testing was conducted according to the ICH guideline for photostability testing of new 
active substances and medicinal products. The results indicate that the drug substance in the capsule 
formulation is chemically stable with respect to light. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  have 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
4/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
3. 
Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Duloxetine  is  a  combined  serotonin  (5-HT)  and  norepinephrine  (NE)  reuptake  inhibitor  (SNRI)  that 
weakly  inhibits  dopamine  reuptake  and  has  no  significant  affinity  for  histaminergic,  dopaminergic, 
and cholinergic or adrenergic receptors. Due to its neuromodulatory action, duloxetine is believed to 
increase urethral tone and probably bladder capacity and thereby reduces SUI. However, the Applicant 
has not been able to properly describe the mechanism of action of duloxetine in patients with SUI, and 
additional studies are considered necessary in order to further elucidate it. 
 The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  the  product  are  generally  recognised  as  safe  (GRAS) 
compounds,  with  the  exception  of  hydroxypropyl  methylcellulose  acetate  succinate,  and  are  widely 
used in oral pharmaceutical preparations.  
Studies  carried  out  to  assess  general  pharmacodynamics  and  toxicology  of  hydroxypropyl 
methylcellulose acetate succinate indicate that it is poorly absorbed and is excreted predominantly in 
the  faeces,  with  no  significant  toxic  effects  and  therefore,  does  not  appear  to  pose  a  toxicological 
liability as an enteric coating for duloxetine capsule. 
The  Applicant  has  submitted  extensive  documentation  concerning  nonclinical  pharmacology  and 
toxicology of duloxetine, as well as for related substances and impurities, and excipients included in 
the formulation.  
The development programme of duloxetine was long, with initial toxicology studies being conducted 
in  the  mid-1980s.  The  first  directive  concerning  the  application  of  the  Good  Laboratory  Practices 
(GLPs)  in  non-clinical  studies  carried  out  with  chemical  and  pharmaceutical  products  dates  1987 
(87/18/EEC)  and  therefore,  several  non-clinical  studies  were  not  carried  out  specifically  under  GLP 
standards. Studies previously conducted included in this dossier were carried out following previously 
established analitic procedures, with an extensively description of the material and methods used, and 
reviewed by the scientific commitee where these studies were published, that guarantee their quality. 
The rest of the studies were performed in accordance with Good Laboratory Practise standards. 
Pharmacology 
• 
Primary pharmacodynamics (in vitro/in vivo) 
Reuptake by nerve endings is thought to be a primary mechanism for removing monoamines from the 
synapse  and  terminating  their  effects  at  pre-  and  post-synaptic  receptors.  Therefore,  blockade  of 
reuptake may increase synaptic levels of monoamines and enhance monoaminergic neurotransmission. 
The effectiveness of duloxetine in the treatment of SUI is linked to its inhibition of presynaptic neuron 
reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine in the central nervous system, resulting in elevated levels of 
serotonin and norepinephrine in the synaptic cleft. 
• 
In vitro studies  
In vitro, duloxetine inhibits the uptake of 5-HT and NE.  It weakly inhibits dopamine reuptake and has 
no  significant  affinity  for  histaminergic,  dopaminergic,  cholinergic  or  adrenergic  receptors. 
Furthermore, duloxetine has relatively weak affinity in vitro for other neuronal receptors and binding 
sites. None of the various hydroxy-substituted compounds had appreciable affinity for the 5-HT, NE 
and  dopamine transporters. The  R  (-) enantiomer of  duloxetine,  was  also  a  potent inhibitor  of  5-HT 
and NE reuptake. 
Studies  evaluating  the  pharmacodynamic  potential  of  metabolites  and/or  degradation  products  of 
duloxetine were performed. Although several potential metabolites, in addition to the 1-naphthol acid 
degradation  product,  bound  to  neurotransmitter  receptors,  none  of  the  circulating  metabolites  have 
demonstrable pharmacological activity.  
5/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
In vivo studies  
Pharmacodynamics  directly  related  to  the  molecule  must  be  inferred  for  claims  toward  the  intended 
clinical  utility  of  duloxetine,  as  specific  animal  models  for  stress  urinary  incontinence  are  not 
available.  The  models  described  provide  indirect  pharmacological  evidence  for  the  potential  clinical 
efficacy of the molecule. 
The  effects  of  duloxetine  on  lower  urinary  tract  function  were  evaluated  in  the  cat  animal  model. 
Duloxetine  produced  dose-dependent  increases  in  bladder  capacity  in  all  9  cats  tested,  to  about  five 
times the capacity seen under control conditions. 
Peri-urethral  muscle  EMG  activity 
increased  dose-dependently,  following  administration  of 
duloxetine.  During  the  filling  phase  of  the  cystomyogram  (CMG)  profile,  activity  increased  up  to  8 
times control levels at a dose of 0.3 mg/kg with larger doses producing no greater effect on average. 
This  increase  in  EMG  activity  was  seen  in  all  9  cats.  The  effects  on  urinary  bladder  activity  were 
centrally mediated, since bladder contractions evoked by electrical stimulation of efferent fibers in the 
pelvic nerve were not affected by duloxetine. The increases in urinary bladder capacity and sphincter 
EMG activity produced by duloxetine are effects that would promote normalisation of urinary bladder 
function, thereby preventing the accidental loss of urine as seen in SUI. 
• 
Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Since 5-HT and NE are implicated in enhancing/mediating endogenous analgesic mechanisms, effects 
of  duloxetine  in  chronic  and  acute  pain  were  evaluated  in  several  animal  models.  Results  of  these 
studies  indicated  that  duloxetine  was  effective  in  models  of  persistent  inflammatory  or  neuropathic 
pain,  but  not  in  models  of  acute  pain.  Duloxetine’s  activity  in  the  behavioural  assays  and  in 
antidepressant models indicates enhancement of 5-HT and NE neurotransmission, in agreement with 
its mechanism of action. Moreover, duloxetine was found to decrease food consumption in a variety of 
rodent models. 
• 
Safety pharmacology 
The  potential  of  duloxetine  to  alter  cardiovascular,  central  nervous  system  (CNS),  smooth  muscle, 
renal, immune, and gastrointestinal motility functions, as well as its potential for substance abuse was 
examined as part of the safety pharmacology dossier provided by the Applicant. 
Cardiovascular  effects: in  vitro,  duloxetine  maleate  had  no  effect  on the function  of  the  smooth and 
cardiac  muscles  at  concentrations  of  10-6  M  and  lower,  while  antagonistic  effects  were  observed  at 
concentrations of 10-5 and above. Duloxetine did not affect smooth or cardiac muscle function of rat 
and guinea pig at concentrations of 1 nM to 1 (cid:31)M. 
Cardiac ion channel results, together with QT measurements from dogs and humans would not pose an 
arrhythmogenic risk with the use of duloxetine. 
Central nervous system effects: Duloxetine would not be predicted to substantively affect CNS. It  did 
not  adversely  affect  CNS  function  of  mice  after  single  oral  doses  3 mg/kg.  At  higher  doses  (10  and  
30 mg/kg)  an  increase  in  hexobarbital-induced  time  sleep  was  observed,  indicating  that  duloxetine 
may  produce  CNS  depression  or  interfere  with  hexobarbital  metabolism.  Moreover,  an  increase  in 
seizure threshold in electroshock-induced convulsions was observed at the highest dose. Comparable 
changes  have  been  obtained  following  multiple  dosing  (5  days).  Mydriasis  has  been  reported  in 
association with duloxetine treatment. 
Gastrointestinal, renal and inmunological  effects: there were  no  important  effects  on  gastrointestinal 
motility  or  immune  functions  in  mice.  Regarding  renal  function,  no  effects  on  urine  volume  were 
observed in rats based on the studies provided by the Applicant. However, a slight elevation of serum 
potassium levels and an increase in sodium excretion were observed with 10 and 20 mg/kg doses. 
Potential for abuse: the abuse potential of duloxetine was evaluated in monkeys and rats; duloxetine 
demonstrated  the  above  mentioned  CNS  effects  in  rats,  but  not  in  rhesus  monkeys  up  to  64  mg/kg 
doses.  Duloxetine  also  did  not  demonstrate  cross  physical  dependence  potential  with  barbital  or 
physical dependence-producing potential. As such, duloxetine would not be expected to pose a risk for 
substance abuse. 
6/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based  upon  the  results  of  these  studies,  therapeutically  relevant  doses  of  duloxetine  would  not  be 
predicted  to  substantively  affect  CNS,  smooth  muscle,  renal,  immune,  or  gastrointestinal  functions, 
neither  would  be  expected  to  pose  a  risk  for  substance  abuse.  Potential  secondary  pharmacologic 
reactions at clinical doses would be limited to potential increases  in pulmonary pressure, pulmonary 
vascular resistance, and respiratory rate. However, these effects are attributable to the known actions 
of norepinephrine and serotonin (Brunner and Gross 1979; Garattini and Valzelli 1965; Weiner 1985), 
and were only observed in anaesthetised animals. 
• 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Conventional  drug-drug  interaction  studies  showed  no  evidence  of  clinically  important  increases  in 
adverse effects in patients when duloxetine was coadministered with lorazepam, ethanol, famotidine, 
aminophylline, desipramine, or paroxetine. Duloxetine does not exacerbate the adverse cognitive and 
psychomotor effects of ethanol but it appears to exacerbate the sedative effects of lorazepam. Caution 
is  advised  when  duloxetine  is  taken  in  combination  with  other  centrally  acting  drugs  or  substances, 
especially those with a similar mechanism of action, and including alcohol. 
Duloxetine should be used with caution in patients with a history of mania or a diagnosis of bipolar 
disorder, and/or  seizures,  when taken  in combination with lorazepam or other centrally  acting  drugs 
with a similar mechanism of action as that of duloxetine. 
• 
Summary of salient findings 
in  urinary  models 
The  rationale  for  the  development  and  application  for  marketing  approval  of  the  duloxetine 
formulation  is  well  established.  In  vitro,  duloxetine  was  an  inhibitor  of  both  serotonin  and 
norepinephrine  reuptake  and  a  relatively  weak  inhibitor  of  dopamine  reuptake.  The  molecule  was 
active 
indicative  of  enhancement  of  serotonin  and  norepinephrine 
neurotransmission,  with  improvement  of  capacity  of  the  urinary  bladder  and  increased  urinary 
sphincter activity 
These  results  from  in  vivo  studies  indicate  that  duloxetine-induced  inhibition  of  5-HT  and  NE 
reuptake  suppresses  urinary  bladder  muscular  activity  in  a  dose-dependent  manner,  and  enhances 
external urethral sphincter activity through centrally mediated (CNS) mechanism.  
At therapeutic range, duloxetine is not expected to pose a risk on CNS, smooth muscle, renal, immune, 
or gastrointestinal functions. Substance abuse is unlikely. 
The extent and scope of the documentation provided in this application are appropriate to support the 
non-clinical-pharmacology profile of duloxetine 
All  the  non-clinical-pharmacology  information  provided  is  supported  by  relevant  bibliographical 
references. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The Applicant has conducted a number of studies concerning the absorption, distribution, metabolism, 
and  excretion  of  duloxetine  in  mice,  rats,  and  dogs.  Only  limited  metabolism  and  excretion  were 
evaluated  in  the  monkey,  since  the  dog  had  been  chosen  as  the  nonrodent  species  for  use  in  the 
toxicology  programme.    Radiolabeled  drug  was  administered  in  the  pharmacokinetic,  metabolism, 
excretion,  and  tissue  distribution  studies.  The  plasma  protein  binding  of  14C-duloxetine  has  been 
determined in mouse, rat, dog, and human plasma. Additional studies have investigated the placental 
transfer of 14C-duloxetine in rats and the excretion of 14C-duloxetine into milk of lactating rats. 
• 
Absorption- Bioavailability 
The  Applicant  has  conducted  a  number  of  studies  concerning  absorption  of  duloxetine  in  several 
animal species. Duloxetine was well absorbed in these species after gavage or dietary administration 
After oral administration, duloxetine is well absorbed but extensively metabolised, tmax being approx. 
1.5 hours in mice and rats. Absorption was found to be greatest from the duodenum and least from the 
stomach. Additionally, pharmacokinetics of duloxetine were similar in fed and fasted male rats. 
Bioavailability  was  determined  to  be  21%  in  rats  and  5%  in  dogs,  probably  due  to  extensive 
metabolism in the latter. 
7/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  consistent  gender  differences  in  exposure  occurred  in  dogs,  although  female  rats  tended  to  have 
higher  exposure  than  male  rats  and  male  mice  had  greater  values  than  female  mice,  but  only  at  the 
highest doses tested. Even though the AUC values increased with increasing doses in mice, rats and 
dogs,  these  increases  were  not  always  proportional  at  the  higher  doses.  Additionally,  there  was  no 
evidence of accumulation with increasing duration of exposure. 
• 
Distribution 
With  respect  to  the  distribution  of  duloxetine,  several  studies  using  quantitative  whole-body 
autoradiography  (QWBA)  and  tissue  dissection  studies  techniques  were  performed.  Duloxetine  was 
highly bound to proteins in plasma, the mean percent bound to human plasma proteins at a duloxetine 
concentration of 150.2 ng/mL being 95.9% 
Duloxetine was present in high concentrations in the stomach and intestinal contents at 3 to 12 hours 
postdose. Kidney, liver, and lung contained the highest tissue concentrations.  
Duloxetine  and/or  its  metabolites  were  distributed  into  breast  milk  of  rats  and  do  undergo  placental 
transfer.  Therefore,  embryonic  tissues  were  exposed  to  duloxetine  and  its  metabolites  during  the 
period  of  organogenesis  in  the  embryo-foetal  toxicity  studies.  Although  there  was  no  embryo-
foetotoxicity effect observed, delay in postnatal development was reported. In conclusion, duloxetine 
should not be administered during pregnancy as well as the breast-feeding period. 
• 
Metabolism  
The Applicant has performed a number of studies concerning metabolism of duloxetine in mice, rats, 
dogs  and  monkeys.  After  oral  administration,  duloxetine  was  well  absorbed,  but  extensively 
metabolised  regardless  of  the  salt  form.  Overall,  the  liver  was  determined  to  be  the  primary  organ 
responsible  for  the  metabolism  of  duloxetine.  In  all  animal  species,  the  major  biotransformation 
pathways involve several oxidations, especially in the naphthyl ring followed by further oxidation and 
conjugation or formation of a dihydrodiol. Additional reactions involved cleavage at the ether linkage 
to form thienyl derivatives and naphthol. 
Some  differences  related  to  the  metabolic  profile  and  exposure  exist  between  animals  species  and 
humans. 
Duloxetine was a mixed cytochrome P-450 inducer in all species tested, at higher doses CYP1A and 
CYP2B  were  induced),  but  there  was  no  significant  induction  of  CYP1A2  or  CYP3A  in  cultured 
human  hepatocytes.  Both  CYP2D6  and  CYP1A2  participate  in  the  biotransformation  of  4-hydroxy 
and 5-hydroxy duloxetine, suggesting that the clearance of duloxetine  would be related to the levels 
and activities of both of these enzymes. 
• 
Excretion 
The Applicant in mouse, rat, dog and human performed several excretion studies  
The  excretion  profile  was  similar  after  either  oral  or  intravenous  administration  to  rats  and  dogs, 
which indicates that duloxetine was well absorbed and that elimination was not affected by the route 
of administration.  Duloxetine  was  cleared rapidly primarily  by  metabolism  in  all species  tested,  and 
one or more of its metabolites has an extended elimination phase. 
Mice,  rats,  and  dogs  excreted  the  majority  of  a  single  oral  dose  of  14C-duloxetine  in  the  faeces, 
whereas  humans  excreted  a  larger  amount  of  the  dose  in  urine.  Further,  approximately  66%  of  the 
radioactivity  excreted  in  the  bile  is  reabsorbed  in  rats,  indicating  that  enterohepatic  circulation  of 
metabolite(s)  likely  contributes  to  the  extended  elimination  phase  of  radioactivity  in  the  animal 
species. 
• 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Duloxetine  is  a  moderate  inhibitor  of  CYP2D6,  and  therefore,  caution  is  advisable  if  administering 
duloxetine  together  with  other  CYP2D6  inhibitors.  Concomitant  use  of  duloxetine  with  drugs 
undergoing  CYP2D6  metabolism  may  result  in  higher  concentrations  of  the  latter.  There  was  no 
significant  induction  of  CYP1A2  or  CYP3A  in  cultured  human  hepatocytes.  Concomitant  use  of 
duloxetine  with  potent  inhibitors  of  CYP1A2will  result  in  higher  concentrations  of  duloxetine  and 
therefore co-administration is not recommended.  
8/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Summary of pharmacokinetic parameters  
The Applicant has appropriately described the non-clinical pharmacokinetics properties for duloxetine. 
A number of studies concerning the absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion of duloxetine 
in mice, rats, and dogs have been performed. 
Rats  might  be  suggested  to  be  the  most  appropriate  species  for  toxicology  studies  since  major 
biotransformation pathways for duloxetine, in female rats as in man, were similar. However, mice and 
dogs are also valuable since exposure to specific human circulating metabolites could be seen in their 
plasma.  
Duloxetine  was  well  absorbed  in  the  mentioned  species,  and  absorption  was  maximum  at  the 
duodenum. It did not show evidence of accumulation when duration of exposure increased. 
Duloxetine presented high protein binding across all species. Although it is not widely distributed it 
crosses the blood-brain barrier, undergoes placental transfer and is excreted into milk. 
Duloxetine is extensively metabolised, primarily by the liver. 
The main pharmacokinetics features are summarised in the following table: 
Table 1. Summary of pharmacokinetics for duloxetine 
 Absorption 
Well absorbed. 
After oral administration:  
tmax = 1.5 hrs in mice, rats, dogs and monkeys 
tmax =6 hrs in humans; with food tmax delayed to 10 hrs (variable) 
Bioavailability 
Rat approximately 21%.  
Dog approximately 5%. 
Human approximately 50% (32%-80%) 
Dose proportionality 
Linear  kinetics  was  seen  in  mice  and  rats.  In  dogs,  linear  kinetics  was 
observed at low daily doses (< 30 mg/kg). Non-linear at and above daily 
doses of 30 mg/kg in dog. 
Non-linear kinetics in humans 
Terminal plasma half-life 
Mouse: 2.1 hrs, radioactivity half life: 27 hrs 
Rat: 1.5 hrs, radioactivity half life: 122 hrs 
Dog: 4 hrs, radioactivity half life: 93 hrs 
Monkey: 3.5 hrs (2-12 hrs), radioactivity half life: 91 hrs 
Human: 12.1 hrs, radioactivity half life: 120 hrs 
Distribution 
Metabolism 
Excretion 
High protein binding (93.6%-97.3% in all species). 
Not widely distributed but crosses the blood-brain barrier. 
Distribution over placenta and excreted into milk.  
Rapid  and  extensive  metabolism.  Some  differences  related  to  the 
metabolic  profile  and  exposure  exists  between  animals’  species  and 
humans. 
Mice, rats and dogs: main route via faeces (46%-77%).  
Monkey: main route via urine (58%) 
Human: main route via urine (72%) 
Biliary excretion in rats, dogs.  
9/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
Duloxetine hydrochloride has been evaluated in a variety of toxicology studies in laboratory animals 
and in vitro test systems. Studies included single-dose toxicity in mice, rats, and dogs; repeated-dose 
toxicity in mice, rats, and dogs; in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity; carcinogenic potential in mice and 
rats; and reproductive and developmental toxicity in rats and rabbits.  
All toxicity studies were performed according to GLP. 
• 
Single-dose toxicity 
Single-dose toxicity studies were conducted with duloxetine hydrochloride and duloxetine maleate in 
mice, rats and dogs  using oral  administration, the intended clinical route. In general, the toxicologic 
effects  seen  in  the  three  species  were  extensions  of  the  pharmacology  of  duloxetine.  The  primary 
findings  following  oral  administration  were  related  to  central  nervous  system  (CNS)  effects  (i.e., 
tremors, convulsions, emesis, mydriasis, salivation, and hyper-responsiveness).  
The  median  lethal  doses  in  mice  were  approximately  300-400  mg/kg,  and  in  rats  500-600  mg/kg 
(males) and 300-500 mg/kg (female). In dogs, no deaths occurred at the maximum tested dose of 100 
mg/kg.  
• 
Repeat-dose toxicity  
Repeat-dose toxicity studies were conducted with duloxetine hydrochloride and duloxetine maleate in 
mice,  rats  and  dogs  using  dietary  (mice  and  rats)  or  gavage  (dogs)  administration.  Altogether  eight 
studies were performed. 
Based on the results provided by the Applicant, the most relevant adverse events, target organ-related 
to  duloxetine  administration  in  all  species  tested  was  the  liver,  with  signs  occurring  at  or  below  the 
clinical exposure in all animal species investigated. The changes observed in this target organ did not 
appear  to  be  indicative  of  toxicity,  and  they  could  have  been  a  consequence  of  hepatic  induction. 
Major  findings  were  increased  liver  weights,  moderate  induction  of  hepatic  enzymes  (CYP1A1  and 
CYP2B)  and  slight  to  moderate  centrilobular  hypertrophy.  Slight  lipofuscin  pigmentation  was  also 
noted in male mice.  
• 
Genotoxicity in vitro and in vivo  
Duloxetine  maleate  and  duloxetine  hydrochloride  were  not  mutagenic  when  tested  at  appropriate 
doses  in  a  battery  of  genotoxicity  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies  that  included  all  relevant  positive 
controls. All studies were performed with duloxetine hydrochloride or maleate according to GLP. 
There  was  no  evidence  of  induced  mutation  by  treatment  with  duloxetine  maleate  and  duloxetine 
hydrochloride when tested. 
Taking  into  account  the  results  of  these  studies,  duloxetine  can  be  considered  as  a  non-genotoxic 
substance. 
• 
Carcinogenicity  
The  oncogenic/carcinogenic  potential  of  duloxetine  hydrochloride  was  evaluated  in  both  mice  and 
rats. The studies were performed according to GLP.  
A dose dependent increase in the percentage of cells with diplochromosomes was seen in the in vitro 
chromosomal  aberration  test  in  CHO  cells.  Hepatocytes  with  more  than  one  nucleus  are  a  common 
histological finding. However, hepatocytes with more than 2-3 nuclei are rare. 
Multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the rat carcinogenicity study. The underlying mechanism 
is  unknown.  The  multinucleated  hepatocytes  were  observed  as  a  dose-related  effect  in  the  rat 
carcinogenicity study without any sign of other pathological changes observed in the hepatocytes. No 
genotoxicity  or  hepatic  tumourigenesis  were  observed.  No  multinucleated  hepatocytes  were  seen  in 
either  the  mouse  or  dog,  which  indicates  a  species-specific  effect  in  the  rat.  However,  the  clinical 
relevance  of  this  finding  is  unknown.  To  properly  reflect  this  information,  the  following  text  is 
included in section 5.3 of the SPC: “ Multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the absence of other 
histopathological changes in the rat carcinogenicity study. The underlying mechanism and the clinical 
relevance are unknown.”  
10/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Reproductive and developmental studies 
Fertility studies were conducted by the Applicant to test reproductive performance in both male and 
female  rats.  Duloxetine  had  no  effect  on  male  fertility  and  effects  in  females  were  only  evident  at 
doses that caused maternal toxicity. Furthermore, foetal viability and morphology were not adversely 
affected by treatment. In a pre/postnatal toxicity study in rat, duloxetine induced adverse behavioural 
effects in the offspring at systemic exposures levels below maximum clinical exposure (AUC).  
 In  an  embryotoxicity  study  in  the  rabbit,  a  higher  incidence  of  cardiovascular  and  skeletal 
malformations was observed at systemic exposure levels below the maximun clinical exposure (AUC). 
No  malformations  were  observed  in  another  study  testing  a  higher  dose  of  a  different  salt  of 
duloxetine. As a consequence of this, duloxetine is contraindicated during pregnancy. 
• 
Local tolerance  
Fischer 344 rats given daily 30-minute intravenous infusions at doses of 1, 5, or 10 mg/kg had findings 
of  excessive  irritation  at  the  injection  sites.  Systemic  toxicity  was  not  observed  in  rats  given 
1 mg/kg/day for 15 days. Similarly, daily 30-minute intravenous infusions to beagle dogs at doses of 
1, 2.5, or 5 mg/kg had no evidence of systemic toxicity. However, local irritation at the injection sites 
precluded dosing of the 5-mg/kg/day group for longer than 10 days. 
• 
Other toxicity studies 
The  potential  for  immunogenicity  and  hypersensitivity-eliciting  antigenicity  of  duloxetine  was 
evaluated in a number of studies in guinea pigs and mice. Duloxetine was not immunogenic and does 
not  possess  hypersensitivity-eliciting  antigenicity  in  any  of  the  studies  performed.  These  results 
indicate that the risk of duloxetine causing adverse allergic reactions is negligible. 
The abuse potential of duloxetine was evaluated in monkeys and rats. Duloxetine did not demonstrate 
cross physical dependence potential with barbital or physical dependence-producing potential, or any 
reinforcing effects. The results from studies specifically designed to examine abuse potential indicate 
that duloxetine would not be expected to pose a risk for substance abuse. 
The  enteric  coating,  HPMCAS,  has  no  evidence  of  absorption;  further,  HPMCAS  has  been  widely 
used  in  medicinal  products  for  oral  use  in  several  countries  and  therefore  would  not  pose  any 
toxicological concern. 
An  environmental  risk  assessment  was  submitted.  Although  duloxetine  would  be  regarded  as  a 
medium  risk  for  aquatic  organisms,  a  low  potential  for  bioaccumulation  is  observed.  Further, 
duloxetine is extensively metabolised to metabolites that lack pharmacological activity, and therefore 
substantive excretion of duloxetine from humans is not expected; thus, duloxetine would not pose an 
environmental concern. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Extensive documentation concerning nonclinical pharmacology and toxicology of duloxetine has been 
submitted, as well as for related substances and impurities, and excipients included in the formulation.  
The data presented by the Applicant has been adequately supported by relevant literature references. 
The  effectiveness  of  duloxetine  in  the  treatment  of  SUI  is  linked  to  its  inhibition  of  presynaptic 
neuronal reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine in the central nervous system, resulting in elevated 
levels of serotonin and norepinephrine in the synaptic cleft. This suppresses urinary bladder muscular 
activity in a cat animal model in a dose-dependent manner, and enhances external urethral sphincter 
activity through centrally mediated (CNS) mechanism.  
Safety  pharmacology  studies  on  the  cardiovascular  system,  central  nervous  system,  gastrointestinal 
system, immune system and the kidney have been performed. At therapeutic range, duloxetine is not 
expected  to  pose  a  risk  on  CNS,  smooth  muscle,  renal,  immune,  or  gastrointestinal  functions,  and 
substance abuse is unlikely. 
Duloxetine  is  well  absorbed  in  all  studied  species,  and  is  extensively  metabolised,  especially  in  the 
liver. 
For the treatment of SUI Duloxetine is contraindicated during pregnancy and lactation.  
11/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duloxetine  was  not  shown  to  be  genotoxic  or  carcinogenic  in  the  studies  performed,  but 
multinucleated cells were seen in the liver in the rat carcinogenicity study a species-specific effect, the 
clinical relevance of this finding being unknown. These findings are reflected in the SPC. 
4. 
Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  pharmacokinetic  and  pharmacodynamic  characteristics  of  duloxetine  have  been  assessed  in 
healthy  subjects,  special  populations,  and  patients  with  either  stress  urinary  incontinence  (SUI)  or 
major depressive disorder (MDD). The pharmacokinetic data were available from at least 250 healthy 
subjects, 12 subjects with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), and 6 subjects with cirrhosis in 19 clinical 
pharmacology studies and at least 421 patients in four Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials. Nearly half 
of the subjects (45%) in the clinical pharmacology studies were women. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of duloxetine have been characterised in healthy men and women over a single-
dose range of 20 mg to 60 mg and over a multiple-dose range of 40 mg/day to 160 mg/day. 
For  the  majority  of  the  studies,  duloxetine  concentrations  were  determined  using  validated  high 
performance  liquid chromatography tandem  mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS/MS) methods. The assay 
was  validated  over  the  concentrations  range  of  0.5  ng/mL  to  100  ng/mL  with  higher  concentrations 
obtained after dilution of the samples. In some studies, the two major metabolites of duloxetine - the 
glucuronide  conjugate  of  4-hydroxy  duloxetine  and  the  sulfate  conjugate  of  5-hydroxy,  6-methoxy 
duloxetine  -  were  determined.  The  metabolite  concentrations  were  obtained  using  a  validated 
HPLC/MS/MS method over the concentration range of 1 ng/mL to 1000 ng/mL. The overall relative 
standard deviation (a measure of precision) and absolute relative error (a measure of accuracy) were 
less  than  10%  for  both  assays.  Duloxetine  and  its  two  major  metabolites  were  found  to  be  stable  in 
plasma  stored  frozen  for  the  length  of  time  that  the  study  samples  were  stored  under  similar 
conditions. 
• 
Absorption – Bioavailability 
Results  from  mass  balance  studies  indicate  a  fairly  high  extent  of  absorption  (>70%)  of  duloxetine. 
Duloxetine  is  a  delayed  release  formulation  (capsules  containing  enteric-coated  pellets),  and  as  a 
result, Tmax occurs rather late, at about 6 hours.  The absolute oral bioavailability was estimated to a 
mean of 50%, but individual results ranged between 32 and 80%.  
Bioequivalence  between  the  clinical  trial  and  the  marketing  formulations  of  duloxetine  was 
demonstrated using a 60 mg dose, i.e. not the dose or strength intended for marketing (40 mg). This is 
acceptable, since all strengths of the final formulation contain the same enteric-coated pellets. When 
administered with a high-fat meal, there was a 6% decrease in Cmax and an 11% decrease in AUC0-∞ 
The  absorption  was  delayed  by  food,  with  an  increase  in  Tmax  of  about  4  hours.  A  specific  dose 
recommendation with respect to food intake is not considered warranted based on this.  
• 
Distribution 
Duloxetine  has  an  extensive  tissue  distribution  and  is  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins.  Different 
figures have been reported, but the degree of binding was generally above 95%. Duloxetine is bound 
both to albumin and to α-acid glycoprotein (AAGP). Since AAGP is a protein with variable plasma 
concentrations, within and between patients, e.g. due to disease states like infections, this could be a 
source of variability in the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine. 
The urinary metabolites of duloxetine were moderately bound to plasma proteins and this binding was 
unaffected by the presence of duloxetine. 
Protein  binding  is  not  affected  by  end-stage  renal  disease  (ESRD)  or  by  hepatic  impairment,  and  is 
independent of duloxetine concentration.  
12/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Elimination 
Duloxetine  is  predominantly  eliminated  in  the  urine  after  undergoing  extensive  metabolism  to 
numerous metabolites that are pharmacologically inactive. 
Comparison  of  the  metabolite-to-parent ratio  values  after IV  and  oral  duloxetine reveal that a larger 
fraction of the drug is metabolised upon oral administration, likely reflecting first-pass metabolism.  
The  major  biotransformation  pathways  involve  oxidation  in  the  naphthyl  ring,  followed  by  further 
oxidation, methylation, and conjugation. The two major circulating metabolites of duloxetine are the 
glucuronide  conjugate  of  4-hydroxy  duloxetine  and  the  sulfate  conjugate  of  5-hydroxy,  6-methoxy 
duloxetine.  The  cytochrome  P450  isoenzymes  involved  in  the  oxidative  metabolism  of  duloxetine 
seem  to  be  CYP1A2  and  CYP2D6  based  on  in vitro  and  in  vivo  data.  Both  CYP1A2  and  CYP2D6 
were identified  as  participants  in  the  hydroxylation  at  4  and  5  positions,  the  two  dominant routes  of 
duloxetine metabolism. Should the activity of one of CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 be absent or decreased in 
a subject, the other enzyme would be available to metabolise duloxetine. No unchanged duloxetine is 
excreted in urine.  
In vitro studies indicate that neither of these metabolites contributes to the pharmacologic activity of 
duloxetine. 
Hepatic  impairment  results  in  a  decrease  in  the  formation  of  the  metabolites,  which  leads  to  higher 
plasma  concentrations  of  duloxetine.  In  contrast,  renal  impairment  (end  stage  renal  disease  treated 
with chronic haemodialysis) reduces their rate of elimination as evidenced by the longer t½ values of 
the metabolites. 
• 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose  proportionality  has  been  assessed  in  several  studies  over  a  dose  range  covering  the  proposed 
dosage for Yentreve (80 mg/day). These analyses, suggest that higher duloxetine doses are associated 
with slightly lower CL/F and, correspondingly, the average steady-state concentrations at higher doses 
are  slightly  higher  than  would  be  projected  for  a  dose-proportional  increase.  Nevertheless,  the 
magnitude of the deviation from either strictly linear pharmacokinetic behaviour or dose-proportional 
increases across dose is small, particularly in comparison to the degree of interindividual variability in 
plasma concentrations. Most importantly, within any individual subject, the deviations from classical 
linearity or dose-proportionality appear to be very small in magnitude. Thus, the apparent slight non-
linear  behaviour  and  more-than-proportional  increase  in  plasma  concentration  across  the  duloxetine 
dosage range of 40 mg/day to 120 mg/day are unlikely to be clinically important. 
 Steady state is generally reached within 3-5 days. 
• 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment: a study using a single low (20 mg) dose was used to study the effect of moderate 
(Child-Pugh  Class  B)  hepatic  cirrhosis  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine  and  the  major 
metabolites.  However,  the  pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine  and  its  metabolites  were  not  studied  in 
patients with mild or severe hepatic insufficiency. A clear effect was observed after the single dose, 
with  an  almost  5-fold  increase  in  AUC0-∞  and  a  3-fold  longer  T½  of  duloxetine.  The  mean  plasma 
protein  binding  was  lower  in  the  hepatically  impaired  subjects  (not  statistically  significant,  though), 
indicating an even larger difference in mean unbound exposure. The subjects included had moderate 
cirrhosis  according  the  Child-Pugh  classification,  with  scores  of  7  or  8.  Thus,  there  is  an  effect  of 
hepatic disease on the pharmacokinetics of duloxetine even at a quite moderate degree of severity.  
The SPC specifies that duloxetine should not be used in patients with liver disease resulting in hepatic 
impairment. 
Renal  impairment:  Pharmacokinetic  data  on  duloxetine  is  limited  in  patients  with  mild  or  moderate 
renal  impairment.  There  seems  to  be  no  correlation  between  CLcr  and  duloxetine  CL/F  in  patients 
with no renal impairment and mild and moderate renal impairment. Pharmacokinetic data in patients 
with  mild and  moderate  renal impairment  were  obtained from Phase III  population  pharmacokinetic 
studies.  
A doubled  exposure to  duloxetine  and several-fold  increases in  exposure  of the inactive  metabolites 
was observed in patients with severe renal impairment, but this patient group is unlikely to experience 
SUI.  
13/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite the fact that duloxetine is not renally eliminated, there was a substantial effect on duloxetine 
pharmacokinetics with a doubled exposure of duloxetine and a 2 to 9-fold increase for the two major 
metabolites.  
Based  on  these  considerations  no  dose  adjustment  is  necessary  for  patients  with  mild  or  moderate 
renal dysfunction, and as such that is noted in the SPC. 
Age:  pharmacokinetic  differences  have  been  identified  between  younger  and  elderly  females  (≥65 
years) (AUC  increases by about  25% and  half-life is about 25%  longer in  the elderly), although the 
magnitude of these changes is not sufficient to justify adjustments to the dose. 
Gender:  gender  has  an  effect  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  duloxetine,  with  females  having 
approximately twice as high exposure compared with males. However, many pharmacokinetic studies 
were performed in males and the results may, thus, not be immediately extrapolated to females. It is 
agreed that the isoenzymes involved in the metabolism of duloxetine, i.e. CYPs 1A2 and 2D6 are not 
sex-specific.  Bearing  this  in  mind,  it  cannot  be  excluded  that  a  different  effect  of  duloxetine  on  a 
CYP1A2  substrate  would  be  observed  in  females  as  compared  to  males.  A  study  investigating  the 
effect  of  duloxetine  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  a  CYP1A2  substrate,  e.g.  theophylline,  is  to  be 
performed also in females.  
• 
Interaction studies 
In vitro data show that CYP2D6 has been shown to be non-inducible and that duloxetine may inhibit 
CYP3A,  CYP1A2,  or  CYP2C9  at  concentrations  substantially  higher  than  those  anticipated  in  the 
clinical setting. It is unlikely that enzyme induction would occur clinically. 
In vivo drug-drug interaction studies have been carried out with CYP2D6 substrates (desipramine and 
tolterodine), CYP2D6 inhibitors (paroxetine), CYP1A2 substrates (theophylline), CYP1A2 inhibitors 
(fluvoxamine),  and  other  drugs  and  substances  likely  to  be  co-administered  with  duloxetine 
(lorazepam,  temazepam,  ethanol  and  antacids).  Duloxetine  has  shown  to  be  a  moderate  CYP2D6 
inhibitor  (3-fold  increase  in  the  overall  exposure  to  desipramine  and  2-fold  increase  to  tolterodine). 
Similarly,  paroxetine  (CYP2D6  inhibitor)  increases  duloxetine  overall  exposure  by  60  %. 
Fluvoxamine, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor, increases the exposure of duloxetine (more than 5-fold)No 
significant  interactions  with  benzodiazepines  and  antacids  have  been  found.  The  SPC  clearly  reflect 
these findings. 
Additional  data  for  CYP2C19  was  submitted  for  this  application.  It  is  agreed  that  these  isoforms 
represent  a  small  part  of  the  metabolism  of  commonly  prescribed  drug.  However,  CYP2C8  is  an 
isoenzyme  that  has  recently  gained  more  interest  because  of    the  occurrence  of  clinically  important 
interactions due to inhibition of this enzyme, e.g. by gemfibrozil. An in vitro study investigating the 
effect of duloxetine on the metabolism of a CYP2C8 substrate is to be performed.  
Conclusion on human pharmacokinetics 
Duloxetine  is  a  drug  with  highly  variable  pharmacokinetics  and  many  factors  affect  the  systemic 
exposure. From the presented data, gender, age, renal and hepatic function, smoking status, CYP2D6 
status  and  drug-drug  interactions  are  all  factors  affecting  the  plasma  levels  of  duloxetine. 
Interindividual  differences  in  plasma  concentrations  of  α1-acid  glycoprotein  (AAGP)  may  also 
contribute to the variability.  
Based  on the large inter-individual pharmacokinetic  variability and  the  frequency of adverse  events, 
the most common reason for discontinuation of treatment in clinical studies, the possibility to reduce 
the dose to 20 mg b.i.d. after 4 weeks in case of troublesome adverse events has been introduced.  
Pharmacodynamics 
Six  studies  were  designed  to  evaluate  pharmacodynamics  in  healthy  volunteers.  Four  of  them  were 
aimed  to  assess  pharmacodynamic  effects  and  safety  during  treatment  with  increasing  doses  of 
duloxetine and the other two evaluated pharmacodynamic interactions with ethanol and lorazepam.  
In  addition  the  results  of  Study  SBAB  assessing  the  biomechanical  effects  of  80-mg  dose  of 
duloxetine for four weeks versus placebo on bladder and urethral function, was used to elucidate the 
mechanism of action. 
14/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Mechanism of action 
In vitro, duloxetine is a potent inhibitor of both 5-HT and NE reuptake and a relatively weak inhibitor 
of dopamine reuptake. Duloxetine has a low affinity for muscarinic acetylcholine, histamine-1, α -1-
NE,  5-HT1A  ,  5-HT1B,  5HT1D,  D2  and  opioid  receptors.  The  molecule  was  active  in  urinary  models 
indicative  of  enhancement  of  serotonin  and  norepinephrine  neurotransmision  with  improvement  of 
capacity  of  the  urinary  bladder  and  increased  urinary  sphincter  activity.  Indirect  evidence  of  similar 
activity in humans has been obtained. Changes in whole-blood 5-HT concentration following chronic 
administration of 20-mg or larger daily doses of duloxetine suggest that duloxetine interferes with 5-
HT reuptake in humans. Measurement of 48-hour urinary excretion of NE and its metabolites showed 
that regimens of duloxetine 80 mg once daily or duloxetine 60 mg twice daily were associated with a 
significant decrease in whole body NE turnover.  
Study SBAB  assessed  the  biomechanical  effects  of  80-mg  dose  of  duloxetine  for  four  weeks  versus 
placebo on bladder and urethral function. Sixty-five (65) women with pure genuine stress incontinence 
were enrolled in the study. However, only 10 patients on Yentreve and 11 on placebo were possible to 
evaluate.  After  four  weeks  duloxetine-treated  patients  experienced  a  significantly  greater  median 
percent reduction of IEF than placebo patients (57.2% compared with 26.3%, p = .024) . However, the 
decrease in the absolute number of episodes per week was not statistically significant (mean of 11.8 
with duloxetine compared with 9.1 with placebo).  
Urethral  function  during  the  filling  phase  of  the  micturition  and  bladder  function  and  sphincter 
resistance  during  emptying  phase  was  measured.  Although  women  exhibited  a  severe  urinary 
incontinence (mean baseline > 21 episodes/week) and pharmacodynamic changes could be expected in 
a  more  clear  way  than  in  a  less  severe  population,  noneof  the  pre-specified  analyses  comparing 
duloxetine with placebo revealed statistically significant differences for any of the five biomechanical 
measures of urethral function measured in the study.  Post-hoc analysis of Valsalva leak-point pressure 
data and an examination of quantitative striated sphincter electromyographic data in the small number 
of subjects who completed this study did provide some limited evidence to the view that duloxetine to 
some degree exerts an effect on the urethra. 
The  data  provided  by  the  Study  SBAB  assessing  the  biomechanical  effects  of  80-mg  dose  of 
duloxetine do not allow valid conclusions regarding its mechanism of action. This is reflected in the 
SPC. The unreliability of the PD data does not necessarily preclude a positive benefit/risk conclusion, 
but this would mostly depend on pure efficacy and safety data. However, a proper knowledge of the 
mechanism  of  action  of  a  drug  intended  for  chronic  use  and  with  other  potential  therapeutic 
indications is considered relevant. Therefore, the Applicant is to perform additional studies in order to 
further elucidate the mechanism of action of duloxetine in patients with SUI. This is a relevant issue, 
mainly  due  to  the  novel  mechanism  of  action  attributed  to  duloxetine  without  any  other  product  of 
reference available for this condition at present. 
• 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In  the  first  human  study  with  duloxetine  (Study  HMAA),  a  90%  inhibition  of  ex  vivo  platelet 
serotonin uptake was found 2 to 3 hours after the 60-mg doses of up to 60 mg of an immediate-release 
formulation of duloxetine. 
In Study HMAB, 6 subjects received single doses up to 80 mg. Inhibition of ex vivo platelet serotonin 
uptake  were  found  with  all  doses  tested.  Eight  hours  after  dosing,  10  mg  produced  35%  to  61% 
inhibition,  20  mg  produced  49% to 75% inhibition,  40  mg  produced 64% to  92% inhibition,  60  mg 
produced 70% to 88% inhibition, and 80 mg produced 84% to 92% inhibition. 
Other  studies  aimed  to  demonstrate  significant  increase  in  bladder  capacity  when  comparing 
doloxetine  with  placebo.  Increase  in  urethral  closure  preassures  was  also  evaluated  in  the  same 
manner.  The  different  founded  however  was  not  statistically  significant,  an  the  magnitude  of  such 
effects is of uncertain relevance when trying to predict a relevant therapeutic effect. 
Potential  secondary  pharmacologic  reactions  of  duloxetine  at  the  clinical  dose  were  noted  in  the 
anaesthetised dog model and included increases in pulmonary pressure, pulmonary vascular resistance, 
and  respiratory  rate.  These  effects  are  attributable  to  the  known  actions  of  norepinephrine  and 
serotonin  and  are  not  likely  to  pose  a  clinical  risk.  There  were  also  no  substantive  cardiovascular 
liabilities identified.  
As  other  drugs  that  inhibit  monoamine  reuptake,  duloxetine  significantly  increases  systolic  and 
diastolic  blood  pressure  (less  than  2  mmHg)  and  heart  rate  (2  to  3  beats  per  minute).  This  can  be 
15/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(USA) 
(USA, 
Canada) 
(USA, 
Canada) 
considered as a class effect and  no  major safety concern seems to derive from this observation. The 
effects  of  duloxetine  on  QT  interval  have  been  assessed  in  about  160  subjects.    There  is  no  signal 
indicating that duloxetine might prolong the QT interval regardless of the correction method used. 
Clinical efficacy  
The clinical program was developed to assess the efficacy and safety of Duloxetine in female patients 
with SUI. One Phase II study (study SAAW) and  three Phase III studies (studies SBAT, SBAV and 
SBAX) were conducted. In addition, Phase III studies were extended evaluating safety with long-term 
exposure to form studies SBAU, SBAW and SBBM respectively. Study SBAY is a stand alone open-
label safety study. These studies are summarised in the following table.  
Study 
(Country) 
# 
Phase  Design 
Treatm
ent 
Groups 
Number 
Duration 
of 
Treatment  Safety 
of 
IEF 
II 
III 
12 weeks 
ra,  db,  pc, 
fd, pg, mc 
Placebo 
D  20 mg 
D  40 mg 
D 80 mg 
ra,  db,  pc, 
fd,  pg,  mc, 
str 
Placebo 
D 
80 mg. 
12 weeks 
138 
138 
137 
140 
247 
247 
Patien
ts 
PGI-I 
96% 
I-
QO
L 
96% 
96% 
88% 
93% 
93% 
98% 
86% 
99% 
97% 
98% 
97% 
 III  
ra,  db,  pc, 
fd,  pg,  mc, 
str 
Placebo 
D 80 mg 
12 weeks 
339 
344 
95% 
83% 
98% 
97% 
98% 
97% 
ra,  db,  pc, 
fd,  pg,  mc, 
str 
Placebo 
D  80 mg 
12 weeks 
231 
227 
99% 
88% 
99% 
97% 
99% 
97% 
nr,  o,  nc, 
fd, mc 
D 80 mg  Ongoing  
363 a 
nr,  o,  nc, 
fd, mc 
D 80 mg  Ongoing  
493a 
III 
III 
III 
(Australia, 
USA, 
SAm, EU) 
SAf, 
(EU, Canada) 
(USA, 
Canada) 
16/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
(Country) 
# 
Phase  Design 
Treatm
ent 
Groups 
Number 
Duration 
of 
Treatment  Safety 
of 
IEF 
Patien
ts 
PGI-I 
I-
QO
L 
III 
nr,  o,  nc, 
fd, mc 
D 80 mg  Ongoing  
334 a 
(Australia, 
SAf,  SAm, 
EU) 
(USA) 
III 
nr,  o,  nc, 
fd, mc 
D 80 mg  Ongoing  
662 a 
db: double-blind; fd: fixed dose; mc: multi-centre; nc: non-controlled; o. open, pc: placebo-controlled; pg: parallel-group; 
ra: randomised; nr: not randomised; str: stratified; SAf: South Africa, SAm: South America; EU: Europe; D: Duloxetine; 
ITT: intent-to-treat; a: As of 14 June 2002 
An  overall  total  of  2850  patients  were  included  in  the  above  referenced  program  (SAAW  +  SBAT  +  SBAV  +  SBAX  + 
SBAY) and constitute the efficacy population for this indication. Of those, 1913 subjects were randomised to duloxetine 40 
mg twice daily or placebo in Studies SAAW, SBAT, SBAV, and SBAX(958 to duloxetine and 955 to placebo).  
A total of 1190 of the placebo controlled studies patients were included in uncontrolled studies (SBAU + SBAW + SBBM) 
and treated with Duloxetine.  
All clinical studies were performed according to Good Clinical Practice (GCP). 
• 
Dose response study 
After  an  initial  study  failing  to  show  differences  between  Duloxetine  (20,  30  and  40  mg),  the  dose 
finding  data  package  of  this  dossier  is  based  on  one  single  placebo  controlled  trial  (Study  SAAW). 
Study  SAAW  was  a  randomised,  parallel,  double  blind,  placebo  controlled  trial,  where  3  doses  of 
Duloxetine (20, 40 and 80 mg) were tested. After a 4-week pre-treatment phase that included a 2-week 
blinded placebo lead-in, patients were given either placebo or one of the 3 dose levels of Duloxetine 
(10  mg  BID,  20  mg  BID  or  40  mg  BID).  The  follow-up  period  on  double-blind  therapy  lasted  12 
weeks. Patients on Duloxetine 80 mg were dose escalated over two weeks at the initiation of therapy 
and also de-escalated over two weeks at the end of the 12-week treatment period. As compared with 
phase  III  pivotal  studies,  study  SAAW  included  a  population  with  a  slightly  lower  incontinence 
episode frequency (IEF) threshold at entry. Study SAAW excluded subjects over 65 years of age and 
those with prior continence surgery. 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  weekly  incontinence  episode  frequency  at  week  12  based  on  the 
ITT  population,  using  the  LOCF  method.  The  number  of  incontinent  episodes  per  24  hours  is  a 
subject-recorded count of the number of incontinent episodes during a 7-day period, obtained from the 
subject  diary.  A  number  of  secondary  measures  were  also  assessed,  including  disease-specific  tests: 
cough  stress  test  (CST)  and  stress  pad  test  (SPT),  assessment  of  the  severity  of  the  disease:  stress 
incontinence  visual  analog  scale  (SIVAS)  and  incontinence  severity  index  (ISI),  and  different 
measures  of  QoL  and  daily  life  activities.  In  addition,  the  Patient  Global  Impression-Improvement 
(PGI-I),  and  the  Clinical  Global  Impression  Improvement  (CGI-I)  at  Weeks  4  and  8,  and  Week  12 
were also assessed. 
A responder analysis was also carried out for different variables including the main efficacy endpoint. 
For this purpose, a responder was defined as a patient who had at least a 50% decrease in IEF from 
baseline to endpoint. 
All  efficacy  evaluations  were  performed  according  to  an  intent-to-treat  analysis,  defined  as  patients 
who  were  randomized  to  duloxetine  or  placebo  and  who  had  baseline  efficacy  data  and  any  post-
baseline  efficacy  data.  Questionnaire  responses  were  treated  as  continuous  variables.  Analysis  of 
variance (ANOVA) models were used to evaluate continuous efficacy variables. The ANOVA model 
included  terms  for  treatment,  site  (as  a  fixed  effect),  and  treatment-by-site  interaction.  Pairwise 
comparisons were analysed with the least squares means (LSMEANS) from the appropriate ANOVA 
17/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
model. Categorical variables were analysed using Pearson’s Chi-square tests. All statistical tests were 
performed as two-sided, at  a .050 significance level  except where noted. The  analysis of covariance 
(ANCOVA) models was also used to evaluate efficacy on original and transformed scale. 
In order to assess prospectively the accuracy of history, examination, simple bladder filling and stress 
pad  test  for  the  diagnosis  of  genuine  stress  incontinence  (GSI),  provocative  subtracted  electronic 
cystometry (PSEC) was performed on 90 women at eight sites. This urodynamic test was employed to 
determine the proportion of subjects in the study population with GSI, as well as identifying a subset 
of  the  patients  with  GSI  who  have  intrinsic  sphincteric  deficiency  (ISD).  Urodynamic  traces  were 
centrally read. 
Five hundred fifty three patients were enrolled to provide power of 80% to detect a 20% difference in 
the IEF, assuming a placebo response reduction of 30%. 
Duloxetine  at  40  and  80  mg/day  doses  was  superior  to  placebo  in  decreasing  the  IEF  per  week. 
Statistically significant differences were observed for the percent change from baseline to endpoint in 
IEF per week for the Duloxetine 40 (adjusted p=.049; unadjusted p=.018) and 80-mg/day (unadjusted 
p=.045)  groups  as  compared  to  placebo.  The  adjusted  analysis  did  not  show  statistically  significant 
differences between Duloxetine 80 mg and placebo (p = .114). Duloxetine at 40 and 80 mg/day doses 
was also superior to placebo in decreasing IEF per week when all baseline and post-baseline diaries 
were pooled. The median percent change from baseline to endpoint in IEF per week was 40% for the 
placebo  group,  compared  with  59%  and  58%  for  the  Duloxetine  40  and  80  mg/day  groups, 
respectively.  An  analysis  of  PGI-I  ratings  and  I-QOL  questionnaire  scores  revealed  a  significant 
improvement  only  for  the  duloxetine  80-mg/day  group  compared  with  the  placebo  group..    An 
analysis  of  data  from  subjects  who  completed  the  12-week  study  did  not  demonstrate  statistically 
significant differences in the percent change from baseline to endpoint for IEF per week between the 
placebo group and any of the duloxetine groups. 
140 
-57.9% (.045)b
-63.7% 
(<.001)d 
43.8% (.004)f 
+9.3 (.026)d 
-1.4 (<.001)d 
Randomized N 
Median IEF changea 
Median IEF changec 
Duloxetine 20  Duloxetine 40  Duloxetine 80  Placebo 
138 
-44.4% (.625)b
-54.0% (.057)d
137 
-58.6% (.018)b 
-59.2% (.002)d 
138 
-40.0% 
-40.7% 
number 
voids/day 
31.1% (.440)f 
+5.3 (.614)d 
-1.0 (.051)d 
PGI-I ratinge 
Mean I-QOL change 
Mean 
changec 
a  Using  last  visit  diary  analysis.  b  Significance  (p)  versus  placebo  using  ANOVA  with  treatment  and  site  as  effects  but 
without controlling for multiple analyses; when controlled for multiple analyses p=.114 for Duloxetine 80 mg. 
c Using pooled diary analysis. d Significance (p) versus placebo using ANOVA with treatment and site as effects. 
e Percent in “Very Much Better” or “Much Better” categories at endpoint. f Significance (p) versus placebo using Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel Test 
36.9% (.185)f 
+7.8 (.165)d 
-1.2 (.003)d 
27.3% 
+5.8 
-0.6 
The responder analysis on the basis of IEF (defined as a reduction ≥ 50% in the number of episodes 
from baseline) was significantly higher in the Duloxetine 80 mg (60%) group as compared to placebo 
(47%). 59% of patients on Duloxetine 40 mg were considered as responders (p = .067 vs placebo).  
It was considered that, higher plasma concentrations are associated with significantly greater clinical 
response. Analyses of change in I-QOL scores also demonstrated a significantly greater improvement 
when  the  Duloxetine  plasma  concentrations  were  higher  than  the  median  value  (34.8  ng/mL).  A 
significant  correlation was observed  between Css  values and the change in the I-QOL scores (rho = 
0.187,  p<0.04),  indicating  that  an  increase  in  I-QOL  scores  is  observed  when  Duloxetine  plasma 
concentrations  are  higher.  A  responder  analysis  for  both  IEF  and  I-QOL  demonstrated  that  subjects 
whose  C’ss  values  were  above  the  median  were  significantly  more  likely  respond  to  Duloxetine 
therapy in terms of both IEF and QoL (defining response as a ≥ 50% decrease in IEF and an increase 
in I-QOL of at least 30% of the largest possible increase) than those subjects with C’ss value averages 
below  the  median.  In  the  applicant’s  view,  the  PopPK  characteristics  of  Duloxetine  support  the 
conclusion that an individual is more likely to maintain a plasma concentration of Duloxetine above a 
specific  critical  threshold  if  she  takes  80  mg/day  than  if  she  takes  only  20  or  40  mg/day.  Further, 
characteristic  values  for  the  half-life  (averaging  approximately  12  hours)  and  time  to  peak 
concentration (averaging approximately 6 hours) predict that concentrations above this threshold level 
18/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are more likely to be maintained in the early as well as the late hours of the day when administration is 
twice daily rather than only once daily. 
The  safety  profile  of  Duloxetine  exhibited  in  this  study  is  fully  consistent  with  the  known  safety 
profile of other agents that inhibit monoamine reuptake. Nausea was the most common AE and was 
experienced by 13% of women at the 80 mg/day dose. Twelve of 18 women who experienced nausea 
at the 80 mg/day dose continued medication despite this adverse event. Fatigue, and insomnia were the 
most clinically relevant dose-dependent AEs; however, these events were not considered to have long-
term safety consequences. The Applicant considered that the safety and tolerability of the 40 and 80 
mg/day  doses  are  comparable  and  are  not  a  determining  factor  for  limiting  the  dose.  Based  on  the 
overall  analysis  of  the  safety  and  efficacy  data,  the  80  mg/day  dose  of  Duloxetine  was  the  selected 
dose for being further assessed. 
Study  SAAW  enrolled  a  slightly  different  population  than  one  supposed  to  be  the  real  target 
population. Thus, as compared  with  phase III pivotal studies, study  SAAW included  patients with  a 
lower incontinence episode frequency (IEF) threshold at entry and excluded subjects over 65 years of 
age. This selection criteria, although should not have a major impact when extrapolating the efficacy 
results to the intended target population, might have been a relevant conditioning factor for the high 
placebo response rate observed in this study. The observed placebo response with regard the primary 
outcome of the study (IEF) was about 40%, when the expected reduction rate was 25%. This fact has 
resulted  in  a  clearly  underpowered  study,  where  the  p  values  for  the  finally  selected  dose  are  just 
neighbouring the statistical significance threshold.  
The observed effect of Duloxetine (40 and 80 mg) on the IEF reduction from baseline is about 60%, 
which can be considered a modest effect when considering that placebo reduces the IEF by 40%. In 
addition, and despite of this 20% difference in the percentage o reduction of IEF, when translating this 
effect into the median absolute number of SUI episodes per week saved for each patient, Duloxetine 
80  mg  saves  just  1  more  episode  per  day  than  placebo  does  (D  80  mg  from  7  at  baseline  to  3  at 
endpoint  vs.  PBO  from  7  at  baseline  to  4  at  endpoint).  This  and  the  effects  on  I-QOL  and  other 
subjective outcomes (PGI-I and CGI-I) could be regarded as a marginal effect. 
• 
Main studies  
Three  studies  (Studies  SBAT,  SBAV,  and  SBAX)  with  identical  main  protocols  are  the  Phase  3 
studies that form the basis for efficacy of duloxetine. These studies have the same duloxetine dose (40 
mg  twice  daily),  same  duration  of  double  blind  treatment  (12  weeks),  and  determined  subject 
eligibility  based  on  the  same  clinical  algorithm.  Additionally,  all  three  used  the  same  two  primary 
efficacy endpoints and were performed in the target population. 
The three studies included 1,635 women with signs of SUI. They were aimed to assess the efficacy of 
duloxetine  40  mg  twice  daily  versus  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  women  with  stress  urinary 
incontinence. All of these studies followed a randomised, placebo-controlled, multi-centre, fixed-dose, 
double  blind,  parallel-group  design,  12-week  comparison  study.  In  all  studies,  there  was  a  4-week 
baseline period with subjects receiving no study drug for two weeks and placebo for last two weeks. 
After  that,  patients  were  randomised  to  duloxetine  80  mg/day  given  as  40  mg  twice  daily  (BID)  or 
placebo for 12-weeks.  
19/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
Study Participants  
All  studies  enrolled  women,  18  years  or  older,  with  a  stress  urinary  incontinence  of  more  than  3 
months. 
Stress urinary incontinence was defined by a clinical algorithm that included a predominant symptom 
of SUI, with a weekly IEF ≥7, absence of predominant symptoms of urge incontinence, normal diurnal 
and nocturnal frequencies, a bladder capacity of at least 400 mL, and both a positive cough stress test 
(CST) and stress pad test (SPT) at a bladder volume of 400 mL. 
Studies  SBAT,  and  SBAV  had  addenda  that  specified  urodynamic  testing  after  randomisation  for 
subjects at some study centres. The primary objective of the addendum was to evaluate the ability of 
the main study’ s inclusion and exclusion criteria to define a population of subjects with urodynamic 
(genuine)  stress  incontinence.  This  algorithm  was  83%,  and  100%  specific  for  urodynamic  stress 
incontinence  in  subsets  of  subjects  in  Studies  SBAV,  and  SBAT,  respectively,  and  assured  that  the 
majority of women in the trials, in fact, had SUI. The individual study reports for those studies which 
included urodynamics, document that the algorithm was concordant with urodynamic (genuine) stress 
incontinence  in  83%  (Study  SBAV),  and  100%  (Study  SBAT)  of  subjects  who  had  urodynamic 
testing. 
To prevent potential imbalance at baseline in both treatment assignment and incontinence severity, a 
stratified randomisation was used. At Visit 3, subjects within each site were stratified based on their 
incontinence episode frequency severity (<14 and ≥14 IEF per week). The calculation of severity was 
made from all the diary records collected after Visit 1 and prior to Visit 3. 
Patients  with  significant  uncontrolled  comorbidity,  any  condition  of  the  genitourinary  tract,  recent 
continence  surgery  within  6  months),  the  current  use  of  a  continence  device,  or  treatment  with  an 
antidepressant, drugs for obesity, or a medication for incontinence were excluded.  Subjects who were 
on a stable PFMT program for at least 3 months were enrolled as long as they agreed to continue on 
their PFMT regimen at the same intensity throughout the study. 
Treatments 
Duloxetine 80 mg/day, given as 40 mg BID or placebo given BID were administered at fixed doses for 
12  weeks  (visit  3  to  visit  6).  Subjects  were  instructed  to  take  their  medication  twice  daily  (morning 
and evening) at consistent times every day. 
20/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary efficacy parameters 
-Incontinence  Episode  Frequency  per  week  (IEF):  The  IEF  was  a  subject  count  of  the  number  of 
incontinence episodes recorded real-time on paper diaries during a 7-day period. 
The first primary efficacy endpoint was the percent change (as computed by [Endpoint – Baseline] / 
Baseline)  in  weekly  IEF  from  baseline  to  endpoint.  The  diary  consisted  of  seven  24-hour  diary 
records. Only those 24-hour diary records that were deemed to be satisfactory were considered in the 
efficacy analyses. A satisfactory 24-hour diary record was an account of a calendar date on which the 
subject recorded the date and time of at least three voids. The 24-hour diary record that had entries on 
the day of a visit were not considered satisfactory because it could not contain information for a full 
24-hour calendar day. At each visit, a single value was produced for each diary variable by taking the 
mean  of  all  entries  from  satisfactory  diary  records  (for  example,  for  IEF,  mean  =  total  number  of 
incontinence  episodes  divided  by  total  number  of  satisfactory  diary  records)  obtained  since  the 
previous visit. For IEF, seven to obtain incontinence episode frequency per week multiplied this mean. 
If  less  than  three  satisfactory  daily  24-hour  diary  records  were  collected,  the  visit  value  was 
considered missing. This way of computing and analyzing the diary variables is referred to as “the last 
7-day diary approach.” 
-Incontinence  Quality  of  Life  (I-QOL):  The  I-QOL  is  a  validated,  disease-specific,  22-item,  self-
administered  questionnaire  allowing  subjects  to  evaluate  in  their  native  language  the  effects  and 
concerns relating to urinary incontinence. The 22 items in the I-QOL can be scored as an overall score 
or  as  three  domain  scores:  Avoidance  and  Limiting  Behaviour,  Social  Embarrassment,  and 
Psychosocial Impact. I-QOL scores and subscale scores are standardized to a scale from 0 to 100, with 
100  indicating  the  best  possible  condition-specific  quality  of  life.  Health  status  and  health-related 
quality  of  life  measures  were  used  in  this  study  to  provide  detailed  information  on  the  impact  of 
urinary incontinence on subjects’ day-to-day lives.  
The  second  primary  endpopint  was  the  change  in  I-QOL  (as  computed  by  [Endpoint  –  Baseline]). 
Changes  and  percent  changes  were  computed  for  all  randomized  subjects  with  at  least  one 
postbaseline and one baseline visit measurement using a last observation carried forward approach. 
Secondary efficacy parameters 
-Patient  Global  Impression  of  Improvement  (PGI-I):  PGI-I  is  a  validated,  single-item  treatment 
outcome questionnaire, measuring a subject’s self-perceived improvement since she started taking the 
study medication. It is measured on a 7-point scale from “Very much better” to “Very much worse”. 
-Mean  Time  Between  Voids  (MTBV):  The  MTBV  is  the  average  voiding  interval  derived  from  the 
same urinary diaries as defined a priori in the statistical analysis plans for the Phase 3 studies.  
Sample size 
The  sample  size  provided  approximately  80%  (SBAT,  SBAX)-90%  (SBAV)  power  for  detecting  a 
treatment  difference  of  20% in the  median  percent  change in  IEF from  baseline to endpoint  using  a 
two-sided, .05 level van Elteren test. 
The sample size also provided approximately 94% (SBAT, SBAX)-98% (SBAV) power for detecting 
a treatment difference of  3.5 points in the mean change in I-QOL from baseline to endpoint using a 
two-sided, .05 level t-test, assuming a standard deviation of 9.9. 
This  calculation  assumed  that,    10%  or  fewer  of  the  randomized  subjects  would  drop  out  without 
providing any postbaseline measurement. 
Randomisation 
Randomization  was  controlled  by a computerized  voice response  system  at a  central location for all 
study  sites.  The  investigator  called  the  voice  response  system  at  each  visit  in  order  to  receive 
instructions for distributing study medication and/or diary data collection. 
21/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Blinding 
Conventional methods have been used to ascertain blinding of patients and investigators. 
Statistical methods 
The  primary  time  point  for  all  efficacy  variables  was  the  last  visit  after  randomization  at  which  the 
variable  was  obtained.    For  IEF,  this  was  specified  “the  last  7-day  diary  analysis”  in  contrast  to  a 
secondary analysis that compared all pre-randomization diaries to all post-randomization diaries, “the 
pooled diary analysis.” 
Primary statistical analyses were performed according to intent-to-treat (ITT) principles and included 
all subjects with a baseline and a postbaseline measurement. A secondary completer analysis was also 
performed to assess the impact of early discontinuations due to adverse events on the efficacy profile 
of duloxetine. If adverse events and clinical benefits were linked, including discontinued subjects in 
the ITT analysis could bias the overall results in favour of duloxetine. Therefore, a comparison of ITT 
and  completer  analyses  results  for  important  outcome  variables  was  critical  to  assess  this  potential 
bias. 
For the three Phase 3 trials, the primary analyses for median percent changes in IEF and mean changes 
in  I-QOL  score  compared  duloxetine  40  mg  twice  daily  with  placebo  using  with  the  following  two 
models: 
-  Because  the  normality  assumption  was  not  satisfied  (Shapiro-Wilks,  (cid:31).01),  van  Elteren  test  (van 
Elteren  1960;  a  type  of  stratified  Wilcoxon  test)  was  used  for  analysis  of  percent  change  in  IEF 
between the last prerandomisation and last postrandomisation visit diaries with baseline incontinence 
severity  strata  (<14  and  ≥14  IEF  per  week  from  Visit  1  to  randomisation  visit)  as  the  stratification 
variables. 
-  Changes  in  I-QOL  total  scores  were  analysed  using  an  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  model. 
The  dependent  variables  were  the  change  scores,  and  the  model  included  terms  for  baseline  scores, 
treatment, baseline incontinence severity strata, and study. 
The van Elteren test was also used to analyse other IEF analyses including absolute change scores and 
pooled  analyses  (comparing  all  prerandomisation  to  all  postrandomisation  diaries).  ANCOVA  was 
also used to analyse changes in I-QOL subscales and mean time between void. Treatment differences 
in PGI-I responses were tested using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistic. 
Efficacy was also analysed by grouping subjects into responders and nonresponders based on relative 
improvement from baseline in IEF and I-QOL. For IEF, a responder was defined a priori as a subject 
who had at least a 50% decrease from baseline to endpoint. An I-QOL responder was defined a priori 
as a subject who improved by at least 30% of the greatest possible improvement in score from baseline 
to endpoint. The validation of the PGI-I scale with I-QOL improvements suggests that the definition is 
reasonable. In this validation, subjects who rated themselves "A Little Better" had a 6.4-point increase 
in  their  I-QOL  scores,  while  those  who  rated  themselves  "Much  Better"  had  a  13.0-point  increase. 
These increases are comparable to the 10.8-point increase that would represent 30% of the maximum 
possible increase in I-QOL score in the overall integrated database 
Results 
22/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study SBAT  
Participant flow 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=630)  
Randomised (n=494) 
Allocated to Duloxetine  (n=247) 
Allocated to Placebo  (n=247) 
Early discontinuation 
Lost to follow-up (n=2) 
Adverse events (n=53) 
Others (n=13)  
Early discontinuation 
Lost to follow-up (n=0) 
Adverse events (n=12) 
Others (n=9)  
Completers (179)  
Completers (226.) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
r
e
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
Recruitment 
The recruitment period for study SBAT comprised from December 7 th 2000 to March 4th 2002 
Conduct of the study 
The  studies  were  conducted  according  to  GCP  principles  and  the  ethical  principles  as  stated  in  the 
Declaration of Helsinki. 
Baseline data 
No  significant  baseline  differences  between  groups  in  the  individual  studies  were  found  for  IEF,  I-
QOL, urine loss in Stress Pad Test, Patient Global Impression - Severity, number of micturitions per 
day, and nocturia. 
The  groups seem to be representative regarding age, BMI and  menopausal status. More than half of 
the non-menstruating patients used HRT, which is a high figure. The significant difference in age in 
study SBAT is probably of no clinical importance. The importance of the lower alcohol consumption 
in  the  duloxetine  groups  is  difficult  to  judge.  The  dominance  of  Caucasian  women  limits  the 
possibility to conclude on efficacy in other ethnic groups. 
23/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of demographic and other baseline characteristics : % or mean (range) 
SBAT 
Placebo 
54 (28-82) 
27 (18-47) 
97.6 
31 
33 
19 
8 
85 
Age (years) 
BMI 
Caucasian 
Menstruating 
On HRT  
On PFMT 
Previous surgery 
Consuming 
alcohol 
Alcohol 
Units/week 
* difference between groups, p<0.05. 
4 (0-20) 
SBAV 
Placebo 
Duloxetine 
52 * (24-76)  53 (24-83) 
29 (18-61) 
27 (18-56) 
90.9 
98.8 
40 
34 
44 
32 
18 
19 
11 
8 
60 
77* 
Duloxetine 
52 (23-81) 
29 (18-76) 
88.7 
39 
45 
17 
10 
50 * 
SBAX 
Placebo 
53 (27-77) 
28 (18-48) 
93.5 
34 
35 
12 
16 
66 
Duloxetine 
54 (30-79) 
28 (19-50) 
95.2 
33 
38 
6 
17 
39 
3 (0-20)* 
1.9 (0-15) 
1.6 (0-18) 
1.4 (0-34) 
1.4 (0-14) 
Numbers analysed 
Study  SBAT  enrolled  494  patients  (247  to  placebo  and  247  to  duloxetine),  of  which,  at  12-weeks, 
8.5% (21 patients) discontinued in placebo group and 27.5% (68 patients) in duloxetine. Insufficient 
therapeutic effect led to a premature discontinuation in 0.8% of placebo group and 2.4% in duloxetine. 
Adverse  events  led  to  a  premature  discontinuation  in  4.9%  of  the  placebo  group  and  21.5%  in 
duloxetine  group.  For  the  IEF  analysis,  35  subjects  were  excluded  from  the  duloxetine  group  and  5 
from the placebo group because they had no post-baseline results for IEF. For the I-QOL analysis, 7 
subjects were excluded from the duloxetine group and 2 from the placebo group because they had no 
post-baseline results for I-QOL. 
Outcomes and estimation 
The primary objective for IEF but not for I-QOL was met. At 12 weeks (primary analysis) Duloxetine 
was significantly superior to placebo in decreasing the IEF per week (p=.002). The median decrease 
was 50.0% in the duloxetine group and 29.3% in the placebo group. However, there was no significant 
difference  between  duloxetine  and  placebo  in  I-QOL  score  improvements  (5.5  vs.  4.1)  When  the 
responder  rate  was  analysed  significantly  more  subjects  in  the  duloxetine  than  in  the  placebo  group 
were classified as IEF responders (51.9% vs 33.5%) and I-QOL responders (37.1% vs 27.8%) 
24/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study SBAV 
Participant flow 
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=968)  
Randomised (n=683) 
Allocated to Duloxetine  (n=344) 
Allocated to Placebo  (n=339) 
Early discontinuation 
Lost to follow-up (n=6) 
Adverse events (n=83) 
Others (n=17)  
Early discontinuation 
Lost to follow-up (n=8) 
Adverse events (n=14) 
Others (n=21)  
Completers (238)  
(c) 
Completers (296) 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
s
r
e
t
e
l
p
m
o
C
Numbers analysed 
Study SBAV enrolled 683 subjects randomly assigned to duloxetine 80 mg/day (n = 344), or placebo 
(n  =  339).  Considering  causes  for  discontinuation,  adverse  events  led  to  discontinuation  in  4.1%  of 
patients  in  placebo  group,  and  24.1%  in  duloxetine  group.  Discontinuation  due  to  insufficient 
therapeutic  effect  occurred  in  2.4%  in  placebo  group  and  0.6%  in  duloxetine.  Premature 
discontinuation was 30.8% in duloxetine placebo group and 12.7% with placebo. For the IEF analysis, 
there were 608 patients eligible for the ITT population (without taking into account discontinuations) 
with 322 in the placebo group and 286 in the duloxetine group. For the I-QOL analysis, 11 subjects 
were excluded from the duloxetine group and 7 from the placebo group. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Duloxetine was significantly superior to placebo in decreasing the IEF per week (p<.001). The median 
decrease was 50.0% in the duloxetine group and 27.5% in the placebo group. I-QOL score increases 
were significantly greater in duloxetine subjects than in placebo subjects, with mean improvements of 
11.01  points  in  the  duloxetine  group  compared  with  6.80  points  in  the  placebo  group  (p<.001). 
Significantly  more  subjects  in  the  duloxetine  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  were  classified  as 
responders by IEF (51.4% vs 33.5%) and I-QOL (47.7% vs. 35.5%) criteria. 
Ancillary analyses 
In  this  study  subjects  were  systematically  evaluated  for  depression  according  the  Beck  Depression 
Inventory–II  (BDI-II)  at  the  last  baseline  visit  and  at  the  last  treatment  visit.  Subjects  receiving 
treatment  with  antidepressants  were  excluded  from  the  study.  Mean  BDI-II  scores  did  not  differ  at 
baseline  between  duloxetine-  and  placebo-treated  subjects.  Only  23  of  649  (3.5%)  subjects  had 
appreciable symptoms of depression based on a BDI-II score of 17 or greater at baseline. This small 
subset of subjects had somewhat lower I-QOL scores and a somewhat greater number of incontinence 
episodes  at  baseline  than  subjects  with  lower  BDI-II  scores.  However,  the  higher  BDI-II  score 
subgroup  did  not  demonstrate  neither  a  significant  reduction  in  median  IEF  (duloxetine-placebo 
difference  10.7%,  p  =  .42)  nor  a  significant  improvement  in  total  mean  I-QOL  scores  (duloxetine-
placebo  difference  2.36,  p  =  .69),  while  the  lower  BDI-II  score  subgroup  did  (duloxetine-placebo 
difference 22.3%, p< .001 and 4.62, p<.001, respectively).  
25/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study SBAX 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
l
o
r
n
E
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
s
r
o
e
l
t
l
e
o
l
F
p
m
o
C
Assessed for 
Eligibility (n=579)  
Randomised (n=458) 
Allocated to Duloxetine  (n=227) 
Allocated to Placebo  (n=231) 
Early discontinuation 
Lost to follow-up (n=2) 
Adverse events (n=38) 
Others (n=16)  
Early discontinuation 
Lost to follow-up (n=2) 
Adverse events (n=4) 
Others (n=13)  
Completers (170)  
Completers (212) 
Numbers analysed 
In study SBAX 458 subjects were enrolled and randomly assigned to duloxetine 80 mg/day (n =227), 
or placebo (n =231). Of this, at 12-weeks, 8.2% (19 patients) discontinued in placebo group and 26% 
(56  patients)  discontinued  in  the  duloxetine  group.  While  no  premature  discontinuation  was  due  to 
lack of efficacy, adverse events led to a premature discontinuation in 1.7% of the placebo group and 
17.2% in the duloxetine group. For the IEF analysis, 27 subjects were excluded from the duloxetine 
group and 2 from the placebo group because they had no postbaseline results. For the I-QOL analysis, 
7 subjects were excluded from the duloxetine group and 2 from the placebo group because they had no 
postbaseline results. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Duloxetine was superior to placebo in decreasing the IEF per week (p=.050) using the last 7-day diary 
approach.. The median decrease was 53.6% in the duloxetine group and 40.0% in the placebo group. I-
QOL score increases were significantly greater for subjects taking duloxetine than for subjects taking 
placebo, with mean improvements of 10.34 points in the duloxetine group compared with 6.42 points 
in the placebo group (p=.007). 
• 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The  Applicant  has  carried  out  a  pooled  analysis  including  data  derived  from  four  studies  (Studies 
SBAT, SBAX, SBAV, and SAAW) with the same duloxetine dose (40 mg twice daily) and duration of 
treatment  (12  weeks),  and  that  determined  subject  eligibility  based  on  the  same  clinical  algorithm 
(except that that Study SAAW had a slightly lower IEF threshold at entry and excluded women over 
age 65 years and those with prior continence surgery). Most of the subjects (except in study SAAW) 
rated their disease severity as moderate or severe. 
A  total  of  1913  subjects  were  randomised  in  Studies  SAAW,  SBAT,  SBAV,  and  SBAX.  Of  these 
subjects,  538  (28.1%)  were  enrolled  in  Western  Europe,  978  (51.1%)  in  North  America,  and  397 
(20.8%) in Africa, South America, and Australia. 
26/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Condition-Specific Baseline Severity 
Weekly IEFa  
Placebo 
19.0 
17.2 
18.3 
9.3 
17.0 
Duloxetine 
18.2 
17.3 
18.5 
10.4 
16.9 
Total I-QOL scorea 
Placebo 
64.3 
64.4 
58.3 
72.8 
64.1 
Duloxetine 
62.0 
66.6 
58.9 
71.5 
63.8 
PGI-Sb 
Placebo 
66.8 
71.0 
73.1 
41.3 
65.6 
Duloxetine 
68.4 
69.5 
72.7 
45.3 
66.2 
Study 
SBAV 
SBAT 
SBAX 
SAAW 
Meta-
analysis 
The percent decrease in IEF in the duloxetine 40 mg twice daily group was significantly greater than 
in  the  placebo  group  (duloxetine  median  52%  [95%  confidence  interval,  47%  to  56%],  placebo 
median  33%  [95%  confidence  interval,  29%  to  36%],  p<.001)  in  the  ITT  analysis.  Results  on  the 
completer analysis at week 12 are similar to those for the ITT population. There was a greater median 
decrease in percent change for the duloxetine group at every visit, compared with the placebo group.  
The following figure shows the results by study. 
There  were  significantly  more  IEF  responders  (50%  or  greater  reduction  in  IEF)  in  the  duloxetine 
group  (53%)  than  in  the  placebo  group  (38%,  p<.001)  and  more  than  twice  as  many  duloxetine 
subjects than placebo subjects (228 duloxetine, 108 placebo, p<.0001) were responders at every visit 
after randomisation. While the number of continuing responders decreased at each visit, the majority 
of  initial  duloxetine  responders  (228/448,  51%)  were  responders  at  every  visit  and  73%  (327/448) 
were  responders  at  a  minimum  of  2  of  the  3  visits  in  the  ITT  analysis.    Overall,  33.4%  of 
duloxetine-treated subjects were classified as responders at every visit.   
When  the  results  were  analysed  by  the  predefined  severity  strata  for  incontinence,  there  was  no 
significant response for duloxetine compared with placebo among women with IEF <14 per week (i.e. 
mild SUI) in 1 of the 3 studies (see table below). However, the clinical relevance of the reduction was 
marginal.  
27/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 
SBAT 
SBAV 
SBAX 
IEF/week, pooled diary approach, by baseline incontinence severity (<14, ≥14) 
Baseline 
IEF 
Treatment (n) 
Baseline, 
mean (SD) 
Endpoint, 
mean (SD) 
p-value 
Percent 
change, 
median 
-33.3-49.3 
<14 
≥14 
<14 
≥14 
<14 
≥14 
Placebo (113) 
Duloxetine 
(107) 
Placebo (129) 
Duloxetine 
(106) 
Placebo 
Duloxetine 
Placebo 
Duloxetine 
Placebo 
Duloxetine 
Placebo 
Duloxetine 
9.6 (2.5) 
9.4 (2.5) 
6.7 (4.3) 
5.8 (4.9) 
27.2 (12.0) 
27.5 (11.5) 
20.1 (14.1) 
14.0 (10.3) 
-29.1-54.4 
9.3 (2.4) 
9.4 (2.5) 
27.9 (14.3) 
27.7 (13.5)) 
9.2 ((2.6) 
9.9 (2.3) 
29.0 (15.2) 
28.5 (15.1) 
6.7 (4.6) 
4.2 (3.3) 
20.0 (14.3) 
12.8 (10.4) 
6.0 (5.1) 
5.1 (4.0) 
18.3 (13.5) 
13.7 (12.7) 
-36.8-60.3 
-26.3-56.8 
-52.2-56.4 
-35.9-54.7 
.036 
<.001 
<.001 
<.001 
.155  
<.001 
In  the  combined  database,  the  duloxetine  40  mg  twice  daily  group  showed  significantly  greater 
improvement in I-QOL total scores compared with the placebo group in the ITT analysis (9.2 versus 
5.9,  p<.001)  and  the  completer  analysis  (10.4  versus  6.1,  p<.001).  The  following  figure  shows  the 
results  by  study.  As  with  the  IEF  analysis,  the  effect  on  I-QOL  was  less  pronounced  and  not 
significant in patients with a baseline IEF <14.  
• 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  selection  criteria  applied  in  phase  III  clinical  trials  identify  patients  with  SUI  on  the  basis  of 
clinical  findings  (signs  and  symptoms).  A  subset  of  patients  underwent  urodynamic  evaluations 
indicating  that  most  of  enrolled  patients  were  truly  suffering  from  SUI.  Exclusion  criteria  intend  to 
avoid the inclusion of patients with urge incontinence. 
Patients enrolled in phase III correspond to a moderate/severe SUI population (according to the PGI 
rating). Only 16% of the patients were having concurrent pelvic muscle floor training (PFMT) which 
is considered the first step in the treatment of SUI. However the ever-use and current-use PFMT rates 
were similar to those  reported  in  the general  population, supporting the generalizability of  the study 
populations. 
Design  of  pivotal  studies  as  parallel  double  blind  against  placebo,  measurement  of  efficacy  at  12 
weeks  and  efficacy  parameters  are  considered  appropriated  and  are,  in  fact,  in  agreement  with  the 
recommendations made by the CHMP Note for Guidance on the Clinical Investigation of Medicinal 
Products for the treatment of Urinary Incontinence (CHMP/EWP/18/01) 
The  Applicant  has  selected  the  percentage  reduction  from  baseline  in  IEF  as  the  primary  endpoint, 
using a quantitative assessment of a disease-specific QoL scale as a supportive primary endpoint. As 
28/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
secondary variables, PGI, CGI (among other variables) and an analysis of responders on the basis of 
pre-defined  cut-off  points  for  the  different  variables  have  been  also  provided.  This  strategy  is  not 
entirely in line with the CHMP Note for Guidance, suggesting that main therapeutic trials should focus 
the use of measurements of subjective improvement, as the PGI or the CGI. However, and provided 
that consistency in the drug effect on these variables is proven, the Applicant approach was considered 
acceptable when taking on board that the mentioned CHMP Note for Guidance came into operation on 
December 2002 and the present dossier was filed on November 2002. 
Overall, although not statistically significant in all trials, duloxetine has shown a consistently greater 
effect  on  IEF  and  QoL  than  placebo.  The  magnitude  of  the  relative  effect  on  IEF  is  about  a  50% 
reduction  with  considerable  placebo  response  ranging  from  27%  to  40%.  However,  and  as  already 
highlighted  for  the  dose-finding  study,    the  absolute    median  reduction  in  incontinence  episode 
frequency  per  week  was  only    1.5,  3.0,  and  3.9  for  the  phase  3  trials  compared  with  placebo.  The 
clinical relevance of such magnitude can be questioned. I-QOL assessment as well as the PGI and the 
CGI show a consistent effect of duloxetine over placebo.  
Only  16% of patients were receiving PFMT  during  the  study and no information is provided on the 
quality of and compliance with it. PFMT is considered the first therapeutic approach for women with 
SUI. Published data indicate that this non-pharmacological approach can improve symptoms in around 
half of patients. In this regard, the clinical development program does not reveal whether duloxetine 
therapy provides any additional effect to an adequately standardised PFMT. 
Study SBAF provides additional information about the role of duloxetine in the moderate-severe SUI 
therapeutic program where PFMT is considered a first stage step. The primary objective of this study 
was  to  compare  combined  therapy  (duloxetine  +  PFMT)  versus  no  treatment  (placebo  +  imitation 
PFMT) and to compare combined therapy versus PFMT. Combined therapy showed the greatest IEF 
reduction than each monotherapy (duloxetine or PFMT) or placebo. Duloxetine alone showed greater 
reduction than PFMT. Thus, in the assessors’ view, study SBAF would support use of the combined 
treatment. It could be questioned, however, if the study period of 3 months was long enough to allow 
the  maximum  effect  of  PFMT  to  be  demonstrated.  The  results  would  therefore  support  a 
recommendation to use the combined treatment. This is reflected in the SPC. 
In  this  type  of  disease,  the  clinical  relevance  of  the  observed  improvement  assessed  by  mean  of 
quantitative (continuous or discrete) variables is of difficult interpretation, and a responder analysis in 
a prospectively defined way is considered of paramount importance. Upon request, an analysis of the 
number  of  "dry"  days  during  treatment  in  relation  to  pre-treatment  was  made  to  contribute  to  the 
interpretation of clinical effects. 
When patients were analysed according their incontinence severity at baseline (< 14 IEF/week and ≥ 
14  IEF/week)  the  improvement  was  less  pronounced  for  the  less  severe  strata  of  patients  without  a 
clear translation into a quality of life benefit. A new analysis of the previously submitted efficacy data 
was provided according to the number of dry days (from 7 to 0) at the end of the study. Cure rates (i.e. 
dry  7  days)  are  really  scarce  for  both  stratum  (more  severe:  duloxetine  5.4%,  placebo  2.9%;  less 
severe:  duloxetine  15.7%,  placebo:  12.5%).  For  the  less  severe  subjects  differences  between 
duloxetine  and  placebo  treated  patients  hardly  achieved  6%  across  the  complete  distribution  of  dry 
days.  Thus,  the  clinical  meaningfulness  of  duloxetine  in  women  with  less  severe  SUI  is  still 
questionable.  
When  a  new  definition  (post-hoc)  of  cure  or  improvement  was  applied  (4  or  more  dry  days/week) 
58.6% of patients on duloxetine and 52.5% on placebo responded (p=.09; chi-square) within the less 
severe stratum. Among patients with more than 14 episodes per week the response rate on the basis of 
the same variable was 27% for duloxetine and 14.7% for placebo.  
Although previous surgery, in a pooled data analysis, did not appear to have an impact on duloxetine 
efficacy with regard to reduction of IEF, the weight of this analysis is considered limited, and this is 
reflected in the SPC. 
Study  SBBA  compared  the  of  duloxetine80  mg/day  with  placebo  on  quality  of  life  in  a  naturalistic 
protocol  resembling  general  conditions  of  clinical  practice.  The  study  failed  to  show  any  positive 
effect  of  duloxetine  over  placebo  on  quality  of  life.  No  information  regarding  the  number  of 
incontinence episodes at baseline has been provided nor on the reduction in IEF achieved at the end of 
the treatment. However, less restrictive  inclusion criteria considered for this study (≥ 1 incontinence 
episode  per  week)  would  allow  to  recruit  a  population  close  to  the  less  severe  end  of  the  disease. 
Those negative results seem to confirm the negligible effect of duloxetine in mild SUI patients.  
29/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
On  the  other  hand,  when  severely  affected  patients  are  enrolled  (Study  SBAM)  significantly  greater 
reduction in  IEF was achieved in  duloxetine treated patients compared  with  those in placebo  group. 
This  was  also  reflected  in  I-QOL  improvement.  The  SPC,  therefore,  clearly  reflects  the  limited 
usefulness of duloxetine in patients with mild SUI.  
It is important to assess the efficacy beyond 3 months. The negative results of the study SBBA, which 
failed  to  show  positive  effect  of  duloxetine  over  placebo  over  a  treatment  period  of  36  weeks  in  an 
ordinary  clinical  setting,  throws  serious  doubts  as  to  the  clinical  meaningfulness  of  the  product  in 
general long-term use. Thus, the long-term (>3 months) results still remain weak and, considering that 
SUI  is  a  sustained  problem  for  the  majority  of  women,  the  lack  of  documented  long-term  effects  is 
reflected in the SPC.  
Clinical safety 
The  integrated  safety  data  were  classified  into  three  databases  based  on  duloxetine  dosage  and 
treatment indications.  
The  primary  safety  database  includes  data  on  duloxetine-  and  placebo-treated  women  from  all 
completed  double  blind  SUI  studies  in  which  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  a  dose  of  40  mg 
twice daily throughout the trial. The three Phase 3 randomised clinical trials (Studies SBAT, SBAV, 
and SBAX), one Phase 2 randomised clinical trial (Study SAAW), the three open-label extensions to 
the three  Phase  3 trials (Studies SBAU, SBAW, and  SBBM), and one  stand-alone  open-label safety 
study (Study SBAY) comprise the primary safety database. 
The secondary safety database includes data from all subjects (women and men) from all completed 
double-blind  depression  and  pain  studies  in  which  subjects  were  randomly  assigned  to  a  dose  of  at 
least 40 mg twice-daily duloxetine or to placebo. Also included are data from the final locked database 
of the long-term, open-label depression study. 
The tertiary safety database consists of data from clinical pharmacology studies, all completed urinary 
incontinence  and  depression  studies  in  which  subjects  were  randomised  to  a  dose  of  less  than 
duloxetine 40 mg twice daily or placebo, Japanese studies, and all ongoing duloxetine studies except 
those in the primary safety database. 
Safety data (adverse events, vital signs, and clinical  laboratory tests) were monitored throughout the 
studies. Adverse events were elicited by open-ended, nondirected questioning of the subject, clinical 
observation,  and  source  document  review.  The  adverse  events  terms  initially  recorded  by  site 
personnel were mapped to Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) terms. The study 
site investigator based on his or her clinical judgement assigned causality for SAEs and deaths.  
• 
Patient exposure 
A  total  of  4127  duloxetine  subjects,  representing  approximately  1842  subject-years  of  exposure  to 
duloxetine, were included in the primary and secondary safety databases up to the data cut-off date of 
14 June 2002.  
There were 2301 subjects in the primary safety database ranging from 20 to 87 years of age; all were 
women, and 93% were Caucasian. They had approximately 956 subject-years of exposure, with 190 of 
those  subject-years  of  exposure  occurring  in  the  placebo-controlled  trials  in  patients  with  SUI  (958 
duloxetine-treated and 955 placebo-treated patients). Of all the subjects in the primary safety database, 
818 had more than 6 months of exposure to duloxetine, and 191 had more than 12 months of exposure.  
• 
Adverse events  
Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) from double-blind  trials in the primary safety database 
for which the incidence in the duloxetine treatment group was ≥5.0% and significantly greater than the 
incidence  in  the  placebo  group  were  nausea  (23.2%  vs  3.7%),  dry  mouth  (13.4%  vs  1.5%),  fatigue 
(12.7% vs 3.8%), insomnia (12.6% vs 1.9%), constipation (11.0% vs 2.3), headache (9.7% vs 6.6%), 
dizziness  (excluding  vertigo)  (9.5%  vs  2.6%),  somnolence  (6.8%  vs  0.1%),  and  diarrhoea  (5.1%  vs 
2.7%).  
Adverse events reported with a significantly greater frequency in the duloxetine group compared with 
placebo  for  which  the  incidence  was  <5%  and  ≥1%  were  vomiting,  increased  sweating,  anorexia, 
dyspepsia, tremor, lethargy, decreased appetite, sleep disorder, anxiety, decreased libido, anorgasmia, 
pruritus,  blurred  vision,  weakness,  nervousness,  and  thirst.  Adverse  events  reported  with  a 
30/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
significantly greater frequency in the duloxetine group compared with placebo for which the incidence 
was < 1% was nocturia, rigors, asthenia, mydriasis, lost of libido, and yawning. 
The  most  common  adverse  events,  except  diarrhoea,  typically  began  within  the  first  month  of 
treatment,  many  within  the  first  2  days.  Most  common  adverse  events  resolved  in  the  majority  of 
subjects within 7 to 30 days. Insomnia, dry mouth and constipation tended to be more persistent than 
other common adverse events. 
(7) 
(8) 
Placebo 
(n = 955) 
n (%) 
TEA 
Even
ts 
Nausea 
Dry mouth 
Fatigue 
Insomnia 
Constipation 
Headache NOS 
Dizziness (excl. vertigo) 
Somnolence 
Diarrhoea NOS 
Vomiting NOS 
Sweating increased 
Nasopharyngitis 
Anorexia 
Influenza 
Dyspepsia 
Tremor 
Lethargy 
Appetite decreased NOS 
Sleep disorder NOS 
Sinusitis NOS 
Urinary tract infection NOS 
Anxiety NEC 
Back pain 
Hot flushes NOS 
Hypertension NOS 
Palpitations 
Arthralgia 
Cough 
Libido decreased 
Anorgasmia 
Depression NOS 
Pruritus NOS 
35 (3.7) 
14 (1.5) 
36 (3.8) 
18 (1.9) 
22 (2.3) 
63 (6.6) 
25 (2.6) 
1 (0.1) 
26 (2.7) 
15 (1.6) 
8 (0.8) 
47 (4.9) 
2 (0.2) 
25 (2.6) 
12 (1.3) 
0 (0.0) 
3 (0.3) 
2 (0.2) 
8 (0.8) 
21 (2.2) 
18 (1.9) 
7 (0.7) 
17 (1.8) 
10 (1.0) 
17 (1.8) 
8 (0.8) 
11 (1.2) 
16 (1.7) 
3 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
11 (1.2) 
3 (0.3) 
(n = 958) 
n (%) 
222 (23.2) 
128 (13.4) 
122 (12.7) 
121 (12.6) 
105 (11.0) 
93 (9.7) 
91 (9.5) 
65 (6.8) 
49 (5.1) 
46 (4.8) 
43 (4.5) 
41 (4.3) 
37 (3.9) 
31 (3.2) 
29 (3.0) 
26 (2.7) 
25 (2.6) 
22 (2.3) 
21 (2.2) 
20 (2.1) 
19 (2.0) 
18 (1.9) 
18 (1.9) 
17 (1.8) 
17 (1.8) 
16 (1.7) 
15 (1.6) 
14 (1.5) 
14 (1.5) 
13 (1.4) 
13 (1.4) 
13 (1.4) 
Fisher 
exact test 
CMH 
test 
< .001 
< .001 
< .001 
< .001 
< .001 
.015 
< .001 
< .001 
.009 
< .001 
< .001 
.515 
< 0.001 
.498 
.011 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
.023 
.876 
1.00 
.042 
1.00 
.244 
1.00 
.149 
.554 
.718 
.012 
< 0.001 
.838 
.021 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
.012 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
.007 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
.503 
< 0.001 
.409 
.008 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
.014 
.859 
.874 
.027 
.876 
.178 
.991 
.099 
.440 
.709 
.007 
< 0.001 
.687 
.012 
31/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abdominal pain upper 
Abdominal pain NOS 
Vertigo  
Vision blurred 
Weakness 
Nervousness 
Pharyngolaryngeal pain 
Upper  respiratory  tract  infection 
NOS 
Bronchitis 
Flatulence 
Myalgia 
Pyrexia 
Rash NOS 
Thirst 
Migraine NOS 
11 (1.2) 
18 (1.9) 
8 (0.8) 
1 (0.1) 
3 (0.3) 
0 (0.0) 
16 (1.7) 
16 (1.6) 
18 (1.9) 
18 (1.9) 
5 (0.5) 
5 (0.5) 
6 (0.6) 
1 (0.1) 
10 (1.0) 
12 (1.3) 
12 (1.3) 
12 (1.3) 
12 (1.3) 
12 (1.3) 
11 (1.1) 
11 (1.1) 
11 (1.1) 
10 (1.0) 
10 (1.0) 
10 (1.0) 
10 (1.0) 
10 (1.0) 
10 (1.0) 
9 (0.9) 
1.00 
.277 
.501 
.003 
.034 
< 0.001 
.341 
.341 
.133 
.300 
.300 
.178 
.453 
.011 
.823 
.831 
.270 
.367 
.002 
.019 
< 0.001 
.323 
.315 
.125 
.199 
.194 
.110 
.319 
.007 
.805 
* P-value is from Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel Test stratified by study 
• 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
One  death  (a  70-year-old  Caucasian  woman,  previously  diagnosed  of  hypertension  and 
hypercholesterolemia who had been taking duloxetine for 52 days and suffered a multifocal embolic 
cerebrovascular accident resulting in coma and death) was reported from the primary safety database. 
This event was judged by the investigator to be unrelated to study drug. After the database cut-off date 
of  14  June  2002,  a  second  death  occurred  in  this  primary  safety  database.  A  59-year-old  woman 
assigned  to  duloxetine,  died  from  a  pulmonary  oat  cell  metastatic  carcinoma.  In  the  opinion  of  the 
investigator,  it  is  unlikely  it  were  related  to  study  drug.  An  autopsy  for  this  subject  is  pending  and 
further information has been requested. 
Two deaths were reported for the controlled studies in the secondary safety database (1 duloxetine, 1 
placebo): A 77-year-old Caucasian man randomised to duloxetine 40 mg twice daily, who experienced 
a  cardiopulmonary  arrest  that  resulted  in  death  4  days  after  his  last  dose  of  duloxetine  and  was 
considered  not  related,  and  a  73-year-old  Caucasian  man  randomised  to  placebo  treatment  who 
experienced an accidental drowning resulting in death. Six deaths (4 duloxetine, 1 placebo, 1 blinded 
treatment) were reported in the tertiary safety database before or after data cut-off date, none of them 
being attributable to study drug or procedures.  
When  both  double-blind  and  open-label  studies  in  the  primary  safety  database  were  reviewed,  70 
subjects (3.2%) had reported a total of 105 SAEs. The majority of SAE in the duloxetine-treated group 
were not attributed to the study drug by the investigators who were blinded. 
The  incidence  of  SAEs  that  may  be  related  to  duloxetine  was  low.  The  incidence  of  SAEs  did  not 
differ significantly from placebo. 
A recently reported SAR of a completed suicide in a healthy female volunteer without SUI on placebo 
after  being  tapered  from  a  high  dose  of  duloxetine  reinforces  the  need  for  a  detailed  description  of 
suicides  occurring  during  the  clinical  development  of  duloxetine  and  during  its  post-marketing 
experience outside the EU. The risk of discontinuation symptoms are clearly stated in the SPC 
Another case of suicide attempt in a 43 year-old female patient in an open label phase III study was 
reported during the Decision-making phase. The view of the Committee was that Yentreve is expected 
to be prescribed and used by physicians and patients that might be not fully informed of the potential 
association between antidepressant drugs and suicidal behaviour. 
As  a  consequence,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  SPC  and  the  PL  for  all  medicinal  products 
containing  duloxetine  should  include  information,  warning  prescribers  and  patients  of  this  potential 
risk. This warning was considered especially important for Yentreve, as it is expected to be used in a 
population, which might be unaware of this problem. 
Appropriate  warning  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC  and  PL.  Additionally;  a  post-
marketing surveillance program for all medicinal products containing duloxetine will be carried out. 
32/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Laboratory findings 
Numerically  small  but  significant  increases  were  observed  in  the  mean  values  for  aspartate 
transaminase,  alanine  transaminase,  and  alkaline  phosphotase  in  the  duloxetine-treated  group 
compared  with  the  placebo  group.  Significantly  more  duloxetine-treated  subjects  had  elevations  of 
ALT  and  AST  above  the  Covance  reference  range  than  placebo-treated  subjects.  No  significant 
difference was observed between duloxetine- and placebo-treated subjects in the incidence of hepatic 
enzyme  elevations  ≥3  times  and  ≥10  times  the  upper  limit  of  normal  using  the  Covance  reference 
ranges.  No  case  of  previously  defined  as  severe  hepatic  injury  was  reported  in  duloxetine  treated 
subjects.  
A mean increase of 5.8 U/L in CPK was observed for duloxetine-treated subjects, compared with 0.1 
U/L  for  the  subjects  assigned  to  placebo.  Elevated  CPK  levels  were  observed  at  any  time  after 
randomisation  in  28  duloxetine-treated  compared  with  27  placebo-treated  subjects.  A  single  subject 
with  baseline  CPK  level  within  the  normal  range  had  a  CPK  elevation  of  4430  U/L  98  days  after 
starting duloxetine. The CPK level drawn one month later was 98. 
The blood preassure (BP) increases with duloxetine were small though consistent across all studies in 
the primary and secondary databases and averaged <2 mmHg. There was no significant difference in 
the  incidence  of  sustained  hypertension  (sustained  increases  of  either  systolic  or  diastolic  pressures) 
between  the  duloxetine-treated  (0.2%)  and  placebo-treated  (0.7%)  groups  in  the  placebo-controlled 
trials.  The  mean  increases  in  systolic  and  diastolic  BPs  observed  for  subjects  with  pre-existing 
hypertension assigned to duloxetine were smaller than those observed for subjects assigned to placebo. 
Effects of duloxetine on ECG parameters were assessed. Clinical pharmacological studies involving a 
total  of  approximately  160  subjects  who  had  received  a  single  60-mg  dose,  showed  a  shorter  QTc 
intervals and a small (4 msec) decrease in the PR interval. 
Overall, the QT interval corrected for heart rate (QTc) analysis revealed no arrhythmogenic tendencies 
with duloxetine. A statistically significant increase in heart rate accompanied by the expected decrease 
in  both  PR  and  RR  intervals  was  observed  with  duloxetine,  consistent  with  its  clinically  mild 
peripheral noradrenergic pharmacologic action. (in both primary controlled and uncontrolled studies) 
• 
Safety in special populations 
Safety data were analysed according to subgroups based on age, race, and pre-existing hypertension. 
There were no clinically relevant interactions in the incidence of adverse events, changes in laboratory 
values, or in vital signs observed for duloxetine treatment for the age or race subgroups. Significantly 
more ESRD subjects reported adverse events occurring on or after the only dose of the study drug (8 
ESRD subjects reported 17 adverse  events), compared with healthy subjects (1 subject reported five 
adverse events). Subjects with cirrhosis Child Pugh class B experienced more adverse events although 
there  were  no  serious  events  in  any  subject.  Each  of  the  6  cirrhotic  subjects  reported  a  total  of  35 
adverse  events  (25  possible  or  probably  related)  versus  no  adverse  events  reported  in  seven  healthy 
subjects.  Nineteen  pregnancies  exposed  to  duloxetine  at  various  doses  were  reported  from  all  three-
safety databases. All exposures were in the first trimester. Eleven had pregnancies that delivered in the 
third trimester, of whom 9 delivered apparently normal babies at term, and 2 delivered after premature 
rupture of membranes and/or preterm labour, with neither infant surviving.  
• 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
In  the  double-blind  studies  in  the  primary  safety  database,  86.5%  of  subjects  (duloxetine  86.0%, 
placebo  86.9%)  used  one  or  more  of  approximately  1140  concomitant  medications.  Of  these,  four 
(ibuprofen, paracetamol, conjugated estrogens, and a multivitamin) were used by 10.3% to 12.2% of 
subjects. An additional seven (acetylsalicylic acid, various thyroid and reproductive hormones, various 
vitamins,  and  calcium)  were  used  by  5%  to  10%  of  subjects.  Of  the  unique  medications  consumed, 
99%  did  fewer  than  30  subjects  assigned  to  duloxetine,  and  over  96%  each  use  each  fewer  than  15 
subjects assigned to duloxetine used. No analysis of the relationship between concomitant medications 
and  adverse  events  with  duloxetine  was  performed  due  to  the  large  number  of  medications  and  the 
small size of the subgroups. 
For all of the individual cases of serious adverse events occurring during the duloxetine clinical trials, 
the  responsible  investigator  assessed  the  possible  causal  relationship  of  concomitant  medications 
administered to the specific subject.  
33/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Women using medications in several classes (antidepressants, stimulant drugs used in the treatment of 
obesity,  monoamine oxidase inhibitors  [MAOIs], and other incontinence  drugs) were excluded from 
participating in the stress incontinence clinical trials. 
• 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  the  controlled  studies  (primary  safety  database),  the  overall  incidence  of  discontinuation  due  to 
adverse  events  was  significantly  greater  for  the  duloxetine  group  (196;  20.5%)  compared  with  the 
placebo  group  (37;  3.9%).  Specific  adverse  events  for  which  the  discontinuation  rate  in  duloxetine-
treated  subjects  was  ≥  1.0%  and  twice  the  rate  of  placebo-treated  subjects  were  nausea,  dizziness 
(excluding  vertigo),  insomnia,  fatigue,  and  somnolence.  All  were  significantly  more  common  in 
duloxetine-treated  subjects  as  well  as  anxiety  (duloxetine  0.6%  vs  placebo  0%).  When  long-term 
open-label extension studies were included, the overall incidence of discontinuation due to duloxetine-
associated adverse events was 30.6%. The majority of discontinuations (87%) occurred in the first 4 
weeks of duloxetine treatment. The overall incidence of discontinuation due to duloxetine-associated 
adverse  events  was  30.6%  in  the  primary  safety  database  (including  the  four  open-label  extension 
studies) up to the database cutoff date of 14 June 2002. 
• 
Discontinuation symptoms 
Discontinuation symptoms seen after duloxetine treatment (secondary safety database) reported with a 
significantly greater frequency by duloxetine-treated subjects included  dizziness (excluding  vertigo), 
headache NOS, nausea, paraesthesia, abnormal dreams, nightmare, irritability, somnolence, increased 
appetite NOS, and tension. The risk of discontinuation symptoms are clearly stated in the SPC. 
• 
Post marketing experience 
Duloxetine has not been approved for marketing in any country at this time. 
• 
Discussion on clinical safety 
The  safety  database  from  short-term  trials  (12  weeks)  is  extensive  (958  exposed  patients)  and  well 
reported.  Data  on  long-term  exposure  have  been  less  extensively  reported  as  they  emanate  from 
ongoing studies. 191 patients have been exposed for 12 months in SUI studies. In addition data from 
the secondary safety database including studies for other indications than SUI have been presented. 
Forty various AEs occurred significantly more often in the duloxetine group than in the placebo group 
in the pooled 12-week studies. The most common AEs were nausea (23%), dry mouth (13%), fatigue 
(13%),  insomnia  (13%),  and  constipation  (11%).  Headache,  dizziness,  somnolence,  and  diarrhoea 
occurred  in  5-10%  of  the  duloxetine  patients.  Another  16  AEs,  including  vomiting,  anorectic 
disturbances,  libido  disturbances,  sleep  disorders,  lethargy,  and  weakness  occurred  in  1-5%  of  the 
duloxetine patients. 
The  majority of AEs was mild to  moderate and resolved within 30 days of treatment. Still, in many 
patients  the  most  common  AEs  (dry  mouth,  fatigue,  insomnia  and  constipation)  remained  for  more 
than 30 days. Among patients reporting dizziness, nausea, insomnia and somnolence, between 12 and 
22%    discontinued  treatment.  Among  the  most  commonly  reported  AEs,  10-15%  were  reported  as 
severe. 
In total, 20.5% of duloxetine patients discontinued treatment for AEs vs. 3.9% in the placebo group in 
the four pivotal 12-week studies. Including data from the ongoing open continuation studies, 30.6% of 
the patients had discontinued treatment at the database cut-off date. 
No  deaths  that  were  judged  as  related  to  treatment  were  reported  and  the  number  of  SAEs  was  low 
with  little  or  no  association  to  treatment.  Two  cases  with  severe  liver  disturbances  were  reported. 
Although, in both cases other predisposing factors were present and the role of duloxetine was judged 
as uncertain, an association could not be excluded. 
Among  laboratory  results  the  only  finding  that  may  be  of  clinical  significance  was  an  increase  in 
transaminases above placebo in duloxetine treated patients and also a higher number of patients with 
abnormal  values.  No  effects  on  vital  signs  of  clinical  importance  were  observed.  Analysis  of  ECGs 
from  all  patients  in  the  pivotal  SUI  studies  did  not  reveal  any  arrythmogenic  tendencies  with 
duloxetine 
34/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unsurprisingly, long term exposure show a higher incidence of discontinuation (30.6% versus 20.5%) 
and of SAEs (3.2% versus 1.9%) compared to short-term treatment. Apart from that, the safety profile 
can be considered similar to that already known. 
During the Phase 3 clinical development of duloxetine in SUI patients withdrawal symptoms were not 
specifically  considered  and  only  one  Phase  2  study  looked  at  a  tapering  phase  at  the  end  of  the 
treatment.      Based  on  the  pattern  of  discontinuation  symptoms  from  studies  of  duloxetine  for  all 
indications,  the  SPC  specifies  dose  tapering  at  the  time  of  discontinuation  to  minimize  the  risk  of 
symptoms. 
As with other drugs  with  similar  pharmacological  action (antidepressants), isolated cases  of suicidal 
ideation and suicidal behaviours have been reported during duloxetine therapy or early after treatment 
discontinuation.  Adequate  warning  information  of  the  potential  association  of  suicidal  ideation  and 
behaviour with the use of duloxetine has been included in the Product information. 
5. 
Overall conclusions and benefit/risk assessment 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall the pharmacodynamic studies showed that that duloxetine induced inhibition of 5-HT and NE 
reuptake.  This  inhibition  suppressed  urinary  bladder  muscular  activity  in  a  dose-dependent  manner, 
and  enhanced  external  urethral  sphincter  activity  through  centrally  mediated  (CNS)  mechanism. 
Duloxetine was active in urinary models, indicative of enhancement of serotonin and norepinephrine 
neurotransmission,  with  improvement  of  capacity  of  the  urinary  bladder  and  increased  urinary 
sphincter activity 
The general pharmacology studies are appropriate to support the non-clinical-pharmacology profile of 
duloxetine. 
From the pharmacokinetic point of view, mice, rats, and dogs were the most relevant species for non-
clinical efficacy and safety studies. The non-clinical pharmacokinetics properties for duloxetine have 
been  appropriately  described.  A  number  of  studies  concerning  the  absorption,  distribution, 
metabolism, and excretion of duloxetine in mice, rats, and dogs have been performed. Duloxetine is 
well absorbed in all studied species, and is extensively metabolised, especially at the liver. 
Overall,  the  toxicology  programme  revealed  the  liver  as  the  target  organ  related  to  duloxetine 
administration in all species tested. 
The dog was chosen as the non-rodent species for use in the toxicology programme. 
Efficacy 
The  efficacy  of  duloxetine  40  mg  given  twice  daily in  the  treatment  of  SUI  was  established  in  four 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies, that randomised 1913 women (22 to 83 years) with SUI; of 
these, 958 patients were randomised to duloxetine and 955 to placebo. The primary efficacy measures 
were Incontinence Episode Frequency (IEF) from diaries and an incontinence specific quality of life 
questionnaire score (I-QOL). 
Overall, although not statistically significant in all trials, duloxetine has shown a consistently greater 
effect on IEF and QoL than placebo. The magnitude of the relative effect on IEF is about 50% with a 
placebo response ranging from 27% to 40%.When patients were analysed according their incontinence 
severity at baseline (< 14 IEF/week and ≥ 14 IEF/week) the improvement was less pronounced for the 
less  severe  stratum  of  patients  without  a  clear  translation  into  a  quality  of  life  benefit.  Hence  the 
indication has been restricted to moderate to severe stress urinary incontinence.  
The lack of documented long-term effects is also reflected in the SPC. 
35/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
The  primary  safety  database  from  short-term  trials  (12-week,  placebo-controlled  clinical  trials  in 
patients  with  SUI)  included  958  duloxetine-treated  patients  and  955  placebo-treated  patients.  This 
represents 190 patient-years of exposure at 40 mg twice daily. Data on long-term exposure have been 
less extensively reported as they emanate from ongoing studies.  
Duloxetine  is  a  drug  with  highly  variable  pharmacokinetics  and  many  factors  affect  the  systemic 
exposure  (  gender,  age,  renal  and  hepatic  function,  smoking  status,  CYP2D6  status,  drug-drug 
interactions) 
AEs occurred significantly more often in the duloxetine group than in the placebo group in the pooled 
12-week  studies.  The  most  common  AEs  were  nausea  (23%),  dry  mouth  (13%),  fatigue  (13%), 
insomnia (13%), and constipation (11%). Headache, dizziness, somnolence, and diarrhoea occurred in 
5-10%  of  the  duloxetine  patients.  Others  AEs,  including  vomiting,  anorectic  disturbances,  libido 
disturbances, sleep disorders, lethargy, and weakness occurred in 1-5% of the duloxetine patients. 
The majority of AEs was mild to moderate and resolved within 30 days of treatment 
In total, 20.5% of duloxetine patients discontinued treatment for AEs vs. 3.9% in the placebo group in 
the four pivotal 12-week studies. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
Stress urinary incontinence is a common and chronic condition in women. While not life-threatening, 
it  can  have  a  significant  negative  impact  on  the  psychological  well-being,  social  functioning  and 
overall quality of life of those it affect. At present there is no approved pharmacological treatment for 
this condition.  
Duloxetine has shown an effect in patients with stress urinary incontinence in terms of both frequency 
of  incontinence  episodes  and  subjective  measures  as  Quality  of  Life,  Patient  Global  Impression  and 
Clinical  Global  Impression.  Data  provided  by  the  Applicant  indicate  that,  although  modest,  the 
observed  effect  is  clinically  meaningful  in  patients  with  moderate  to  severe  stress  urinary 
incontinence,  especially  when  the  drug  is  combined  with  Pelvic  floor  muscle  training.  Although  the 
long-term safety database is limited, the tolerability profile of duloxetine seems acceptable. Therefore, 
and  considering  that  no  pharmacological  alternative  is  available  for  the  treatment  of  stress  urinary 
incontinence,  duloxetine  might  play  a  role  in  alleviating  the  symptoms  of  such  an  uncomfortable 
clinical condition. A positive benefit/risk can be concluded. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk ratio of duloxetine in the treatment of women with moderate to sever 
Stress Urinary Incontinence was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of the marketing 
authorisation. 
36/36 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
