London, 15 September 2005 
Product name: Yentreve 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-18/652 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR AMENDMENT OF THE SUMMARY 
OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
©.EMEA 2006 Reproduction and/or distribution of this document is authorised for non commercial purposes only provided the EMEA is acknowledged 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS 
OVERALL SUMMARY OF THE SCIENTIFIC EVALUATION  
Following a request from the European Commission, the CHMP reviewed the data from clinical trials 
available to the national competent authorities for the following SSRI1/SNRIs2 products particularly as 
regards  their  use  in  the  paediatric  population:  fluoxetine,  fluvoxamine,  sertraline,  paroxetine, 
citalopram,  escitalopram,  atomoxetine,  duloxetine,  venlafaxine,  mianserine,  milnacipran,  reboxetine, 
and mirtazapine. 
The data reviewed included short-term placebo controlled randomised clinical trials submitted to the 
competent  authorities,  randomised  clinical  trials  published  in  the  medical  literature,  observational 
studies and ecological studies. The majority of trials included patients with major depressive disorders 
(MDD) while a few included patients with various anxiety disorders (Obsessive Compulsive Disorder 
(OCD), Generalised Anxiety Disorder (GAD), and Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD)). In addition there 
were some trials with patients suffering from Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). 
These products are not authorised Europe-wide for the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders 
in  children  or  adolescents.  Only  some  of  these  products  are  authorised  for  the  treatment  of  children 
and  adolescents  with  obsessive-compulsive  disorder  and  only  one  of  them  for  the  treatment  of 
Attention Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder. 
Examination of suicide-related behaviours indicated that no completed suicide was reported in any of 
the reviewed studies. However, there was a clear suicide-related behaviours signal from the depression 
studies  and  a  less  strong  signal  from  the  anxiety  studies.  Moreover  there  was  a  signal  concerning 
related  adverse  events  like  hostility,  self-harm  and  emotional  lability  in  almost  all  products  and 
indications.  
With  the  preliminary  review  of  the  data  available  to  the  national  competent  authorities  the  CHMP 
concluded  that  there  were  grounds  for  concerns  about  increased  suicide-related  behaviours  in 
paediatric populations. The CHMP agreed that there was a potential signal of an increase in suicidal 
behaviour,  including  suicide  attempts  and  suicidal  ideation  and/or  related  behaviour  like  self-harm, 
hostility and mood lability in children and adolescents treated with SSRIs and SNRIs. This signal was 
present in all products for which studies were available, and from the available evidence it could not 
be excluded that this signal would be class related.   
Following  the  review  of  the  data  available  to  the  national  competent  authorities,  the  European 
Commission  triggered  on  17  December  2004  a  procedure  under  Article  18  of  Council  Regulation 
(EEC) No 2309/93 for medicinal products containing duloxetine. In parallel to this procedure, a referral 
procedure  under  article  31  of  Directive  2001/83/EC,  as  amended,  for  medicinal  products  containing 
atomoxetine, citalopram, escitalopram, fluoxetine, fluvoxamine, mianserine, milnacipran, mirtazapine, 
paroxetine, reboxetine, sertraline and venlafaxine was triggered. 
1 SSRI stands for ‘Serotonin-Selective Reuptake Inhibitor’. SSRIs are described as 'selective' because they affect 
only the reuptake pumps responsible for serotonin. 
2 SNRI stands for ‘Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitor’. SNRIs work on the norepinephrine and 
serotonin neurotransmitters 
EMEA/H/A-18/652 
2/3 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
The CHMP reviewed the data submitted by the MAHs in relation to the signal of suicidal behaviour in 
children  and  adolescents.  The  CHMP  concluded  that  a  warning  to  reflect  that  suicide-related 
behaviours  (suicide  attempt  and  suicidal  thoughts),  and  hostility  (predominantly  aggression, 
oppositional behaviour and anger) were more frequently observed in clinical trials among children and 
adolescents treated with antidepressants compared to those treated with placebo, should be included in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics and relevant section of the Package Leaflet of Yentreve. 
GROUNDS FOR AMENDMENT OF THE SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
Whereas 
- 
- 
- 
The  Committee  considered  the  procedure  under  Article  18  of  Council  Regulation  (EEC)  No 
2309/93 for medicinal products containing duloxetine 
The Committee, in view of available data from clinical trials, concluded that there is a signal of 
suicidal  behaviour,  including  suicide  attempts  and  suicidal  ideation  and/or  related  behaviour 
like  self-harm,  hostility  and  mood  lability  in  children  and  adolescents  treated  with  Selective 
Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors and Serotonin-Norepinephrine Reuptake Inhibitors,  
The  Committee,  as  a  consequence,  concluded  that  a  warning  to  reflect  that  suicide-related 
behaviours  (suicide  attempt  and  suicidal  thoughts),  and  hostility  (predominantly  aggression, 
oppositional  behaviour  and  anger)  were  more  frequently  observed  in  clinical  trials  among 
children  and  adolescents  treated  with  antidepressants  compared  to  those  treated  with  placebo, 
should  be  included  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  relevant  section  of  the 
Package Leaflet of Yentreve. 
The  CHMP  has  recommended  the  amendment  to  the  terms  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  for 
Yentreve. 
EMEA/H/A-18/652 
3/3 
© EMEA 2006 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
