EMA/PRAC/154100/2015  
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Ariclaim/Cymbalta/Xeristar/Yentreve 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation 
Active substance:DULOXETINE 
Procedure no.: EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001187/201408 
Period covered by the PSUR: 03.08.11 - 03.08.14  
Risk Management Plan: v.12 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for DULOXETINE, the scientific conclusions 
of CHMP are as follows:  
A signal of cutaneous vasculitis was identified by the EMA in November, 2013 during routine signal 
detection activities. Four cases were considered as supportive of a signal and 15 other cases poorly 
documented, lacked biopsies or there were alternative causes. During the evaluation of this PSUR, a 
search in Eudravigilance yielded 30 cases, including cases previously identified by the MAH. The 
information regarding the causality is limited but in the light of the cases provided an involvement of the 
duloxetine treatment in the cases of vasculitis cannot be discarded. Among five selected cases, three of 
them contain concomitant medication associated with the development of vasculitis but in all of them the 
time to onset is very short from the first intake of duloxetine ranging between 1 day and 3 weeks 
suggesting a temporal relationship between the drug and the event. All of them have histological 
confirmation of vasculitis and did not present other risk factors attributable to the development of the 
event. In addition, vasculitis has been reported with other selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors 
(SSRIs) and is labelled for Fluoxetine.  
The PRAC therefore agreed that the term “cutaneous vasculitis” should be included in section 4.8 within 
“skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders” SOC with a “very rare” frequency based on the available data 
from clinical trials.  Therefore, in view of available data regarding cutaneous vasculitis, the PRAC 
considered that changes to the product information were warranted.  
The PRAC further agreed in deleting the paragraph to the table of adverse events in section 4.8, which 
refers to the numbers of patients included in placebo-controlled trials for depression, generalised anxiety 
disorder and diabetic neuropathic pain, since this is information is not mandatory.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
In addition, the MAH took the opportunity to make small editorial corrections throughout the Product 
Information in line with the current QRD template, to which the CHMP agreed. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for DULOXETINE the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal products containing DULOXETINE is favourable subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisations should be varied. 
Ariclaim/Cymbalta/Xeristar/Yentreve  
EMA/PRAC/154100/2015 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
