11 November 2021 
EMA/760060/2021  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ipilimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009200/202103 
Period covered by the PSUR: 25 March 2020 to 24 March 2021 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ipilimumab, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on myelitis from case reports including in some cases a close temporal 
relationship and improvement on steroid treatment, as well as a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC 
considers a causal relationship between ipilimumab and myelitis is at least a reasonable possibility. The 
PRAC concluded that the product information of ipilimumab should be amended accordingly. 
In view of available data on pneumonia associated with ipilimumab monotherapy from clinical trial(s), 
literature and spontaneous reports including in one literature case with a plausible TTO which improved 
with steroid treatment, as well as a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal 
relationship between ipilimumab monotherapy and pneumonia is at least a reasonable possibility. The 
PRAC concluded that the product information of ipilimumab should be amended to include pneumonia for 
monotherapy with frequency uncommon based on clinical trial data. 
In view of available data on diabetes mellitus / diabetic ketoacidosis with ipilimumab monotherapy from 
post-marketing cases, reporting rates in clinical trials and a plausible mechanism of action, and given the 
importance of the risk and its prompt treatment, the PRAC concluded that the product information of 
ipilimumab should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ipilimumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ipilimumab is unchanged subject to the proposed changes 
to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/760060/2021 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
