17 October 2019 
EMA/CHMP/679440/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ipilimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009200/201903 
Period covered by the PSUR: 23 March 2018 to 23 March 2019 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for ipilimumab, the scientific 
conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
From the review of the 21 cases reporting retinal detachment in both ipilimumab monotherapy or in 
combination with nivolumab, the relative close time to onset of the event and the improvement of the 
condition following corticosteroid treatment in some of these cases point towards an inflammatory 
nature of the event and a likely role of ipilimumab therapy. Moreover, it is known that serous retinal 
detachment is often associated with inflammatory conditions. In conclusion, serous retinal detachment 
should be added to the list of adverse drug reactions with a frequency ‘rare’ based on 6 reports of 
serous retinal detachment in clinical trials applicable to both the monotherapy and the combination 
therapy.  
The reported cases of transient vision loss without confounding factors (in monotherapy and 
combination therapy) seemed to occur in patients with other inflammatory events which in 4 of the 
6 patients were in the eye or eye artery. The other 2 cases experienced transient vision loss regardless 
of an eye infection, but this resolved after steroid treatment which is considered indicative of an immune 
related reaction. The available evidence is not sufficient to conclude a causal relation between transient 
vision loss and ipilimumab. Based on the available case reports, transient blindness is considered a 
secondary event of the eye infections that are known ADRs of ipilimumab. For this reason, the relevant 
warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC and in the package leaflet should be updated accordingly.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ipilimumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing ipilimumab is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/679440/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
