Amsterdam, 20 May 2021 
EMA/CHMP/125573/2021 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
OPDIVO  
nivolumab 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/003985/P46/043 
Yervoy 
ipilimumab 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/002213/P46/042 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially  confidential 
nature deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Am sterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ...................................................................................... 3 
2. Scientific discussion ........................................................................... 3 
2.1. Information on the development program ...............................................................3 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ...............................3 
2.3. Clinical aspects ....................................................................................................4 
2.3.1. Introduction ......................................................................................................4 
2.3.2. Clinical study ....................................................................................................4 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 15 
3. Overall conclusion and recommendation .............................................16 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 18.12.2020 the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for Opdivo (nivolumab) and Yervoy 
(ipilimumab),  in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
Study CA209915 encompass both products and therefore a single (integrated) assessment report for 
Opdivo/Yervoy is written.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information  on the development  program 
The approval of nivolumab for the adjuvant melanoma indication was based on the results of the 
CA209238 study, a Phase 3 randomized, double-blind study of nivolumab versus ipilimumab  in 
subjects with completely resected Stage IIIb/c or Stage IV melanoma. 
Based on data from Study CA209067, combination of nivolumab plus ipilimumab  was approved as a 
first-line treatment option for patients with advanced melanoma. 
As a result, Study CA209915 was designed to investigate whether nivolumab and ipilimumab 
combination treatment will improve RFS compared to nivolumab monotherapy (primary outcome) as 
adjuvant treatment in patients with completely resected Stage IIIb/c/d or Stage IV no evidence of 
disease (NED) melanoma.  A total of 1844 adults and adolescents between 12 to <18 years of age were 
randomized to nivolumab + ipilimumab  or nivolumab monotherapy in Study CA209915. Of these, 3 
adolescent subjects were randomized and treated; 2 adolescents were treated with nivolumab 
monotherapy and 1 adolescent was treated with nivolumab + ipilimumab  combination therapy. 
In the overall population in Study CA209915, there was no evidence of improved efficacy for 
nivolumab + ipilimumab  compared with nivolumab monotherapy in subjects with completely resected 
Stage IIIb/c or Stage IV NED melanoma. No new safety signals were detected in this study.  
No definitive conclusions can be drawn about the efficacy and safety of nivolumab + ipilimumab 
compared with nivolumab monotherapy in the population of adolescents (< 18 years) with completely 
resected Stage IIIb/c/d or Stage IV NED melanoma due to the small sample size (n=3). Therefore, no 
updates to the Product Information of OPDIVO or YERVOY are being proposed. 
2.2.  Information  on the pharmaceutical  formulation  used in the study 
Study participants were treated with one of the following: 
•  Arm  A: nivolumab 240 mg IV Q2W plus ipilimumab  1 mg/kg IV Q6W (for 1 year of study drug 
treatment) 
•  Arm  B: nivolumab 480 mg IV Q4W (for 1 year of study drug treatment) with nivolumab 
placebo on Weeks 3, 7, 11, 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35, 39, 43, & 47 and ipilimumab  placebo on 
Weeks 1, 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 43, & 49 
The original study design included an ipilimumab  monotherapy treatment arm  (Arm C). Randomization 
into Arm C was discontinued upon implementation of Amendment 06, after 99 subjects had been 
enrolled. No adolescent patient was treated with ipilimumab  monotherapy. 
For adolescents between 12 to <18 years of age, the dosing of nivolumab was based on body weight 
as follows: Q2W dosing - 3 mg/kg IV Q2W up to a maximum of 240 mg; Q4W dosing - 6 mg/kg Q4W 
up to a maximum of 480 mg.  
2.3.  Clinical  aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
Study CA209915: a phase 3, randomized, double-blind study of nivolumab plus ipilimumab  vs 
nivolumab monotherapy in participants (≥ 12 years) with completely resected Stage IIIb/c/d or 
Stage IV NED melanoma. 
2.3.2.  Clinical  study 
Study CA209915 
A phase 3, randomized, double-blind study of nivolumab plus ipilimumab  vs nivolumab monotherapy in 
participants (≥ 12 years) with completely resected Stage IIIb/c/d or Stage IV NED melanoma. 
Description 
Methods 
Objectives 
The primary  objective of Study CA20915 was to compare  the efficacy, as measured by recurrence-free 
survival (RFS), provided by nivolumab plus ipilimumab  versus nivolumab monotherapy in participants 
with completely resected stage IIIb/c/d or stage IV NED melanoma (in all randomized participants with 
tumor PD-L1 expression level < 1% and all randomized participants). 
Secondary objectives included: 
• 
• 
• 
To compare the OS provided by nivolumab plus ipilimumab  versus nivolumab monotherapy in 
participants with completely resected stage IIIb/c/d or stage IV NED melanoma 
(in all randomized participants with tumor PD-L1 expression level < 1% and all randomized 
participants). 
To evaluate the association between PD-L1 expression and RFS. 
To evaluate investigator-assessed outcomes on next-line therapies. 
Exploratory objectives include assessment of safety and tolerability,  evaluation of distant metastasis-
free survival (DMFS), Health Related Quality of Life, changes in health status and work productivity, 
associations between BRAF mutation status and clinical efficacy, the potential association of 
biomarkers  with clinical efficacy and/or incidence of adverse events (AEs), assessment of effect of 
natural genetic variation in select genes on clinical endpoints and/or incidence of AEs, characterization 
of the pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of nivolumab and ipilimumab,  and exploration of 
exposure-response relationships with respect to safety and efficacy. 
Study design 
Study CA20915 was a randomized, double-blind study. The study design is outlined below. 
The original study design included an ipilimumab  monotherapy treatment arm  (Arm C). Randomization 
into Arm C was discontinued upon implementation of Amendment 06, after 99 subjects had been 
enrolled. No adolescents were treated with ipilimumab  monotherapy. 
Study population /Sample size 
A total of 1844 adults and adolescents between 12 to <18 years of age were randomized to nivolumab 
+ ipilimumab  or nivolumab monotherapy in Study CA209915. Of these, 3 adolescent subjects were 
randomized and treated. 
Treatments 
Study participants were treated with one of the following: 
•  Arm  A: nivolumab 240 mg IV Q2W plus ipilimumab  1 mg/kg IV Q6W (for 1 year of study drug 
treatment) 
•  Arm  B: nivolumab 480 mg IV Q4W (for 1 year of study drug treatment) with nivolumab 
placebo on Weeks 3, 7, 11, 15, 19, 23, 27, 31, 35, 39, 43, & 47 and ipilimumab  placebo on 
Weeks 1, 7, 13, 19, 25, 31, 37, 43, & 49 
For the 3 included adolescents between 12 to <18 years of age, the dosing of nivolumab was based on 
body weight as follows: Q2W dosing - 3 mg/kg IV Q2W up to a maximum  of 240 mg; Q4W dosing - 
6 mg/kg Q4W up to a maximum  of 480 mg.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary  endpoint was recurrence free survival, in all randomized subjects and in all randomized 
subjects with tumor PD-L1 <1%. 
Key secondary endpoint was OS.   
Statistical Methods 
The sample size of the study was based on a comparison of the RFS distribution between subjects 
randomized to nivolumab + ipilimumab  and subjects randomized to nivolumab. RFS was evaluated for 
treatment effect using the following testing strategy: RFS was compared first in the all randomized 
subjects with tumor PD-L1 expression level < 1% subgroup with an alpha allocation of 0.03 (two-
sided); and if significant (which was not considered to be the case per DMC recommendation in Nov-
2019), the alpha allocated to this subgroup was to be recycled to the treatment comparison in the 
 
overall population (all randomized subjects). For the comparison of RFS between nivolumab + 
ipilimumab  and nivolumab in all randomized subjects with tumour PD-L1 expression level < 1%, at 
least 257 RFS events were required in the 2 treatment arms for a two-sided experiment-wise α= 0.03 
log-rank test to show a statistically significant difference in RFS between the treatment arms  with at 
least 90.0% power when the average hazard ratio (HR) of the nivolumab + ipilimumab  arm to the 
nivolumab arm  was 0.65. Approximately  600 subjects with tumour PD-L1 expression level < 1% were 
planned to be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to nivolumab + ipilimumab  and nivolumab monotherapy. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
Of the 1844 subjects randomized to nivolumab + ipilimumab  or nivolumab, 1833 (99.4%) were treated 
(916 with nivolumab + ipilimumab,  917 with nivolumab). 
Baseline data 
The demographic characteristics of the overall population are summarized in Table 1. 
Table 1: Demographic characteristics of all randomized subjects 
Of the overall population, 3 adolescent subjects were randomized and treated.  
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, a 15-year old white male with PD-L1 status ≥ 5%, was randomized 
to nivolumab (nivo) at a site in Australia. This subject had been treated with wide local 
excision, resective surgery, and complete lymph node dissection prior to the study. This 
subject completed the treatment period.  
 
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, a 16-year old white male with PD-L1 status < 1%, was randomized 
to nivolumab + ipilimumab  (nivo+ipi) at a site in Italy. The subject had been treated with 
resective surgery and complete lymph node dissection prior  to the study. This subject died of 
disease progression. 
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, a 16-year old white female with PD-L1 status < 1%, was 
randomized to nivolumab (nivo) at a site in the UK. The subject had been treated with 
resective surgery and complete lymph node dissection prior  to the study. This subject 
experienced disease recurrence after RFS of 11.2 months.  
None of the adolescent subjects had received systemic cancer treatment or radiotherapy prior  to the 
study. 
The baseline disease characteristics of the 3 adolescent subjects are presented in Table 2. 
Table 2: Baseline disease characteristics of adolescent subjects in Study CA209915 
Efficacy results 
The primary  study objectives of demonstrating improved RFS with nivolumab + ipilimumab  vs 
nivolumab as adjuvant therapy in all randomized subjects or in all randomized subjects with tumour 
PD-L1 < 1% with completely resected stage IIIb/c/d or stage IV NED melanoma was not met. At this 
analysis, subjects were followed for a minimum of approximately  24 months (from 22-Jun-2018 [last 
subject randomization] to 12-Jun-2020 [data cutoff]).  
All randomized subjects: 
•  Nivolumab + ipilimumab  did not demonstrate a statistically significant and clinically meaningful 
improvement  in the primary  endpoint of RFS vs nivolumab (HR = 0.92 [97.295% CI: 0.77, 
1.09]); stratified log-rank p = 0.26861). 
•  RFS results for nivolumab + ipilimumab  vs nivolumab were similar  across the baseline tumor 
PD-L1 expression level subgroups. 
• 
There was no improvement  in DMFS with nivolumab + ipilimumab  vs nivolumab. 
All randomized subjects with tumor PD-L1 expression < 1%: 
 
•  As per the 24 months exploratory follow-up RFS data analysis, the results in the PD-L1 < 1% 
population were consistent with those in the overall population (all randomized subjects). 
There was no improvement  in RFS with nivolumab + ipilimumab  vs nivolumab 
(HR = 0.91 [95% CI: 0.73, 1.14]). 
•  As per the DMC recommendation in Nov-2019, nivolumab + ipilimumab  did not demonstrate a 
statistically significant improvement in the primary  endpoint of RFS vs nivolumab. 
• 
There was no improvement  in DMFS with nivolumab + ipilimumab  vs nivolumab. 
Results for the primary  and secondary efficacy endpoints for the overall population are summarized in 
Table 3.  
 
Table 3: Summary of key efficacy results in all randomized subjects in CA209915 
 
a  PD-L1 tumor expression based on IRT. 
b  Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
c  Stratified Cox proportional hazards model. HR is nivolumab over ipilimumab. 
d  Log-rank test stratified by tumor PD-L1 status and disease stage at study entry as entered into the IRT. 
e  PD-L1 tumor expression based on clinical database. 
f  Nivolumab over ipilimumab. 
The efficacy results in the adolescent subjects are summarized briefly below. 
 
 
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, who was randomized to nivolumab, was censored at 30.4 months 
in the follow-up period (data cutoff) and had no recurrence of disease. 
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, who was randomized to nivolumab + ipilimumab,  had a RFS of 
16.9 months, and a PFS2 of 17.2 months. 
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, who was randomized to nivolumab, had a RFS of 11.2 months, 
and a PFS2 of 27.2 months. 
The data on RFS (Table 4), PD-L1 expression (Table 5), PFS on next-line systemic therapy (Table 6) 
and subsequent anticancer therapies (Table 7) in the 3 included adolescents are listed below. 
Table 4: Recurrence-free survival in adolescent subjects in study CA209915 
Table 5: All PD-L1 IHC data in adolescent subjects in study CA209915 
Table 6: Progression-free survival on next-line systemic therapy in adolescent 
subjects in study CA209915 
 
 
 
Table 7: Subsequent systemic cancer therapy in adolescent subjects in study 
CA209915 
Safety results 
As of the 08-Sep-2020 database lock (minimum follow-up: ~24 months), the safety profiles of 
nivolumab 240 mg Q2W + ipilimumab  1 mg/kg Q6W and nivolumab monotherapy (480 mg Q4W) in all 
treated subjects with completely resected Stage IIIb/c or Stage IV melanoma (Table 8) were 
consistent with those in other tumor types, with no new safety signals. In summary: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
In total, 4 deaths were attributed to study drug toxicity (liver failure, myasthenia gravis, 
respiratory  distress syndrome and pneumonitis) by the investigator, all in the 
nivolumab + ipilimumab  group. 
The overall frequencies of all-causality SAEs and drug-related SAEs (any grade and Grade 3-4) 
were higher in the nivolumab + ipilimumab  group than in the nivolumab group. 
The overall frequencies of all-causality and drug-related AEs leading to discontinuation (any 
grade and Grade 3-4) were higher in the nivolumab + ipilimumab  group than in the nivolumab 
group. 
The overall frequencies of any-grade AEs were similar  in the nivolumab + ipilimumab  and 
nivolumab treatment groups. The frequencies of Grade 3-4 AEs and drug-related AEs were 
higher in the nivolumab + ipilimumab  group than in the nivolumab group. However,  Grade 3-4 
events were uncommon. 
In both treatment groups, most subjects with immune-mediated AEs (IMAEs) within the 
categories of rash, pneumonitis, hypersensitivity, nephritis and renal dysfunction, and 
endocrine, experienced Grade 1-2 events. However,  there was more Grade 3-4 vs Grade 1-2 
immune related diarrhea/colitis and hepatitis in the nivolumab + ipilimumab  group. The 
majority of IMAEs resolved and were manageable using the recommended treatment 
guidelines for early work-up and intervention. 
• 
In both treatment groups, most subjects with select AEs experienced Grade 1-2 events. Select 
AEs, including those that were severe (Grade 3-4), were manageable using the established 
algorithms. Except for endocrine events, most drug-related select AEs in both treatment 
groups had resolved at the time of database lock. Some endocrine AEs were not considered 
resolved due to the continuing need for hormone replacement therapy. 
•  Abnormalities in hematology laboratory  results, liver tests, kidney function tests, and 
electrolytes in subjects treated with nivolumab + ipilimumab  or nivolumab were primarily 
Grade 1 or 2. 
•  Nivolumab and ipilimumab  ADA development did not appear  to have an effect on the safety or 
 
efficacy of nivolumab + ipilimumab  combination treatment or nivolumab monotherapy 
treatment. 
• 
Table 8: Summary of safety results - all treated subjects 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in the 3 adolescent subjects is summarized below. By-subjects listings of death and SAEs are 
included in Table 9 and Table 10, respectively.  
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, who was randomized to nivolumab, reported few AEs and no 
SAEs. All reported AEs were CTC Grade 1, and only 1 AE of nausea was considered related to 
study treatment. 
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, who was randomized to nivolumab + ipilimumab,  reported SAEs 
of thrombocytopenia on day 364 and Pneumocystis Jirovecii pneumonia on day 417. None of 
these SAEs was considered related to study treatment. This subject received 16 doses of 
nivolumab and 6 doses of ipilimumab.  The subject died from disease progression on 26-Aug-
2019.  
•  Subject CA209-915-xx-xx, who was randomized to nivolumab, reported the following AEs 
that were assessed as being related to study treatment: anorexia, fatigue, low TSH, weight 
loss, alopecia, and lipase increased. Two AEs (wound infection and wound dehiscence) were 
CTC Grade 3. All other AEs were CTC Grade 1 or 2. The subject reported no SAEs. 
Table 9: Deaths in adolescent subjects in study CA209915 
 
 
 
Table 10: Serious adverse events in adolescent subjects in study CA209915 
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
The MAH submitted the final CSR for study CA209915 as part of this Article 46 procedure, because 3 
adolescent patients were included in this phase 3 study. These adolescent patients were treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy (n=2) or nivolumab + ipilimumab  combination therapy (n=1) in the adjuvant 
setting for melanoma.  
Nivolumab as monotherapy is currently indicated for the adjuvant treatment of completely resected 
stage IIIb/c or IV melanoma in adults. It is also indicated in adults for treatment of inoperable or 
metastatic disease, as monotherapy or in combination with ipilimumab.  Nivolumab is not indicated for 
patients <18 years of age in any setting. 
Ipilimumab  as monotherapy is indicated for treatment of inoperable or metastatic melanoma  in 
patients from 12 years of age. 
The phase 3 study CA209915 did not meet its primary  endpoint, with no statistically significant 
difference in RFS between the control arm of nivolumab monotherapy and the intervention arm of 
nivolumab + ipilimumab  combination therapy. Therefore, an indication for nivolumab + ipilimumab  as 
adjuvant melanoma treatment, either in adults or children >12 years of age, has not been applied for 
and is not foreseen.  
Nivolumab currently is not indicated in the paediatric population and it is not expected that it is 
currently used in clinical practice in the adjuvant setting of melanoma treatment in paediatric patients. 
No firm conclusion on (lack of) efficacy can be drawn from the data submitted in the current 
procedure, because only 3 adolescent patients were included in study CA209915. Inclusion of the data 
of these 3 patients in the SmPC is not considered clinically relevant nor informative for the prescriber, 
from an efficacy point of view, at this time. 
Of note, the indication for ipilimumab  in adolescents with advanced melanoma was based on 
extrapolation of data in the adult population and the result of PK-studies. The MAH has provided 
information on the development plan and the ongoing activities for nivolumab in the paediatric 
population with advanced melanoma.  One clinical study studying nivolumab monotherapy or 
nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination therapy has completed accrual and study completion is expected 
in December 2021. A PK modelling and simulation study will use data from this clinical study to 
propose dosing recommendations for nivolumab monotherapy and nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination 
therapy in adolescents with advanced melanoma (expected completion date February 2022). If the 
MAH intends (in the future) to submit an application for nivolumab monotherapy or 
nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination therapy in the paediatric population, the company is strongly 
recommended to request CHMP Scientific Advice before submission.    
In the event an application for nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination therapy 
in the paediatric population would be submitted, the relevance of the currently submitted study for the 
 
applied indication, and by that inclusion of the obtained (PK, efficacy or safety) results into the SmPC 
should be reconsidered. 
No new safety signals were reported from study CA209915, for the included population as a whole or 
for the 3 adolescent subjects. Therefore, also from a safety perspective, inclusion of the data in the 
SmPC is also not considered necessary at this time.  
The MAH proposes not to amend the SmPC of Opdivo or Yervoy based on the submitted results, this is 
supported.  
3.  Overall conclusion and recommendation 
It is agreed with the MAH that no efficacy conclusion for the paediatric population can be drawn from 
the results of the 3 adolescents subjects included in study CA209915, and also that no new safety 
concerns arise.  
Nivolumab is not indicated in the paediatric population, and ipilimumab  is not indicated in the adjuvant 
melanoma setting. Either nivolumab as monotherapy or nivolumab+ipilimumab  as combination therapy 
are not registered, recommended or expected to be used as adjuvant melanoma treatment in clinical 
practice in paediatric patients.  
Therefore, inclusion of the submitted data in the SmPC is not considered informative nor necessary at 
this time.   
In the future, interaction with regulatory authorities on the dossier before an application for nivolumab 
monotherapy or nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination therapy in the paediatric population is submitted, 
is strongly encouraged. If such an application would take place, the inclusion of the data submitted as 
part of the current procedure should be reconsidered. 
  Fulfilled: 
No regulatory action required. 
MAH responses to Request for supplementary information 
QUESTION 1 
The MAH is asked to provide information on the development plan and the ongoing activities for 
nivolumab in the paediatric population with advanced melanoma. 
RESPONSE 
BMS is fully committed to the paediatric development of nivolumab, including for advanced melanoma. 
As part of the agreed nivolumab Paediatric Investigation Plan (PIP) for the treatment of all conditions 
included in the category of malignant neoplasms, except nervous system, haematopoietic and 
lymphoid tissue, (PIP ref. EMEA-001407-PIP01-12-M03, latest EMA decision P/0432/2020, dated 05 
November  2020), the 2 following studies are ongoing: 
•  Study 2 (CA209070): Open-label, multi-centre trial to evaluate pharmacokinetics, 
pharmacodynamics, toxicity, safety, and anti-cancer activity of nivolumab and of nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab  in paediatric patients from 1 year to < 18 years of age with a 
refractory or relapsed malignant solid tumour, including advanced melanoma. This study has 
an expansion phase evaluating nivolumab in paediatric patients from 1 year to < 18 years of 
 
age (and adults) with a refractory or relapsed malignant solid tumour such as Ewing sarcoma, 
osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma,  and neuroblastoma. In this study and in the expansion 
phase, patient’s current disease state must be one for which there is no known curative 
therapy or therapy proven to prolong survival with an acceptable quality of life. 
Estimated date of completion: December 2021. 
•  Study 4: Study to generate paediatric dosing recommendation for nivolumab alone and in 
combination with ipilimumab. 
Date of completion: February 2022. 
Study 2 (CA209070) completed accrual in March 2020. Available data from nivolumab monotherapy 
cohorts have been published.1 BMS is actively working with the Sponsor of Study CA209070 to obtain 
the full data from the trial in order to conduct a complete assessment of the results and prepare  the 
corresponding Clinical Study Report. 
With regards to Study 4 (modelling and simulation measure), BMS will work on the model once the 
data from CA209070 are available, and a report will be prepared according to the agreed completion 
date indicated in the PIP.  
The applicant wants to bring to your attention that a consensus review conference on checkpoint 
inhibition in paediatric patients consisting of academics, family/foundation representatives, industry 
and members  from both the EMA and FDA was recently published.2 Based on the limited activity 
identified to date, there was “collective agreement that there is no scientific rationale for children to be 
enrolled in new monotherapy trials of additional checkpoint inhibitors with the same mechanism of 
action of agents already studied (eg, anti-PD1, anti-PDL1, anti- CTLA-4) unless additional scientific 
knowledge supporting a different approach becomes available. This shared perspective,  based on 
scientific evidence and supported by paediatric oncology cooperative groups, should inform companies 
on whether a paediatric development plan is justified.” 
Therefore, once the totality of data is available, any potential new indication in the paediatric 
population will be subject to a health authority interaction to agree on the dossier content to support a 
benefit/risk evaluation of nivolumab and/or nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab  in the treatment 
of paediatric patients with advanced melanoma. 
REFERENCES 
1. Davis KL, Fox E, Merchant MS, et al. Nivolumab in children and young adults with relapsed or 
refractory solid tumours or lymphoma (ADVL1412): a multicentre, open-label, single-arm, phase 1–2 
trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:541-50. 
2. Pearson ADJ, Rossig C, Lesa G, et al. ACCELERATE and European Medicines Agency Paediatric 
Strategy Forum for medicinal product development of checkpoint inhibitors for use in combination 
therapy in paediatric patients. European Journal of Cancer 2020;127:52-66. 
Assessor’s comment 
The Applicant has provided information on the development plan for nivolumab in the paediatric 
population. One clinical study of nivolumab monotherapy or nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination 
therapy has completed accrual and study completion is expected in December 2021. The second study 
is a modelling and simulation study that will use the data from the clinical study to (as one of the 
objectives) provide dosing recommendations for nivolumab monotherapy and nivolumab+ipilimumab 
combination therapy in adolescents.  
The recent consensus document on immunotherapy trials in the paediatric population is acknowledged 
– and interaction with regulatory authorities on the dossier before an application for nivolumab 
monotherapy or nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination therapy in the paediatric population is submitted, 
is strongly encouraged.   
The provided information on the development plan for nivolumab in the paediatric population does not 
change the conclusion of the current assessment – no changes to the SmPC of Opdivo or Yervoy are 
currently warranted.  
In the future, if there would be an application for an indication for nivolumab monotherapy or 
nivolumab+ipilimumab  combination therapy in the paediatric population, the inclusion of the data 
submitted as part of the current procedure should be reconsidered.  
 
 
  
