9 November 2017 
EMA/23883/2018 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): ipilimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00009200/201703 
Period covered by the PSUR: 25 March 2016 - 24 March 2017 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for ipilimumab, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Based on 4 reported cases of pemphigoid (3 literature cases and one case from a study), the 
PRAC considered it reasonably possible that pemphigoid is associated with ipilimumab therapy, in 
view of the immune related effects of the drug and its possible impact on the skin. Furthermore, 
the PRAC noted that both nivolumab and pembrolizumab have pemphigoid listed in section 4.8 of 
their respective SmPCs – both drugs, belonging to the same pharmacotherapeutic class, also 
have immune modulating effects with immune-related adverse drug reactions of the skin. Based 
on the available evidence the PRAC concluded that ‘pemhigoid’ should be added as a new adverse 
drug reaction with a frequency ‘not known’ in section 4.8 of the SmPC and section 4 of the 
Package Leaflet. 
Following a request from the PRAC, the MAH provided a cumulative review of all cases concerning 
histiocytosis haematophagic associated with ipilimumab. 17 cases were identified. In the majority 
of the cases, the patient was receiving concurrent treatment with ipilimumab and nivolumab. 
Both PD-1 and CTLA4 have been associated with deregulation of T-cell activity; therefore, a 
possible influence of nivolumab on the occurrence of histiocytosis haematophagic cannot be 
excluded. In the majority of the reported cases, a likely causal association with ipilimumab 
treatment was considered likely. The relatively short time to unset, with in some cases the event 
being just reported days after starting ipilimumab treatment, supports a potential causal 
association. The reported events mostly responded well to corticosteroids. Furthermore, the 
enhancement of T-cell responses and cytokine production as well as the activation of an 
uncontrolled proliferation of T lymphocytes and well-differentiated macrophages leading to, or 
increasing the risk of, histiocytosis haematophagic is a plausible mechanism of action. Based on 
the available evidence, the PRAC concluded that ‘histiocytosis haematophagic’ should be added as 
a new warning in section 4.4 of the SmPC and as a new adverse drug reaction with a frequency 
‘not known’ in section 4.8 of the SmPC and in sections 2 and 4 of the Package Leaflet. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for ipilimumab the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product containing ipilimumab is unchanged subject to the 
proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/23883/2018 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
