Summary of risk management plan for YERVOY 
(ipilimumab) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for YERVOY. The RMP details important 
risks of YERVOY, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about YERVOY's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
YERVOY's  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  give  essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how YERVOY should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  YERVOY  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of YERVOY's 
RMP. 
I.  The medicine and what it is used for 
YERVOY is authorised for treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults 
and adolescents 12 years of age and older. YERVOY in combination with OPDIVO (nivolumab) 
is  authorised  for  treatment  of  advanced  (unresectable  or  metastatic)  melanoma  in  adults  and 
adolescents  12  years  of  age  and  older,  for  the  first-line  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
intermediate/poor-risk  advanced  renal  cell  carcinoma,  for  treatment  of  adult  patients  with 
mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) metastatic colorectal 
cancer after prior fluoropyrimidine based combination chemotherapy, for the first-line treatment 
of adult patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma, and for the first-line treatment 
of unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
(see SmPC for the full indication). YERVOY in combination with OPDIVO and chemotherapy is 
authorised for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults. It contains 
ipilimumab as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  YERVOY’s  benefits  can  be  found  in  YERVOY’s 
EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA  website,  under  the 
medicine’s webpage. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further 
characterise the risks  
Important risks  of  YERVOY, together  with measures  to  minimise  such  risks  and  the  proposed 
studies for learning more about YERVOY's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging 
 
•  The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly 
•  The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (eg, with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In  the  case  of  YERVOY,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk  minimisation 
measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analysed,  including  Periodic  Safety  Update  Report  (PSUR)  assessment,  so  that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance 
activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of YERVOY is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important  risks  of  YERVOY  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management  activities  to  further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of YERVOY. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association 
has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information  refers  to 
information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal  product  that  is  currently  missing  and  needs  to  be 
collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Immune-related adverse reactions (including GI, hepatic, skin, neurologic, 
endocrine and other irARs) 
Severe infusion reactions 
Important potential risks 
Immunogenicity 
Missing information 
Long-term safety in adolescent patients ≥ 12 years of age 
Potential PD interaction with systemic immunosuppressants 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
Patients with autoimmune disease 
II.B Summary of important risks 
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product. 
Important identified risks 
Immune-related adverse reactions (including GI, hepatic, skin, neurologic, endocrine and other irARs) 
Evidence  for  linking  the  risk  to  the 
medicine 
GI irARs (eg, diarrhoea, colitis, GI perforation) 
In clinical studies, GI irARs most often presented as diarrhoea, 
abdominal pain, and/or hematochezia with or without fever.  
Majority of subjects with GI irARs had mild to moderate (Grade 1 or 2) 
diarrhoea or colitis which were generally manageable and usually 
resolved. However, severe or persistent diarrhoea or colitis could occur. 
Discontinuation of ipilimumab (either temporarily or permanently) was 
required for subjects with Grade 3-4 events. 
Late onset GI irARs (more than 30 days after last dose) and fatalities due 
to GI perforation and hemorrhagic colitis requiring colectomy have been 
reported. 
Hepatic irARs (eg, hepatitis) 
Hepatic irARs of any grade reported during the treatment period were 
less common than those affecting the GI tract and skin and generally 
resolved. In the clinical studies, hepatic irARs were most often 
asymptomatic but could be detected by routine laboratory monitoring. 
Discontinuation of ipilimumab was required in patients with high-grade 
events. Fatal outcome may occur if not treated promptly and 
appropriately.  
Skin irARs (eg, rash, pruritus, TEN, and DRESS) 
Skin irARs during the treatment dosing period were common and 
consisted primarily of Grade 1-2 rash and pruritus. Skin irARs generally 
resolved, however can be potentially severe or fatal.  
Neurologic irARs (eg, neuropathy) 
Neurological manifestations in subjects treated with ipilimumab may 
include motor and/or sensory neuropathy. Given the difficulty in 
 
 
 
Important identified risks 
Risk factors and risk groups 
definitely establishing an inflammatory etiology, alternative etiologies 
(eg, tumor progression) should be excluded. Fatal Guillain-Barre 
syndrome and cases of myasthenia gravis have been reported in clinical 
trials of ipilimumab. Unexplained motor neuropathy, muscle weakness, 
or sensory neuropathy should be evaluated, and noninflammatory causes 
such as disease progression, infections, metabolic disorders, and 
medications should be excluded.  
Endocrine irARs (eg, hypopituitarism, hypothyroidism, adrenal 
insufficiency) 
Severe (Grade 3-4) endocrinopathy has been reported in minority of 
patients. Patients with hypophysitis and hypopituitarism typically 
presented with headache or fatigue, which may be incorrectly attributed 
to underlying malignancy. Diagnosis requires laboratory confirmation. 
Endocrinopathy can be serious or life-threatening. Patients are usually 
clinically managed with steroids and/or hormone replacement therapy. 
Long-term hormone replacement may be required.  
Other irARs (eg, pneumonitis, nephritis, non-infective myocarditis, 
and pancreatitis) 
Selected other irARs which are considered important identified risks 
include, for example, pneumonitis, nephritis, and non-infectious 
myocarditis. Severe (Grade 3-4) irARs reported in minority of patients. 
Other irARs can be serious and life-threatening. Patients are usually 
clinically managed with steroids and the events generally resolved. 
GI irARs (eg, diarrhoea, colitis, GI perforation) 
Patients with active inflammatory bowel diseases 
Hepatic irARs (eg, hepatitis) 
AIH,  which  may  also  be  associated  with  previous  chemotherapy  or 
immunotherapy, such as IL-2 or IFN. 
In  addition  to  female  gender,  genetic  factors  appear  to  confer  a 
predisposition for the incidence of AIH. The HLAs DR3, DR4, and DR7 
have been associated with AIH.  
Moreover,  there  is  evidence  to  suggest  that  susceptibility  to  AIH,  the 
severity  and  clinical  outcome  may  vary  according 
to  genetic 
polymorphisms for the cytokines TNF-α and TGF- β1. 
Certain  therapies,  including  long-term  therapy  with  IFNα,  have  been 
reported  to  induce  hepatocellular  injury  that  mimics  AIH.  There  is 
mounting  evidence  that  IFN  therapy  (α,β)  may  exacerbate  or  initiate 
certain autoimmune diseases. 
The frequency of IFN-α associated autoimmune diseases has been reported 
to range from 4% to 19%. Among patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, 
IFN-α2a associated autoimmunity has been reported to be as high as 28%. 
The frequency of AIH is unknown. It was reported to occur in 2% (1 of 
46) of chronic myeloid leukemia patients treated at one institution 
(detected after 38 months on therapy). and there are case reports of AIH 
following IFN-beta therapy for multiple sclerosis and following IFN-α 
therapy for malignant melanoma. 
Skin irARs (eg, rash, pruritus, TEN, and DRESS) 
Active autoimmune skin disorders 
Neurologic irARs (eg, neuropathy) 
Important identified risks 
Risk minimization measures 
Previous viral or bacterial infection (eg, cytomegalovirus, Campylobacter 
jejuni, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Epstein Barr virus, influenza virus) or 
previous immunotherapy with IFN-alpha. 
Endocrine irARs (eg, hypopituitarism, hypothyroidism, adrenal 
insufficiency) 
Active autoimmune diseases of endocrine glands 
Other irARs (eg, pneumonitis, nephritis, non-infective myocarditis, 
and pancreatitis) 
Active autoimmune diseases 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Section 4.4 specific 
warning/precautions; Sections 4.2 and 4.4 guidelines on monitoring, 
diagnosis, dose modification, and corticosteroids intervention; and 
Section 4.8 ADR list. 
Additional risk minimization measures: Patient Information Guide and 
Alert Card. 
Additional PV activities 
None 
Severe Infusion Reactions 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimization measures 
As with any other intravenous administered drugs, infusion-related 
reactions can occur with ipilimumab. Likely systemic infusion reactions 
were defined as any event from the list that occurred within 48 hours after 
the subject received study treatment. Premedications were not required 
prior to ipilimumab administration during clinical trials with ipilimumab. 
Severe infusion reactions can be potentially serious if associated with 
severe hypersensitivity reaction or anaphylaxis. No fatal events of 
infusion-related reactions were reported.  
Infusion reactions may be observed during treatment with any injectable 
protein including ipilimumab, which is a fully-human IgG1 anti-CTLA-4 
monoclonal antibody. 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Sections 4.3, 4.4, and 4.8 
Additional risk minimization measures: Patient Information Guide and 
Alert Card. 
Additional PV activities 
None 
Important potential risks 
Immunogenicity 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Anti-ipilimumab antibodies could lead to immune complex formation with 
the drug and result in hypersensitivity, leading to immediate or delayed 
reactions after infusion. In addition, the anti-ipilimumab antibodies may 
increase the clearance of the drug or it may neutralize its ability to bind to 
its biological target CTLA4, which in turn will reduce the efficacy of 
ipilimumab. No life threatening or fatal outcomes have been reported.  
Risk factors and risk groups 
The risk factors for immunogenicity are largely unknown. 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risks 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Sections 5.1 
Missing information 
Long-term safety in adolescent patients ≥ 12 years of age 
Risk minimization measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activity 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Section 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, and 5.2 
Long-term follow-up of ipilimumab-treated paediatric patients enrolled in 
the Dutch Melanoma Treatement Registry (DMTR) (CA184557).  
See section II.C of this summary for an overview of the post-authorisation 
development plan. 
Potential PD interaction with systemic immunosuppressants 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Section 4.5 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Section 4.2 and 4.5 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Sections 4.2 and 5.2 
Patients with autoimmune disease 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures: SmPC Section 4.4 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorization of YERVOY in combination 
with nivolumab in RCC: 
Planned and ongoing post-authorization efficacy studies 
Study short name and title 
Summary of objectives 
Efficacy studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization 
Final clinical study report for a randomized, 
clinical study comparing the efficacy and safety of 
the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab to 
nivolumab monotherapy in previously untreated 
adult patients with intermediate/poor-risk 
advanced renal cell carcinoma and with an 
appropriate spectrum of PD-L1 expression levels 
(CA2098Y8) 
To further evaluate the efficacy and safety of the 
combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab compared to 
nivolumab monotherapy. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Category 3 ongoing and planned additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Study short name and title 
Long-term follow-up of ipilimumab-treated 
paediatric patients enrolled in the DMTR 
(CA184557) 
Rationale and study objectives 
To assess safety and long-term outcomes in children and 
adolescents. 
 
 
 
