ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
YERVOY 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each ml of concentrate contains 5 mg ipilimumab. 
One 10 ml vial contains 50 mg of ipilimumab. 
One 40 ml vial contains 200 mg of ipilimumab. 
Ipilimumab is a fully human anti-CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody (IgG1κ) produced in Chinese hamster 
ovary cells by recombinant DNA technology. 
Excipients with known effect: 
Each ml of concentrate contains 0.1 mmol sodium, which is 2.30 mg sodium. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate). 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow liquid that may contain light (few) particulates 
and has a pH of 7.0 and an osmolarity of 260-300 mOsm/kg. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Melanoma 
YERVOY as monotherapy or in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the treatment of 
advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older 
(see section 4.4). 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in progression-free survival (PFS) and overall 
survival (OS) for the combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab is established only in patients with 
low tumour PD-L1 expression (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
intermediate/poor-risk advanced renal cell carcinoma (see section 5.1). 
Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy is indicated 
for the first-line treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung cancer in adults whose tumours have no 
sensitising EGFR mutation or ALK translocation. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma. 
Mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) or microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC) 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
mismatch repair deficient or microsatellite instability-high metastatic colorectal cancer after prior 
fluoropyrimidine-based combination chemotherapy (see section 5.1). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab is indicated for the first-line treatment of adult patients with 
unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment must be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the treatment of 
cancer. 
PD-L1 testing 
If specified in the indication, patient selection for treatment with YERVOY based on the tumour 
expression of PD-L1 should be confirmed by a validated test (see sections 4.1, 4.4, and 5.1). 
Posology 
YERVOY as monotherapy 
Melanoma 
Adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older 
The recommended induction regimen of YERVOY is 3 mg/kg administered intravenously over 
a 30-minute period every 3 weeks for a total of 4 doses. Patients should receive the entire induction 
regimen (4 doses) as tolerated, regardless of the appearance of new lesions or growth of existing 
lesions. Assessments of tumour response should be conducted only after completion of induction 
therapy. 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab 
Melanoma 
In adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 50 kg, the recommended 
dose is 3 mg/kg ipilimumab in combination with 1 mg/kg nivolumab administered intravenously every 
3 weeks for the first 4 doses. This is then followed by a second phase in which nivolumab 
monotherapy is administered intravenously at either 240 mg every 2 weeks or at 480 mg every 
4 weeks (see sections 5.1 and 5.2), as presented in Table 1. For the monotherapy phase, the first dose 
of nivolumab should be administered: 
▪ 
3 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 240 mg 
every 2 weeks; or 
6 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 480 mg 
every 4 weeks. 
▪ 
In adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing less than 50 kg, the recommended dose is 
3 mg/kg ipilimumab in combination with 1 mg/kg nivolumab administered intravenously every 
3 weeks for the first 4 doses. This is then followed by a second phase in which nivolumab 
monotherapy is administered intravenously at either 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or 6 mg/kg every 4 weeks 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see sections 5.1 and 5.2), as presented in Table 1. For the monotherapy phase, the first dose of 
nivolumab should be administered: 
▪ 
3 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 3 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks; or 
6 weeks after the last dose of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab if using 6 mg/kg 
every 4 weeks. 
▪ 
Table 1: 
Recommended doses and infusion times for intravenous administration of 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Combination phase, every 
3 weeks for 4 dosing cycles 
Monotherapy phase 
Nivolumab 
Adults and adolescents 
12 years of age and older: 
1 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
Adults and adolescents (12 years of age and older weighing 
at least 50 kg): 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
Adolescents (12 years of age and older and weighing less 
than 50 kg): 
3 mg/kg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
6 mg/kg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes 
Ipilimumab 
Adults and adolescents 
12 years of age and older: 
3 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
- 
Renal cell carcinoma and dMMR or MSI-H colorectal cancer 
The recommended dose is 1 mg/kg ipilimumab in combination with 3 mg/kg nivolumab administered 
intravenously every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses. This is then followed by a second phase in which 
nivolumab monotherapy is administered intravenously at either 240 mg every 2 weeks or at 480 mg 
every 4 weeks (RCC only), as presented in Table 2. For the monotherapy phase, the first dose of 
nivolumab should be administered; 
▪ 
3 weeks after the last dose of the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab if using 240 mg 
every 2 weeks; or 
6 weeks after the last dose of the combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab if using 480 mg 
every 4 weeks (RCC only). 
▪ 
Table 2: 
Recommended doses and infusion times for intravenous administration of 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab for RCC and dMMR or MSI-H CRC 
Combination phase, every 
3 weeks for 4 dosing cycles 
Monotherapy phase 
Nivolumab 
3 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
240 mg every 2 weeks over 30 minutes or 
480 mg every 4 weeks over 60 minutes (RCC only) 
Ipilimumab 
1 mg/kg over 30 minutes 
- 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
The recommended dose is 1 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
6 weeks in combination with 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
3 weeks. Treatment is continued for up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
The recommended dose is 1 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
6 weeks in combination with either 3 mg/kg nivolumab every 2 weeks or 360 mg nivolumab every 
3 weeks administered intravenously over 30 minutes. Treatment is recommended until disease 
progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
The recommended dose is 1 mg/kg ipilimumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
6 weeks in combination with 360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 
3 weeks, and platinum-based chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks. After completion of 2 cycles 
of chemotherapy, treatment is continued with 1 mg/kg ipilimumab every 6 weeks in combination with 
360 mg nivolumab administered intravenously every 3 weeks. Treatment is recommended until 
disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. 
Duration of treatment 
Treatment with YERVOY in combination with nivolumab, should be continued as long as clinical 
benefit is observed or until treatment is no longer tolerated by the patient (and up to maximum 
duration of therapy if specified for an indication). 
Atypical responses (i.e., an initial transient increase in tumour size or small new lesions within the first 
few months followed by tumour shrinkage) have been observed. It is recommended to continue 
treatment with YERVOY in combination with nivolumab for clinically stable patients with initial 
evidence of disease progression until disease progression is confirmed. 
Liver function tests (LFTs) and thyroid function tests should be evaluated at baseline and before each 
dose of YERVOY. In addition, any signs or symptoms of immune-related adverse reactions, including 
diarrhoea and colitis, must be assessed during treatment with YERVOY (see Tables 3A, 3B, and 
section 4.4). 
Children younger than 12 years of age 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab in children younger than 12 years of age has not been 
established. 
Permanent discontinuation of treatment or withholding of doses 
Management of immune-related adverse reactions may require withholding of a dose or permanent 
discontinuation of YERVOY therapy and institution of systemic high-dose corticosteroid. In some 
cases, addition of other immunosuppressive therapy may be considered (see section 4.4). 
Dose escalation or reduction is not recommended. Dosing delay or discontinuation may be required 
based on individual safety and tolerability. 
Guidelines for permanent discontinuation or withholding of doses are described in Tables 3A and 3B 
for YERVOY as monotherapy, and in Table 3C for YERVOY in combination with nivolumab or 
administration of the second phase of treatment (nivolumab monotherapy) following combination 
treatment. Detailed guidelines for the management of immune-related adverse reactions are described 
in section 4.4. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3A:  When to permanently discontinue YERVOY as monotherapy 
Permanently discontinue YERVOY in patients with the following adverse reactions. Management of these 
adverse reactions may also require systemic high-dose corticosteroid therapy if demonstrated or suspected 
to be immune-related (see section 4.4 for detailed management guidelines). 
Adverse reactions 
NCI-CTCAE v4 Gradea 
Gastrointestinal: 
Severe symptoms (abdominal pain, severe diarrhoea or significant 
change in the number of stools, blood in stool, gastrointestinal 
haemorrhage, gastrointestinal perforation) 
Hepatic: 
Severe elevations in aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), or total bilirubin or symptoms of 
hepatotoxicity 
Skin: 
Life threatening skin rash (including Stevens-Johnson syndrome or 
toxic epidermal necrolysis) or severe widespread pruritus interfering 
with activities of daily living or requiring medical intervention 
▪  Grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea or colitis 
▪  Grade 3 or 4 elevation in AST, 
ALT, or total bilirubin 
▪  Grade 4 rash or Grade 3 pruritus 
Neurologic: 
New onset or worsening severe motor or sensory neuropathy 
▪  Grade 3 or 4 motor or sensory 
neuropathy 
Other organ systemsb: 
(e.g. nephritis, pneumonitis, pancreatitis, non-infectious myocarditis, 
diabetes) 
▪  ≥ Grade 3 immune-related 
reactionsc 
▪  ≥ Grade 2 for immune-related eye 
disorders NOT responding to topical 
immunosuppressive therapy 
▪  Grade 4 diabetes 
a 
b 
c 
Toxicity grades are in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. 
Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4). 
Any other adverse reactions that are demonstrated or suspected to be immune-related should be graded according to 
CTCAE. Decision whether to discontinue YERVOY should be based on severity. 
Patients with severe (Grade 3 or 4) endocrinopathy controlled with hormone replacement therapy may remain on 
therapy. 
Table 3B: 
When to withhold dose of YERVOY as monotherapy 
Withhold YERVOY dosea in patients with the following immune-related adverse reactions. See section 4.4 
for detailed management guidelines. 
Adverse reactions 
Action 
3. 
2. 
1.  Withhold dose until an adverse 
reaction resolves to Grade 1 or 
Grade 0 (or returns to baseline). 
If resolution occurs, resume 
therapy.d 
If resolution has not occurred, 
continue to withhold doses until 
resolution then resume 
treatment.d 
Discontinue YERVOY if 
resolution to Grade 1 or Grade 0 
or return to baseline does not 
occur. 
4. 
Gastrointestinal: 
Moderate diarrhoea or colitis that either is not controlled with medical 
management or that persists (5-7 days) or recurs 
Hepatic: 
Grade 2 elevation in AST, ALT, or total bilirubin 
Skin: 
Moderate to severe (Grade 3)b skin rash or (Grade 2) 
widespread/intense pruritus regardless of etiology 
Endocrine: 
Severe adverse reactions in the endocrine glands, such as 
hypophysitis and thyroiditis that are not adequately controlled with 
hormone replacement therapy or high-dose immunosuppressive 
therapy 
Grade 3 diabetes 
6 
 
 
Withhold YERVOY dosea in patients with the following immune-related adverse reactions. See section 4.4 
for detailed management guidelines. 
Adverse reactions 
Action 
Neurological: 
Moderate (Grade 2)b unexplained motor neuropathy, muscle 
weakness, or sensory neuropathy (lasting more than 4 days) 
Other moderate adverse reactionsc 
a 
b 
c 
d 
No dose reduction of YERVOY is recommended. 
Toxicity grades are in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. 
Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4). 
Any other organ system adverse reactions that are considered immune-related should be graded according to CTCAE. 
Decision whether to withhold a dose should be based on severity. 
Until administration of all 4 doses or 16 weeks from first dose, whichever occurs earlier. 
Table 3C: 
Recommended treatment modifications for YERVOY in combination with 
nivolumab or administration of the second phase of treatment (nivolumab 
monotherapy) following combination treatment 
Immune-related 
adverse reaction 
Severity 
Grade 2 pneumonitis 
Immune-related 
pneumonitis 
Immune-related colitis 
Immune-related 
hepatitis 
Immune-related 
nephritis and renal 
dysfunction 
Immune-related 
endocrinopathies 
Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis 
Grade 2 diarrhoea or colitis 
Grade 3 or 4 diarrhoea or colitis 
Grade 2 elevation in aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT), or total 
bilirubin 
Grade 3 or 4 elevation in AST, ALT, or 
total bilirubin 
Grade 2 or 3 creatinine elevation 
Grade 4 creatinine elevation 
Symptomatic Grade 2 or 3 
hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, 
hypophysitis, 
Grade 2 adrenal insufficiency 
Grade 3 diabetes 
Grade 4 hypothyroidism 
Grade 4 hyperthyroidism 
Grade 4 hypophysitis 
Grade 3 or 4 adrenal insufficiency 
Grade 4 diabetes 
Grade 3 rash 
Immune-related skin 
adverse reactions 
Grade 4 rash 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) or 
toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) 
7 
Treatment modification 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms resolve, 
radiographic abnormalities improve, and 
management with corticosteroids is 
complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms resolve 
and management with corticosteroids, if 
needed, is complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until laboratory values 
return to baseline and management with 
corticosteroids, if needed, is complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until creatinine returns to 
baseline and management with 
corticosteroids is complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms resolve 
and management with corticosteroids (if 
needed for symptoms of acute inflammation) 
is complete. Treatment should be continued 
in the presence of hormone replacement 
therapya as long as no symptoms are present 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms resolve 
and management with corticosteroids is 
complete 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Permanently discontinue treatment (see 
section 4.4) 
 
Immune-related 
adverse reaction 
Severity 
Grade 2 myocarditis 
Immune-related 
myocarditis 
Other immune-related 
adverse reactions 
Grade 3 or 4 myocarditis 
Grade 3 (first occurrence) 
Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3; persistent 
Grade 2 or 3 despite treatment 
modification; inability to reduce 
corticosteroid dose to 10 mg prednisone 
or equivalent per day 
Treatment modification 
Withhold dose(s) until symptoms resolve 
and management with corticosteroids is 
completeb 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Withhold dose(s) 
Permanently discontinue treatment 
Note: Toxicity grades are in accordance with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4). 
a 
b 
Recommendation for the use of hormone replacement therapy is provided in section 4.4. 
The safety of re-initiating ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab therapy in patients previously experiencing 
immune-related myocarditis is not known. 
YERVOY in combination with nivolumab should be permanently discontinued for: 
• 
• 
Grade 4 or recurrent Grade 3 adverse reactions; 
Persistent Grade 2 or 3 adverse reactions despite management. 
When YERVOY is administered in combination with nivolumab, if either agent is withheld, the other 
agent should also be withheld. If dosing is resumed after a delay, either the combination treatment or 
nivolumab monotherapy could be resumed based on the evaluation of the individual patient. 
Special populations 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY as monotherapy in children younger than 12 years of age have 
not been established. Very limited data are available. YERVOY should not be used in children 
younger than 12 years of age. 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY in combination with nivolumab in children younger than 
18 years of age have not been established, except in adolescents 12 years of age and older with 
melanoma. Currently available data are described in sections 4.2, 4.8, 5.1 and 5.2. 
Elderly 
No overall differences in safety or efficacy were reported between elderly (≥ 65 years) and younger 
patients (< 65 years). Data from first-line RCC patients 75 years of age or older are too limited to draw 
conclusions on this population (see section 5.1). No specific dose adjustment is necessary in this 
population (see section 5.1). 
Renal impairment 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY have not been studied in patients with renal impairment. Based 
on population pharmacokinetic results, no specific dose adjustment is necessary in patients with mild 
to moderate renal dysfunction (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Based 
on the population pharmacokinetic results, no specific dose adjustment is necessary in patients with 
mild hepatic impairment (see section 5.2). YERVOY must be administered with caution in patients 
with transaminase levels ≥ 5 x ULN or bilirubin levels > 3 x ULN at baseline (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration 
YERVOY is for intravenous use. The recommended infusion period is 30 minutes. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YERVOY can be used for intravenous administration without dilution or may be diluted in sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or glucose 50 mg/ml (5%) solution for injection to 
concentrations between 1 and 4 mg/ml. 
YERVOY must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
When administered in combination with nivolumab or in combination with nivolumab and 
chemotherapy, nivolumab should be given first followed by YERVOY and then by chemotherapy (if 
applicable) on the same day. Use separate infusion bags and filters for each infusion. 
For instructions on the preparation and handling of the medicinal product before administration, see 
section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve the traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number 
of the administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Assessment of PD-L1 status 
When assessing the PD-L1 status of the tumour, it is important that a well-validated and robust 
methodology is used. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
When ipilimumab is administered in combination, refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics of 
the other combination therapy components prior to initiation of treatment. For additional information 
on warnings and precautions associated with nivolumab treatment, please refer to the nivolumab 
SmPC. Most immune-related adverse reactions improved or resolved with appropriate management, 
including initiation of corticosteroids and treatment modifications (see section 4.2). Immune-related 
adverse reactions have occurred at higher frequencies when nivolumab was administered in 
combination with ipilimumab compared with nivolumab as monotherapy. 
Cardiac and pulmonary adverse events including pulmonary embolism have also been reported with 
combination therapy. Patients should be monitored for cardiac and pulmonary adverse reactions 
continuously, as well as for clinical signs, symptoms, and laboratory abnormalities indicative of 
electrolyte disturbances and dehydration prior to and periodically during treatment. Ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab should be discontinued for life-threatening or recurrent severe cardiac 
and pulmonary adverse reactions (see section 4.2). 
Patients should be monitored continuously (at least up to 5 months after the last dose) as an adverse 
reaction with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may occur at any time during or after 
discontinuation of therapy. 
Immune-related reactions 
Ipilimumab is associated with inflammatory adverse reactions resulting from increased or excessive 
immune activity (immune-related adverse reactions), likely to be related to its mechanism of action. 
Immune-related adverse reactions, which can be severe or life-threatening, may involve the 
gastrointestinal, liver, skin, nervous, endocrine, or other organ systems. While most immune-related 
adverse reactions occurred during the induction period, onset months after the last dose of ipilimumab 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has also been reported. Unless an alternate etiology has been identified, diarrhoea, increased stool 
frequency, bloody stool, LFT elevations, rash and endocrinopathy must be considered inflammatory 
and ipilimumab-related. Early diagnosis and appropriate management are essential to minimise 
life-threatening complications. 
Systemic high-dose corticosteroid with or without additional immunosuppressive therapy may be 
required for management of severe immune-related adverse reactions. 
Ipilimumab specific management guidelines for immune-related adverse reactions are described below 
for use as monotherapy and in combination with nivolumab. 
For suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation should be performed to confirm 
aetiology or exclude other causes. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, ipilimumab, or 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld and corticosteroids administered. If 
immunosuppression with corticosteroids is used to treat an adverse reaction that occurs as a 
consequence of combination therapy, a taper of at least 1 month duration should be initiated upon 
improvement. Rapid tapering may lead to worsening or recurrence of the adverse reaction. 
Non-corticosteroid immunosuppressive therapy should be added if there is worsening or no 
improvement despite corticosteroid use. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should not be resumed while the patient is receiving 
immunosuppressive doses of corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive therapy. Prophylactic 
antibiotics should be used to prevent opportunistic infections in patients receiving immunosuppressive 
therapy. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be permanently discontinued for any severe 
immune-related adverse reaction that recurs and for any life-threatening immune-related adverse 
reaction. 
Immune-related gastrointestinal reactions 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious immune-related gastrointestinal reactions. Fatalities due to 
gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in clinical trials (see section 4.8). 
In patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy in a Phase 3 study of advanced 
(unresectable or metastatic) melanoma (MDX010-20, see section 5.1), the median time to onset of 
severe or fatal (Grade 3-5) immune-related gastrointestinal reactions was 8 weeks 
(range 5 to 13 weeks) from the start of treatment. With protocol-specified management guidelines, 
resolution (defined as improvement to mild [Grade 1] or less or to the severity at baseline) occurred in 
most cases (90%), with a median time from onset to resolution of 4 weeks (range 0.6 to 22 weeks). 
Patients must be monitored for gastrointestinal signs and symptoms that may be indicative of 
immune-related colitis or gastrointestinal perforation. Clinical presentation may include diarrhoea, 
increased frequency of bowel movements, abdominal pain, or haematochezia, with or without fever. In 
clinical trials, immune-related colitis was associated with evidence of mucosal inflammation, with or 
without ulcerations, and lymphocytic and neutrophilic infiltration. Post-marketing cases of 
cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection/reactivation have been reported in patients with 
corticosteroid-refractory immune-related colitis. Stool infections work-up should be performed upon 
presentation of diarrhoea or colitis to exclude infectious or other alternate etiologies. 
Management recommendations for diarrhoea or colitis are based on severity of symptoms (per 
NCI-CTCAE v4 severity grading classification). Patients with mild to moderate (Grade 1 or 2) 
diarrhoea (an increase of up to 6 stools per day) or suspected mild to moderate colitis (e.g. abdominal 
pain or blood in stools) may remain on ipilimumab. Symptomatic treatment (e.g. loperamide, fluid 
replacement) and close monitoring are advised. If mild to moderate symptoms recur or persist 
for 5-7 days, the scheduled dose of ipilimumab should be withheld and corticosteroid therapy (e.g. 
prednisone 1 mg/kg orally once daily or equivalent) should be initiated. If resolution to Grades 0-1 or 
return to baseline occurs, ipilimumab may be resumed (see section 4.2). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued in patients with severe (Grade 3 or 4) diarrhoea or 
colitis (see section 4.2), and systemic high-dose intravenous corticosteroid therapy should be initiated 
immediately. (In clinical trials, methylprednisolone 2 mg/kg/day has been used). Once diarrhoea and 
other symptoms are controlled, the initiation of corticosteroid taper should be based on clinical 
judgment. In clinical trials, rapid tapering (over periods < 1 month) resulted in recurrence of diarrhoea 
or colitis in some patients. Patients must be evaluated for evidence of gastrointestinal perforation or 
peritonitis. 
The experience from clinical trials on the management of corticosteroid-refractory diarrhoea or colitis 
is limited. Addition of an alternative immunosuppressive agent to the corticosteroid regimen should be 
considered in corticosteroid-refractory immune-related colitis if other causes are excluded (including 
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection/reactivation evaluated with viral PCR on biopsy, and other viral, 
bacterial and parasitic etiology). In clinical trials, a single dose of infliximab 5 mg/kg was added 
unless contraindicated. Infliximab must not be used if gastrointestinal perforation or sepsis is 
suspected (see the Summary of Product Characteristics for infliximab). 
Immune-related colitis 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Severe diarrhoea or colitis has been observed with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (see 
section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for diarrhoea and additional symptoms of colitis, such as 
abdominal pain and mucus or blood in stool. Infectious and disease-related aetiologies should be ruled 
out. 
For Grade 4 diarrhoea or colitis, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be permanently 
discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents. 
Grade 3 diarrhoea or colitis observed with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab requires 
permanent discontinuation of treatment and initiation of corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents. 
For Grade 2 diarrhoea or colitis, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld. 
Persistent diarrhoea or colitis should be managed with corticosteroids at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon improvement, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may 
be resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. If worsening or no improvement occurs despite 
initiation of corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should be increased to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents and ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be permanently 
discontinued. 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Severe pneumonitis or interstitial lung disease, including fatal cases, has been observed with 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs 
and symptoms of pneumonitis such as radiographic changes (e.g., focal ground glass opacities, patchy 
filtrates), dyspnoea, and hypoxia. Infectious and disease-related aetiologies should be ruled out. 
For Grade 3 or 4 pneumonitis, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be permanently 
discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 2 to 4 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents. 
For Grade 2 (symptomatic) pneumonitis, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be 
withheld and corticosteroids initiated at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon 
improvement, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper. 
If worsening or no improvement occurs despite initiation of corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be increased to 2 to 4 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents and ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab must be permanently discontinued. 
Immune-related hepatotoxicity 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious immune-related hepatotoxicity. Fatal hepatic failure has been 
reported in clinical trials (see section 4.8). 
In patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy in MDX010-20, time to onset of moderate 
to severe or fatal (Grade 2-5) immune-related hepatotoxicity ranged from 3 to 9 weeks from the start 
of treatment. With protocol-specified management guidelines, time to resolution ranged 
from 0.7 to 2 weeks. 
Hepatic transaminase and bilirubin must be evaluated before each dose of ipilimumab, as early 
laboratory changes may be indicative of emerging immune-related hepatitis (see section 4.2). 
Elevations in LFTs may develop in the absence of clinical symptoms. Increases in AST and ALT or 
total bilirubin should be evaluated to exclude other causes of hepatic injury, including infections, 
tumour progression, or concomitant medication and monitored until resolution. Liver biopsies from 
patients who had immune-related hepatotoxicity showed evidence of acute inflammation (neutrophils, 
lymphocytes, and macrophages). 
For patients with Grade 2 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, the scheduled dose of ipilimumab 
should be withheld, and LFTs must be monitored until resolution. Upon improvement, ipilimumab 
may be resumed (see section 4.2). 
For patients with Grade 3 or 4 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, treatment must be permanently 
discontinued (see section 4.2), and systemic high-dose intravenous corticosteroid therapy (e.g. 
methylprednisolone 2 mg/kg daily or equivalent) should be initiated immediately. In such patients, 
LFTs must be monitored until normalization. Once symptoms have resolved and LFTs show sustained 
improvement or return to baseline, the initiation of corticosteroid taper should be based on clinical 
judgment. Tapering should occur over a period of at least 1 month. Elevations in LFTs during taper 
may be managed with an increase in the dose of corticosteroid and a slower taper. 
For patients with significant LFT elevations that are refractory to corticosteroid therapy, addition of an 
alternative immunosuppressive agent to the corticosteroid regimen may be considered. In clinical 
trials, mycophenolate mofetil was used in patients without response to corticosteroid therapy, or who 
had an LFT elevation during corticosteroid tapering that was not responsive to an increase in the dose 
of corticosteroids (see the Summary of Product Characteristics for mycophenolate mofetil). 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Severe hepatitis has been observed with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (see section 4.8). 
Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of hepatitis such as transaminase and total 
bilirubin elevations. Infectious and disease-related aetiologies should be ruled out. 
For Grade 3 or 4 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
must be permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose 
of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. 
For Grade 2 transaminase or total bilirubin elevation, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
should be withheld. Persistent elevations in these laboratory values should be managed with 
corticosteroids at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. Upon improvement, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. If 
worsening or no improvement occurs despite initiation of corticosteroids, corticosteroid dose should 
be increased to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents and ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab must be permanently discontinued. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immune-related skin adverse reactions 
Caution should be used when considering the use of ipilimumab or ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab in a patient who has previously experienced a severe or life-threatening skin adverse 
reaction on a prior cancer immune stimulatory therapy). 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious skin adverse reactions that may be immune-related. Rare cases 
of toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) (including Steven Johnson Syndrome) have been observed, some 
with fatal outcome. Rare cases of Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms (DRESS) 
have also been reported in clinical trials and during post-marketing use (see section 4.8). 
DRESS presents as a rash with eosinophilia associated with one or more of the following features: 
fever, lymphadenopathy, facial oedema, and internal organ involvement (hepatic, renal, pulmonary). 
DRESS may be characterized by a long latency (two to eight weeks) between medicinal product 
exposure and disease onset. 
Ipilimumab-induced rash and pruritus were predominantly mild or moderate (Grade 1 or 2) and 
responsive to symptomatic therapy. In patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy in 
MDX010-20, the median time to onset of moderate to severe or fatal (Grade 2-5) skin adverse 
reactions was 3 weeks (range 0.9-16 weeks) from start of treatment. With protocol-specified 
management guidelines, resolution occurred in most cases (87%), with a median time from onset to 
resolution of 5 weeks (range 0.6 to 29 weeks). 
Ipilimumab-induced rash and pruritus should be managed based on severity. Patients with a mild to 
moderate (Grade 1 or 2) rash may remain on ipilimumab therapy with symptomatic treatment (e.g. 
antihistamines). For mild to moderate rash or mild pruritus that persists for 1 to 2 weeks and does not 
improve with topical corticosteroids, oral corticosteroid therapy should be initiated (e.g. 
prednisone 1 mg/kg once daily or equivalent). 
For patients with a severe (Grade 3) rash, the scheduled dose of ipilimumab should be withheld. If 
initial symptoms improve to mild (Grade 1) or resolve, ipilimumab therapy may be resumed (see 
section 4.2). 
Ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued in patients with a very severe (Grade 4) rash or severe 
(Grade 3) pruritus (see section 4.2), and systemic high-dose intravenous corticosteroid therapy (e.g. 
methylprednisolone 2 mg/kg/day) should be initiated immediately. Once rash or pruritus is controlled, 
initiation of corticosteroid taper should be based on clinical judgment. Tapering should occur over a 
period of at least 1 month. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Severe rash has been observed with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (see section 4.8). 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld for Grade 3 rash and discontinued for 
Grade 4 rash. Severe rash should be managed with high-dose corticosteroid at a dose of 
1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents. 
Rare cases of SJS and TEN, some of them with fatal outcome, have been observed. If symptoms or 
signs of SJS or TEN appear, treatment with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be 
discontinued and the patient referred to a specialised unit for assessment and treatment. If the patient 
has developed SJS or TEN with the use of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab, permanent 
discontinuation of treatment is recommended (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related neurological reactions 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious immune-related neurological adverse reactions. Fatal 
Guillain-Barré syndrome has been reported in clinical trials. Myasthenia gravis-like symptoms have 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
also been reported (see section 4.8). Patients may present with muscle weakness. Sensory neuropathy 
may also occur. 
Unexplained motor neuropathy, muscle weakness, or sensory neuropathy lasting > 4 days must be 
evaluated, and non-inflammatory causes such as disease progression, infections, metabolic syndromes 
and concomitant medication should be excluded. For patients with moderate (Grade 2) neuropathy 
(motor with or without sensory) likely related to ipilimumab, the scheduled dose should be withheld. 
If neurologic symptoms resolve to baseline, the patient may resume ipilimumab (see section 4.2). 
Ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued in patients with severe (Grade 3 or 4) sensory 
neuropathy suspected to be related to ipilimumab (see section 4.2). Patients must be treated according 
to institutional guidelines for management of sensory neuropathy, and intravenous corticosteroids (e.g. 
methylprednisolone 2 mg/kg/day) should be initiated immediately. 
Progressive signs of motor neuropathy must be considered immune-related and managed accordingly. 
Ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued in patients with severe (Grade 3 or 4) motor neuropathy 
regardless of causality (see section 4.2). 
Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Severe nephritis and renal dysfunction have been observed with ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab (see section 4.8). Patients should be monitored for signs and symptoms of nephritis or renal 
dysfunction. Most patients present with asymptomatic increases in serum creatinine. Disease-related 
aetiologies should be ruled out. 
For Grade 4 serum creatinine elevation, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be 
permanently discontinued, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day 
methylprednisolone equivalents. 
For Grade 2 or 3 serum creatinine elevation, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be 
withheld, and corticosteroids should be initiated at a dose of 0.5 to 1 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone 
equivalents. Upon improvement, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may be resumed after 
corticosteroid taper. If worsening or no improvement occurs despite initiation of corticosteroids, 
corticosteroid dose should be increased to 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents, and 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be permanently discontinued. 
Immune-related endocrinopathy 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
Ipilimumab can cause inflammation of the endocrine system organs, manifesting as hypophysitis, 
hypopituitarism, adrenal insufficiency, hypothyroidism, Type 1 diabetes mellitus and diabetic 
ketoacidosis (see sections 4.2 and 4.8), and patients may present with nonspecific symptoms, which 
may resemble other causes such as brain metastasis or underlying disease. The most common clinical 
presentation includes headache and fatigue. Symptoms may also include visual field defects, 
behavioural changes, electrolyte disturbances, and hypotension. Adrenal crisis as a cause of the 
patient’s symptoms must be excluded. Clinical experience with ipilimumab associated endocrinopathy 
is limited. 
For patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy in MDX010-20, time to onset of 
moderate to very severe (Grade 2-4) immune-related endocrinopathy ranged from 7 to 
nearly 20 weeks from the start of treatment. Immune-related endocrinopathy observed in clinical trials 
was generally controlled with immunosuppressive therapy and hormone replacement therapy. 
If there are any signs of adrenal crisis such as severe dehydration, hypotension, or shock, immediate 
administration of intravenous corticosteroids with mineralocorticoid activity is recommended, and the 
patient must be evaluated for presence of sepsis or infections. If there are signs of adrenal 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
insufficiency but the patient is not in adrenal crisis, further investigations should be considered 
including laboratory and imaging assessment. Evaluation of laboratory results to assess endocrine 
function may be performed before corticosteroid therapy is initiated. If pituitary imaging or laboratory 
tests of endocrine function are abnormal, a short course of high-dose corticosteroid therapy (e.g. 
dexamethasone 4 mg every 6 hrs or equivalent) is recommended to treat the inflammation of the 
affected gland, and the scheduled dose of ipilimumab should be withheld (see section 4.2). It is 
currently unknown if the corticosteroid treatment reverses the gland dysfunction. Appropriate 
hormone replacement should also be initiated. Long-term hormone replacement therapy may be 
necessary. 
For symptomatic diabetes, ipilimumab should be withheld, and insulin replacement should be initiated 
as needed. Monitoring of blood sugar should continue to ensure appropriate insulin replacement is 
utilised. Ipilimumab must be permanently discontinued for life-threatening diabetes. 
Once symptoms or laboratory abnormalities are controlled and overall patient improvement is evident, 
treatment with ipilimumab may be resumed and initiation of corticosteroid taper should be based on 
clinical judgment. Tapering should occur over a period of at least 1 month. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Severe endocrinopathies, including hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency (including 
secondary adrenocortical insufficiency), hypophysitis (including hypopituitarism), diabetes mellitus, 
and diabetic ketoacidosis have been observed with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (see 
section 4.8). 
Patients should be monitored for clinical signs and symptoms of endocrinopathies and for 
hyperglycaemia and changes in thyroid function (at the start of treatment, periodically during 
treatment, and as indicated based on clinical evaluation). Patients may present with fatigue, headache, 
mental status changes, abdominal pain, unusual bowel habits, and hypotension, or nonspecific 
symptoms which may resemble other causes such as brain metastasis or underlying disease. Unless an 
alternate aetiology has been identified, signs or symptoms of endocrinopathies should be considered 
immune-related. 
For symptomatic hypothyroidism, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld, and 
thyroid hormone replacement should be initiated as needed. For symptomatic hyperthyroidism, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld and antithyroid medication should be 
initiated as needed. Corticosteroids at a dose of 1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents 
should also be considered if acute inflammation of the thyroid is suspected. Upon improvement, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. 
Monitoring of thyroid function should continue to ensure appropriate hormone replacement is utilised. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be permanently discontinued for life-threatening 
hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism. 
For symptomatic Grade 2 adrenal insufficiency, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be 
withheld, and physiologic corticosteroid replacement should be initiated as needed. ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab must be permanently discontinued for severe (Grade 3) or life-
threatening (Grade 4) adrenal insufficiency. Monitoring of adrenal function and hormone levels should 
continue to ensure appropriate corticosteroid replacement is utilised. 
For symptomatic Grade 2 or 3 hypophysitis, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be 
withheld, and hormone replacement should be initiated as needed. Corticosteroids at a dose of 
1 to 2 mg/kg/day methylprednisolone equivalents should also be considered if acute inflammation of 
the pituitary gland is suspected. Upon improvement, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may 
be resumed after corticosteroid taper, if needed. Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be 
permanently discontinued for life-threatening (Grade 4) hypophysitis. Monitoring of pituitary function 
and hormone levels should continue to ensure appropriate hormone replacement is utilised. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For symptomatic diabetes, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld, and insulin 
replacement should be initiated as needed. Monitoring of blood sugar should continue to ensure 
appropriate insulin replacement is utilised. Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab must be 
permanently discontinued for life-threatening diabetes. 
Infusion reaction 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy or in combination with nivolumab 
Severe infusion reactions have been reported in clinical trials of ipilimumab or ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab (see section 4.8). In case of a severe or life-threatening infusion reaction, 
the ipilimumab or ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab infusion must be discontinued and 
appropriate medical therapy administered. Patients with mild or moderate infusion reaction may 
receive ipilimumab or ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab with close monitoring and use of 
premedication according to local treatment guidelines for prophylaxis of infusion reactions. 
Other immune-related adverse reactions 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
The following adverse reactions suspected to be immune-related have been reported in patients treated 
with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy in MDX010-20: uveitis, eosinophilia, lipase elevation, and 
glomerulonephritis. In addition, iritis, haemolytic anaemia, amylase elevations, multi-organ failure, 
and pneumonitis have been reported in patients treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg + gp100 peptide 
vaccine in MDX010-20. Cases of Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome, serous retinal detachment, and 
cystitis noninfective have been reported post-marketing (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). 
If severe (Grade 3 or 4), these reactions may require immediate systemic high-dose corticosteroid 
therapy and discontinuation of ipilimumab (see section 4.2). For ipilimumab-related uveitis, iritis, 
serous retinal detachment or episcleritis, topical corticosteroid eye drops should be considered as 
medically indicated. Transient vision loss has been reported in patients with ipilimumab-related ocular 
inflammations. 
Solid organ transplant rejection has been reported in the post-marketing setting in patients treated with 
ipilimumab. Treatment with ipilimumab may increase the risk of rejection in solid organ transplant 
recipients. The benefit of treatment with ipilimumab versus the risk of possible organ rejection should 
be considered in these patients. 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy or in combination with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) has been observed with ipilimumab as monotherapy 
and ipilimumab in combination with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor (including with nivolumab). Caution 
should be taken when ipilimumab is administered as monotherapy or in combination with a PD-1 or 
PD-L1 inhibitor. If HLH is confirmed, administration of ipilimumab or ipilimumab in combination 
with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor should be discontinued and treatment for HLH initiated. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
The following immune-related adverse reactions were reported in less than 1% of patients treated with 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab in clinical trials across doses and tumour types: 
pancreatitis, uveitis, demyelination, autoimmune neuropathy (including facial and abducens nerve 
paresis), Guillain-Barré syndrome, myasthenia gravis, myasthenic syndrome, aseptic meningitis, 
encephalitis, gastritis, sarcoidosis, duodenitis, myositis, myocarditis, and rhabdomyolysis. Cases of 
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome, serous retinal detachment, and cystitis noninfective have been 
reported post-marketing (see sections 4.2 and 4.8). Transient vision loss has been reported in patients 
with ipilimumab-related ocular inflammations. 
For suspected immune-related adverse reactions, adequate evaluation should be performed to confirm 
aetiology or exclude other causes. Based on the severity of the adverse reaction, ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab should be withheld and corticosteroids administered. Upon improvement, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab may be resumed after corticosteroid taper. Ipilimumab in 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination with nivolumab must be permanently discontinued for any severe immune-related 
adverse reaction that recurs and for any life-threatening immune-related adverse reaction. 
Cases of myotoxicity (myositis, myocarditis, and rhabdomyolysis), some with fatal outcome, have 
been reported with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab. If a patient develops signs and 
symptoms of myotoxicity, close monitoring should be implemented, and the patient referred to a 
specialist for assessment and treatment without delay. Based on the severity of myotoxicity, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be withheld or discontinued (see section 4.2), and 
appropriate treatment instituted. 
The diagnosis of myocarditis requires a high index of suspicion. Patients with cardiac or 
cardio-pulmonary symptoms should be assessed for potential myocarditis. If myocarditis is suspected, 
prompt initiation of a high dose of steroids (prednisone 1 to 2 mg/kg/day or methylprednisolone 
1 to 2 mg/kg/day) and prompt cardiology consultation with diagnostic workup according to current 
clinical guidelines should be initiated. Once a diagnosis of myocarditis is established, ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab should be withheld or permanently discontinued (see section 4.2). 
Disease specific precautions 
Melanoma 
Patients with ocular melanoma, primary CNS melanoma and active brain metastases were not included 
in the MDX010-20 trial (see section 5.1). 
Patients with ocular melanoma were not included in the CA184-169 clinical trial. However, patients 
with brain metastases were included in this study, if they were free of neurologic symptoms related to 
metastatic brain lesions and if they did not require or receive systemic corticosteroid therapy in the 
10 days prior to beginning ipilimumab therapy (see section 5.1). 
Patients with ocular melanoma, active brain metastases and prior therapy with ipilimumab were not 
included in the paediatric trial CA184070 (see section 5.1). 
Patients with ocular melanoma, active brain metastases and prior therapy with CTLA-4, PD-1, PD-L1, 
or CD137 targeted agents were not included in the paediatric trial CA184178 (see section 5.1). 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain metastases or autoimmune disease, and 
patients who had been receiving systemic immunosuppressants prior to study entry were excluded 
from the clinical trials of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab. Patients with ocular/uveal 
melanoma were excluded from clinical trials of melanoma. In the absence of data, nivolumab should 
be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an 
individual basis. 
Relative to nivolumab monotherapy, an increase in PFS for the combination of ipilimumab with 
nivolumab is established only in patients with low tumour PD-L1 expression. The improvement in OS 
was similar between ipilimumab with nivolumab and nivolumab monotherapy in patients with high 
tumour PD-L1 expression (PD-L1 ≥ 1%). Before initiating treatment with the combination, physicians 
are advised to carefully evaluate the individual patient and tumour characteristics, taking into 
consideration the observed benefits and the toxicity of the combination relative to nivolumab 
monotherapy (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Use of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab in melanoma patients with rapidly progressing 
disease. 
Physicians should consider the delayed onset of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab effect 
before initiating treatment in patients with rapidly progressing disease (see section 5.1). 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Patients with any history of concurrent brain metastases, active autoimmune disease, or medical 
conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the clinical trials of 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after 
careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Non-small cell lung cancer 
Patients with active autoimmune disease, symptomatic interstitial lung disease, medical conditions 
requiring systemic immunosuppression, active (untreated) brain metastasis, who received prior 
systemic treatment for advanced disease, or who had sensitising EGFR mutations or ALK 
translocations were excluded from the pivotal trial in first-line treatment of NSCLC (see sections 4.5 
and 5.1). Limited data are available in elderly patients (≥ 75 years) (see section 5.1). In these patients, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy should be used with caution after 
careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Patients with primitive peritoneal, pericardial, testis, or tunica vaginalis mesothelioma, interstitial lung 
disease, active autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, and 
brain metastasis (unless surgically resected or treated with stereotaxic radiotherapy and no evolution 
within 3 months prior to inclusion in the study) were excluded from the pivotal trial in first-line 
treatment of MPM (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after careful consideration of the potential 
benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
dMMR or MSI-H colorectal cancer 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, active brain metastases or leptomeningeal metastases, 
active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were 
excluded from the clinical trial in dMMR or MSI-H metastatic CRC (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the 
absence of data, ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be used with caution in these 
populations after careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
Patients with a baseline performance score ≥ 2, any history of concurrent brain metastases, active 
autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, or at high risk of 
bleeding or fistula due to apparent invasion of tumour to organs adjacent to the oesophageal tumour 
were excluded from the clinical trial in OSCC (see sections 4.5 and 5.1). In the absence of data, 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab should be used with caution in these populations after 
careful consideration of the potential benefit/risk on an individual basis. 
In the first-line OSCC trial, a higher number of deaths within 4 months was observed with ipilimumab 
in combination with nivolumab compared to chemotherapy. Physicians should consider the delayed 
onset of effect of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab before initiating treatment in patients 
with poorer prognostic features and/or aggressive disease (see section 5.1). 
Patients with autoimmune disease 
Patients with a history of autoimmune disease (other than vitiligo and adequately controlled endocrine 
deficiencies such as hypothyroidism), including those who require systemic immunosuppressive 
therapy for pre-existing active autoimmune disease or for organ transplantation graft maintenance, 
were not evaluated in clinical trials. Ipilimumab is a T-cell potentiator that enables the immune 
response (see section 5.1) and may interfere with immunosuppressive therapy, resulting in an 
exacerbation of the underlying disease or increased risk of graft rejection. Ipilimumab should be 
avoided in patients with severe active autoimmune disease where further immune activation is 
potentially imminently life threatening. In other patients with a history of autoimmune disease, 
ipilimumab should be used with caution after careful consideration of the potential risk-benefit on an 
individual basis. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients on controlled sodium diet 
This medicinal product contains 23 mg sodium per 10 ml vial and 92 mg sodium per 40 ml vial, 
respectively equivalent to 1.15% and 4.60% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g 
sodium for an adult. To be taken into consideration when treating patients on a controlled sodium diet. 
Concurrent administration with vemurafenib 
In a Phase 1 trial, asymptomatic grade 3 increases in transaminases (ALT/AST > 5 × ULN) and 
bilirubin (total bilirubin > 3 × ULN) were reported with concurrent administration of ipilimumab 
(3 mg/kg) and vemurafenib (960 mg BID or 720 mg BID). Based on these preliminary data, the 
concurrent administration of ipilimumab and vemurafenib is not recommended. 
Sequential administration with vemurafenib 
In a Phase 2 trial, the sequential treatment with vemurafenib followed by 10 mg/kg ipilimumab in 
patients with BRAF-mutated metastatic melanoma showed a higher incidence of Grade 3+ skin 
adverse reactions than with ipilimumab alone. Caution should be used when ipilimumab is 
administered following prior vemurafenib. 
Paediatric population 
Limited, but no long-term, safety data is available on the use of ipilimumab in adolescents 12 years of 
age and older. 
Only very limited data are available in children younger than 12 years of age. Therefore, ipilimumab 
should not be used in children younger than 12 years of age. 
Before initiating treatment with ipilimumab monotherapy in adolescents of 12 years and older, 
physicians are advised to carefully evaluate the individual patient, taking into consideration the limited 
available data, the observed benefits and the toxicity of ipilimumab monotherapy in the paediatric 
population (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Ipilimumab is a human monoclonal antibody that is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes 
(CYPs) or other drug metabolizing enzymes. 
A drug-interaction study in adults of ipilimumab administered alone and in combination with 
chemotherapy (dacarbazine or paclitaxel/carboplatin) was conducted evaluating interaction with CYP 
isozymes (particularly CYP1A2, CYP2E1, CYP2C8, and CYP3A4) in patients with treatment-naive 
advanced melanoma. No clinically relevant pharmacokinetic drug-drug interaction was observed 
between ipilimumab and paclitaxel/carboplatin, dacarbazine or its metabolite, 
5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide (AIC). 
Other forms of interaction 
Corticosteroids 
The use of systemic corticosteroids at baseline, before starting ipilimumab, should be avoided because 
of their potential interference with the pharmacodynamic activity and efficacy of ipilimumab. 
However, systemic corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants can be used after starting ipilimumab 
to treat immune-related adverse reactions. The use of systemic corticosteroids after starting 
ipilimumab treatment does not appear to impair the efficacy of ipilimumab. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anticoagulants 
The use of anticoagulants is known to increase the risk of gastrointestinal haemorrhage. Since 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage is an adverse reaction with ipilimumab (see section 4.8), patients who 
require concomitant anticoagulant therapy should be monitored closely. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data on the use of ipilimumab in pregnant women. Animal reproduction studies have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Human IgG1 crosses the placental barrier. The potential 
risk of treatment to the developing foetus is unknown. YERVOY is not recommended during 
pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception, unless the clinical 
benefit outweighs the potential risk. 
Breast-feeding 
Ipilimumab has been shown to be present at very low levels in milk from cynomolgus monkeys treated 
during pregnancy. It is unknown whether ipilimumab is secreted in human milk. Secretion of IgGs in 
human milk is generally limited and IgGs have a low oral bioavailability. Significant systemic 
exposure of the infant is not expected and no effects on the breast-fed newborn/infant are anticipated. 
However, because of the potential for adverse reactions in nursing infants, a decision must be made 
whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue from YERVOY therapy taking into account 
the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of YERVOY therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Studies to evaluate the effect of ipilimumab on fertility have not been performed. Thus, the effect of 
ipilimumab on male and female fertility is unknown. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
YERVOY has minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
Because of potential adverse reactions such as fatigue (see section 4.8), patients should be advised to 
use caution when driving or operating machinery until they are certain that ipilimumab does not 
adversely affect them. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy (see section 4.2) 
a. Summary of safety profile 
Ipilimumab has been administered to approximately 10,000 patients in a clinical program evaluating 
its use with various doses and tumour types. Unless otherwise specified, the data below reflect 
exposure to ipilimumab at 3 mg/kg in clinical trials of melanoma. In the Phase 3 study MDX010-20, 
(see section 5.1), patients received a median of 4 doses (range 1-4). 
Ipilimumab is most commonly associated with adverse reactions resulting from increased or excessive 
immune activity. Most of these, including severe reactions, resolved following initiation of appropriate 
medical therapy or withdrawal of ipilimumab (see section 4.4 for management of immune-related 
adverse reactions). 
In patients who received 3 mg/kg ipilimumab monotherapy in MDX010-20, the most frequently 
reported adverse reactions (≥ 10% of patients) were diarrhoea, rash, pruritus, fatigue, nausea, 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vomiting, decreased appetite, and abdominal pain. The majority were mild to moderate (Grade 1 or 2). 
Ipilimumab therapy was discontinued for adverse reactions in 10% of patients. 
b. Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in patients with advanced melanoma who were treated with 
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in clinical trials (n = 767) and from post-marketing surveillance are presented in 
Table 4. 
These reactions are presented by system organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are defined as: 
very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare 
(≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from available 
post-marketing data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of 
decreasing seriousness. Rates of immune-related adverse reactions in HLA-A2*0201 positive patients 
who received ipilimumab in MDX010-20 were similar to those observed in the overall clinical 
program. 
The safety profile of ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in chemotherapy-naive patients pooled across Phase 2 and 
3 clinical trials (N = 75; treated), in treatment-naive patients in two retrospective observational studies 
(N = 273 and N = 157), and in CA184-169 (N = 362) was similar to that in previously-treated 
advanced melanoma. 
The safety data for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma, treated with ipilimumab 
(3 mg/kg, with a minimum of 3 year follow-up) and enrolled in multi-national, prospective, 
observational study CA184143 (N = 1151) were similar to what has been reported in ipilimumab 
clinical trials for advanced melanoma. 
Table 4: 
tumour pain 
paraneoplastic syndrome 
sepsisb, urinary tract infection, respiratory tract infection  
septic shockb, pneumonia 
Adverse reactions in patients with advanced melanoma treated with ipilimumab 
3 mg/kga 
Infections and infestations 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Common 
Uncommon 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon 
Very rare 
Not known 
Endocrine disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
anaemia, lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, neutropenia 
haemolytic anaemiab, eosinophilia 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosise 
hypopituitarism (including hypophysitis)c, hypothyroidismc 
adrenal insufficiencyc, secondary adrenocortical insufficiencyd, hyperthyroidismc, 
hypogonadism 
autoimmune thyroiditisd, thyroiditisd 
hypersensitivity 
anaphylactic reaction 
solid organ transplant rejectione 
Rare 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
decreased appetite 
Very common 
dehydration, hypokalemia, weight decreased, hyponatremia 
Common 
alkalosis, hypophosphatemia, tumour lysis syndrome, hypocalcaemiad 
Uncommon 
type 1 diabetes mellitus (including diabetic ketoacidosis)h 
Rare 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
confusional state, depression 
mental status changes, decreased libido 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, dizziness, headache, lethargy, cranial neuropathy, brain 
oedema, peripheral neuropathy 
Guillain-Barré syndromeb,c, meningitis (aseptic), autoimmune central neuropathy 
(encephalitis)d, syncope, ataxia, tremor, myoclonus, dysarthria 
myasthenia gravisd 
myelitis 
blurred vision, eye pain 
uveitisc, vitreous haemorrhage, iritisc, eye oedemad, blepharitisd, reduced visual acuity, 
foreign body sensation in eyes, conjunctivitis 
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndromee, serous retinal detachment 
arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation 
Rare 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
dyspnea, cough, allergic rhinitis 
Common 
respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndromeb, lung infiltration, pulmonary oedema, 
Uncommon 
pneumonitis 
hypotension, flushing, hot flush 
vasculitis, angiopathyb, peripheral ischaemia, orthostatic hypotension 
temporal arteritisd 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
diarrhoeac, vomiting, nausea, constipation, abdominal pain 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, colitisb,c, gastroesophageal reflux disease, mucosal 
inflammationd, gastroenteritis, stomatitis 
gastrointestinal perforationb,c, large intestine perforationb,c, intestinal perforationb,c, 
peritonitisb, diverticulitis, pancreatitis, enterocolitis, gastric ulcer, large intestinal ulcer, 
oesophagitis, ileusd, proctitisd 
abnormal hepatic function 
hepatic failureb,c, hepatitis, hepatomegaly, jaundice 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
rashc, pruritusc 
dermatitis, erythema, vitiligo, urticaria, eczemad, alopecia, night sweats, dry skin 
toxic epidermal necrolysisb,c, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, skin exfoliation, hair colour 
changesd 
erythema multiformed, psoriasisd, Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic Symptoms 
(DRESS)d
Not known 
pemphigoid 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
musculoskeletal painf 
arthralgia, myalgia, muscle spasms, arthritis 
polymyalgia rheumatica, myositisd, muscular weaknessd 
polymyositisd 
22 
 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
amenorrhea 
renal failureb  
glomerulonephritisc, autoimmune nephritisd, renal tubular acidosis, haematuriad, cystitis 
noninfectiveg, proteinuriad 
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Investigations 
Common 
fatigue, injection site reaction, pyrexia, oedema, pain 
chills, asthenia, influenza-like illnessd 
multi-organ failureb,c, systemic inflammatory response syndromed, infusion related reaction 
increased alanine aminotransferasec, increased aspartate aminotransferasec, increased blood 
alkaline phosphatased, increased blood bilirubin, increased lipasec, 
increased gamma-glutamyltransferased, increased blood creatinine, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone, decreased blood cortisol, decreased blood corticotrophin, increased 
blood amylasec, positive antinuclear antibodyd, decreased blood testosterone 
decreased blood thyroid stimulating hormoned, decreased thyroxined, abnormal blood 
prolactind 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Adverse reaction frequencies presented in Table 4 may not be fully attributable to ipilimumab, but may contain contributions 
from the underlying disease. 
a 
b 
c 
Frequencies are based on pooled data from 9 clinical trials investigating the ipilimumab 3 mg/kg dose in melanoma. 
Including fatal outcome. 
Additional information about these potentially inflammatory adverse reactions is provided in “Description of selected 
adverse reactions” and section 4.4. Data presented in those sections primarily reflect experience from a Phase 3 study, 
MDX010-20. 
Data outside the 9 completed clinical trials in melanoma were included in frequency determinations. 
Post-marketing event (also see section 4.4). 
Musculoskeletal pain is a composite term which includes back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, 
musculoskeletal discomfort, myalgia, neck pain, pain in extremity, and spinal pain. 
Reported in clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
Type 1 diabetes mellitus that may be associated with diabetic ketoacidosis 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
Additional adverse reactions not listed in Table 4 have been reported in patients who received other 
doses (either < or > 3 mg/kg) of ipilimumab in clinical trials of melanoma. These additional reactions 
occurred at a frequency of < 1% unless otherwise noted: meningism, myocarditis, pericardial effusion, 
cardiomyopathy, autoimmune hepatitis, erythema nodosum, autoimmune pancreatitis, 
hyperpituitarism, hypoparathyroidism, infectious peritonitis, episcleritis, scleritis, Raynaud’s 
phenomenon, palmar-plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome, cytokine release syndrome, sarcoidosis, 
decreased blood gonadotrophin, leukopenia, polycythaemia, lymphocytosis, ocular myositis, and 
neurosensory hypoacusis. 
The overall safety profile of ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in clinical trial CA184-169 (N = 362) was consistent 
with that established for ipilimumb in patients treated for advanced melanoma. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) (see section 4.2) 
a. Summary of the safety profile 
When ipilimumab is administered in combination, refer to the SmPC for the other therapeutic agent(s) 
prior to initiation of treatment. For additional information on the safety profile of the other therapeutic 
agets used in combination with ipilimumab, please refer to the respective SmPC. 
In the pooled dataset of ipilimumab administered in combination with nivolumab (with or without 
chemotherapy) across tumour types (n = 2094) with minimum follow-up ranging from 6 to 47 months, 
the most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 10%) were fatigue (50%), rash (38%), diarrhoea (37%), nausea 
(31%), pruritus (29%), musculoskeletal pain (28%), pyrexia (25%), cough (24%), decreased appetite 
(23%), vomiting (20%), dyspnoea (19%), constipation (19%), arthralgia (19%), abdominal pain 
(18%), hypothyroidism (16%), headache (16%), upper respiratory tract infection (15%), oedema 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(13%) and dizziness (11%). The incidence of Grade 3-5 adverse reactions was 67% for nivolumab in 
combination with ipilimumab (with or without chemotherapy), with 0.7% fatal adverse reactions 
attributed to study drug. Among patients treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination with 
nivolumab 1 mg/kg, fatigue (62%), rash (57%), diarrhoea (52%), nausea (42%), pruritus (40%), 
pyrexia (36%), and headache (26%) were reported at an incidence rate ≥ 10% higher than the rates 
reported in the pooled dataset of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without 
chemotherapy) incidence rate. Among patients treated with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg in combination with 
nivolumab 360 mg and chemotherapy, anaemia (32%) and neutropenia (15%) were reported at an 
incidence rate ≥ 10% higher than the rates reported in the pooled dataset of ipilimumab in combination 
with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) incidence rate. 
b. Tabulated summary of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported in the pooled dataset for patients treated with ipilimumab in combination 
with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) (n = 2094) and from post-marketing are presented in 
Table 5. These reactions are presented by system organ class and by frequency. Frequencies are 
defined as: very common (≥ 1/10); common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon (≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100); 
rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); very rare (< 1/10,000), not known (cannot be estimated from available 
post-marketing data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in the order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
Table 5: 
Adverse reactions with ipilimumab in combination with other therapeutic agents 
Combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) 
anaemiab,i, thrombocytopaeniab, leucopoeniab, lymphopaeniab, neutropaeniab 
upper respiratory tract infection 
pneumonia, bronchitis, conjunctivitis 
aseptic meningitis 
eosinophilia 
febrile neutropaenia 
haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis 
Infections and infestations 
Very 
common 
Common 
Rare 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Not known 
Immune system disorders 
Common 
Rare 
Not known 
Endocrine disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
hypothyroidism 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon  metabolic acidosis 
Not known 
tumour lysis syndromeg 
infusion-related reaction (including cytokine release syndrome), hypersensitivity 
sarcoidosis 
solid organ transplant rejectionf 
hyperthyroidism, thyroiditis, adrenal insufficiency, hypophysitis, hypopituitarism, diabetes 
mellitus 
diabetic ketoacidosis 
hypoparathyroidism 
decreased appetite, hyperglycaemiab, hypoglycaemiab 
dehydration, hypoalbuminaemia, hypophosphataemia, weight decreased 
24 
 
 
 
 
Combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) 
headache, dizziness 
Nervous system disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
peripheral neuropathy 
polyneuropathy, peroneal nerve palsy, autoimmune neuropathy (including facial and abducens 
nerve paresis), encephalitis, myasthenia gravis 
Guillain-Barré syndrome, neuritis, myelitis 
hypertension 
cough, dyspnoea 
pericardial disordersh 
tachycardia, atrial fibrillation 
pneumonitisa, pulmonary embolisma, pleural effusion 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, abdominal pain, constipation 
colitisa, pancreatitis, stomatitis, gastritis, dry mouth 
duodenitis 
intestinal perforationa 
blurred vision, dry eye 
uveitis, episcleritis 
Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome, serous retinal detachment 
Rare 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Cardiac disorders 
Common 
Uncommon  myocarditisa, arrhythmia (including ventricular arrhythmia)a, bradycardia 
Not known 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
rashc, pruritus 
Very 
common 
Common 
alopecia, vitiligo, urticaria, dry skin, erythema 
Uncommon  Stevens-Johnson syndrome, erythema multiforme, psoriasis 
Rare 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Very 
common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very 
common 
Common 
muscle spasms, muscular weakness, arthritis 
polymyalgia rheumatica, myopathy, myositis (including polymyositis)a 
spondyloarthropathy, Sjogren’s syndrome, rhabdomyolysisa 
renal failure (including acute kidney injury)a 
tubulointerstitial nephritis, nephritis 
cystitis noninfective 
toxic epidermal necrolysisa,d, lichen sclerosus, other lichen disorders 
fatigue, pyrexia, oedema (including peripheral oedema) 
musculoskeletal paine, arthralgia 
chest pain, pain, chills 
hepatitis 
25 
 
Combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) 
Investigations 
Very 
common 
Common 
increased alkaline phosphataseb, increased ASTb, increased ALTb, increased total bilirubinb, 
increased creatinineb, increased amylaseb, increased lipaseb, hyponatraemiab, hyperkalaemiab, 
hypokalaemiab, hypercalcaemiab, hypocalcaemiab 
hypernatraemiab, hypermagnesaemiab, increased thyroid stimulating hormone, increased gamma-
glutamyltransferase 
Adverse reaction frequencies presented in Table 5 may not be fully attributable to ipilimumab alone or in combination with 
other therapeutic agents, but may contain contributions from the underlying disease or from medicinal product used in 
combination. 
a 
b 
Fatal cases have been reported in completed or ongoing clinical studies 
Frequencies of laboratory terms reflect the proportion of patients who experienced a worsening from baseline in 
laboratory measurements. See “Description of selected adverse reactions; laboratory abnormalities” below. 
Rash is a composite term which includes maculopapular rash, rash erythematous, rash pruritic, rash follicular, rash 
macular, rash morbilliform, rash papular, rash pustular, rash papulosquamous, rash vesicular, rash generalised, 
exfoliative rash, dermatitis, dermatitis acneiform, dermatitis allergic, dermatitis atopic, dermatitis bullous, dermatitis 
exfoliative, dermatitis psoriasiform, drug eruption, nodular rash, and pemphigoid. 
Reported also in studies outside the pooled dataset. The frequency is based on the program-wide exposure. 
Musculoskeletal pain is a composite term which includes back pain, bone pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, 
musculoskeletal discomfort, myalgia, myalgia intercostal, neck pain, pain in extremity, and spinal pain. 
Post-marketing event (also see section 4.4). 
Reported in clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
Pericardial disorders is a composite term which includes pericarditis, pericardial effusion, cardiac tamponade, and 
Dressler’s syndrome. 
Anaemia is a composite term which includes, among other causes, haemolytic anaemia and autoimmune anaemia, 
haemoglobin decreased, iron deficiency anaemia, and red blood cell count decreased. 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
i 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Except where noted, data relating to ipilimumab monotherapy are based on patients who received 
either ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy (n = 131) or ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination with 
gp100 (n = 380) in a Phase 3 study of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma (MDX010-20, 
see section 5.1). 
Ipilimumab in combination is associated with immune-related adverse reactions. With appropriate 
medical therapy, immune-related adverse reactions resolved in most cases. Permanent discontinuation 
of treatment generally was required in a greater proportion of patients receiving ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab than in those receiving nivolumab monotherapy. Table 6 presents the 
percentage of patients with immune-related adverse reactions who were permanently discontinued 
from treatment. Additionally, for patients who experienced an event, Table 6 presents the percentage 
of patients who required high-dose corticosteroids (at least 40 mg daily prednisone equivalents). The 
management guidelines for these adverse reactions are described in section 4.4. 
Table 6: 
Immune-related adverse reactions leading to permanent discontinuation or 
requiring high-dose corticosteroids 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) 
% 
Immune-related adverse reaction leading to permanent discontinuation 
2.5 
6 
5 
1.2 
Pneumonitis 
Colitis 
Hepatitis 
Nephritis and renal 
dysfunction 
Endocrinopathies 
Skin 
Hypersensitivity/Infusion 
reaction 
2.0 
1.0 
0.3 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy) 
% 
Immune-related adverse reaction requiring high-dose corticosteroidsa,b 
59 
32 
37 
27 
Pneumonitis 
Colitis 
Hepatitis 
Nephritis and renal 
dysfunction 
Endocrinopathies 
Skin 
Hypersensitivity/Infusion 
reaction 
20 
8 
16 
a 
b 
at least 40 mg daily prednisone equivalents 
frequency is based on the number of patients who experienced the immune-related adverse reaction 
Immune-related gastrointestinal reactions 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious immune-related gastrointestinal reactions. Fatalities due to 
gastrointestinal perforation have been reported in < 1% of patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg 
in combination with gp100. 
In the ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy group, diarrhoea and colitis of any severity were reported 
in 27% and 8%, respectively. The frequency of severe (Grade 3 or 4) diarrhoea and severe 
(Grade 3 or 4) colitis was 5% each. The median time to onset of severe or fatal (Grade 3 to 5) 
immune-related gastrointestinal reactions was 8 weeks (range 5 to 13 weeks) from the start of 
treatment. With protocol-specified management guidelines, resolution (defined as improvement to 
mild [Grade 1] or less or to the severity at baseline) occurred in most cases (90%), with a median time 
from onset to resolution of 4 weeks (range 0.6 to 22 weeks). In clinical trials, immune-related colitis 
was associated with evidence of mucosal inflammation, with or without ulcerations, and lymphocytic 
and neutrophilic infiltration. 
Immune-related colitis 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of diarrhoea or colitis was 27.7% (580/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were 
reported in 8.8% (184/2094), 6.8% (142/2094), and 0.1% (3/2094), of patients, respectively. One 
patient (< 0.1%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 1.4 months (range: 0.0-48.9). 
Resolution occurred in 577 patients (90.8%) with a median time to resolution of 2.7 weeks 
(range: 0.1-159.4+). Among patients treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 
1 mg/kg, the incidence of diarrhoea or colitis was 46.7%, including Grade 2 (13.6%), Grade 3 
(15.8%), and Grade 4 (0.4%). 
Immune-related pneumonitis 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of pneumonitis including interstitial lung disease, was 6.9% (145/2094). Grade 2, 
Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 3.5% (73/2094), 1.1% (24/2094), and 0.4% (8/2094) of 
patients, respectively. Four patients (0.2%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 2.7 months 
(range: 0.1-56.8). Resolution occurred in 119 patients (82.1%) with a median time to resolution of 
6.1 weeks (range: 0.3-149.3+). 
Immune-related hepatotoxicity 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious immune-related hepatotoxicity. Fatal hepatic failure has been 
reported in < 1% of patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy. 
Increases in AST and ALT of any severity were reported in 1% and 2% of patients, respectively. 
There were no reports of severe (Grade 3 or 4) AST or ALT elevation. Time to onset of moderate to 
severe or fatal (Grade 2 to 5) immune-related hepatotoxicity ranged from 3 to 9 weeks from the start 
of treatment. With protocol-specified management guidelines, time to resolution ranged 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from 0.7 to 2 weeks. In clinical trials, liver biopsies from patients who had immune-related 
hepatotoxicity showed evidence of acute inflammation (neutrophils, lymphocytes, and macrophages). 
In patients receiving ipilimumab at a higher than recommended dose in combination with dacarbazine, 
immune-related hepatotoxicity occurred more frequently than in patients receiving 
ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy. 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of liver function test abnormalities was 19.2% (402/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and 
Grade 4 cases were reported in 4.2% (88/2094), 7.8% (163/2094), and 1.2% (25/2094) of patients, 
respectively. Median time to onset was 1.9 months (range: 0.0-36.6). Resolution occurred in 
351 patients (87.8%) with a median time to resolution of 5.3 weeks (range: 0.1-175.9+). Among 
patients treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 1 mg/kg, the incidence of 
liver function test abnormalities was 30.1%, including Grade 2 (6.9%), Grade 3 (15.8%), and Grade 4 
(1.8%). 
Immune-related skin adverse reactions 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious skin adverse reactions that may be immune-related. Fatal toxic 
epidermal necrolysis (including SJS) has been reported in < 1% of patients who received ipilimumab 
in combination with gp100 (see section 5.1). Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms (DRESS) has been rarely reported with Ipilimumab in clinical studies and during post-
marketing use. Incidental cases of pemphigoid have been reported during post-marketing use. 
In the ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy group, rash and pruritus of any severity were each reported 
in 26% of patients. Ipilimumab-induced rash and pruritus were predominantly mild (Grade 1) or 
moderate (Grade 2) and responsive to symptomatic therapy. The median time to onset of moderate to 
severe or fatal (Grade 2 to 5) skin adverse reactions was 3 weeks from start of treatment 
(range 0.9 to 16 weeks). With protocol-specified management guidelines, resolution occurred in most 
cases (87%), with a median time from onset to resolution of 5 weeks (range 0.6 to 29 weeks). 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of rash was 46.2% (968/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 cases were reported in 
14.1% (296/2094), 4.6% (97/2094), and < 0.1% (2/2094) of patients, respectively. Median time to 
onset was 0.7 months (range: 0.0-33.8). Resolution occurred in 671 patients (69.6%) with a median 
time to resolution of 11.1 weeks (range: 0.1-268.7+). Among patients treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg 
in combination with nivolumab 1 mg/kg, the incidence of rash was 65.2%, including Grade 2 (20.3%) 
and Grade 3 (7.8%). 
Immune-related neurological reactions 
Ipilimumab is associated with serious immune-related neurological reactions. Fatal Guillain-Barré 
syndrome has been reported in < 1% of patients who received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination 
with gp100. Myasthenia gravis-like symptoms have also been reported in < 1% of patients who 
received higher doses of ipilimumab in clinical trials. 
Immune-related nephritis and renal dysfunction 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of nephritis or renal dysfunction was 6.1% (128/2094). Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 
cases were reported in 2.3% (49/2094), 1.0% (20/2094), and 0.5% (10/2094) of patients, respectively. 
Two patients (< 0.1%) had a fatal outcome. Median time to onset was 2.5 months (range: 0.0-34.8). 
Resolution occurred in 97 patients (75.8%) with a median time to resolution of 6.3 weeks 
(range: 0.1-172.1+). 
Immune-related endocrinopathy 
In the ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy group, hypopituitarism of any severity was reported in 4% of 
patients. Adrenal insufficiency, hyperthyroidism, and hypothyroidism of any severity were each 
reported in 2% of patients. The frequency of severe (Grade 3 or 4) hypopituitarism was reported in 3% 
of patients. Time to onset of moderate to very severe (Grade 2 to 4) immune-related endocrinopathy 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ranged from 7 to nearly 20 weeks from the start of treatment. Immune-related endocrinopathy 
observed in clinical trials was generally controlled with hormone replacement therapy. 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of thyroid disorders was 22.9% (479/2094). Grade 2 and Grade 3 thyroid disorders were 
reported in 12.5% (261/2094) and 1.0% (21/2094) of patients, respectively. 
Grade 2 and Grade 3 hypophysitis (including lymphocytic hypophysitis) occurred in 2.0% (42/2094) 
and 1.6% (33/2094) of patients, respectively. Grade 2 and Grade 3 hypopituitarism occurred in 0.8% 
(16/2094) and 0.5% (11/2094) of patients, respectively. Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 adrenal 
insufficiency (including secondary adrenocortical insufficiency) occurred in 2.3% (49/2094), 1.5% 
(32/2094) and 0.2% (4/2094) of patients, respectively. Grade 1, Grade 2, Grade 3, and Grade 4 
diabetes mellitus occurred in 0.1% (1/2094), 0.2% (4/2094), < 0.1% (1/2094), and 0.1 (3/2094) of 
patients, respectively and Grade 4 diabetic ketoacidosis was reported in < 0.1% (2/2094) of patients. 
Median time to onset of these endocrinopathies was 2.1 months (range: 0.0-28.1). Resolution occurred 
in 201 patients (40.7%). Time to resolution ranged from 0.3 to 257.1+ weeks. 
Infusion reactions 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the incidence of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions was 4.9% (103/2094). Grade 1, Grade 2, Grade 3, 
and Grade 4 cases were reported in 2.1% (44/2094), 2.5% (53/2094), 0.2% (5/2094), and < 0.1% 
(1/2094) of patients, respectively. Among patients with MPM treated with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg in 
combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg, the incidence of hypersensitivity/infusion reactions was 12%. 
Immunogenicity 
Less than 2% of patients with advanced melanoma who received ipilimumab in Phase 2 and 3 clinical 
trials developed antibodies against ipilimumab. None had any infusion-related or peri-infusional 
hypersensitivity or anaphylactic reactions. Neutralising antibodies against ipilimumab were not 
detected. Overall, no apparent association was observed between antibody development and adverse 
reactions. 
Of the patients who were treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and evaluable for 
the presence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies, the incidence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies ranged 
from 6.3 to 13.7%. Neutralising antibodies against ipilimumab ranged from 0 to 0.4%. Of the patients 
who were treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy and evaluable 
for the presence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies or neutralising antibodies against ipilimumab, the 
incidence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies was 7.5% and neutralising antibodies against ipilimumab 
was 1.6%. Of patients evaluable for the presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies, the incidence of anti-
nivolumab antibodies was 26% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks, 
24.9% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks, 37.8% with 
nivolumab 1 mg/kg and ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks, and 33.8% with nivolumab 360 mg every 
3 weeks in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks and chemotherapy. The incidence of 
neutralising antibodies against nivolumab was 0.8% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg 
every 3 weeks, 1.5% with nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks and ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks, 
4.6% with nivolumab 1 mg/kg and ipilimumab 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks and 2.6% with nivolumab 
360 mg every 3 weeks in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks and chemotherapy. 
When administered in combination with nivolumab, the CL of ipilimumab was unchanged in the 
presence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies and there was no evidence of altered toxicity profile. 
Laboratory abnormalities 
In patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (with or without chemotherapy), 
the proportion of patients who experienced a worsening from baseline to a Grade 3 or 4 laboratory 
abnormality was as follows: 4.9% for anaemia, 1.5% for thrombocytopaenia, 2.3% for leucopoenia, 
7.3% for lymphopaenia, 3.4% for neutropaenia, 2.9% for increased alkaline phosphatase, 7.3% for 
increased AST, 8.4% for increased ALT, 1.2% for increased total bilirubin, 1.6% for increased 
creatinine, 5.8% for hyperglycaemia, 8.4% for increased amylase, 16.7% for increased lipase, 
0.8% for hypocalcaemia, 0.2% for hypernatraemia, 1.0% for hypercalcaemia, 1.9% for hyperkalaemia, 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.5% for hypermagnesaemia, 3.4% for hypokalaemia, and 9.8% for hyponatraemia. Among patients 
treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 1 mg/kg, a higher proportion of 
patients experienced a worsening from baseline to a Grade 3 or 4 increased ALT (15.3%). 
Paediatric population 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
No new adverse drug reactions were reported in adolescents 12 years of age and older. 
In study CA184070, no immune-related adverse reactions (irAR) ≥ Grade 3 were reported for the 
single patient 12 years of age and older who was treated with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg. Two (25.0%) of 
8 patients treated with 5 mg/kg and 1 (11.1%) of 9 patients treated with 10 mg/kg reported 
Grade 3-4 events. None of the events were fatal. The types of irARs were consistent with the adult 
experience, with the most commonly reported irARs across all groups in the categories of 
gastrointestinal (0 [3 mg/kg], 62.5% [5 mg/kg], and 44.4% [10 mg/kg]), hepatic function (0 [3 mg/kg], 
75.0% [5 mg/kg], 33.3% [10 mg/kg]), and skin (0 [3 mg/kg], 25.0% [5 mg/kg], 33.3% [10 mg/kg]) 
events. No new or unexpected irARs were observed in this study. No differences in the spectrum of 
irARs reported in adults and the paediatric population were evident. 
In study CA184178, no new or unexpected irARs were observed, and the observed irARs were similar 
in frequency, intensity and organ site to what has been reported in adult studies. Two patients in the 
10 mg/kg group experienced a Grade 1 and Grade 3 on-study endocrine irAR of hyperglycemia. No 
other endocrine abnormalities were reported. 
A summary of adverse events in adolescents 12 years of age and older, as well as adults, is presented 
in Table 7. 
Table 7: 
Summary of adverse events after up to four doses of 3, 5 and 10 mg/kg, all 
treated patients 
Number of patients (%) 
Age ≥ 12 to 21 years 
Age 12 to < 18 years 
Adults 
Advanced melanoma and non-
melanoma solid tumours 
Advanced melanoma 
Advanced melanoma 
CA184070 
CA184178 
CA184004/
022 pooled 
CA184004/
007/008/022 
pooled 
3 mg/kg 
n = 1 
5 mg/kg 
n = 8 
10 mg/kg 
n = 9 
3 mg/kg 
n = 4 
10 mg/kg 
n = 8 
3 mg/kg 
n = 111 
10 mg/kg 
n = 325 
All deaths, n (%) 
1 (100.0) 
4 (50.0) 
2 (22.2) 
2 (50.0) 
3 (37.5) 
26 (23.4) 
71 (21.8) 
Treatment-related deaths, 
n (%) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (1.8) 
6 (1.8) 
SAEs, n (%) 
1 (100.0) 
7 ( 87.5) 
4 ( 44.4) 
1 (25.0) 
6 (75.0) 
50 (45.0) 
168 (51.7) 
SAEs, drug-related, n (%) 
1 (100.0) 
5 ( 62.5) 
4 ( 44.4) 
1 (25.0) 
5 (62.5) 
19 (17.1) 
95 (29.2) 
AEs leading to study drug 
discontinuation, n (%) 
Drug-related AEs leading 
to study drug 
discontinuation, n (%) 
0 
0 
3 ( 37.5) 
2 ( 22.2) 
1 (25.0) 
5 (62.5) 
12 (10.8) 
88 (27.1) 
3 ( 37.5) 
2 ( 22.2) 
1 (25.0) 
5 (62.5) 
9 (8.1) 
61 (18.8) 
irAEs, n (%) 
1 (100.0) 
7 ( 87.5) 
7 ( 77.8) 
2 (50.0) 
4 (50.0) 
68 (61.3) 
234 (72.0) 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of patients (%) 
Age ≥ 12 to 21 years 
Age 12 to < 18 years 
Adults 
Advanced melanoma and non-
melanoma solid tumours 
Advanced melanoma 
Advanced melanoma 
CA184070 
CA184178 
CA184004/
022 pooled 
CA184004/
007/008/022 
pooled 
3 mg/kg 
n = 1 
5 mg/kg 
n = 8 
10 mg/kg 
n = 9 
3 mg/kg 
n = 4 
10 mg/kg 
n = 8 
3 mg/kg 
n = 111 
10 mg/kg 
n = 325 
AE, n (%) 
1 (100.0) 
8 (100.0) 
9 (100.0) 
4 (100.0) 
8 (100.0) 
108 (97.3) 
315 (96.9) 
Drug-related AEs, n (%) 
1 (100.0) 
7 ( 87.5) 
9 (100.0) 
2 (50.0) 
7 (87.5) 
88 (79.3) 
274 (84.3) 
MedDRA v.17.0 for CA184070, v.19.0 for CA184178, and V.12.1 for adult safety pool. NA = not assessed 
For adults, deaths reported in this table are within 70 days of the last dose, regardless of relationship. Deaths for 
paediatric patients are those with on-study events within 30 days of the last dose, except for “all deaths,” which were 
>30 days after the last dose. In CA184178, deaths were reported at least 90 days of the last dose. 
Attribution to ipilimumab reported as possible, probable, definite, or missing for CA184178 and adult safety pool, 
and related or missing for CA184070. 
Abbreviations: SAEs = serious adverse events; AEs = adverse events; irAEs = immune-related adverse events 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
The safety of ipilimumab (1 mg/kg every 3 weeks) in combination with nivolumab (1 mg/kg or 
3 mg/kg for the first 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 3 mg/kg as monotherapy every 2 weeks) was 
evaluated in 33 paediatric patients aged ≥ 1 year to < 18 years (including 20 patients 12 to < 18 years) 
with recurrent or refractory solid or haematological tumours, including advanced melanoma, in 
clinical study CA209070. The safety profile in paediatric patients was generally similar to that seen in 
adults treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab. No new safety signals were observed. 
The most common adverse reactions (reported in at least 20% of paediatric patients) for ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab were fatigue (33.3%) and rash maculo-papular (21.2%). The majority of 
adverse reactions reported for ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab were of Grades 1 or 2 in 
severity. Ten patients (30%) had one or more Grades 3 to 4 adverse reactions. 
No new safety signals were observed in clinical study CA209908 of 74 paediatric patients with 
high-grade primary central nervous system (CNS) malignancies (see section 5.1) relative to data 
available in adult studies across indications. 
Elderly 
In MPM patients, there was a higher rate of serious adverse reactions and discontinuation rate due to 
adverse reactions in patients 75 years of age or older (68% and 35%, respectively) relative to all 
patients who received ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (54% and 28%, respectively). Data 
from dMMR or MSI-H CRC patients 75 years of age or older are limited (see section 5.1). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
The maximum tolerated dose of ipilimumab has not been determined. In clinical trials, patients 
received up to 20 mg/kg without apparent toxic effects. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In case of overdose, patients must be closely monitored for signs or symptoms of adverse reactions, 
and appropriate symptomatic treatment instituted. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antineoplastic agents, monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug 
conjugates, other monoclonal antibodies and antibody drug conjugates, ATC code: L01FX04. 
Mechanism of action 
Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) is a key regulator of T-cell activity. Ipilimumab is 
a CTLA-4 immune checkpoint inhibitor that blocks T-cell inhibitory signals induced by the CTLA-4 
pathway, increasing the number of reactive T-effector cells which mobilize to mount a direct T-cell 
immune attack against tumour cells. CTLA-4 blockade can also reduce T-regulatory cell function, 
which may contribute to an anti-tumour immune response. Ipilimumab may selectively deplete 
T-regulatory cells at the tumour site, leading to an increase in the intratumoural T-effector/ 
T-regulatory cell ratio which drives tumour cell death. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
In patients with melanoma who received ipilimumab, the mean peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte 
counts (ALC) increased throughout the induction dosing period. In Phase 2 studies, this increase was 
dose-dependent. In MDX010-20 (see section 5.1), ipilimumab at 3 mg/kg with or without 
gp100 increased ALC throughout the induction dosing period, but no meaningful change in ALC was 
observed in the control group of patients who received an investigational gp100 peptide vaccine alone. 
In peripheral blood of patients with melanoma, a mean increase in the percent of activated HLA-DR+ 
CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was observed after treatment with ipilimumab, consistent with its mechanism 
of action. A mean increase in the percent of central memory (CCR7+ CD45RA-) CD4+ and CD8+ T 
cells and a smaller, but significant, mean increase in the percent of effector memory 
(CCR7- CD45RA-) CD8+ T cells also was observed after treatment with ipilimumab. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
For additional information on clinical efficacy and safety associated with the dosing recommendations 
of nivolumab when administered as monotherapy following combination therapy with ipilimumab, 
please refer to the nivolumab SmPC. 
Based on modelling of dose/exposure efficacy and safety relationships, there are no clinically 
significant differences in efficacy and safety between a nivolumab dose of 240 mg every 2 weeks or 
3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Additionally, based on these relationships, there were no clinically significant 
differences between a nivolumab dose of 480 mg every 4 weeks or 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks in 
advanced melanoma and RCC. 
Clinical trials with ipilimumab monotherapy 
Melanoma 
Overall survival (OS) advantage of ipilimumab at the recommended dose of 3 mg/kg in patients with 
previously-treated advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma was demonstrated in a 
Phase 3 study (MDX010-20). Patients with ocular melanoma, primary CNS melanoma, active brain 
metastases, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B, and hepatitis C were not included in 
the MDX010-20 clinical trial. Clinical trials excluded patients with ECOG performance status > 1 and 
mucosal melanoma. Patients without liver metastasis who had a baseline AST > 2.5 x ULN, patients 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with liver metastasis who had a baseline AST > 5 x ULN, and patients with a baseline total 
bilirubin ≥ 3 x ULN were also excluded. 
For patients with a history of autoimmune disease, see also section 4.4. 
MDX010-20 
A Phase 3, double-blind study enrolled patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma 
who had previously been treated with regimens containing one or more of the following: IL-2, 
dacarbazine, temozolomide, fotemustine, or carboplatin. Patients were randomized in a 3:1:1 ratio to 
receive ipilimumab 3 mg/kg + an investigational gp100 peptide vaccine (gp100), ipilimumab 3 mg/kg 
monotherapy, or gp100 alone. All patients were HLA-A2*0201 type; this HLA type supports the 
immune presentation of gp100. Patients were enrolled regardless of their baseline BRAF mutation 
status. Patients received ipilimumab every 3 weeks for 4 doses as tolerated (induction therapy). 
Patients with apparent tumour burden increase before completion of the induction period were 
continued on induction therapy as tolerated if they had adequate performance status. Assessment of 
tumour response to ipilimumab was conducted at approximately Week 12, after completion of 
induction therapy. 
Additional treatment with ipilimumab (re-treatment) was offered to those who developed PD after 
initial clinical response (PR or CR) or after SD (per the modified WHO criteria) > 3 months from the 
first tumour assessment. The primary endpoint was OS in the ipilimumab+ gp100 group vs. the 
gp100 group. Key secondary endpoints were OS in the ipilimumab+ gp100 group vs. the ipilimumab 
monotherapy group and in the ipilimumab monotherapy group vs. the gp100 group. 
A total of 676 patients were randomized: 137 to the ipilimumab monotherapy group, 403 to the 
ipilimumab + gp100 group, and 136 to the gp100 alone group. The majority had received all 4 doses 
during induction. Thirty-two patients received re-treatment: 8 in the ipilimumab monotherapy 
group, 23 in the ipilimumab + gp100 group, and 1 in the gp100 group. Duration of follow-up ranged 
up to 55 months. Baseline characteristics were well balanced across groups. The median age 
was 57 years. The majority (71-73%) of patients had M1c stage disease and 37-40% of patients had an 
elevated lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) at baseline. A total of 77 patients had a history of previously 
treated brain metastases. 
The ipilimumab-containing regimens demonstrated a statistically significant advantage over the 
gp100 control group in OS. The hazard ratio (HR) for comparison of OS between ipilimumab 
monotherapy and gp100 was 0.66 (95% CI: 0.51, 0.87; p = 0.0026). 
By subgroup analysis, the observed OS benefit was consistent within most of the subgroups of patients 
(M [metastases]-stage, prior interleukin-2, baseline LDH, age, sex, and the type and number of prior 
therapy). However, for women above 50 years of age, the data supporting an OS benefit of ipilimumab 
treatment were limited. As the subgroups analysis includes only small numbers of patients, no 
definitive conclusions can be drawn from these data. 
Median and estimated rates of OS at 1 year and 2 years are presented in Table 8. 
Table 8: 
Overall survival in MDX010-20 
Median Months (95% CI) 
OS at 1 year % (95% CI) 
OS at 2 years % (95% CI) 
a 
gp100 peptide vaccine is an experimental control. 
Ipilimumab 3 mg/kg 
n = 137 
10 months 
(8.0, 13.8) 
46% (37.0, 54.1) 
24% (16.0, 31.5) 
gp100a 
n = 136 
6 months 
(5.5, 8.7) 
25% (18.1, 32.9) 
14% (8.0, 20.0) 
In the ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy group, median OS was 22 months and 8 months for patients 
with SD and those with PD, respectively. At the time of this analysis, medians were not reached for 
patients with CR or PR. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients who required re-treatment, the BORR was 38% (3/8 patients) in the ipilimumab 
monotherapy group, and 0% in the gp100 group. The disease control rate (DCR) (defined as 
CR+PR+SD) was 75% (6/8 patients) and 0%, respectively. Because of the limited number of patients 
in these analyses, no definitive conclusion regarding the efficacy of ipilimumab re-treatment can be 
drawn. 
The development or maintenance of clinical activity following ipilimumab treatment was similar with 
or without the use of systemic corticosteroids. 
CA184-169 
A Phase 3, double-blind study enrolled patients with previously treated or untreated unresectable 
Stage III or Stage IV melanoma. A total of 727 patients were randomized, 362 to receive ipilimumab 
3 mg/kg and 365 to receive ipilimumab 10 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses. In the ipilimumab 
10 mg/kg group, the median OS (95% CI) was 16 months (11.63, 17.84) and in the ipilimumab 
3 mg/kg group the median OS (95% CI) was 12 months (9.86, 13.27). Overall survival compared 
between Ipilimumab 10 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg groups showed HR = 0.84 (95% CI: 0.70, 0.99; 
P-value = 0.04). No statistically significant difference in progression free survival (PFS) was observed 
between the 10 mg/kg and the 3 mg/kg groups. (HR 0.89 with a 95% CI of 0.76, 1.04 and log-rank test 
P-value = 0.1548). BORR was similar in the 10 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg groups. BORR in the 10 mg/kg 
group was 15.3% (95% CI: 11.8, 19.5) and in the 3 mg/kg group was 12.2% (95% CI: 9.0, 16.0). 
Ipilimumab 10 mg/kg was associated with higher rates of adverse events compared with the 3 mg/kg 
dose. The frequencies of serious adverse reactions in the 10 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg groups were 37% and 
18%, with the 3 most common serious adverse reactions being diarrhea (10.7% vs 5.5%), colitis 
(8.0% vs 3.0%), and hypophysitis (4.4% vs 1.9%). Adverse events leading to discontinuation in the 
10 mg/kg and 3 mg/kg groups occurred in 31% and 19% of patients, with AEs leading to death in 
4 and 2 patients, respectively. 
At the recommended dose of 3 mg/kg median OS was similar in the subgroup of females ≥ 50 years of 
age compared to the overall population (11.40 vs 11.53 months). Median OS in the subgroup with 
brain metastases at baseline was 5.67 months at the recommended dose of 3 mg/kg. 
Other studies with ipilimumab monotherapy 
Melanoma 
CA184332 and CA184338 
OS of ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy in chemotherapy-naive patients pooled across Phase 2 
and 3 clinical trials (N = 78; randomised) and in treatment-naive patients in two retrospective 
observational studies (N = 273 and N = 157) were generally consistent. In the two observational 
studies, 12.1% and 33.1% of the patients had brain metastases at the time of advanced melanoma 
diagnosis. Median OS and estimated 1-year, 2-year, 3-year and 4-year survival rates are presented in 
Table 9. The estimated 1-year, 2-year and 3-year survival rates for chemotherapy-naive patients 
(N = 78) pooled across Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials were 54.1% (95% CI: 42.5 - 65.6), 31.6% 
(95% CI: 20.7 - 42.9) and 23.7% (95% CI: 14.3 - 34.4) respectively. 
Table 9: 
Median OS (95% CI) 
Overall survival in observational studies 
CA184338 
n = 273 
14 months 
(12.8-18.7) 
59% (52.5-64.3) 
39% (33.1-44.8) 
31% (25.5-36.7) 
26% (20.4-31.3) 
OS at 1 year % (95% CI) 
OS at 2 years % (95% CI) 
OS at 3 years % (95% CI) 
OS at 4 years % (95% CI) 
CA184332 
n = 157 
10 months 
(7.0-12.8) 
44% (35.5, 51.4) 
26% (18.9-33.3) 
22% (15.5-29.2) 
22% (15.5-29.2) 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with brain metastases in study CA184332 had a median OS of 7 months (95% 
CI: 5.06 - 12.81) and patients without brain metastases had a median OS of 14.1 months (95% 
CI: 9.96-Not estimated). 
Patients with brain metastases in study CA184338 had a median OS of 6.3 months (95% 
CI: 3.2 - 12.0) and patients without brain metastases had a median OS of 17.7 months (95% 
CI: 13.6 - 12.1). 
Long term survival benefit of treatment with ipilimumab (at 3 mg/kg) is demonstrated through a 
pooled analysis of OS data from clinical trials in patients with previously treated and treatment naive 
advanced melanoma (N = 965). The Kaplan-Meier OS curve revealed a plateau beginning around 
year 3 (OS rate = 21% [95% CI: 17-24]) that extended up to 10 years in some patients (see Figure 1). 
Figure 1: 
Overall survival with ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in pooled analysis 
3.0 mg/kg 
)
n
o
i
t
r
o
p
o
r
p
(
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
l
l
a
r
e
v
O
No. at Risk 
3.0 mg/kg 
965 
429 
127 
73 
41 
29 
28 
12 
8 
4 
0 
Time (months) 
Clinical trials with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Melanoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab or nivolumab as 
monotherapy vs. ipilimumab as monotherapy (CA209067) 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab 3 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 1 mg/kg nivolumab 
3 mg/kg vs. ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, double-blind study (CA209067). The 
differences between the two nivolumab-containing groups were evaluated descriptively. The study 
included adult patients with confirmed unresectable Stage III or Stage IV melanoma. Patients were to 
have ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1. Patients who had not received prior systemic 
anticancer therapy for unresectable or metastatic melanoma were enrolled. Prior adjuvant or 
neoadjuvant therapy was allowed if it was completed at least 6 weeks prior to randomisation. Patients 
with active autoimmune disease, ocular/uveal melanoma, or active brain or leptomeningeal metastases 
were excluded from the study. 
A total of 945 patients were randomised to receive ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
(n = 314), nivolumab monotherapy (n = 316), or ipilimumab monotherapy (n = 315). Patients in the 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
combination arm received nivolumab 1 mg/kg over 60 minutes and ipilimumab 3 mg/kg over 
90 minutes administered intravenously every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 
3 mg/kg as monotherapy every 2 weeks. Patients in the nivolumab monotherapy arm received 
nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Patients in the comparator arm received ipilimumab 3 mg/kg and 
nivolumab-matched placebo intravenously every 3 weeks for 4 doses followed by placebo every 
2 weeks. Randomisation was stratified by PD-L1 expression (≥ 5% vs. < 5% tumour cell membrane 
expression), BRAF status, and M stage per the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging 
system. Treatment was continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no 
longer tolerated. Tumour assessments were conducted 12 weeks after randomisation then every 
6 weeks for the first year, and every 12 weeks thereafter. The primary outcome measures were 
progression-free survival and OS. ORR and the duration of response were also assessed. 
Baseline characteristics were balanced across the three treatment groups. The median age was 61 years 
(range: 18 to 90 years), 65% of patients were men, and 97% were white. ECOG performance status 
score was 0 (73%) or 1 (27%). The majority of the patients had AJCC Stage IV disease (93%); 58% 
had M1c disease at study entry. Twenty-two percent of patients had received prior adjuvant therapy. 
Thirty-two percent of patients had BRAF mutation-positive melanoma; 26.5% of patients had PD-L1 
≥ 5% tumour cell membrane expression. Four percent of patients had a history of brain metastasis, and 
36% of patients had a baseline LDH level greater than ULN at study entry. Among patients with 
quantifiable tumour PD-L1 expression, the distribution of patients was balanced across the three 
treatment groups. Tumour PD-L1 expression was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx 
assay. 
At primary analysis (minimum follow-up 9 months) the median PFS was 6.9 months in the nivolumab 
group as compared with 2.9 months in the ipilimumab group (HR = 0.57, 99.5% CI: 0.43, 0.76; 
p < 0.0001). The median PFS was 11.5 months in the ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
group, as compared with 2.9 months in the ipilimumab group (HR = 0.42, 99.5% CI: 0.31, 0.57; 
p < 0.0001). 
PFS results from descriptive analysis (with minimum follow up of 90 months) are shown in Figure 2 
(all randomised population), Figure 3 (at the tumour PD-L1 5% cut off), and Figure 4 (at the tumour 
PD-L1 1% cut off). 
36 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: 
Progression-free survival (CA209067) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
138 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
314 
126 
175 
Nivolumab 
316 
151 
Ipilimumab 
78 
315 
106 
120 
34 
46 
Progression-free survival per investigator (months) 
112 
103 
99 
97 
31 
84 
28 
78 
21 
93 
73 
18 
87 
69 
16 
84 
66 
15 
78 
62 
12 
76 
57 
11 
70 
54 
10 
66 
50 
9 
57 
44 
9 
33 
21 
7 
1 
0 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 189/314), median and 95% CI: 11.50 (8.90, 20.04). 
PFS rate at 12 months and 95% CI: 49% (44, 55), PFS rate at 60 months and 95% CI: 36% (32, 42), PFS rate at 90 months 
and 95% CI: 33% (27, 39) 
Nivolumab (events: 208/316), median and 95% CI: 6.93 (5.13, 10.18). 
PFS rate at 12 months and 95% CI: 42% (36, 47), PFS rate at 60 months and 95% CI: 29% (24, 35), PFS rate at 90 months 
and 95% CI: 27% (22, 33) 
Ipilimumab (events: 261/315), median and 95% CI: 2.86 (2.79, 3.09). 
PFS rate at 12 months and 95% CI: 18% (14, 23), PFS rate at 60 months and 95% CI: 8% (5, 12), PFS rate at 90 months and 
95% CI: 7% (4, 11) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.42 (0.35, 0.51); 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.53 (0.44, 0.64); 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.79 (0.65, 0.97) 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: 
Progression-free survival by PD-L1 expression: 5% cut off (CA209067) 
PD-L1 expression < 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
87 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
78 
113 
210 
Nivolumab 
208 
91 
Ipilimumab 
45 
202 
66 
19 
26 
73 
Progression-free survival (months) 
71 
60 
18 
64 
51 
16 
60 
49 
14 
56 
46 
13 
54 
42 
11 
52 
40 
10 
50 
38 
7 
49 
33 
6 
45 
31 
5 
43 
29 
4 
39 
27 
4 
22 
12 
3 
0 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 127/210), median and 95% CI: 11.17 (7.98, 17.51) 
Nivolumab (events: 139/208), median and 95% CI: 5.39 (2.96, 7.13) 
Ipilimumab (events: 171/202), median and 95% CI: 2.79 (2.76, 3.02) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.42 (0.33, 0.53) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.54 (0.43, 0.68) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.77 (0.61, 0.98) 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
37 
45 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
68 
35 
Nivolumab 
80 
Ipilimumab 
75 
52 
21 
36 
14 
10 
41 
Progression-free survival (months) 
30 
33 
10 
29 
29 
9 
29 
26 
5 
27 
24 
5 
24 
24 
5 
23 
23 
5 
20 
21 
5 
19 
21 
5 
17 
20 
5 
15 
18 
5 
13 
14 
5 
8 
7 
4 
1 
0 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 36/68), median and 95% CI: 22.11 (9.72, 82.07) 
Nivolumab (events: 48/80), median and 95% CI: 22.34 (9.46, 39.13) 
Ipilimumab (events: 60/75), median and 95% CI: 3.94 (2.79, 4.21) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.38 (0.25, 0.58) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.43 (0.29, 0.64) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.89 (0.58, 1.35) 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
Progression-free survival by PD-L1 expression: 1% cut off (CA209067) 
PD-L1 expression < 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
51 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
46 
65 
123 
Nivolumab 
117 
44 
Ipilimumab 
113 
33 
20 
12 
35 
9 
Progression-free survival (months) 
41 
30 
9 
38 
26 
7 
36 
24 
5 
33 
21 
5 
31 
19 
3 
29 
17 
3 
29 
15 
3 
28 
11 
2 
25 
11 
1 
24 
21 
13 
9 
0 
9 
0 
5 
0 
0 
0 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 76/123), median and 95% CI: 11.17 (6.93, 22.18) 
Nivolumab (events: 85/117), median and 95% CI: 2.83 (2.76, 5.62) 
Ipilimumab (events: 94/113), median and 95% CI: 2.73 (2.66, 2.83) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.39 (0.28, 0.53) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.59 (0.44, 0.79) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.66 (0.48, 0.90) 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
e
e
r
f
-
n
o
i
s
s
e
r
g
o
r
p
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
73 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
155 
67 
93 
Nivolumab 
171 
99 
Ipilimumab 
164 
28 
79 
20 
69 
46 
Progression-free survival (months) 
60 
63 
19 
55 
54 
18 
53 
51 
14 
50 
49 
13 
47 
47 
13 
46 
46 
12 
41 
44 
9 
40 
43 
9 
37 
40 
9 
34 
38 
9 
31 
32 
9 
17 
14 
7 
1 
0 
1 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 90/155), median and 95% CI: 16.13 (8.90, 45.08) 
Nivolumab (events: 102/171), median and 95% CI: 16.20 (8.11, 27.60) 
Ipilimumab (events: 137/164), median and 95% CI: 3.48 (2.83, 4.17) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.42 (0.32, 0.55) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.45 (0.35, 0.59) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - hazard ratio and 95% CI: 0.92 (0.69, 1.22) 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The final (primary) OS analysis occurred when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 28 months. 
At 28 months, median OS was not reached in the nivolumab group as compared with 19.98 months in 
the ipilimumab group (HR = 0.63, 98% CI: 0.48, 0.81; p-value: < 0.0001). Median OS was not 
reached in the ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab group as compared with the ipilimumab 
group (HR = 0.55, 98% CI: 0.42, 0.72; p-value: < 0.0001). 
OS results at an additional descriptive analysis undertaken at a minimum follow-up of 90 months 
show outcomes consistent with the original primary analysis. OS results from this follow-up analysis 
are shown in Figure 5 (all randomised), Figure 6 and 7 (at the tumour PD-L1 5% and 1% cut off). 
The OS analysis was not adjusted to account for subsequent therapies received. Subsequent systemic 
therapy was received by 36.0%, 49.1%, and 66.3% of patients in the combination, nivolumab 
monotherapy, and ipilimumab arms, respectively. Subsequent immunotherapy (including anti-PD1 
therapy, anti-CTLA-4 antibody, or other immunotherapy) was received by 19.1%, 34.2%, and 48.3% 
of patients in the combination, nivolumab monotherapy, and ipilimumab arms, respectively. 
Figure 5 
Overall survival (CA209067) - Minimum follow-up of 90 months 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
227 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
265 
314 
Nivolumab 
316 
266 
Ipilimumab 
253 
315 
163 
201 
210 
231 
203 
Overall survival (months) 
199 
187 
179 
169 
163 
158 
156 
153 
147 
144 
141 
129 
181 
171 
158 
145 
141 
137 
134 
130 
126 
123 
120 
107 
135 
113 
100 
94 
87 
81 
75 
68 
64 
63 
63 
57 
7 
4 
5 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 162/314), median and 95% CI: 72.08 (38.18, N.A.) 
OS rate and 95% CI at 12 months: 73% (68, 78), 24 months: 64% (59, 69), 36 months: 58% (52, 63), 60 months: 52% (46, 
57), and 90 months: 48% (42, 53) 
Nivolumab (events: 182/316), median and 95% CI: 36.93 months (28.25, 58.71) 
OS rate and 95% CI at 12 months: 74% (69, 79), 24 months: 59% (53, 64), 36 months: 52% (46, 57), 60 months: 44% (39, 
50), and 90 months: 42% (36, 47) 
Ipilimumab (events: 235/315), median and 95% CI: 19.94 months (16.85, 24.61) 
OS rate and 95% CI at 12 months: 67% (61, 72), 24 months: 45% (39, 50), 36 months: 34% (29, 39), 60 months: 26% (22, 
31), and 90 months: 22% (18, 27) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.53 (0.44, 0.65) 
Nivolumab vs ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.63 (0.52, 0.77) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.84 (0.68, 1.04) 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: 
Overall survival by PD-L1 expression: 5% cut off (CA209067) - Minimum 
follow-up of 90 months 
PD-L1 expression < 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
146 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
210 
178 
Nivolumab 
208 
169 
Ipilimumab 
158 
202 
124 
123 
144 
139 
99 
Overall survival (months) 
130 
123 
116 
109 
106 
104 
102 
100 
98 
112 
108 
102 
92 
80 
69 
59 
57 
90 
55 
88 
50 
86 
46 
84 
41 
83 
39 
96 
80 
38 
96 
79 
38 
88 
70 
33 
6 
3 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 109/210), median and 95% CI: 65.94 (32.72, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 121/208), median and 95% CI: 35.94 months (23.06, 60.91) 
Ipilimumab (events: 157/202), median and 95% CI: 18.40 months (13.70, 22.51) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.51 (0.40, 0.66) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.62 (0.49, 0.79) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.83 (0.64, 1.07) 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 5% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
52 
56 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
68 
45 
Nivolumab 
80 
Ipilimumab 
75 
66 
76 
46 
61 
60 
69 
Overall survival (months) 
45 
57 
40 
43 
53 
34 
43 
47 
32 
41 
44 
29 
40 
43 
25 
37 
41 
24 
37 
41 
22 
36 
40 
20 
33 
38 
19 
32 
38 
19 
30 
36 
19 
27 
33 
18 
1 
1 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 33/68), median and 95% CI: N.A. (39.06, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 41/80), median and 95% CI: 64.28 months (33.64, N.A.) 
Ipilimumab (events: 51/75), median and 95% CI: 28.88 months (18.10, 44.16) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.61 (0.39, 0.94) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.61 (0.41, 0.93) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.99 (0.63, 1.57) 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: 
Overall survival by PD-L1 expression: 1% cut off (CA209067) - Minimum 
follow-up of 90 months 
PD-L1 expression < 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
82 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
123 
79 
102 
Nivolumab 
117 
86 
Ipilimumab 
113 
71 
87 
57 
73 
62 
Overall survival (months) 
74 
57 
44 
70 
53 
36 
65 
49 
33 
63 
43 
32 
62 
43 
31 
62 
42 
28 
62 
41 
27 
60 
41 
22 
59 
40 
22 
57 
38 
22 
56 
37 
22 
50 
33 
18 
5 
2 
0 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 66/123), median and 95% CI: 61.44 (26.45, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 76/117), median and 95% CI: 23.46 months (13.01, 36.53) 
Ipilimumab (events: 87/113), median and 95% CI: 18.56 months (13.67, 23.20) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.55 (0.40, 0.76) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.77 (0.57, 1.05) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 0.71 (0.51, 0.99) 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
l
l
a
r
e
v
o
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
116 
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab 
155 
105 
132 
Nivolumab 
171 
159 
Ipilimumab 
137 
164 
122 
140 
113 
88 
Overall survival (months) 
101 
96 
94 
87 
112 
108 
100 
93 
76 
67 
58 
54 
84 
90 
49 
79 
87 
46 
79 
86 
41 
77 
83 
39 
74 
81 
36 
72 
80 
35 
70 
78 
35 
65 
70 
33 
2 
2 
4 
- 
- 
- 
- - -- - - 
⎯⎯⎯ 
- - -- - - 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab (events: 76/155), median and 95% CI: 82.30 (39.06, N.A.) 
Nivolumab (events: 86/171), median and 95% CI: 85.09 months (39.00, N.A.) 
Ipilimumab (events: 121/164), median and 95% CI: 21.49 months (16.85, 29.08) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.52 (0.39, 0.70) 
Nivolumab vs. ipilimumab - HR (95% CI): 0.52 (0.39, 0.69) 
Nivolumab+ipilimumab vs. nivolumab - HR (95% CI): 1.01 (0.74, 1.37) 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum follow-up for the analysis of ORR was 90 months. Responses are summarised in 
Table 10. 
Table 10: 
Objective response (CA209067) 
nivolumab + 
ipilimumab 
(n = 314) 
183 (58%) 
(52.6, 63.8) 
nivolumab 
(n = 316) 
142 (45%) 
(39.4, 50.6) 
ipilimumab 
(n = 315) 
60 (19%) 
(14.9, 23.8) 
Objective response 
(95% CI) 
Odds ratio (vs. 
ipilimumab) 
(95% CI) 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Duration of response 
Median (range), months 
Proportion ≥12 months in 
duration 
Proportion ≥24 months in 
duration 
6.35 
3.5 
(4.38, 9.22) 
71 (23%) 
112 (36%) 
38 (12%) 
N.A. 
(69.1-N.A.) 
68% 
58% 
(2.49, 5.16) 
59 (19%) 
83 (26%) 
29 (9%) 
19 (6%) 
41 (13%) 
69 (22%) 
90.8 
(45.7-N.A.) 
19.3 
(8.8-47.4) 
73% 
63% 
44% 
30% 
ORR (95% CI) by tumour PD-L1 expression 
<5% 
≥5% 
<1% 
≥1% 
56% (48.7, 62.5) 
n = 210 
72% (59.9, 82.3) 
n = 68 
54% (44.4, 62.7) 
n = 123 
65% (56.4, 72) 
n = 155 
43% (36, 49.8) 
n = 208 
59% (47.2, 69.6) 
n = 80 
36% (27.2, 45.3) 
n = 117 
55% (47.2, 62.6) 
n = 171 
18% (12.8, 23.8) 
n = 202 
21% (12.7, 32.3) 
n = 75 
18% (11.2, 26.0) 
n = 113 
20% (13.7, 26.4) 
n = 164 
Both nivolumab-containing arms demonstrated a significant PFS and OS benefit and greater ORR 
compared with ipilimumab alone. The observed PFS results at 18 months of follow-up and ORR and 
OS results at 28 months of follow-up were consistently demonstrated across subgroups of patients 
including baseline ECOG performance status, BRAF status, M stage, age, history of brain metastases, 
and baseline LDH level. This observation was maintained with the OS results with a minimum follow-
up of 90 months. 
Among 131 patients who discontinued the combination due to adverse reaction after 28 months of 
follow-up, the ORR was 71% (93/131) with 20% (26/131) achieving a complete response and median 
OS was not reached. 
Both nivolumab-containing arms demonstrated greater objective response rates than ipilimumab 
regardless of PD-L1 expression levels. ORRs were higher for the combination of nivolumab and 
ipilimumab relative to nivolumab monotherapy across tumour PD-L1 expression levels (Table 10) 
after 90 months of follow-up, with a best overall response of complete response correlating to an 
improved survival rate. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After 90 months of follow-up, median durations of response for patients with tumour PD-L1 
expression level ≥5% were 78.19 months (range: 18.07-N.A.) in the combination arm, 77.21 months 
(range: 26.25-N.A.) in the nivolumab monotherapy arm and 31.28 months (range: 6.08-N.A.) in the 
ipilimumab arm. At tumour PD-L1 expression <5%, median durations of response were not reached 
(range: 61.93-N.A.) in the combination arm, were 90.84 months (range: 50.43-N.A.) in the nivolumab 
monotherapy arm and 19.25 months (range: 5.32-47.44) in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm. 
No clear cut off for PD-L1 expression can reliably be established when considering the relevant 
endpoints of tumour response and PFS and OS. Results from exploratory multivariate analyses 
identified patient and tumour characteristics (ECOG performance status, M stage, baseline LDH, 
BRAF mutation status, PD-L1 status, and gender) which might contribute to the survival outcome. 
Efficacy by BRAF status: 
After 90 months of follow-up, BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients 
randomised to ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab had a median PFS of 16.76 months 
(95% CI: 8.28, 32.0) and 11.17 months (95% CI: 7.0, 19.32), while those in the nivolumab 
monotherapy arm had a median PFS of 5.62 months (95% CI: 2.79, 9.46) and 8.18 months 
(95% CI: 5.13, 19.55), respectively. BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients 
randomised to ipilimumab monotherapy had a median PFS of 3.09 months (95% CI: 2.79, 5.19) and 
2.83 months (95% CI: 2.76, 3.06), respectively. 
After 90 months of follow-up, BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients 
randomised to ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab had an ORR of 67.0% (95% CI: 57.0, 75.9; 
n = 103) and 54.0% (95% CI: 47.1, 60.9; n = 211), while those in the nivolumab monotherapy arm had 
an ORR of 37.87% (95% CI: 28.2, 48.1; n = 98) and 48.2% (95% CI: 41.4, 55.0; n = 218), 
respectively. BRAF[V600] mutation-positive and BRAF wild-type patients randomised to ipilimumab 
monotherapy had an ORR of 23.0% (95% CI: 15.2, 32.5; n = 100) and 17.2% (95% CI: 12.4, 22.9; 
n = 215). 
After 90 months of follow-up, in BRAF [V600] mutation-positive patients median OS was not reached 
in the combination arm and 45.5 months in the nivolumab monotherapy arm. Median OS for BRAF 
[V600] mutation-positive patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm was 24.6 months. In BRAF 
wild-type patients median OS was 39.06 months in the combination arm, 34.37 months in the 
nivolumab monotherapy arm, and 18.5 months in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm. The OS HRs for 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab vs. nivolumab monotherapy were 0.66 
(95% CI: 0.44, 0.98) for BRAF[V600] mutation-positive patients and 0.95 (95% CI: 0.74, 1.22) for 
BRAF wild-type patients. 
Randomised phase 2 study of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and ipilimumab (CA209069) 
Study CA209069 was a randomised, Phase 2, double-blind study comparing the combination of 
nivolumab and ipilimumab with ipilimumab alone in 142 patients with advanced (unresectable or 
metastatic) melanoma with similar inclusion criteria to study CA209067 and the primary analysis in 
patients with BRAF wild-type melanoma (77% of patients). Investigator assessed ORR was 
61% (95% CI: 48.9, 72.4) in the combination arm (n = 72) versus 11% (95% CI: 3.0, 25.4) for the 
ipilimumab arm (n = 37). The estimated 2 and 3 year OS rates were 68% (95% CI: 56, 78) and 61% 
(95% CI: 49, 71), respectively, for the combination (n = 73) and 53% (95% CI: 36, 68) and 44% 
(95% CI: 28, 60), respectively, for ipilimumab (n = 37). 
Renal cell carcinoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab vs. sunitinib (CA209214) 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab 1 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg for the 
treatment of advanced/metastatic RCC was evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study 
(CA209214). The study included patients (18 years or older) with previously untreated, advanced or 
metastatic renal cell carcinoma with a clear-cell component. The primary efficacy population included 
those intermediate/poor risk patients with at least 1 or more of 6 prognostic risk factors as per the 
International Metastatic RCC Database Consortium (IMDC) criteria (less than one year from time of 
initial renal cell carcinoma diagnosis to randomisation, Karnofsky performance status < 80%, 
haemoglobin less than the lower limit of normal, corrected calcium of greater than 10 mg/dL, platelet 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
count greater than the upper limit of normal, and absolute neutrophil count greater than the upper limit 
of normal). This study included patients regardless of their tumour PD-L1 status. Patients with 
Karnofsky performance status < 70% and patients with any history of or concurrent brain metastases, 
active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression were 
excluded from the study. Patients were stratified by IMDC prognostic score and region. 
A total of 1096 patients were randomised in the trial, of which 847 patients had intermediate/poor-risk 
RCC and received either ipilimumab 1 mg/kg (n = 425) administered intravenously over 30 minutes in 
combination with nivolumab administered intravenously over 60 minutes every 3 weeks for 4 doses 
followed by nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks or sunitinib (n = 422) 50 mg daily, 
administered orally for 4 weeks followed by 2 weeks off, every cycle. Treatment was continued as 
long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no longer tolerated. The first tumour 
assessments were conducted 12 weeks after randomisation and continued every 6 weeks thereafter for 
the first year and then every 12 weeks until progression or treatment discontinuation, whichever 
occurred later. Treatment beyond initial investigator-assessed RECIST, version 1.1-defined 
progression was permitted if the patient had a clinical benefit and was tolerating study drug as 
determined by the investigator. The primary efficacy outcome measures were OS, ORR and PFS as 
determined by a Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) in intermediate/poor risk patients. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced between the two groups. The median age was 
61 years (range: 21-85) with 38% ≥ 65 years of age and 8% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority of patients 
were male (73%) and white (87%), and 31% and 69% of patients had a baseline KPS of 70 to 80% and 
90 to 100%, respectively. The median duration of time from initial diagnosis to randomisation was 
0.4 years in both the ipilimumab 1 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg and sunitinib 
groups. The median duration of treatment was 7.9 months (range: 1 day-21.4+ months) in ipilimumab 
with nivolumab- treated patients and was 7.8 months (range: 1 days-20.2+ months) in sunitinib-treated 
patients. Ipilimumab with nivolumab was continued beyond progression in 29% of patients. 
Efficacy results for the intermediate/poor risk patients are shown in Table 11 (primary analysis with a 
minimum follow-up of 17.5 months and with a minimum follow-up of 60 months) and in Figure 8 
(minimum follow-up of 60 months). 
OS results at an additional descriptive analysis undertaken at a minimum follow-up of 60 months 
show outcomes consistent with the original primary analysis. 
Table 11: 
Efficacy results in intermediate/poor risk patients (CA209214) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
99.8% CI 
p-valueb, c 
Median (95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) 
At 6 months 
At 12 months 
Progression-free survival 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
99.1% CI 
p-valueb,h 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 425) 
sunitinib 
(n = 422) 
Primary analysis 
minimum follow-up: 17.5 months 
140 (33%) 
188 (45%) 
0.63 
(0.44, 0.89) 
< 0.0001 
NE (28.2, NE) 
25.9 (22.1, NE) 
89.5 (86.1, 92.1) 
80.1 (75.9, 83.6) 
86.2 (82.4, 89.1) 
72.1 (67.4, 76.2) 
228 (53.6%) 
228 (54.0%) 
0.82 
(0.64, 1.05) 
0.0331 
Median (95% CI) 
11.6 (8.71, 15.51) 
8.4 (7.03, 10.81) 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Confirmed objective response 
(BICR) 
(95% CI) 
Difference in ORR (95% CI)d 
p-valuee,f 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of responseg 
Months (range) 
Median time to response 
Months (range) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
Median (95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) 
At 24 months 
At 36 months 
At 48 months 
At 60 months 
Progression-free survival 
Events 
Hazard ratioa 
95% CI 
Median (95% CI) 
Confirmed objective response 
(BICR) 
(95% CI) 
Difference in ORR (95% CI)d,e 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Stable disease (SD) 
Median duration of responseg 
Months (range) 
Median time to response 
Months (range) 
nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(n = 425) 
177 (41.6%) 
(36.9, 46.5) 
16.0 (9.8, 22.2) 
< 0.0001 
40 (9.4%) 
137 (32.2%) 
133 (31.3%) 
sunitinib 
(n = 422) 
112 (26.5%) 
(22.4, 31.0) 
5 (1.2%) 
107 (25.4%) 
188 (44.5%) 
NE (1.4+-25.5+) 
18.17 (1.3+-23.6+) 
2.8 (0.9-11.3) 
3.0 (0.6-15.0) 
Updated analysis* 
minimum follow-up: 60 months 
242 (57%) 
282 (67%) 
0.68 
(0.58, 0.81) 
46.95 (35.35, 57.43) 
26.64 (22.08, 33.54) 
66.3 (61.5, 70.6) 
54.6 (49.7, 59.3) 
49.9 (44.9, 54.6) 
43.0 (38.1, 47.7) 
52.4 (47.4, 57.1) 
43.7 (38.7, 48.5) 
35.8 (31.1, 40.5) 
31.3 (26.8, 35.9) 
245 (57.6%) 
253 (60.0%) 
0.73 
(0.61, 0.87) 
11.6 (8.44, 16.63) 
179 (42.1%) 
8.3 (7.03, 10.41) 
113 (26.8%) 
(37.4, 47.0) 
(22.6, 31.3) 
16.2 (10.0, 22.5) 
48 (11.3%) 
131 (30.8%) 
131 (30.8%) 
9 (2.1%) 
104 (24.6%) 
187 (44.3%) 
NE (50.89-NE) 
19.38 (15.38-25.10) 
2.8 (0.9-35.0) 
3.1 (0.6-23.6) 
a 
b 
c 
Based on a stratified proportional hazards model. 
Based on a stratified log-rank test. 
p-value is compared to alpha 0.002 in order to achieve statistical significance. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Strata adjusted difference. 
Based on the stratified DerSimonian-Laird test. 
p-value is compared to alpha 0.001 in order to achieve statistical significance. 
Computed using Kaplan-Meier method. 
p-value is compared to alpha 0.009 in order to achieve statistical significance. 
d 
e 
f 
g 
h 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
NE = non-estimable 
* Descriptive analysis based on data cut-off: 26-Feb-2021. 
Figure 8: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in intermediate/poor risk patients (CA209214) 
Minimum follow-up of 60 months 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
372 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
425 
Sunitinib 
422 
353 
332 
291 
306 
237 
270 
241 
220 
207 
196 
181 
163 
206 
184 
169 
151 
137 
125 
112 
79 
58 
2 
3 
0 
0 
⎯⎯⎯  Nivolumab + ipilimumab (events: 242/425), median and 95.0% CI: 46.95 (35.35, 57.43) 
- - -- - - 
Sunitinib (events: 282/422), median and 95.0% CI: 26.64 (22.08, 33.54) 
An updated descriptive OS analysis was performed when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 
24 months. At the time of this analysis, the hazard ratio was 0.66 (99.8% CI 0.48-0.91) with 
166/425 events in the combination arm and 209/422 events in the sunitinib arm. In intermediate/poor-
risk patients, OS benefit was observed in the ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab arm vs. 
sunitinib regardless of tumour PD-L1 expression. Median OS for tumour PD-L1 expression ≥ 1% was 
not reached for ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab, and was 19.61 months in the sunitinib 
arm (HR = 0.52; 95% CI: 0.34, 0.78). For tumour PD-L1 expression < 1%, the median OS was 
34.7 months for the ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and was 32.2 months in the sunitinib 
arm (HR = 0.70; 95% CI: 0.54, 0.92). 
CA209214 also randomised 249 favourable risk patients as per IMDC criteria to ipilimumab plus 
nivolumab (n = 125) or to sunitinib (n = 124). These patients were not evaluated as part of the primary 
efficacy population. At a minimum of 24 months follow-up, OS in favourable risk patients receiving 
ipilimumab plus nivolumab compared to sunitinib had a hazard ratio of 1.13 
(95% CI: 0.64, 1.99; p = 0.6710). With 60 months minimum follow-up, the HR for OS was 0.94 (95% 
CI: 0.65, 1.37). 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There are no data on the use of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab in patients with only a non 
clear-cell histology in first-line RCC. 
Patients ≥ 75 years of age represented 8% of all intermediate/poor risk patients in CA209214, and the 
combination of ipilimumab and nivolumab showed numerically less effect on OS (HR 0.97, 95% 
CI: 0.48, 1.95) in this subgroup versus the overall population at a minimum follow-up of 17.5 months. 
Because of the small size of this subgroup, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these data. 
First-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer 
Randomised phase 3 study of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and 2 cycles of platinum-
based chemotherapy vs. 4 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy (CA2099LA) 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks in combination with nivolumab 360 mg 
every 3 weeks and 2 cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, 
open-label study (CA2099LA). The study included patients (18 years or older) with histologically 
confirmed non-squamous or squamous Stage IV or recurrent NSCLC (per the 7th International 
Association for the Study of Lung Cancer classification), ECOG performance status 0 or 1, and no 
prior anticancer therapy (including EGFR and ALK inhibitors). Patients were enrolled regardless of 
their tumour PD-L1 status. 
Patients with sensitising EGFR mutations or ALK translocations, active (untreated) brain metastases, 
carcinomatous meningitis, active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions requiring systemic 
immunosuppression were excluded from the study. Patients with treated brain metastases were eligible 
if neurologically returned to baseline at least 2 weeks prior to enrolment, and either off corticosteroids, 
or on a stable or decreasing dose of < 10 mg daily prednisone equivalents. Randomisation was 
stratified by histology (squamous vs non-squamous), tumour PD-L1 expression level (≥ 1% vs < 1%), 
and gender (male vs female). 
A total of 719 patients were randomised to receive either ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
and platinum-based chemotherapy (n = 361) or platinum-based chemotherapy (n = 358). Patients in 
the ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and platinum-based chemotherapy arm received 
ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 6 weeks in combination with 
nivolumab 360 mg administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 3 weeks and platinum-based 
chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks for 2 cycles. Patients in the chemotherapy arm received 
platinum-based chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks for 4 cycles; non-squamous patients could 
receive optional pemetrexed maintenance therapy. 
Platinum-based chemotherapy consisted of carboplatin (AUC 5 or 6) and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2; or 
cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 for non-squamous NSCLC; or carboplatin (AUC 6) 
and paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 for squamous NSCLC. 
Treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for up to 24 months. 
Treatment could continue beyond disease progression if the patient was clinically stable and was 
considered to be deriving clinical benefit by the investigator. Patients who discontinued combination 
therapy because of an adverse event attributed to ipilimumab were permitted to continue nivolumab 
monotherapy. Tumour assessments were performed every 6 weeks after first dose of study treatment 
for the first 12 months, then every 12 weeks until disease progression or study treatment was 
discontinued. 
CA2099LA baseline characteristics were generally balanced across all treatment groups. The median 
age was 65 years (range: 26-86) with 51% ≥ 65 years of age and 10% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority 
of patients were white (89%) and male (70%). Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (31%) or 
1 (68%), 57% of patients with PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 37% with PD-L1 < 1%, 31% had squamous and 69% 
had non-squamous histology, 17% had brain metastases, and 86% were former/current smokers. No 
patients received prior immunotherapy. 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CA2099LA primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Additional efficacy endpoints were PFS, 
ORR, and duration of response as assessed by BICR. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant benefit in OS, PFS, and ORR for patients 
randomised to ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and platinum-based chemotherapy as 
compared to platinum-based chemotherapy alone at the prespecified interim analysis when 351 events 
were observed (87% of the planned number of events for final analysis). Minimum follow-up for OS 
was 8.1 months. 
Efficacy results are shown in Figure 9 (updated OS analysis with a minimum follow-up of 
12.7 months) and Table 12 (primary analysis with a minimum follow-up of 8.1 months). 
An updated efficacy analysis was performed when all patients had a minimum follow-up of 
12.7 months (see Figure 9). At the time of this analysis, the hazard ratio for OS was 0.66 (95% CI: 
0.55, 0.80) and the hazard ratio for PFS was 0.68 (95% CI: 0.57, 0.82). 
Figure 9: 
Kaplan-Meier plot of OS (CA2099LA) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
S
f
o
y
t
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall Survival (Months) 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab + chemotherapy 
361 
326 
Chemotherapy 
319 
358 
292 
260 
208 
250 
227 
166 
153 
116 
86 
67 
33 
26 
10 
11 
1 
0 
0 
0 
⎯⎯⎯  Nivolumab + ipilimumab + chemotherapy (events: 190/361), median and 95% CI: 15.64 (13.93, 19.98) 
- - -- - -  Chemotherapy (events: 242/358), median and 95% CI: 10.91 (9.46, 12.55) 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: 
Efficacy results (CA2099LA) 
Overall Survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(96.71% CI)a 
Stratified log-rank p-valueb 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Progression-free Survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(97.48% CI)a 
Stratified log-rank p-valuec 
Median (months)d 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 6 months 
Overall Response Ratee 
(95% CI) 
Stratified CMH test p-valuef 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Duration of Response 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)d 
% with duration ≥ 6 monthsg 
ipilimumab + nivolumab + 
chemotherapy 
(n = 361) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 358) 
156 (43.2%) 
195 (54.5%) 
0.69 
(0.55, 0.87) 
0.0006 
14.1 
(13.24, 16.16) 
80.9 (76.4,84.6) 
10.7 
(9.46, 12.45) 
72.3 (67.4,76.7) 
232 (64.3%) 
249 (69.6%) 
0.70 
(0.57, 0.86) 
0.0001 
6.83 
(5.55, 7.66) 
51.7 (46.2, 56.8) 
4.96 
(4.27, 5.55) 
35.9 (30.5, 41.3) 
0.0003 
136 (37.7%) 
(32.7, 42.9) 
7 (1.9%) 
129 (35.7%) 
10.02 
(8.21, 13.01) 
74 
90 (25.1%) 
(20.7, 30.0) 
3 (0.8%) 
87 (24.3%) 
5.09 
(4.34, 7.00) 
41 
Based on a stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.0329 for this interim analysis. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.0252 for this interim analysis. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Proportion with complete or partial response; CI based on the Clopper and Pearson Method. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.025 for this interim analysis. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates of duration of response. 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
f 
g 
CMH = Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel 
Subsequent systemic therapy was received by 28.8% and 41.1% of patients in the combination and 
chemotherapy arms, respectively. Subsequent immunotherapy (including anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, and 
anti-CTLA4) was received by 3.9% and 27.9% of patients in the combination and chemotherapy arms, 
respectively. 
In study CA2099LA, subgroup descriptive analysis relative to chemotherapy, OS benefit was shown 
in patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy with squamous 
histology (HR [95% CI] 0.65 [0.46, 0.93], n = 227) and in patients with non-squamous histology (HR 
[95% CI] 0.72 [0.55, 0.93], n = 492). 
Table 13 summarises efficacy results of OS, PFS, and ORR by tumour PD-L1 expression in pre-
specified subgroup analyses. 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 13: 
Efficacy results by tumour PD-L1 expression (CA2099LA) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
+ chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
+ chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
+ chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
+ chemo-
therapy 
chemo-
therapy 
PD-L1 < 1% 
(n = 264) 
0.65 
(0.46, 0.92) 
0.77 
(0.57, 1.03) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% 
(n = 406) 
0.67 
(0.51, 0.89) 
0.67 
(0.53, 0.85) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% to 49% 
(n = 233) 
PD-L1 ≥ 50% 
(n = 173) 
0.69 
(0.48, 0.98) 
0.71 
(0.52, 0.97) 
0.64 
(0.41, 1.02) 
0.59 
(0.40, 0.86) 
31.1 
20.9 
41.9 
27.6 
37.8 
24.5 
48.7 
30.9 
OS Hazard 
Ratio 
(95% CI)a 
PFS Hazard 
Ratio 
(95% CI)a 
ORR % 
a 
Hazard ratio based on unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
A total of 70 NSCLC patients aged ≥ 75 years were enrolled in study CA2099LA (37 patients in the 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy arm and 33 patients in the 
chemotherapy arm). A HR of 1.36 (95% CI: 0.74, 2.52) in OS and a HR of 1.12 (95% CI: 0.64, 1.96) 
in PFS was observed for ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy vs. 
chemotherapy within this study subgroup. ORR was 27.0% in the ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab and chemotherapy arm and 15.2% in the chemotherapy arm. Forty-three percent of patients 
aged ≥ 75 years discontinued treatment with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and 
chemotherapy. Efficacy and safety data of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and 
chemotherapy are limited in this patient population. 
In a subgroup analysis, a reduced survival benefit for ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and 
chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy was observed in patients who were never smokers. 
However, due to the small numbers of patients, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these 
data. 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma 
Randomised phase 3 study of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab vs. chemotherapy 
(CA209743) 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks in combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg 
every 2 weeks were evaluated in a phase 3, randomised, open-label study (CA209743). The study 
included patients (18 years or older) with histologically confirmed and previously untreated malignant 
pleural mesothelioma of epithelioid or non-epithelioid histology, ECOG performance status 0 or 1, 
and no palliative radiotherapy within 14 days of first study therapy. Patients were enrolled regardless 
of their tumour PD-L1 status. 
Patients with primitive peritoneal, pericardial, testis, or tunica vaginalis mesothelioma, interstitial lung 
disease, active autoimmune disease, medical conditions requiring systemic immunosuppression, and 
brain metastasis (unless surgically resected or treated with stereotaxic radiotherapy and no evolution 
within 3 months prior to inclusion in the study) were excluded from the trial. Randomisation was 
stratified by histology (epithelioid vs. sarcomatoid or mixed histology subtypes) and gender (male vs. 
female). 
A total of 605 patients were randomised to receive either ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
(n = 303) or chemotherapy (n = 302). Patients in the ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab arm 
received ipilimumab 1 mg/kg over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion every 6 weeks in combination 
with nivolumab 3 mg/kg over 30 minutes by intravenous infusion every 2 weeks for up to 2 years. 
Patients in the chemotherapy arm received chemotherapy for up to 6 cycles (each cycle was 21 days). 
Chemotherapy consisted of cisplatin 75 mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 or carboplatin 5 AUC and 
pemetrexed 500 mg/m2. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or for up to 24 months. 
Treatment could continue beyond disease progression if the patient was clinically stable and was 
considered to be deriving clinical benefit by the investigator. Patients who discontinued combination 
therapy because of an adverse reaction attributed to ipilimumab were permitted to continue nivolumab 
monotherapy. Tumour assessments were performed every 6 weeks after first dose of study treatment 
for the first 12 months, then every 12 weeks until disease progression or study treatment was 
discontinued. 
CA209743 baseline characteristics were generally balanced across all treatment groups. The median 
age was 69 years (range: 25-89) with 72% ≥ 65 years of age and 26% ≥ 75 years of age. The majority 
of patients were white (85%) and male (77%). Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (40%) or 
1 (60%), 80% of patients with PD-L1 ≥ 1% and 20% with PD-L1 < 1%, 75% had epithelioid and 25% 
had non-epithelioid histology. 
CA209743 primary efficacy outcome measure was OS. Key secondary efficacy endpoints were PFS, 
ORR, and duration of response as assessed by BICR utilising modified RECIST criteria for pleural 
mesothelioma. Descriptive analyses for these secondary endpoints are presented in Table 14. 
The study demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS for patients randomised to 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab as compared to chemotherapy at the prespecified interim 
analysis when 419 events were observed (89% of the planned number of events for final analysis). 
Minimum follow-up for OS was 22 months. 
Efficacy results are shown in Figure 10 and Table 14. 
Figure 10: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS (CA209743) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Overall survival (months) 
273 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
303 
Chemotherapy 
302 
233 
251 
268 
226 
190 
200 
173 
143 
124 
101 
65 
30 
11 
162 
136 
113 
95 
62 
38 
20 
11 
2 
1 
0 
0 
⎯⎯⎯  Nivolumab + ipilimumab (events: 200/303), median and 95% CI: 18.07 (16.82, 21.45) 
- - -- - - 
Chemotherapy (events: 219/302), median and 95% CI: 14.09 (12.45, 16.23) 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14: 
Efficacy results (CA209743) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(96.6% CI)a 
Stratified log-rank p-valueb 
Median (months)c 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 24 monthsc 
Progression-free survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months)c 
(95% CI) 
Overall response rate 
(95% CI) 
Complete response (CR) 
Partial response (PR) 
Duration of response 
Median (months)c 
(95% CI) 
ipilimumab + nivolumab 
(n = 303) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 302) 
200 (66%) 
219 (73%) 
0.74 
(0.60, 0.91) 
0.002 
18.1 
(16.8, 21.5) 
41% (35.1, 46.5) 
14.1 
(12.5, 16.2) 
27% (21.9, 32.4) 
218 (72%) 
209 (69%) 
1.0 
(0.82, 1.21) 
6.8 
(5.6, 7.4) 
40% 
(34.1, 45.4) 
1.7% 
38% 
11.0 
(8.1, 16.5) 
7.2 
(6.9, 8.1) 
43% 
(37.1, 48.5) 
0 
43% 
6.7 
(5.3, 7.1) 
a 
b 
c 
Stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
p-value is compared with the allocated alpha of 0.0345 for this interim analysis. 
Kaplan-Meier estimate. 
Subsequent systemic therapy was received by 44.2% and 40.7% of patients in the combination and 
chemotherapy arms, respectively. Subsequent immunotherapy (including anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, and 
anti-CTLA-4) was received by 3.3% and 20.2% of patients in the combination and chemotherapy 
arms, respectively. 
Table 15 summarises efficacy results of OS, PFS, and ORR by histology in prespecified subgroup 
analyses. 
Table 15: 
Efficacy results by histology (CA209743) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
Rate (95% CI) at 
24 months 
Epithelioid 
(n = 471) 
Non-epithelioid 
(n = 134) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
(n = 236) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 235) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
(n = 67) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 67) 
157 
164 
43 
55 
0.85 
(0.68, 1.06) 
0.46 
(0.31, 0.70) 
18.73 
(17.05, 21.72) 
41.2 
(34.7, 47.6) 
16.23 
(14.09, 19.15) 
31.8 
(25.7, 38.1) 
16.89 
(11.83, 25.20) 
39.5 
(27.5, 51.2) 
8.80 
(7.62, 11.76) 
9.7 
(3.8, 18.9) 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Epithelioid 
(n = 471) 
Non-epithelioid 
(n = 134) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
(n = 236) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 235) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
(n = 67) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 67) 
Progression-free survival 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI) 
1.14 
(0.92, 1.41) 
0.58 
(0.38, 0.90) 
6.18 
(5.49, 7.03) 
7.66 
(7.03, 8.31) 
8.31 
(3.84, 11.01) 
5.59 
(5.13, 7.16) 
Overall response rate 
(95% CI)b 
38.6% 
(32.3, 45.1) 
47.2% 
(40.7, 53.8) 
43.3% 
(31.2, 56.0) 
26.9% 
(16.8, 39.1) 
Duration of response 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)c 
a 
b 
c 
Hazard ratio based on unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
Confidence interval based on the Clopper and Pearson method 
Median computed using Kaplan-Meier method 
8.44 
6.83 
24.02 
4.21 
(7.16, 14.59) 
(5.59, 7.13) 
(8.31, N.A.) 
(2.79, 7.03) 
Table 16 summarises efficacy results of OS, PFS, and ORR by baseline tumour PD-L1 expression in 
prespecified subgroup analyses. 
Table 16: 
Efficacy results by tumour PD-L1 expression (CA209743) 
PD-L1 < 1% 
(n = 135) 
PD-L1 ≥ 1% 
(n = 451) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
(n = 57) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 78) 
ipilimumab 
+ 
nivolumab 
(n = 232) 
chemotherapy 
(n = 219) 
40 
58 
150 
157 
0.94 
(0.62, 1.40) 
0.69 
(0.55, 0.87) 
17.3 
(10.1, 24.3) 
38.7 
(25.9, 51.3) 
16.5 
(13.4, 20.5) 
24.6 
(15.5, 35.0) 
18.0 
(16.8, 21.5) 
40.8 
(34.3, 47.2) 
13.3 
(11.6, 15.4) 
28.3 
(22.1, 34.7) 
1.79 
(1.21, 2.64) 
0.81 
(0.64, 1.01) 
4.1 
(2.7, 5.6) 
8.3 
(7.0, 11.1) 
7.0 
(5.8, 8.5) 
7.1 
(6.2, 7.6) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)b 
Rate (95% CI) at 
24 months 
Progression-free survival 
Hazard ratio 
(95% CI)a 
Median (months) 
(95% CI)b 
Overall response rate 
(95% CI)c 
38.5% 
(27.7, 50.2) 
Hazard ratio based on unstratified Cox proportional hazards model. 
Median computed using Kaplan-Meier method. 
Confidence interval based on the Clopper and Pearson method. 
21.1% 
(11.4, 33.9) 
a 
b 
c 
43.5% 
(37.1, 50.2) 
44.3% 
(37.6, 51.1) 
A total of 157 MPM patients aged ≥ 75 years were enrolled in study CA209743 (78 in the ipilimumab 
in combination with nivolumab arm and 79 in the chemotherapy arm). A 
HR of 1.02 (95% CI: 0.70, 1.48) in OS was observed for ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
vs. chemotherapy within this study subgroup. A higher rate of serious adverse reactions and 
discontinuation rate due to adverse reactions in patients 75 years of age or older relative to all patients 
who received ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab was shown (see section 4.8). However, due 
to the exploratory nature of this subgroup analysis, no definitive conclusions can be drawn. 
dMMR or MSI-H colorectal cancer 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab 1 mg/kg in combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg for the 
treatment of dMMR or MSI-H metastatic CRC was evaluated in a Phase 2, multi-centre, open-label, 
single-arm study (CA209142). 
The study included patients (18 years or older) with locally determined dMMR or MSI-H status, who 
had disease progression during, after, or were intolerant to, prior therapy with fluoropyrimidine and 
oxaliplatin or irinotecan. Patients who had their most recent prior treatment in the adjuvant setting 
should have progressed on or within 6 months of completion of adjuvant chemotherapy. Patients had 
an ECOG performance status score of 0 or 1 and were enrolled regardless of their tumour PD-L1 
status. Patients with active brain metastases, active autoimmune disease, or medical conditions 
requiring systemic immunosuppression were excluded from the study. 
A total of 119 patients were treated with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously over 
90 minutes in combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg administered intravenously over 60 minutes every 
3 weeks for 4 doses followed by nivolumab monotherapy 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Treatment was 
continued as long as clinical benefit was observed or until treatment was no longer tolerated. Tumour 
assessments according to RECIST version 1.1 were conducted every 6 weeks for the first 24 weeks 
and every 12 weeks thereafter. The primary outcome measure was investigator-assessed ORR. 
Secondary outcome measures were BICR-assessed ORR and disease control rate. Analysis of ORR 
included duration of and time to response. Exploratory outcome measures included PFS and OS. 
The median age was 58 years (range: 21-88) with 32% ≥ 65 years of age and 9% ≥ 75 years of age, 
59% were male and 92% were white. Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (45%) or 1 (55%), 
25% of patients had BRAF mutations, 37% had KRAS mutations, and 12% were unknown. Of the 
119 treated patients, 109 had received prior fluoropyrimidine based chemotherapy in the metastatic 
setting and 9 in the adjuvant setting. Before study enrolment, of the 119 treated patients, 118 (99%) 
had received fluorouracil, 111 (93%) had received oxaliplatin, 87 (73%) had received irinotecan as 
part of prior therapies; 82 (69%) had received prior treatment with fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, and 
irinotecan. Twenty three percent, 36%, 24%, and 16% received 1, 2, 3, or 4 or more prior therapies 
respectively, and 29% of patients had received an EGFR inhibitor. 
Efficacy results (minimum follow-up 46.9 months; median follow-up 51.1 months) are shown in 
Table 17. 
Table 17: 
Efficacy results (CA209142) in dMMR or MSI-H CRC patients* 
Confirmed objective response, n (%) 
(95% CI) 
Complete response (CR), n (%) 
Partial response (PR), n (%) 
Stable disease (SD), n (%) 
Duration of response 
Median (range) months 
Median time to response 
Months (range) 
* per investigator assessment 
“+” denotes a censored observation. 
NR = not reached 
ipilimumab + nivolumab 
(n = 119) 
77 (64.7) 
(55.4, 73.2) 
15 (12.6) 
62 (52.1) 
25 (21.0) 
NR (1.4, 58.0+) 
2.8 (1.1, 37.1) 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The BICR-assessed ORR was 61.3% (95% CI: 52.0, 70.1), including CR rate of 20.2% (95% CI: 13.4, 
28.5), PR rate of 41.2% (95% CI: 32.2, 50.6) and stable disease reported in 22.7%. BICR assessments 
were generally consistent with the investigator assessment. Confirmed responses were observed 
regardless of BRAF or KRAS mutation status, and tumour PD-L1 expression levels. 
Of 119 patients 11 (9.2%) patients were ≥ 75 years. The investigator assessed ORR in patients 
≥ 75 years was 45.5% (95% CI: 16.7, 76.6). 
Oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
Randomised phase 3 study of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab vs. chemotherapy as first-
line treatment (CA209648) 
The safety and efficacy of ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab were evaluated in a 
randomised, active-controlled, open-label phase 3 study (CA209648). The study included adult 
patients (18 years or older) with previously untreated, unresectable advanced, recurrent or metastatic 
oesophageal squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Patients were enrolled regardless of their tumour 
PD-L1 status, and tumour cell PD-L1 expression was determined using the PD-L1 IHC 28-8 pharmDx 
assay. Patients were required to have squamous cell carcinoma or adenosquamous cell carcinoma of 
oesophagus, not amenable to chemoradiation and/or surgery. Prior adjuvant, neoadjuvant, or 
definitive, chemotherapy, radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy was permitted if given as part of 
curative intent regimen prior to trial enrollment. Patients who had a baseline performance score ≥ 2, 
had brain metastases that were symptomatic, had active autoimmune disease, used systemic 
corticosteroids or immunosuppressants, or patients at high risk of bleeding or fistula due to apparent 
invasion of tumour to organs adjacent to the oesophageal tumour were excluded from the study. 
Randomisation was stratified by tumour cell PD-L1 status (≥ 1% vs. < 1% or indeterminate), region 
(East Asia vs. rest of Asia vs. rest of world), ECOG performance status (0 vs. 1), and number of 
organs with metastases (≤1 vs. ≥2). 
A total of 649 patients were randomised to receive either ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
(n = 325), or chemotherapy (n = 324), respectively. Of these, 315 patients had tumour cell PD-L1 
expression ≥ 1%,158 in the ipilimumab plus nivolumab arm and 157 in the chemotherapy arm. 
Patients in the ipilimumab plus nivolumab arm received ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks in 
combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. Patients in the chemotherapy arm received 
fluorouracil 800 mg/m2/day intravenously on days 1 through 5 (for 5 days), and cisplatin 80 mg/m2 
intravenously on day 1 (of a 4-week cycle). Treatment continued until disease progression, 
unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months. Patients who discontinued combination therapy because of 
an adverse reaction attributed to ipilimumab were permitted to continue nivolumab as a single agent. 
Baseline characteristics were generally balanced across treatment groups. In patients with tumour cell 
PD-L1 expression ≥ 1%, the median age was 63 years (range: 26-85), 8.2% were ≥ 75 years of age, 
81.8% were male, 73.1% were Asian, and 23.3% were white. Patients had histological confirmation of 
squamous cell carcinoma (98.9%) or adenosquamous cell carcinoma (1.1%) in the oesophagus. 
Baseline ECOG performance status was 0 (45.2%) or 1 (54.8%). 
The primary efficacy outcome measures were PFS (by BICR) and OS assessed in patients with tumour 
cell PD-L1expression ≥ 1%. Secondary endpoints per the pre-specified hierarchical testing incuded 
OS, PFS (by BICR), and ORR (by BICR) in all randomised patients. The tumour assessments per 
RECIST v1.1 were conducted every 6 weeks up to and including week 48, then every 12 weeks 
thereafter. 
At the primary pre-specified analysis, with a minimum follow-up of 13.1 months, the study 
demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in OS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 
expression ≥ 1%. Efficacy results are shown in Table 18. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18: 
Efficacy results in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209648) 
ipilimumab + nivolumab 
(n = 158) 
chemotherapya 
(n = 157) 
Overall survival 
Events 
Hazard ratio (98.6% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsd 
Progression-free survivale 
106 (67.1%) 
121 (77.1%) 
0.64 (0.46, 0.90) 
0.0010 
13.70 (11.24, 17.02) 
57.1 (49.0, 64.4) 
9.07 (7.69, 9.95) 
37.1 (29.2, 44.9) 
Events 
123 (77.8%) 
100 (63.7%) 
Hazard ratio (98.5% CI)b 
p-valuec 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
Rate (95% CI) at 12 monthsd 
Overall response rate, n (%)e 
(95% CI) 
Complete response 
Partial response 
Duration of responsee 
1.02 (0.73, 1.43) 
0.8958 
4.04 (2.40, 4.93) 
26.4 (19.5, 33.9) 
56 (35.4) 
(28.0, 43.4) 
28 (17.7) 
28 (17.7) 
Median (95% CI) (months)d 
11.83 (7.10, 27.43) 
Range 
1.4+, 34.5+ 
a 
b 
c 
d 
e 
Fluorouracil and cisplatin. 
Based on stratified Cox proportional hazard model. 
Based on stratified 2-sided log-rank test. 
Based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. 
Assessed by BICR. 
4.44 (2.89, 5.82) 
10.5 (4.7, 18.8) 
31 (19.7) 
(13.8, 26.8) 
8 (5.1) 
23 (14.6) 
5.68 (4.40, 8.67) 
1.4+, 31.8+ 
At an updated descriptive analysis with a minimum follow-up of 20 months, OS improvements were 
consistent with the primary analysis. Median OS was 13.70 months (95% CI: 11.24, 17.41) for 
ipilimumab plus nivolumab vs. 9.07 months (95% CI: 7.69, 10.02) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.63; 
95% CI: 0.49, 0.82). Median PFS was 4.04 months (95% CI: 2.40, 4.93) for ipilimumab plus 
nivolumab vs. 4.44 months (95% CI: 2.89, 5.82) for chemotherapy (HR = 1.02; 95% CI: 0.77, 1.34). 
The ORR was 35.4% (95% CI: 28.0, 43.4) for ipilimumab plus nivolumab vs. 19.7% (95% CI: 
13.8, 26.8) for chemotherapy. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for OS with a minimum follow-up of 20 months are shown in Figure 11. 
57 
 
 
 
Figure 11: 
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS in patients with tumour cell PD-L1 ≥ 1% (CA209648) 
l
a
v
i
v
r
u
s
f
o
y
t
i
l
i
b
a
b
o
r
P
Number of subjects at risk 
Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
Overall survival (months) 
116 
136 
158 
Chemotherapy 
157 
137 
107 
98 
89 
72 
63 
55 
43 
31 
20 
16 
10 
73 
53 
40 
30 
21 
15 
12 
8 
6 
3 
9 
2 
4 
1 
2 
0 
0 
0 
⎯⎯⎯  Nivolumab + ipilimumab (events: 119/158), median and 95% CI: 13.70 (11.24, 17.41) 
- - -- - - 
Chemotherapy (events: 130/157), median and 95% CI: 9.07 (7.69, 10.02) 
Based on data cut-off: 23-Aug-2021, minimum follow-up of 20 months 
Paediatric population 
Ipilimumab as monotherapy 
Study CA184070 was a multi-center, Phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation study of ipilimumab in 
paediatric patients ≥ 1 year to ≤ 21 years of age with measurable/evaluable, untreatable, relapsed or 
refractory solid malignant tumours without a curative option with standard therapy. The study enrolled 
13 patients < 12 of age and 20 patients ≥ 12 years of age. Ipilimumab was administered every 3 weeks 
for 4 doses and then every 12 weeks thereafter in the absence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and 
disease progression. The primary endpoints were safety and pharmacokinetics (PK). Of patients 
12 years of age and older with advanced melanoma, ipilimumab 5 mg/kg was administered to three 
patients and ipilimumab 10 mg/kg was administered to two patients. Stable disease was achieved in 
two patients at the ipilimumab 5 mg/kg dose, one with a duration of > 22 months. 
Study CA184178 was a non-randomized, multicenter, open-label Phase 2 study, in adolescent patients 
12 to < 18 years of age with previously treated or untreated, unresectable Stage III or Stage IV 
malignant melanoma. Ipilimumab was administered every 3 weeks for 4 doses. The primary efficacy 
endpoint was 1-year survival rate. Secondary efficacy endpoints of best overall response rate (BORR), 
stable disease (SD), disease control rate (DCR), and progression free survival (PFS) were based on 
mWHO criteria and determined by the investigator’s assessment. Overall survival (OS) was also 
evaluated. Tumour assessment was performed at Week 12. All patients were followed for at least 
1 year. Ipilimumab 3 mg/kg was administered to four patients and ipilimumab 10 mg/kg was 
administered to eight patients. Most patients were male (58%) and white (92%). Median age was 
15 years. Stable disease was achieved for 260 days in one patient on ipilimumab 3 mg/kg and 
approximately 14 months in one patient on ipilimumab 10 mg/kg. Two patients treated with 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ipilimumab 10 mg/kg experienced a partial response, one of which was a durable response for more 
than 1 year. Additional efficacy results are presented in Table 19. 
Table 19: 
Efficacy results in CA184178 
1-year OS (%) (95% CI) 
BORR (%) (95% CI) 
SD (n/N)a 
DCR (%) (95% CI) 
Median PFS (months) (95% CI) 
Median OS (months) (95% CI) 
a 
NE = not estimable 
Ipilimumab 3 mg/kg 
N = 4 
75% (12.8, 96.1) 
0% (0, 60.2) 
1/4 
25% (0.6, 80.6) 
2.6 (2.3, 8.5) 
18.2 (8.9, 18.2) 
Ipilimumab 10 mg/kg 
N = 8 
62.5% (22.9, 86.1) 
25% (3.2, 65.1) 
1/8 
37.5% (8.5, 75.5) 
2.9 (0.7,NEa) 
Not reached (5.2, NE) 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab 
Study CA209070 was an open-label, single-arm, dose-confirmation and dose-expansion, phase 1/2 
study of nivolumab as a single agent and in combination with ipilimumab in paediatric and young 
adult patients with recurrent or refractory solid or haematological tumours, including neuroblastoma, 
osteosarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing sarcoma, advanced melanoma, cHL and non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma (NHL). Among the 126 treated patients, 97 were paediatric patients from 12 months to 
< 18 years of age. Of the 97 paediatric patients, 64 were treated with nivolumab monotherapy 
(3 mg/kg administered intravenously over 60 minutes every 2 weeks) and 33 were treated with 
ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab (nivolumab 1 mg/kg or 3 mg/kg administered 
intravenously over 60 minutes in combination with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg administered intravenously 
over 90 minutes every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 3 mg/kg as monotherapy 
every 2 weeks). Patients received either nivolumab as monotherapy for a median of 2 doses 
(range: 1, 89) or ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab for a median of 2 doses (range: 1, 24). 
The main primary outcome measures were safety, tolerability and antitumour activity as evaluated by 
descriptive ORR and OS. 
Among the 64 paediatric patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy, 60 were response-evaluable 
patients (melanoma n = 1, solid tumours n = 47 and haematological tumours n = 12). In the 
48 response-evaluable paediatric patients with melanoma or solid tumours, no objective responses 
were observed. In the 12 response-evaluable paediatric patients with haematological tumours, ORR 
was 25.0% (95% CI: 5.5, 57.2), including 1 complete response in cHL and 2 partial responses, one in 
cHL and another one in NHL. In the descriptive analyses for the 64 paediatric patients treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy, the median OS was 6.67 months (95% CI: 5.98, NA); 6.14 months 
(95% CI: 5.39, 24.67) for patients with melanoma or solid tumours, and not reached for patients with 
haematological tumours. 
Among the 30 response-evaluable paediatric patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with 
nivolumab (solid tumours other than melanoma only), no objective responses were observed. For the 
33 paediatric patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab, the median OS was 
8.25 months (95% CI: 5.45, 16.95) in a descriptive analyses. 
Study CA209908 was an open-label, sequential-arm, phase 1b/2 clinical study of nivolumab 
monotherapy and ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab in paediatric and young adult patients 
with high-grade primary CNS malignancies, including diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG), 
high-grade glioma, medulloblastoma, ependymoma and other recurrent subtypes of high-grade CNS 
malignancy (e.g., pineoblastoma, atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumour, and embryonal CNS tumours). Of 
the 151 paediatric patients (from ≥ 6 months to < 18 years old) enrolled in the study, 77 were treated 
with nivolumab monotherapy (3 mg/kg every 2 weeks) and 74 were treated with ipilimumab 1 mg/kg 
in combination with nivolumab 3 mg/kg, every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by nivolumab 
monotherapy 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks. The primary efficacy outcome measures were OS in the DIPG 
cohort and investigator-assessed PFS, based on RANO criteria, for all other tumour types. The median 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OS in the DIPG cohort was 10.97 months (80% CI: 9.92, 12.16) in patients treated with nivolumab 
monotherapy and 10.50 months (80% CI: 9.10, 12.32) in patients treated with ipilimumab in 
combination with nivolumab. For all other studied CNS paediatric tumour types, the median PFS 
ranged from 1.23 to 2.35 months in patients treated with nivolumab monotherapy and from 1.45 to 
3.09 months in patients treated with ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab. There were no 
objective responses observed in the study with the exception of one ependymoma patient treated with 
nivolumab monotherapy who had a partial response. Results for OS, PFS, and ORR observed in study 
CA209908 do not suggest clinically meaningful improvement over what is expected in these patient 
populations. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
The pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab was studied in 785 patients with advanced melanoma who 
received induction doses ranging from 0.3 to 10 mg/kg administered once every 3 weeks for 4 doses. 
Cmax, Cmin and AUC of ipilimumab were found to be dose proportional within the dose range 
examined. Upon repeated dosing of ipilimumab administered every 3 weeks, CL was found to be 
time-invariant, and minimal systemic accumulation was observed as evident by an accumulation 
index 1.5 fold or less. Ipilimumab steady-state was reached by the third dose. Based on population 
pharmacokinetic analysis, the following mean (percent coefficient of variation) parameters of 
ipilimumab were obtained: terminal half-life of 15.4 days (34.4%); systemic CL of 16.8 ml/h (38.1%); 
and volume of distribution at steady-state of 7.47 l (10.1%). The mean (percent coefficient of 
variation) ipilimumab Cmin achieved at steady-state with a 3 mg/kg induction regimen was 19.4 µg/ml 
(74.6%). 
Ipilimumab CL increased with increasing body weight and with increasing LDH at baseline; however, 
no dose adjustment is required for elevated LDH or body weight after administration on a mg/kg basis. 
CL was not affected by age (range 23-88 years), gender, concomitant use of budesonide or 
dacarbazine, performance status, HLA-A2*0201 status, mild hepatic impairment, renal impairment, 
immunogenicity, and previous anticancer therapy. The effect of race was not examined as there was 
insufficient data in non-Caucasian ethnic groups. No controlled studies have been conducted to 
evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab in the paediatric population or in patients with hepatic or 
renal impairment. 
Based on an exposure-response analysis in 497 patients with advanced melanoma, OS was 
independent of prior systemic anti-cancer therapy and increased with higher ipilimumab Cminss 
plasma concentrations. 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab: When ipilimumab 1 mg/kg was administered in combination 
with nivolumab 3 mg/kg, the CL of ipilimumab was decreased by 1.5% and the CL of nivolumab was 
increased by 1% which were not considered clinically relevant. When ipilimumab 3 mg/kg was 
administered in combination with nivolumab 1 mg/kg, the CL of ipilimumab was increased by 9% and 
the CL of nivolumab was increased by 29%, which was not considered clinically relevant. 
When administered in combination with nivolumab, the CL of ipilimumab increased by 5.7% in the 
presence of anti-ipilimumab antibodies and the CL of nivolumab increased by 20% in the presence of 
presence of anti-nivolumab antibodies. These changes were not considered clinically relevant. 
Yervoy in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy: When ipilimumab 1 mg/kg every 6 weeks 
was administered in combination with nivolumab 360 mg every 3 weeks and with 2 cycles of 
chemotherapy, the CL of ipilimumab increased approximately 22% and the CL of nivolumab 
decreased approximately 10%, which was not considered clinically relevant. 
Renal impairment 
In the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from clinical studies in patients with metastatic 
melanoma, pre-existing mild and moderate renal impairment did not influence the CL of ipilimumab. 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical and pharmacokinetic data with pre-existing severe renal impairment are limited; the potential 
need for dose adjustment cannot be determined. 
Hepatic impairment 
In the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from clinical studies in patients with metastatic 
melanoma, pre-existing mild hepatic impairment did not influence the CL of ipilimumab. Clinical and 
pharmacokinetic data with pre-existing moderate hepatic impairment are limited; the potential need for 
dose adjustment cannot be determined. No patients with pre-existing severe hepatic impairment were 
identified in clinical studies. 
Paediatric population 
For ipilimumab monotherapy, based on a population PK analysis using available pooled data from 
565 patients from 4 phase 2 adult studies (N = 521) and 2 paediatric studies (N = 44), CL of 
ipilimumab increased with increasing baseline body weight. Age (2-87 years) had no clinically 
important effect on the CL of ipilimumab. The estimated geometric mean CL is 8.72 ml/h in 
adolescent patients aged ≥12 to <18 years. Exposures in adolescents are comparable with those in 
adults receiving the same mg/kg dose. Based on the simulation in adults and paediatrics, comparable 
exposure is achieved in adults and paediatrics at the recommended dose of 3 mg/kg every 3 weeks. 
For ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab, the exposures of ipilimumab and nivolumab in 
pediatric patients 12 years of age and older are expected to be comparable to that in adult patients at 
the recommended dose. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
In intravenous repeat-dose toxicology studies in monkeys, ipilimumab was generally well tolerated. 
Immune-mediated adverse reactions were observed infrequently (~3%) and included colitis (which 
resulted in a single fatality), dermatitis, and infusion reaction (possibly due to acute cytokine release 
resulting from a rapid injection rate). A decrease in the weight of the thyroid and testes was seen in 
one study without accompanying histopathologic findings; the clinical relevance of this finding is 
unknown. 
The effects of ipilimumab on prenatal and postnatal development were investigated in a study in 
cynomolgus monkeys. Pregnant monkeys received ipilimumab every 3 weeks from the onset of 
organogenesis in the first trimester through delivery, at exposure (AUC) levels either similar to or 
higher than those associated with the clinical dose of 3 mg/kg of ipilimumab. No treatment-related 
adverse effects on reproduction were detected during the first two trimesters of pregnancy. Beginning 
in the third trimester, both ipilimumab groups experienced higher incidences of abortion, stillbirth, 
premature delivery (with corresponding lower birth weight), and infant mortality relative to control 
animals; these findings were dose-dependent. Additionally, developmental external or visceral 
abnormalities were identified in the urogenital system of 2 infants exposed in utero to ipilimumab. 
One female infant had unilateral renal agenesis of the left kidney and ureter, and one male infant had 
an imperforate urethra with associated urinary obstruction and subcutaneous scrotal edema. The 
relationship of these malformations to treatment is unclear. 
Studies to evaluate the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of ipilimumab have not been performed. 
Fertility studies have not been performed. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tris hydrochloride (2-amino-2-hydroxymethyl-1,3-propanediol hydrochloride) 
Sodium chloride 
Mannitol (E421) 
Pentetic acid (diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid) 
Polysorbate 80 
Sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment) 
Hydrochloric acid (for pH-adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
3 years 
After opening 
From a microbiological point of view, once opened, the medicinal product should be infused or diluted 
and infused immediately. The chemical and physical in-use stability of the undiluted or diluted 
concentrate (between 1 and 4 mg/ml) has been demonstrated for 24 hrs at 25°C and 2°C to 8°C. If not 
used immediately, the infusion solution (undiluted or diluted) may be stored for up to 24 hours in a 
refrigerator (2°C to 8°C) or at room temperature (20°C to 25°C). 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C-8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
For storage conditions after first opening or dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
10 ml of concentrate in a vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (coated butyl rubber) and a flip-off seal 
(aluminium). Pack size of 1. 
40 ml of concentrate in a vial (Type I glass) with a stopper (coated butyl rubber) and a flip-off seal 
(aluminium). Pack size of 1. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Preparation should be performed by trained personnel in accordance with good practices rules, 
especially with respect to asepsis. 
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Calculating the dose: 
Ipilimumab monotherapy or ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab: 
The prescribed dose for the patient is given in mg/kg. Based on this prescribed dose, calculate the total 
dose to be given. More than one vial of YERVOY concentrate may be needed to give the total dose for 
the patient. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Each 10 ml vial of YERVOY concentrate provides 50 mg of ipilimumab; each 40 ml vial 
provides 200 mg of ipilimumab. 
The total ipilimumab dose in mg = the patient’s weight in kg × the prescribed dose in mg/kg. 
The volume of YERVOY concentrate to prepare the dose (ml) = the total dose in mg, divided 
by 5 (the YERVOY concentrate strength is 5 mg/ml). 
Preparing the infusion: 
Take care to ensure aseptic handling when you prepare the infusion. 
▪ 
YERVOY can be used for intravenous administration either: 
▪ 
without dilution, after transfer to an infusion container using an appropriate sterile syringe; 
or 
after diluting to up to 5 times the original volume of concentrate (up to 4 parts of diluent 
to 1 part of concentrate). The final concentration should range from 1 to 4 mg/ml. To dilute the 
YERVOY concentrate, you can use either: 
▪ 
▪ 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection; or 
50 mg/ml (5%) glucose solution for injection 
STEP 1 
▪ 
▪ 
Allow the appropriate number of vials of YERVOY to stand at room temperature for 
approximately 5 minutes. 
Inspect the YERVOY concentrate for particulate matter or discoloration. YERVOY concentrate 
is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow liquid that may contain light (few) 
particulates. Do not use if unusual amount of particles and signs of discoloration are present. 
▪  Withdraw the required volume of YERVOY concentrate using an appropriate sterile syringe. 
STEP 2 
▪ 
▪ 
Transfer the concentrate into a sterile, evacuated glass bottle or intravenous bag (PVC or 
non-PVC). 
If applicable, dilute with the required volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose solution for injection. For ease of preparation, the 
concentrate can also be transferred directly into a pre-filled bag containing the appropriate 
volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose 
solution for injection. Gently mix the infusion by manual rotation. 
Administration: 
The YERVOY infusion must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
Administer the YERVOY infusion intravenously over a period of 30 minutes. 
The YERVOY infusion should not be infused at the same time in the same intravenous line with other 
agents. Use a separate infusion line for the infusion. 
Use an infusion set and an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein binding filter (pore size 
of 0.2 μm to 1.2 μm). 
The YERVOY infusion is compatible with: 
▪ 
▪ 
PVC infusion sets 
Polyethersulfone (0.2 μm to 1.2 μm) and nylon (0.2 μm) in-line filters 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Flush the line with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose 
solution for injection at the end of the infusion. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be discarded in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/11/698/001-002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 13 July 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 21 April 2016 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
AND MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) AND 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance(s) 
Lotte Biologics USA, LLC 
6000 Thompson Road 
East Syracuse, New York 13057 
United States 
Samsung Biologics Co. Ltd 
300, Songdo Bio Way (Daero) 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon 21987 
Korea 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Cruiserath Biologics 
Cruiserath Road, Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15, D15 H6EF 
Ireland 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2. of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe 
YERVOY are provided with/have access to the following to provide to their patients: 
• 
Patient Information Guide including Alert Card 
Key elements for the Patient Information Guide and Alert Card: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Brief introduction to ipilimumab and the purpose of the risk minimisation tools. 
Information that ipilimumab can cause serious side effects in many parts of the body that can 
lead to death and need to be addressed immediately 
Request to inform the physician of all medical conditions before treatment. 
Description of the main symptoms of irARs and the importance of notifying their treating 
physician immediately if symptoms occur, persist or worsen. 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
Gastrointestinal: diarrhea, bloody stool, abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting 
Liver: yellowing of your skin or whites of your eyes 
Skin: rash, blisters and/or peeling, mouth sores 
Eye: blurred vision, vision changes, eye pain, 
General: fever, headache, feeling tired, dizziness or fainting, dark urine, bleeding, 
weakness, numbness of legs, arms, or faces, changes in behavior, such as less sex drive, 
being irritable or forgetful 
The importance of not attempting to self-treat any symptoms without consulting their 
Healthcare professional first. 
Placeholder including the weblink of the Package Leaflet on the EMA website 
The importance of carrying the detachable wallet-sized Patient Alert Card at all times to show it 
at all medical visits to healthcare professionals other than the prescriber (e.g. emergency 
healthcare professionals). The Card reminds patients about key symptoms that need to be 
reported immediately to the physician/nurse. It also contains prompts to enter contact details of 
the physician and to alert other physicians that the patient is treated with ipilimumab. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall agree the format and content of the above material with the 
National Competent Authority prior to launch in the Member State. 
• 
Obligation to conduct post-authorisation measure 
The MAH shall complete, within the stated timeframe, the below measure: 
Description 
Post authorisation efficacy study (PAES): In order to further elucidate the 
contribution of ipilimumab to the efficacy and toxicity of the combination 
regimen of nivolumab and ipilimumab, the MAH should conduct and 
submit the results of a randomised, clinical study comparing the efficacy 
and safety of the combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab to nivolumab 
monotherapy in previously untreated adult patients with intermediate/poor-
risk advanced renal cell carcinoma and with an appropriate spectrum of 
PD-L1 expression levels. This study should be conducted according to an 
agreed protocol. 
Due date 
31st October 2024 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
YERVOY 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
Ipilimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of concentrate contains 5 mg ipilimumab. 
Each vial contains 50 mg ipilimumab. 
Each vial contains 200 mg ipilimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Tris hydrochloride, sodium chloride, mannitol (E421), pentetic acid, polysorbate 80, 
sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
50 mg/10 ml 
200 mg/40 ml 
1 vial 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For single use only. 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/698/001 
EU/1/11/698/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
<NN> 
72 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
YERVOY 5 mg/ml sterile concentrate 
Ipilimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each ml of concentrate contains 5 mg ipilimumab. 
Each vial contains 50 mg ipilimumab. 
Each vial contains 200 mg ipilimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: Tris hydrochloride, sodium chloride, mannitol (E421), pentetic acid, polysorbate 80, 
sodium hydroxide, hydrochloric acid, water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Sterile concentrate 
50 mg/10 ml 
200 mg/40 ml 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
IV use. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
For single use only. 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/698/001 
EU/1/11/698/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
74 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
75 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
YERVOY 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
ipilimumab 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed 
in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What YERVOY is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use YERVOY 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use YERVOY 
Possible side effects 
How to store YERVOY 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What YERVOY is and what it is used for 
YERVOY contains the active substance ipilimumab, a protein which helps your immune system to 
attack and destroy cancer cells by your immune cells. 
Ipilimumab alone is used to treat advanced melanoma (a type of skin cancer) in adults and adolescents 
12 years of age and older. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab is used to treat 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
advanced melanoma (a type of skin cancer) in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older 
advanced renal cell carcinoma (advanced kidney cancer) in adults 
malignant pleural mesothelioma (a type of cancer that affects the lining of the lung) in adults 
advanced colorectal cancer (colon or rectal cancer) in adults 
advanced oesophageal cancer (gullet cancer) in adults. 
Ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy is used to treat advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer (a type of lung cancer) in adult. 
As YERVOY may be given in combination with other anti-cancer medicines, it is important that you 
also read the package leaflet for these other medicines. If you have any questions about these 
medicines, please ask your doctor. 
2.  What you need to know before you use YERVOY 
You should not be given YERVOY 
▪ 
if you are allergic to ipilimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
Section 6 "Contents of the pack and other information"). Talk to your doctor if you are not 
sure. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor before using YERVOY as it may cause: 
- 
Problems with your heart such as a change in the rhythm or rate of the heartbeat or an 
abnormal heart rythm. 
76 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Inflammation of the intestines (colitis) which can worsen to bleedings or bowel perforation. 
Signs and symptoms of colitis may include diarrhoea (watery, loose or soft stools), an increased 
number of bowel movements than usual, blood in your stools or darker-coloured stools, pain or 
tenderness in your stomach area. 
Problems with your lungs such as breathing difficulties or cough. These may be signs of 
inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis or interstitial lung disease). 
Inflammation of the liver (hepatitis) that can lead to liver failure. Signs and symptoms of 
hepatitis may include eye or skin yellowing (jaundice), pain on the right side of your stomach 
area, tiredness. 
Inflammation of the skin that can lead to severe skin reaction (known as toxic epidermal 
necrolysis, Stevens-Johnson syndrome and Drug Reaction with Eosinophilia and Systemic 
Symptoms (DRESS)). Signs and symptoms of severe skin reaction may include such as skin 
rash with or without itching, peeling of the skin, dry skin, fever, fatigue, swelling of the face or 
lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells) and effects on liver, kidneys or 
lungs. Please note that the reaction called DRESS may develop weeks or months after your last 
dose. 
Inflammation of the nerves that can lead to paralysis. Symptoms of nerve problems may 
include muscle weakness, numbness or tingling in your hands or feet, loss of consciousness or 
difficulty waking up. 
Inflammation or problems with your kidneys. Signs and symptoms may include abnormal 
kidney function tests, or decreased volume of urine. 
Inflammation of hormone producing glands (especially the pituitary, adrenal and thyroid 
glands) that may affect how these glands work. Signs and symptoms that your glands are not 
working properly may include headaches, blurry or double vision, tiredness, decreased sexual 
drive, behavioral changes. 
Type 1 Diabetes, including diabetic ketoacidosis (acid in the blood produced from diabetes). 
Inflammation of the muscles such as myocarditis (inflammation of the heart muscle), myositis 
(inflammation of the muscles) and rhabdomyolysis (stiffness in muscles and joints, muscle 
spasm). Signs and symptoms may include muscle pain, stiffness, weakness, chest pain, or 
severe fatigue. 
Inflammation of the eyes. Signs and symptoms may include redness in the eye, pain in the eye, 
vision problems, blurry vision or temporary loss of sight. 
Haemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis. A rare disease in which our immune system makes 
too many of otherwise normal infection fighting cells called histiocytes and lymphocytes. 
Symptoms may include enlarged liver and/or spleen, skin rash, lymph node enlargement, 
breathing problems, easy bruising, kidney abnormalities, and heart problems. 
- 
Organ transplant rejection. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you have any of these signs or symptoms or they get worse. Do not 
try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. Your doctor may give you other medicines in 
order to prevent more severe complications and reduce your symptoms, withhold the next dose of 
YERVOY, or stop your treatment with YERVOY altogether. 
Please note that these signs and symptoms are sometimes delayed, and may develop weeks or months 
after your last dose. Before treatment, your doctor will check your general health. You will also have 
blood tests during treatment. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check with your doctor or nurse before you are given YERVOY 
▪ 
▪ 
if you have an autoimmune disease (a condition where the body attacks its own cells); 
if you have, or have ever had, chronic viral infection of the liver, including hepatitis B (HBV) 
or hepatitis C (HCV); 
if you have human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection or acquired immune deficiency 
syndrome (AIDS). 
if you have previously experienced a severe skin adverse reaction on a prior cancer therapy. 
if you have any history of inflammation of the lungs 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Children and adolescents 
YERVOY should not be used in children and adolescents below 18 years of age except for adolescents 
12 years of age and older with melanoma. 
Other medicines and YERVOY 
Before you are given YERVOY, tell your doctor 
▪ 
if you are taking any medicines that suppress your immune system, such as corticosteroids. 
These medicines may interfere with the effect of YERVOY. However, once you are treated with 
YERVOY, your doctor may give you corticosteroids to reduce the side-effects that you may 
have with YERVOY. 
▪ 
▪ 
if you are taking any medicines that stop your blood from clotting (anticoagulants). These 
medicines may increase the likelihood of bleeding in the stomach or intestine, which is a side-
effect of YERVOY. 
if you have recently been prescribed Zelboraf (vemurafenib, another medicine for the treatment 
of skin cancer). When YERVOY is given following prior vemurafenib there may be an 
increased risk of skin side-effects. 
Also tell your doctor if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines. 
Do not take any other medicines during your treatment without talking to your doctor first. Based on 
early data, the combination of YERVOY (ipilimumab) and vemurafenib is not recommended due to 
increased toxicity to the liver. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Tell your doctor if you are pregnant, if you are planning to become pregnant, or if you are 
breast-feeding. 
You must not use YERVOY if you are pregnant unless your doctor specifically recommends it. The 
effects of YERVOY in pregnant women are not known, but it is possible that the active substance, 
ipilimumab, could harm an unborn baby. 
▪ 
You must use effective contraception while you are being treated with YERVOY if you are a 
woman who could become pregnant. 
If you become pregnant while using YERVOY tell your doctor. 
▪ 
It is not known whether ipilimumab gets into breast milk. However, significant exposure of 
ipilimumab to the infant through breast milk is not expected and no effects on the breast-fed infant are 
anticipated. Ask your doctor if you can breast-feed during or after treatment with YERVOY. 
Driving and using machines 
Do not drive, cycle or use machines after you have been given YERVOY unless you are sure you are 
feeling well. Feeling tired or weak is a very common side effect of YERVOY. This can affect your 
ability to drive, cycle or to use machines. 
YERVOY contains sodium 
Tell your doctor if you are on a low-sodium (low-salt) diet before you are given YERVOY. 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicine contains 23 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each 10 ml vial. This 
is equivalent to 1.15% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. 
This medicine contains 92 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each 40 ml vial. This 
is equivalent to 4.60% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult 
3. 
How to use YERVOY 
How YERVOY is given 
YERVOY will be given to you in a hospital or clinic under the supervision of an experienced doctor. 
When YERVOY is given alone for the treatment of skin cancer, YERVOY will be given to you as an 
infusion (a drip) into a vein (intravenously) over a period of 30 minutes. 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of skin cancer, you will be 
given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses (combination phase). 
Thereafter, nivolumab will be given as an infusion over a period of 30 or 60 minutes, every 2 weeks or 
4 weeks, depending on the dose you are receiving (single-agent phase). 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, 
you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses 
(combination phase). Thereafter, nivolumab will be given as an infusion over a period 
of 30 or 60 minutes, every 2 weeks or 4 weeks, depending on the dose you are receiving (single-agent 
phase). 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of advanced colon or rectal 
cancer in adults, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes every 3 weeks for the 
first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter, nivolumab will be given as an infusion over a period 
of 30 minutes, every 2 weeks (single-agent phase). 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of malignant pleural 
mesothelioma or advanced oesophageal cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 
30 minutes every 6 weeks. 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy for the treatment of 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer, you will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes every 
6 weeks. After completion of 2 cycles of chemotherapy, ipilimumab will be given in combination with 
nivolumab as an infusion over a period of 30 minutes every 6 weeks. 
How much YERVOY is given 
When YERVOY is given alone for the treatment of skin cancer, the recommended dose is 3 mg of 
ipilimumab per kilogram of your body weight. 
The amount of YERVOY you will be given will be calculated based on your body weight. Depending 
on your dose, some or all of the content of the YERVOY vial may be diluted with sodium 
chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose solution for injection before 
use. More than one vial may be necessary to obtain the required dose. 
You will be treated with YERVOY once every 3 weeks, for a total of 4 doses. You may notice the 
appearance of new lesions or growth of existing lesions on your skin, which can be expected when you 
are being treated with YERVOY. Your doctor will continue giving you YERVOY for a total of 
4 doses, depending on your tolerance to the treatment. 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of skin cancer in adults and 
adolescents 12 years of age and older, the recommended dose of YERVOY is 3 mg of ipilimumab per 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
kilogram of your body weight every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter the 
recommended dose of nivolumab (single-agent phase) is 240 mg given every 2 weeks or 480 mg given 
every 4 weeks in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older and weighing at least 50 kg or 3 mg 
of nivolumab per kilogram of your body weight given every 2 weeks or 6 mg of nivolumab per 
kilogram of your body weight given every 4 weeks for adolescents 12 years of age and older and 
weighing less than 50 kg. 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of advanced kidney cancer, 
the recommended dose of YERVOY is 1 mg of ipilimumab per kilogram of your body weight 
every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter, the recommended dose of 
nivolumab is 240 mg given every 2 weeks or 480 mg given every 4 weeks (single-agent phase). 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of advanced colon or rectal 
cancer, the recommended dose of YERVOY is 1 mg of ipilimumab per kilogram of your body weight 
every 3 weeks for the first 4 doses (combination phase). Thereafter, the recommended dose of 
nivolumab is 240 mg given every 2 weeks (single-agent phase). 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab for the treatment of malignant pleural 
mesothelioma or advanced oesophageal cancer, the recommended dose of YERVOY is 1 mg of 
ipilimumab per kilogram of your body weight every 6 weeks. 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab and chemotherapy for the treatment of 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer, the recommended dose of YERVOY is 1 mg of ipilimumab per 
kilogram of your body weight. You will be given an infusion over a period of 30 minutes, 
every 6 weeks. 
If you miss a dose of YERVOY 
It is very important for you to keep all your appointments to receive YERVOY. If you miss an 
appointment, ask your doctor when to schedule your next dose. 
If you stop using YERVOY 
Stopping your treatment may stop the effect of the medicine. Do not stop treatment with YERVOY 
unless you have discussed this with your doctor. 
If you have any further questions about your treatment or the use of this medicine, ask your doctor. 
When YERVOY is given in combination with nivolumab or in combination with nivolumab and 
chemotherapy, you will first be given nivolumab followed by YERVOY and then by chemotherapy. 
Please refer to the package leaflet of the other anti-cancer medicines in order to understand the use of 
these other medicines. If you have questions about these medicines, please ask your doctor. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Your 
doctor will discuss these with you and will explain the risks and benefits of your treatment. 
Be aware of important symptoms of inflammation 
YERVOY acts on your immune system and may cause inflammation in parts of your body. 
Inflammation may cause serious damage to your body and some inflammatory conditions may be 
life-threatening. 
The following side effects have been reported in patients receiving 3 mg/kg ipilimumab alone: 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
▪ 
▪ 
loss of appetite 
diarrhoea (watery, loose or soft stools), vomiting or feeling sick (nausea), constipation, stomach 
pain 
skin rash, itching 
pain in the muscles, bones, ligaments, tendons, and nerves 
feeling tired or weak, reaction at site of injection, fever, oedema (swelling), pain 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
▪ 
serious bacterial infection of the blood (sepsis), infection of the urinary tract, infection of the 
respiratory tract 
tumour pain 
a decreased number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen), white blood cells (which are 
important in fighting infection) or platelets (cells which help the blood to clot) 
underactive function of the thyroid gland which can cause tiredness or weight gain, underactive 
function (hypopituitarism) or inflammation (hypophysitis) of the pituitary gland situated at the 
base of the brain 
dehydration 
confusion, depression 
excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain, damage to the nerves (causing pain, weakness and 
cramps), dizziness, headache, 
blurred vision, pain in the eye 
irregular or abnormal heart beat 
low blood pressure, temporary redness of the face and neck, feeling of intense heat with 
sweating and rapid heart beat 
shortness of breath (dyspnoea), cough, hay fever 
bleeding in the stomach or intestine, inflammation of the intestines (colitis), heartburn, mouth 
ulcers and cold sores (stomatitis) 
abnormal function of the liver 
inflammation of the inner surface lining of a particular organ 
inflammation and redness of the skin, skin colour change in patches (vitiligo), hives (itchy, 
bumpy rash), hair loss or thinning, excessive sweating at night, dry skin 
pain in muscles and joints(arthralgia), muscle spasms, inflammation of the joints (arthritis) 
kidney function failure 
shivering, lack of energy 
flu-like illness 
decrease in body weight 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
▪ 
serious bacterial infection of the blood (septic shock), inflammation around the brain or spinal 
cord, inflammation of the stomach and intestines, inflammation of bowel wall (causing fever, 
vomiting and stomach pain), lung infection (pneumonia) 
a group of symptoms due to cancer in the body such as high blood levels of calcium and 
cholesterol, and low blood levels of sugar (paraneoplastic syndrome) 
increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells) 
allergic reaction 
decreased secretion of hormones produced by adrenal glands (glands situated above the 
kidneys), overactive function of the thyroid gland, which can cause rapid heart rate, sweating 
and weight loss, defect of the glands producing sex hormones 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
decreased function of the adrenal glands caused by an underactive hypothalamus (part of the 
brain) 
a group of metabolic complications occurring after cancer treatment characterised by high blood 
levels of potassium and phosphate, and low blood levels of calcium (tumour lysis syndrome). 
changes in mental health, lowered sex drive 
severe and possibly fatal inflammation of the nerves causing pain, weakness or paralysis in the 
extremities (Guillain-Barré syndrome), fainting, inflammation of the nerves within the brain, 
difficulty in coordinating movements (ataxia), shaking, brief involuntary muscle contraction, 
difficulty in speaking 
inflammation of the eye (conjunctivitis), bleeding in the eye, inflammation of the coloured part 
of the eye, reduced vision, a foreign body sensation in the eyes, swollen runny eyes, swelling of 
the eye, inflammation of the eyelids 
inflammation of the blood vessels, disease of the blood vessels, restriction in the blood supply to 
the extremities, low blood pressure when standing up 
extreme difficulty in breathing, fluid accumulation in the lungs, inflammation of the lungs 
bowel perforation, inflammation of the small intestine, inflammation of the bowel or the 
pancreas (pancreatitis), peptic ulcer, inflammation of the food pipe, blockage of the intestines, 
inflammation of the anus and the rectal wall (marked by bloody stools and a frequent urge to 
defecate) 
liver failure, inflammation of the liver, enlarged liver, yellowing of the skin or eyes (jaundice) 
severe and possibly fatal peeling of the skin (toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
inflammation of the muscles causing pain or stiffness in the hip and shoulder 
inflammation of the kidney, or the central nervous system 
multi organ inflammation 
inflammation of skeletal muscles 
muscle weakness 
kidney disease 
absence of menstrual periods 
multi organ dysfunction, reaction related to infusion of the medicine 
change in hair colour 
inflammation of the bladder, signs and symptoms may include frequent and/or painful urination, 
urge to pass urine, blood in urine, pain or pressure in lower abdomen 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
inflammatory disease of blood vessels (most commonly head arteries) 
swelling of the thyroid gland (thyroiditis) 
skin disease characterized by dry red patches covered with scales (psoriasis) 
inflammation and redness of the skin (erythema multiforme) 
a type of severe skin reaction characterized by rash accompanied by one or more of the 
following features: fever, swelling of the face or lymph glands, increase of eosinophils (type of 
white blood cells), effects on liver, kidneys or lungs (a reaction called DRESS). 
an inflammatory disorder (most likely of autoimmune origin) affecting the eyes, skin and the 
membranes of the ears, brain and spinal cord (Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome), loosening of 
membrane at the back of the eye (serous retinal detachment) 
symptoms of type 1 diabetes or diabetic ketoacidosis include feeling more hungry or thirsty than 
usual, needing to urinate more often, weight loss, feeling tired, feeling sick, stomach pain, fast 
and deep breathing, confusion, unusual sleepiness, a sweet smell to your breath, a sweet or 
metallic taste in your mouth, or a different odour to your urine or sweat 
muscle weakness and tiredness without atrophy (myasthenia gravis) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
82 
 
 
 
 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people) 
▪ 
serious, potential life-threatening allergic reaction 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
In addition, the following uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) side effects have been 
reported in patients who received doses other than 3 mg/kg of YERVOY in clinical trials: 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
triad of symptoms (meningism): neck stiffness, intolerance of bright light and headache, flu-like 
discomfort 
inflammation of the heart muscle, weakness of the heart muscle, fluid around the heart 
inflammation of the liver or the pancreas, nodules of inflammatory cells in various organs of 
your body 
infection within the abdomen 
painful skin lesions of the arms and legs and face (erythema nodosum) 
overactive pituitary gland 
decreased function of the parathyroid gland 
inflammation of the eye, eye muscle inflammation 
decreased hearing 
poor blood circulation which makes toes and fingers numb or pale 
damage to the tissues of the hands and feet resulting in redness, swelling and blisters 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Other side effects that have been reported with frequency not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data): 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
organ transplant rejection 
a type of skin blistering disease (called pemphigoid) 
a condition where the immune system makes too many infection-fighting cells called histiocytes 
and lymphocytes that may cause various symptoms (called haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis). Symptoms may include enlarged liver and/or spleen, skin rash, lymph 
node enlargement, breathing problems, easy bruising, kidney abnormalities, and heart problems. 
pain, numbness, tingling, or weakness in the arms or legs; bladder or bowel problems including 
needing to urinate more frequently, urinary incontinence, difficulty urinating and constipation 
(myelitis) 
▪ 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Changes in test results 
YERVOY may cause changes in the results of tests carried out by your doctor. These include: 
▪ 
a variation in the number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen), white blood cells (which are 
important in fighting infection) or platelets (cells which help the blood to clot) 
an abnormal variation of hormones and liver enzyme levels in the blood 
abnormal liver function test 
abnormal levels of calcium, sodium, phosphate or potassium in the blood 
presence of blood or proteins in the urine 
an abnormally high alkalinity of the blood and other body tissues 
kidneys unable to remove acids from blood normally 
presence of antibodies in the blood against some of your own cells 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following side effects have been reported with ipilimumab in combination with other anti-
cancer medicines (the frequency and severity of side effects may vary with the combination of anti-
cancer medicines received): 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
infections of the upper respiratory tract 
underactive thyroid gland (which can cause tiredness or weight gain) 
a decreased number of red blood cells (which carry oxygen), white blood cells (which are 
important in fighting infection) or platelets (cells which help the blood to clot) 
loss of appetite, high (hyperglycaemia) or low (hypoglycaemia) sugar levels in the blood 
headache, dizziness 
shortness of breath (dyspnoea), cough 
diarrhoea (watery, loose or soft stools), vomiting or feeling sick (nausea), stomach pain, 
constipation 
skin rash sometimes with blisters, itching 
pain in the muscles and bones (musculoskeletal pain), painful joints (arthralgia) 
feeling tired or weak, fever, oedema (swelling) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
lung infection (pneumonia), bronchitis, inflammation of the eye (conjunctivitis) 
increase of eosinophils (type of white blood cells) 
allergic reaction, reactions related to the infusion of the medicine 
overactive thyroid gland (which can cause rapid heart rate, sweating and weight loss), decreased 
secretion of hormones produced by adrenal glands (glands situated above the kidneys), 
underactive function (hypopituitarism) or inflammation (hypophysitis) of the pituitary gland 
situated at the base of the brain, swelling of the thyroid gland, diabetes 
dehydration, decreased levels of albumin and phosphate in the blood, decrease in body weight 
inflammation of the nerves (causing numbness, weakness, tingling or burning pain of the arms 
and legs) 
blurred vision, dry eye 
rapid heart beat, changes in the rhythm or rate of the heartbeat, irregular or abnormal heart beat 
high blood pressure (hypertension) 
inflammation of the lungs (pneumonitis, characterised by coughing and difficulty breathing), 
fluid around the lungs 
inflammation of the intestines (colitis), mouth ulcers and cold sores (stomatitis), inflammation 
of the pancreas (pancreatitis), dry mouth, inflammation of the stomach (gastritis) 
inflammation of the liver 
skin colour change in patches (vitiligo), redness of the skin, unusual hair loss or thinning, hives 
(itchy, bumpy rash), dry skin 
inflammation of the joints (arthritis), muscle spasm, muscle weakness 
kidney failure (including abrupt loss of kidney function) 
pain, chest pain, chills 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
▪ 
decrease in neutrophils with fever 
▪ 
acid in the blood produced from diabetes (diabetic ketoacidosis) 
▪ 
increased acid levels in the blood 
▪ 
inflammation of the brain; damage to nerves causing numbness and weakness (polyneuropathy); 
foot drop (peroneal nerve palsy); inflammation of the nerves caused by the body attacking itself, 
causing numbness, weakness, tingling or burning pain (autoimmune neuropathy); muscle 
weakness and tiredness without atrophy (myasthenia gravis) 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
inflammation of the eye which causes redness or pain 
irregular or abnormal heart beat, inflammation of the heart muscle, slow heart rate 
inflammation of the duodenum 
skin disease with thickened patches of red skin, often with silvery scales (psoriasis), severe 
condition of the skin that causes red, often itchy spots, similar to the rash of measles, which 
starts on the limbs and sometimes on the face and the rest of the body (erythema multiforme), 
severe and possibly fatal peeling of the skin (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) 
aching muscles, muscle tenderness of weakness, not caused by exercise (myopathy), 
inflammation of the muscles (myositis), inflammation of the muscles causing pain or stiffness 
(polymyalgia rheumatica) 
inflammation of the kidney 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1000 people) 
▪ 
temporary and reversible non-infectious inflammation of the protective membranes surrounding 
the brain and spinal cord (aseptic meningitis) 
chronic diseases associated with a build-up of inflammatory cells in various organs and tissues, 
most commonly the lungs (sarcoidosis) 
decreased function of the parathyroid gland 
temporary inflammation of the nerves that causes pain, weakness and paralysis in the 
extremities (Guillain-Barré syndrome), inflammation of the nerves 
bowel perforation, 
severe and possibly fatal peeling of the skin (toxic epidermal necrolysis), changes in any area of 
the skin and/or genital area that are associated with drying out, thinning, itching and pain (lichen 
sclerosus or other lichen disorders) 
chronic disease of joints (spondyloarthropathy), disease in which the immune system attacks the 
glands that make moisture for the body, such as tears and saliva (Sjogren’s syndrome), stiffness 
in muscles and joints, muscle spasm (rhabdomyolysis) 
an inflammatory disorder (most likely of autoimmune origin) affecting the eyes, skin and the 
membranes of the ears, brain and spinal cord (Vogt-Koyanagi-Harada syndrome), loosening of 
membrane at the back of the eye (serous retinal detachment) 
inflammation of the bladder, signs and symptoms may include frequent and/or painful urination, 
urge to pass urine, blood in urine, pain or pressure in lower abdomen 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
➔ Tell your doctor immediately if you get any of these side effects. 
Do not try to treat your symptoms with other medicines. 
Other side effects that have been reported with frequency not known (cannot be estimated from 
the available data): 
▪ 
▪ 
organ transplant rejection 
a group of metabolic complications occurring after cancer treatment characterised by high blood 
levels of potassium and phosphate, and low blood levels of calcium (tumour lysis syndrome) 
inflammation of the covering of the heart and accumulation of fluid around the heart (pericardial 
disorders) 
a condition where the immune system makes too many infection-fighting cells called histiocytes 
and lymphocytes that may cause various symptoms (called haemophagocytic 
lymphohistiocytosis). Symptoms may include enlarged liver and/or spleen, skin rash, lymph 
node enlargement, breathing problems, easy bruising, kidney abnormalities, and heart problems 
pain, numbness, tingling, or weakness in the arms or legs; bladder or bowel problems including 
needing to urinate more frequently, urinary incontinence, difficulty urinating and constipation 
(myelitis) 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
Changes in test results 
YERVOY in combination may cause changes in the results of tests carried out by your doctor. These 
include: 
▪ 
abnormal liver function tests (increased amounts of the liver enzymes aspartate 
aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, gamma-glutamyltransferase, or alkaline 
phosphatase in your blood, higher blood levels of the waste product bilirubin) 
abnormal kidney function tests (increased amounts of creatinine in your blood) 
an increased level of the enzyme that breaks down fats and of the enzyme that breaks down 
starch 
increased or decreased amount of calcium or potassium 
increased or decreased blood levels of magnesium or sodium 
increased amount of thyroid stimulating hormone 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor. This includes any possible side effects not listed in 
this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store YERVOY 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the vial label after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light. 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste 
material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What YERVOY contains 
▪ 
The active substance is ipilimumab. 
Each ml of concentrate contains 5 mg of ipilimumab. 
Each 10 ml vial contains 50 mg of ipilimumab. 
Each 40 ml vial contains 200 mg of ipilimumab. 
▪ 
The other ingredients are Tris-hydrochloride, sodium chloride (see section 2 "YERVOY 
contains sodium"), mannitol (E421), pentetic acid, polysorbate 80, sodium hydroxide, 
hydrochloric acid and water for injections. 
What YERVOY looks like and contents of the pack 
YERVOY concentrate for solution for infusion is clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow 
and may contain light (few) particulates. 
It is available in packs containing either 1 glass vial of 10 ml or 1 glass vial of 40 ml. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG 
Plaza 254 
Blanchardstown Corporate Park 2 
Dublin 15, D15 T867 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
CATALENT ANAGNI S.R.L. 
Loc. Fontana del Ceraso snc 
Strada Provinciale 12 Casilina, 41 
03012 Anagni (FR) 
Italy 
Swords Laboratories Unlimited Company T/A Bristol-Myers Squibb Cruiserath Biologics 
Cruiserath Road, Mulhuddart 
Dublin 15, D15 H6EF 
Ireland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
Preparation should be performed by trained personnel in accordance with good practices rules, 
especially with respect to asepsis. 
Calculating the dose: 
Ipilimumab monotherapy or ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab: 
The prescribed dose for the patient is given in mg/kg. Based on this prescribed dose, calculate the 
total dose to be given. More than one vial of YERVOY concentrate may be needed to give the total 
dose for the patient. 
▪ 
▪ 
▪ 
Each 10 ml vial of YERVOY concentrate provides 50 mg of ipilimumab; each 40 ml vial 
provides 200 mg of ipilimumab. 
The total ipilimumab dose in mg = the patient’s weight in kg × the prescribed dose in mg/kg. 
The volume of YERVOY concentrate to prepare the dose (ml) = the total dose in mg, divided 
by 5 (the YERVOY concentrate strength is 5 mg/ml). 
Preparing the infusion: 
Take care to ensure aseptic handling when you prepare the infusion. 
▪ 
YERVOY can be used for intravenous administration either: 
▪ 
without dilution, after transfer to an infusion container using an appropriate sterile syringe; 
or 
after diluting to up to 5 times the original volume of concentrate (up to 4 parts of diluent 
to 1 part of concentrate). The final concentration should range from 1 to 4 mg/ml. To dilute the 
YERVOY concentrate, you can use either: 
▪ 
▪ 
sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection; or 
50 mg/ml (5%) glucose solution for injection 
87 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STEP 1 
▪ 
▪ 
Allow the appropriate number of vials of YERVOY to stand at room temperature for 
approximately 5 minutes. 
Inspect the YERVOY concentrate for particulate matter or discoloration. YERVOY concentrate 
is a clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale yellow liquid that may contain light (few) 
particulates. Do not use if unusual amount of particles and signs of discoloration are present. 
▪  Withdraw the required volume of YERVOY concentrate using an appropriate sterile syringe. 
STEP 2 
▪ 
▪ 
Transfer the concentrate into a sterile, evacuated glass bottle or IV bag (PVC or non-PVC). 
If applicable, dilute with the required volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for 
injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose solution for injection. For ease of preparation, the 
concentrate can also be transferred directly into a pre-filled bag containing the appropriate 
volume of sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose 
solution for injection. Gently mix the infusion by manual rotation. 
Administration: 
The YERVOY infusion must not be administered as an intravenous push or bolus injection. 
Administer the YERVOY infusion intravenously over a period of 30 minutes. 
The YERVOY infusion should not be infused at the same time in the same intravenous line with other 
agents. Use a separate infusion line for the infusion. 
Use an infusion set and an in-line, sterile, non-pyrogenic, low protein binding filter (pore size 
of 0.2 μm to 1.2 μm). 
The YERVOY infusion is compatible with: 
▪ 
▪ 
PVC infusion sets 
Polyethersulfone (0.2 μm to 1.2 μm) and nylon (0.2 μm) in-line filters 
Flush the line with sodium chloride 9 mg/ml (0.9%) solution for injection or 50 mg/ml (5%) glucose 
solution for injection at the end of the infusion. 
Storage conditions and shelf life: 
Unopened vial 
YERVOY must be stored in a refrigerator (2°C to 8°C). The vials must be kept in the original 
package in order to protect from light. YERVOY should not be frozen. 
Do not use YERVOY after the expiry date which is stated on the label and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
YERVOY infusion 
From a microbiological point of view, once opened, the medicine should be infused or diluted and 
infused immediately. The chemical and physical in-use stability of the undiluted or diluted infusion 
solution (between 1 and 4 mg/ml) has been demonstrated for 24 hours at room temperature 
(20°C to 25°C) or when refrigerated (2°C to 8°C). If not used immediately, the infusion solution 
(undiluted or diluted) must be used within 24 hours when stored either under refrigeration 
(2°C to 8°C) or at room temperature (20°C to 25°C). Other in-use storage time and conditions are the 
responsibility of the user. 
Disposal: 
Do not store any unused portion of the infusion solution for reuse. Any unused medicine or waste 
material should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
