19 May 2011 
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment Report 
For 
Yervoy 
(ipilimumab) 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/002213 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents   
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 6 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 6 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 7 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 8 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 8 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 15 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 25 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 31 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 50 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 61 
2.8. Benefit-Risk Balance ......................................................................................... 68 
2.9. Recommendation ............................................................................................. 71 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 2/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
ADCC 
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity 
AE 
AEX 
ALC 
ALT 
ALP 
ALT 
ANC 
AUC 
BOR 
adverse event 
anion exchange 
absolute lymphocyte count 
alanine aminotransferase 
Alkaline phosphatase 
aspartate aminotransferase 
absolute neutrophil count 
area under the concentration-time curve 
best overall response 
BORR 
best overall response rate 
BMS 
CCIT 
CDC 
CHO 
CEX 
CI 
CL 
Cmax 
Cmin 
Cminss 
CNS 
CPP 
CR 
CSR 
Bristol-Myers Squibb 
container closure integrity testing 
complement-dependent cytotoxicity 
Chinese hamster ovary 
cation exchange 
confidence interval 
clearance 
maximum concentration 
trough concentration 
trough concentration at steady state 
central nervous system 
critical process parameters 
complete response 
clinical study report 
CTLA-4 
cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 
CV 
DCR 
DTIC 
ECOG 
ELISA 
EU 
GCP 
GFR 
GI 
GLP 
HA 
HAHA 
HBsAG 
coefficient of variation 
disease control rate 
dacarbazine 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
enzyme linked immunosorbent assay 
European Union 
good clinical practice 
glomerular filtration rate 
gastrointestinal 
good laboratory practice 
hydroxyapatite 
human anti-human antibodies 
hepatitis B surface antigen 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 3/71 
 
 
 
HLA 
HR 
ICH 
IFNa 
IL-2 
IP 
irAE 
IRC 
ITT 
IV 
KD 
KLH 
LDH 
mAb 
MTD 
ORR 
OS 
PD 
PFS 
PFSR 
PK 
PP 
PPK 
PR 
PV 
RMP 
SAE 
SAWP 
SD 
SIV 
SmPC 
T-HALF 
TIL 
Tmax 
TNF 
TSE 
UF/DF 
ULN 
VC 
VF 
VI 
human leukocyte antigen 
hazard ratio 
International Conference on Harmonization 
interferon alfa 
interleukin-2 
intraperitoneally 
immune-related adverse event 
Independent Review Committee 
intent to treat 
intravenously 
dissociation constant 
keyhole limpet hemocyanin 
lactate dehydrogenase 
monoclonal antibody 
maximum tolerated dose 
overall response rate 
overall survival 
progressive disease 
progression-free survival 
progression-free survival rate 
pharmacokinetic 
process parameters 
population pharmacokinetic 
partial response 
pharmacovigilance 
risk management plan 
serious adverse event 
Scientific Advice Working Party 
stable disease 
simian immunodeficiency virus 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
terminal elimination half-life 
tumor infiltrating lymphocyte 
time to maximum concentration 
tumor necrosis factor 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
ultrafiltration/diafiltration 
upper limit of normal 
volume of central compartment 
viral filtration 
viral inactivation 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 4/71 
 
 
 
VP 
Vss 
WBC 
WCB 
WHO 
Volume of peripheral compartment 
volume of distribution at steady state 
white blood cells 
working cell bank 
World Health Organization 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 5/71 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG submitted on 5 May 2010 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMA)  for  Yervoy,  through  the  centralised  procedure 
falling within the Article 3(1) and point 1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indication treatment of advanced melanoma in adults who have 
received prior therapy. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data, non-
clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or bibliographic literature 
substituting/supporting certain test(s) or study(ies). 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant to Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006, the application included an EMA Decision 
P/63/2010 for the following condition(s):  
 
Treatment of melanoma in all subsets of the paediatric population. 
on the granting of a class waiver  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 17 november 2005 and 25 June 2009. The 
Scientific Advice pertained to quality and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
A new application was filed in the following countries: Australia, Canada, Switzerland and USA. 
A Marketing Authorisation was granted for Yervoy in the USA on 25 March 2011. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 6/71 
 
 
 
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Barbara van Zwieten-Boot 
Co-Rapporteur: Arantxa Sancho-Lopez 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 5 May 2010. 
The procedure started on 26 May 2010.  
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 15 August 2010  
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 August 
2010.   
  During the meeting on 23 September 2010, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 24 
September 2010. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on  
12 January 2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 11 March 2011. 
  During the CHMP meeting on 17 March 2011, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing and/or in an oral explanation by the applicant. 
 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 18 April 2011. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 4 May 2011. 
  During the meeting of May 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Yervoy on 19 May 2011. The applicant provided the letter of undertaking on the 
follow-up measures to be fulfilled post-authorisation on 19 May 2011. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 7/71 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Melanoma is an aggressive form of skin cancer. The incidence of melanoma varies between different 
European countries the estimated incidence is about 3.5 /100.000 men and 2.5/ 100.000 women per 
year. Approximately half the incidence is in people between the age of 35 and 65 years, with a median 
age at diagnosis of 57 years. The last decades the incidence has been increased continuously.  The 
increase in incidence affects all ages. Although more than 95% of the tumours are found in the skin, 
melanoma is not exclusively a skin cancer. Sites of primary extracutaneous melanoma include ocular, 
mucosal, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, leptomeninges and lymph nodes.  
About 20% of the patients diagnosed with melanoma develop metastases, and these patients have a 
median survival of about seven months. Melanoma can spread by local extension (through lymphatic’s) 
and/or by haematogenous routes.  Systemic therapy, surgery and radiotherapy, all can be used in the 
treatment of metastatic melanoma. Spontaneous regression of melanoma has been reported with an 
incidence of less than 1%. Complete resection of isolated metastases to one anatomic site (lung, 
gastrointestinal tract, bone or brain) may occasionally achieve long term survival. Systemic treatment 
may consist of chemotherapy, and/or immunotherapy. Palliative radiotherapy is indicated for 
symptomatic relief of metastases to brain, bones and viscera. 
Chemotherapy with dacarbazine (DTIC) may achieve objective response rates of about 20%, of which 
less than 5% is complete remission. Higher response rates have been seen using combination 
chemotherapy, however no increase in over-all survival has been demonstrated with combination 
regimens when compared to dacarbazine alone. Immunotherapeutic agents used for metastatic 
melanoma are interferon-alfa (IFNa) and interleukine2 (IL-2). Recurrent melanoma is resistant to most 
standard systemic therapy and no standardized effective second line treatment is established.  
Ipilimumab (MDX-010, BMS-734016), a fully human anti-human CTLA-4 (CD152) monoclonal antibody 
of the IgG1-κ isotype, is an immunomodulatory agent that is being developed for use in the treatment 
of cancer. The proposed mechanism of action for ipilimumab is interference of the interaction of CTLA-
4, expressed on a subset of activated T cells, with B7 (CD80/CD86) molecules on professional antigen-
presenting cells. This results in T-cell potentiation due to blockade of the inhibitory modulation of T-cell 
activation promoted by the CTLA-4/B7 interaction. The resulting T-cell activation, proliferation, and 
lymphocyte infiltration into tumours, leads to tumour cell death. The mechanism of action of 
ipilimumab is indirect, through enhancing T-cell mediated immune response. The commercial dosage 
form proposed for the European Union (EU) is a 5 mg/ml concentrate for solution for infusion. 
The applicant submitted this marketing authorisation application for Yervoy (ipilimumab) in the 
treatment of advanced melanoma in adults who have received prior therapy. 
The proposed target population for Yervoy was patients with a diagnosis of unresectable stage III or IV 
melanoma who, in response to at least 1 cycle first-line therapy, have relapsed following an objective 
response, failed to demonstrate an objective response, or could not tolerate IL-2, dacarbazine and/or 
temozolomide therapy due to unacceptable toxicity.  
The CHMP provided Scientific Advice (SA) to the applicant on the clinical development of ipilimumab. 
At the time of the SA, the Applicant proposed a phase III, blinded, three-arm clinical trial by which the 
three arms encompassed Yervoy combined with MDX-1379 (a tumour specific peptide vaccine), Yervoy 
alone and MDX-1379 alone.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 8/71 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction  
Ipilimumab drug substance is manufactured by Lonza Biologics, Inc., Portsmouth, NH, USA. 
Ipilimumab is produced from large-scale cell culture using a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell line and 
is purified using standard chromatography and filtration steps. The long-term stability studies support 
a 36-month shelf life for drug substance when stored refrigerated (2°-8°C) and protected from light.  
Ipilimumab concentrate for solution for infusion, also referred to ipilimumab injection, is available as 
50 mg/10 mL (5 mg/mL) or 200 mg/40 mL (5 mg/mL) single-use vial presentations. Both 
presentations are manufactured using the same 5 mg/mL bulk solution.  Overall the long-term stability 
data support a 36-month shelf life when stored refrigerated (2°-8°C) and protected from light and 
freezing.  
Three different manufacturing processes for the manufacturing of ipilimumab have been described: 
process A (hybridoma cells), process B-reduced-scale (CHO cells) and process B-commercial-scale 
(CHO cells). The process validation batches as well as the stability batches are produced with process 
B-commercial-scale material. Batches from all three processes are used in clinical studies, but the 
pivotal clinical studies are performed with process B-commercial-scale material.  Regarding pre-clinical 
studies only material from process A and the first small scale batch from process B are included in the 
studies. Process B-commercial-scale is the proposed commercial process. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Ipilimumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody produced by recombinant DNA technology in a CHO 
mammalian cell expression system. Ipilimumab consists of four polypeptide chains with two identical 
heavy chains of 447 amino acids each and two identical kappa light chains of 215 amino acids each. 
Each heavy and light chain pair is linked through an interchain disulfide bond. The predicted molecular 
weight is 147,991 Daltons.   
Manufacture 
Ipilimumab is produced as a secreted protein in large-scale cell culture employing a CHO cell line that 
was transfected with an expression vector containing the coding sequences for both heavy and light 
chains of ipilimumab.  This cell line is maintained with a Master Cell Bank and a Working Cell Bank 
(WCB) both of which have been tested consistent with ICH guidance documents.   
The upstream manufacturing process is initiated with the thaw of a frozen vial from a WCB.  The 
culture is initially propagated in flasks to inoculate a seed bioreactor.  Subsequently, contents are 
transferred to a second seed bioreactor followed by a production bioreactor. The production bioreactor 
is harvested when a specified set of criteria are met.   
The primary recovery steps are designed to clarify the material obtained from the production 
bioreactor for downstream processing.  The cell culture is harvested through a continuous flow 
centrifuge and clarified by depth filtration.  At the completion of the primary recovery process, the 
material is transferred to the purification area.  
The downstream manufacturing process consists of three chromatographic steps, two orthogonal 
dedicated viral inactivation/clearance steps, UF/DF steps, a formulation step, final filtration and fill.  
The downstream process is designed to remove host cell proteins, DNA, and cell culture media 
components from the process stream.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 9/71 
 
 
 
A description of the formulation of the drug substance batch, the batch formula and the controls during 
formulation has been provided.  Drug substance stability studies have all been conducted using 
formulated bulk drug substance. The holding times for the unformulated bulk as well as formulated 
bulk drug substance for the lots used for drug product production are presented. 
Overall the drug substance manufacturing process has been sufficiently validated. The validation 
protocols included pre-defined acceptance criteria.  Reprocessing steps are appropriately described and 
validated. The applicant has committed to perform an additional in-process stability study for each in-
process holding point using an updated test panel. Moreover a cumulative in-process stability study at 
laboratory scale will be performed. The testing of clearance of HCP is performed using a generic CHO 
HCP assay. This assay is not considered the most suitable for its purpose based on the difficulties to 
fully demonstrate its sensitivity and accuracy. The applicant is asked to continue the development and 
validation of a process-specific HCP assay. The process validation is supported by a control strategy 
with a full set of process parameters (PPs).  A subset of the PPs was designated as critical process 
parameters (CPPs). CPPs have been defined for the upstream and downstream process step and must 
be met to ensure the consistent performance of the manufacturing process.  The acceptable ranges 
established for the PPs/CPPs are derived from data collected during development studies, production 
lots and scale-down ranging studies. Justification of the PP’s and CPP’s choice has been provided. Batch 
analysis data for the commercial validation batches as well as representative batches of the small-scale 
process demonstrate consistent production of DS. The formulation of the bulk is part of the drug 
substance manufacture at Lonza has been described in detail. In order to fully validate it, BMS is 
recommended to perform a formal mixing validation study at scale to confirm the complete mixing of 
polysorbate 80. All compendial raw materials used in the process are controlled to meet Ph. Eur. 
requirements.  The identified raw materials of biological origin used in the process are low 
Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE) risk materials.  
Development: cell banks 
Initially hybridoma cells were generated by the fusion of mouse myeloma cells with spleen cells from a 
Cytotoxic T-Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4) immunized transgenic mouse (HuMAb-Mouse).  In the 
HuMAb-Mouse, the murine genes coding for antibody sequences have been inactivated and human 
antibody coding sequences have been introduced.  A hybridoma clone, produced anti-CTLA-4 antibody, 
was selected and its product was used in Phase I clinical studies (Process A). 
For Phase II clinical studies and beyond, a recombinant CHO cell line was developed which expressed 
the same antibody sequence produced by the hybridoma.  The genealogy of the CHO cell line is 
described in detail. A research cell bank was established from the ipilimumab-producing CHO cell line.  
A MCB was prepared from the research cell bank.  These cell banks used in the manufacturing process 
were subsequently prepared from the MCB. The analyses performed on the MCB and WCB were 
adequately addressed, however, it should still be demonstrated that genetic stability of the End of 
Production cells is indeed not affected the process conditions. 
Characterization 
Three lots of ipilimumab drug substance manufactured by the proposed commercial process have 
undergone comprehensive physicochemical characterization.  These characterization tests include 
amino acid analysis, molar absorptivity, amino acid sequence, molecular weight by mass spectroscopy, 
circular dichroism and differential scanning calorimetry.  In addition to these physicochemical analyses, 
the biological activity of ipilimumab has been evaluated through analysis of binding to CTLA-4, Fc-
receptor binding, antibody-dependent cellular toxicity (ADCC) and complement-dependent cytotoxicity 
(CDC).   
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 10/71 
 
 
 
Ipilimumab drug substance contains product-related variants that contain modifications at the amino- 
and carboxy-termini, N-linked glycoforms, deamidated and oxidized amino acids, charge variants, and 
high and low molecular weight species.  These variants are common in monoclonal antibodies produced 
by mammalian cell cultures and are not expected to affect overall in vivo biological activity.  However 
the degree of some of these variants (deamidated or oxidized) are considered as stability indicating.  
The overall biochemical characterization program has resulted in a comprehensive understanding of 
the structure, biological properties, product related variants, impurity profile and degradation pathways 
of this monoclonal antibody.  
Some aggregates can be detected by the analytical ultracentrifugation (AUC), but remain unnoticed 
with the current SE-HPLC. However, AUC is not considered a suitable method for routine testing and 
release. The applicant is recommended to continue with their identification in order to ensure their 
monitoring with the routine release procedures (improved SE-HPLC or otherwise). The CEX-HPLC 
method is promising, and seems to be an important stability indicating test. With this respect, the 
applicant is recommended to review the acceptance criteria and justification limits after 30 batches 
have been tested for release. 
Controls of Drug Substance 
The identity, quality and purity of ipilimumab drug substance is controlled by employing a battery of 
tests validated in accordance with ICH guidelines.  
A sufficient number of batches of ipilimumab drug substance have been manufactured at Lonza using 
the commercial process designated as Process B-commercial-scale.  The analytical results for these 
lots have all met pre-established acceptance criteria and show that product of consistent quality can be 
manufactured.  The results also compare very well with those obtained from lots manufactured by the 
same process but at a reduced scale and provide a linkage between ipilimumab used throughout 
primary clinical trials and that planned for commercial introduction.  
The applicant will review the specifications after manufacturing of an additional, specified number of 
batches of DS. 
Reference Standard 
The reference material has been replaced several times during development. The current reference 
standard was derived from a representative drug substance lot manufactured by the proposed 
commercial process.  Due to the nature of any standard material, the applicant should aim at a lower 
frequency of standard.  
Container Closure System 
Drug substance is filled in to single-use, pre-sterilized containers. Compendial endotoxins, sterility, 
biological reactivity, physicochemical and particulates testing are performed on the containers.  
Suitability of these containers has been demonstrated.  
Stability 
The analytical tests used to assess stability were a subset of those used for release testing and were 
suitable for determining the critical quality attributes purity and potency.  At the recommended storage 
condition, no statistically significant trends were observed for any of the selected critical quality 
attributes analyzed.  All batches were manufactured by Process B-commercial-scale at Lonza and were 
stored in containers of the same composition as the containers described above.  In addition, an 
appropriate post-approval stability protocol is proposed which will be used for the first three 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 11/71 
 
 
 
commercial batches and one batch annually thereafter.  All stability studies were performed with 
formulated bulk drug substance. 
Overall the stability data support the conclusion that ipilimumab drug substance as well as the 
reprocessed ipilimumab drug substance is stable for 36-months at the recommended storage 
conditions of 2°-8C with protection from light.  
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Ipilimumab injection is prepared as a sterile, preservative-free, clear and colourless isotonic solution at 
pH 7.0 (Tris HCl buffer) for intravenous (IV) administration.  Light (few) particulates are allowed which 
are removed by filtration prior to patient administration by infusion with no loss in strength or potency.  
Ipilimumab injection is available in 50 mg/vial (50 mg/10 mL) and 200 mg/vial (200 mg/40 mL), 
single-use presentations.  For both presentations, the same drug substance solution (5 mg/mL), which 
contains sodium chloride, pentetic acid and polysorbate 80 as stabilizers and mannitol to assure proper 
osmolality, is filled directly into Type I flint glass vials.  Both vial presentations are stoppered with 20-
mm gray butyl coated serum stoppers and sealed with 20-mm aluminium flip-off seals. Sufficient 
overfill is present for both presentations for vial.  
Pharmaceutical Development 
Extensive formulation development studies for ipilimumab injection included the selections of buffer 
type, pH, and ionic strength, and the evaluation of pharmaceutically acceptable surfactants, metal ion 
chelators, and tonicity modifiers.  These studies focused on optimizing the final formulation 
composition to allow for the maintenance of binding activity and structural integrity of ipilimumab.  The 
proposed commercial formulation is able to effectively minimize the formation of high molecular weight 
species and breakdown products, and other physical and chemical modifications that might otherwise 
adversely affect product quality and stability. 
Tris hydrochloride buffer at pH 7.0 was selected for the final drug product formulation as the optimal 
buffer to maintain the physical and chemical stability of ipilimumab.  Among several surfactants tested, 
polysorbate 80 provided protection against protein aggregation and precipitation.  Therefore, 
polysorbate 80 at the lowest effective concentration was selected for the ipilimumab commercial 
formulation.  
Pentetic acid (DTPA) was found to have the optimal protective effect against potential metal-induced 
oxidation of ipilimumab and was therefore selected for the drug product formulation.  
Adjustment for proper isotonicity was achieved using mannitol and is suitable to support IV infusion of 
the undiluted product.  Alternatively, the drug product may be further diluted with 0.9% Sodium 
Chloride Injection, or 5% Dextrose Injection, to concentrations ranging from 1 mg/mL to 4 mg/mL. 
Use time studies demonstrated that ipilimumab injection is also compatible with multiple IV containers, 
IV sets, syringes and filters. 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process of ipilimumab injection consists of the pooling and mixing of the contents of 
the drug substance containers followed by sterile filtration, aseptic filling into sterile glass vials, 
stoppering with sterile rubber closures, and sealing with aluminum seals.  It is confirmed that each 
drug substance batch complies with the DS release specifications.  
Suitable controls are in place particularly for verification of sterile filtration via filter integrity testing 
and in-process vial weight check during aseptic filling.  For the 50 mg/10 mL and the 200 mg/40 mL 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 12/71 
 
 
 
presentation, three validation lots each were manufactured and placed on long-term stability. All pre-
established process validation acceptance criteria were met and the process controls assure consistent 
drug product manufacturing.  The applicant has confirmed that bioburden is tested before final sterile 
filtration and has a limit of NMT 10 cfu/100 mL in line with guideline CPMP/QWP/486/95.  
PPs and CPPs are clearly defined, and validation is based on these pre-defined limits. Validation 
parameters were met, except for the In Process Weight Checks, for on batch. The CPP limits for the In 
Process Weight Checks were amended hereafter.  
After packaging, drug product vials are shipped to the manufacturing site where secondary packaging 
and release occurs. Validation of the shipment has been provided on request. The secondary 
commercial packaging for ipilimumab injection includes a paperboard folding carton which provides the 
drug product vial with adequate protection from light throughout the shelf life. 
Compatibility of ipilimumab injection with the stopper was adequately demonstrated under accelerated 
and long-term conditions with vials stored in horizontal and upright orientations. A stopper leachables 
study was conducted.  All leachable levels were below their limits of detection except for acetone, 
isopropyl alcohol, and tert-butyl alcohol.  The highest levels of leachables seen were thoroughly 
evaluated as to potential safety issues and none were identified.   
With the exception of Tris hydrochloride, pentetic acid, and hydrochloric acid used as a formulation 
buffer, all of the excipients in ipilimumab injection comply with the current Ph.Eur. requirements.  
Pentetic acid is required to meet acceptable in-house specifications. None of excipients have an 
animal/human origin. It is also noted that neither the DS specification nor the DP specifications include 
any test for excipients. The applicant will add in-process test for Polysorbate 80 and DTPA to ensure 
proper control of these excipients.  
Product specification 
Control of Drug Product 
The identity, quality and purity of drug product are assured by employing a similar battery of release 
tests used for testing of drug substance. Specific compendial tests for sterility and volume in the 
container are included.  During the procedure the applicant has updated the specification for 
appearance to be in line with the Ph.Eur. monograph for monoclonal antibodies.  
A sufficient number of lots of Ipilimumab Injection, 50 mg/10 mL, and Ipilimumab Injection, 
200 mg/40 mL, have been manufactured using drug substance made by Process B-commercial scale at 
Lonza.  The analytical results for these lots have all met the set of proposed acceptance criteria and 
show that product of consistent quality can be manufactured.  These results compare very well with 
those obtained from drug substance manufactured by the same process but at a reduced scale and 
provide a link between ipilimumab used throughout primary clinical trials and that planned for 
commercial introduction. The applicant will review the specifications after manufacturing of 30 batches 
of DP. 
Reference Standards and Materials 
The reference standard is the same used for testing of drug substance.  This is appropriate since the 
drug product solution is of the same composition and approximate protein concentration as compared 
to the drug substance solution. 
Container Closure System 
Container closure integrity testing (CCIT) was conducted using a Microbial Ingress Challenge Test on 
primary packaging components (both 10-cc tubing and 50-cc molded Type I flint glass vials) that had 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 13/71 
 
 
 
been processed at the proposed commercial site.  Results of these studies indicated that each 
vial/stopper/seal combination evaluated maintains its integrity after exposure to the stressed 
environmental conditions and confirmed the suitability of the chosen container closure system which 
meets current USP/Ph.Eur. requirements. 
Stability of the product 
A long-term stability study is conducted to justify a 36-month shelf life for the drug product stored at 
2-8°C with protection from light.  The analytical tests used to assess stability were a subset of those 
used for release testing and are overall considered suitable for determining critical quality attributes for 
purity and potency.   
The stability data for the 50 mg/10 mL and the 200 mg/40 mL presentations were obtained from three 
validation lots respectively. 36 months of stability data for both presentations lots were available with 
no trends observed at the recommended storage condition of 2-8°C.  Both presentations as they have 
shown equivalent stability profiles under both recommended and stress conditions.  Except for volume, 
the container-closure systems used for both presentations are considered equivalent.   
At the recommended storage condition, no statistically significant trends were observed for any of the 
selected critical quality attributes analyzed. All lots were manufactured from drug substance produced 
by Process B-commercial scale  at Lonza. The long-term stability studies were conducted through 
36 months. In addition, an appropriate post-approval stability protocol is proposed that will be used for 
the first three commercial lots and one lot annually thereafter. During the stability studies the vials 
were stored in a horizontal position and the product is in contact with the container closure. In 
accordance with EU GMP guidelines, any confirmed out of specification result, or significant negative 
trend, should be reported to the Rapporteur and the EMA. 
Adventitious agents 
The MCB, WCB and End-of Production Cell Bank were all tested to demonstrate sterility and absence of 
mycoplasma and viruses. Specifications exist which describe the acceptance and release criteria for all 
raw materials including those of biological origin.  A raw materials risk assessment for TSE has been 
conducted and appropriate certifications have been obtained from the vendors. Pre-harvest samples 
are tested for bioburden, mycoplasma and viruses. No raw materials of human origin are used in the 
manufacturing process for ipilimumab injection drug product.  
A complete viral clearance study using scaled-down column chromatography, and viral 
inactivation/removal steps was conducted consistent with the principles contained in ICH Q5A. The 
virus validation studies are deemed adequately designed and well performed.  The viral safety has 
been sufficiently assured. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and drug product have been 
presented in a satisfactory manner. The different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and 
biological documentation are in compliance with existing guidelines.  
The manufacture of the drug substance have been adequately described, controlled and validated. The 
drug substance has been well characterised with regard to its physicochemical and biological 
characteristics. Adequate analytical methods have been established and appropriate specifications have 
been set.  It is noted that the testing of clearance of HCP is performed using a generic CHO HCP assay. 
This is not considered the most suitable test for this purpose based on the difficulties on validation. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 14/71 
 
 
 
With this respect, the applicant is asked to continue the development and validation of a process-
specific HCP assay.  
The manufacturing process of the drug product has been satisfactorily described and validated. The 
results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory consistency and uniformity of important quality 
characteristics. The quality of the drug product is controlled by adequate test methods and 
specifications.  
The viral safety and the safety concerning other adventitious agents including TSE have been 
sufficiently assured. 
The applicant is recommended to undertake some minor quality issues having no impact on the 
benefit-risk balance of the product. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
Based on the review of the data on quality, the application for Yervoy is considered approvable.  
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The pivotal toxicology studies supporting the safety of ipilimumab were conducted in compliance with 
Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations and International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) 
guidelines.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies  
The scientific rationale for the clinical use of ipilimumab for the management and treatment of cancer 
was supported by discussions of the role of T-cell immunity during carcinogenesis, the role of CTLA-4 
during T-cell activation and the effect of blocking CTLA-4 function, the role on other stimulatory and 
inhibitory signals in the T-cell activation process, the anti-tumour activity of anti-mouse CTLA-4 
blocking antibodies in murine tumour models and the effect of CTLA-4 blockade on development of 
experimental autoimmunity in mice.  
In vitro studies 
In vitro, ipilimumab binds to human CTLA-4 with high affinity (KD = 5.25 ± 3.62 nM) and blocks in 
vitro binding of B7.1 (CD80) and B7.2 (CD86) to human CTLA-4 at EC50 values of approximately 
0.2 µg/mL with maximal blockade between 6 to 20 µg/mL and 1 to 3 µg/mL respectively. Therefore, 
ipilimumab concentrations are targeted at Ctrough concentration of 20 µg/ml. 
In competition experiments ipilimumab was able to inhibit CTLA-4 binding to B7.1/B7.2 with maximal 
inhibition at concentrations between 6 to 20 μg/mL and 1 to 3 μg/mL for B7.1 and B7.2 respectively 
(study MDX-010-008R). 
In vitro data indicate that ipilimumab does not elicit CDC up to concentrations of 50 μg/ml. However, 
this is lower than the concentrations reached in human plasma after the 3mg/kg dose 
(Cmax ~85 μg/ml). In vitro data indicate that ADCC could occur in vivo. However, given the lack of 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 15/71 
 
 
 
 
effects on T cell numbers in the in vivo studies it is likely that ADCC does not occur in vivo at biological 
relevant levels.  
Ipilimumab did not show cross-reactivity with or binding to CTLA-4 from rats, mice or rabbits, but 
showed specific binding to cynomolgus monkey recombinant CTLA-4 and activated T-cells (study MDX-
010-011-R). 
As part of the functional characterization of ipilimumab, in vitro assays were conducted to determine 
whether ipilimumab could elicit cytotoxicity of target cells mediated by activation of complement (CDC) 
or by activation of FcγRs expressed on immune effector cells (ADCC). Ipilimumab did not mediate 
complement-dependent cytotoxicity of activated T cells in vitro. Under in vitro conditions, ipilimumab 
mediated variable levels of ADCC, which was unrelated to the level of CTLA-4 expression, and suggest 
that treatment with ipilimumab could produce depletion of activated T cells. Furthermore, in contrast to 
the in vitro studies, non-clinical and clinical studies showed no depletion of T cells. 
In vivo studies 
  Mouse studies 
The MC-38 colon carcinoma tumour line was implanted into the human CTLA-4 transgenic mice to 
evaluate the anti-tumour activity of ipilimumab.  
Ipilimumab administered at a dose of 10 mg/kg resulted in a delay in tumour growth or complete 
inhibition of tumour growth when administered 3 or 4 times every 3 days, but was not active when 
administered for 2 doses only given every 3 days. 
Ipilimumab or control IgG antibody were administered intraperitoneally (IP) at a dose of 10 mg/kg on 
Study Days 0, 3, 6, and 10 (tumour cell implantation was performed on Day 0). Ipilimumab treatment 
produced complete rejection of tumours in 4 out of 10 mice, and delayed time to reach tumour target 
size in the remaining mice. Control animals showed progressive tumour growth in 9 out of 10 mice. 
Following multiple treatments of ipilimumab, tumours were rejected (10-50% of mice) or tumour 
growth delayed, whereas rapid tumour growth and no tumour rejection were observed in mice treated 
with human IgG1 control antibody.  
  Cynomolgus monkey studies 
Intravenous studies were conducted to determine the effect of ipilimumab on immune responses to T-
cell dependent antigens. The antigens used for this assessment were hepatitis B surface antigen 
(HBsAg) vaccine, a melanoma cell-based vaccine (Sk-mel), DNP (2,4-Dinitrophenyl)-Ficoll keyhole 
limpet hemocyanin (KLH) and simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) DNA vaccines (purified plasmid 
DNA) expressing the proteins for the gag (pSIVgag), env (pSIVenv), and pol (pSIVpol) portions of SIV. 
In one study, the SKmel tumour line was transfected to express GM-CSF. 
Ipilimumab at 10 mg/kg was effective in enhancing the antibody response to HBsAg (study 0992-128, 
1416-128, SUV00006), SK-mel (studies 01-3460, 1416-128, SUV00006) and KLH (study DS06064). In 
studies where no statistical significance was achieved (p > 0.05) between ipilimumab-treated and 
control animals, the ipilimumab-treated group produced higher antibody titers to the injected antigens 
than the control group. DNP (2,4-dinitrophenyl)-Ficoll does not produce a measurable humoral 
response (study SUV00006), and therefore, ipilimumab, as expected, was not effective. 
In one study, a comparison between weekly doses of 1 mg/kg of ipilimumab to doses of 0.1, 1 and 
10 mg/kg administered approximately every 4 weeks was conducted (study 1416-128). In this study a 
clear increase in the magnitude of the response was only seen in animals treated with ipilimumab 
every 4 weeks at 10 mg/kg. In the same study also a comparison of the pharmacodynamic activity of 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 16/71 
 
 
 
 
equal doses (10 mg/kg) of ipilimumab produced by Process A (hybridoma-derived) and Process B 
(Chinese hamster ovary [CHO]-cell derived) was also conducted. The magnitude of the enhancement 
of the antibody response to the test antigen was similar, demonstrating the functional comparability of 
ipilimumab produced by these processes.  
In these monkey studies also immunophenotypic analysis of the T cells and T cell subset was 
performed in several studies. There were no ipilimumab -related changes in the frequencies of CD4+ 
or CD8+ T cells, or on these T-cell subpopulations expressing CD69, CD25, or HLA-DR activation 
markers (studies 0992-128, 01-3460, 1416-128, SUV00006).  
Measurement of the levels of intracellular cytokines was performed in 3 studies: It was concluded that 
despite the variability and lack of robustness in response using these investigative methods, the 
overall trend in results was consistent with the proposed effect of ipilimumab on T-cell responses. 
The cellular immune responses were extensively characterised in study SUV00006, measured indices 
included the percentage of T (incl. Treg), B and monocytic cells as well as the activation status of these 
cells. There were no gross alterations in cellular subsets for the treatment groups. In this study an 
increase in the percentage of CD4+ central memory T cells was observed within 2 weeks of antibody 
treatment. 
The Applicant concluded that results from the in vivo studies conducted in human CTLA-4 transgenic 
mice bearing colon carcinoma tumours and in cynomolgus monkeys challenged with T cell-dependent 
antigens suggest that ipilimumab should expand antigen-specific immune responses in humans, and 
supports the use of ipilimumab for the treatment of patients with cancer. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No secondary pharmacodynamic studies were conducted.  
Safety pharmacology programme 
Evaluation of the potential effects of intravenous administration of ipilimumab on the cardiovascular, 
central/peripheral nervous or respiratory systems were included as part of the pivotal (GLP) repeat-
dose toxicity studies in monkeys. 
No drug-related findings were observed in standard clinical evaluations of cardiovascular, respiratory or 
neurologic function (including behaviour, posture, coordination, neurologic exams that included 
peripheral and cranial nerve evaluations, peripheral reflexes, proprioception, or eye movements, and in 
the 1-month study, electrocardiograms) conducted in monkeys as part of the repeat-dose toxicity 
studies for up to 6 months with ipilimumab. 
In the 1-month (weekly doses for 4 weeks) intermittent-dose study of ipilimumab at 10 mg/kg alone 
or in combination with BMS-663513 (an anti-CD137 monoclonal antibody), safety assessments were 
conducted prior to the first dose, at Day 22, and after an approximate 10-week dose-free observation 
period. These assessments included physical assessment of general body condition, and the 
respiratory, gastrointestinal, integumentary, circulatory (including body temperature), cardiovascular, 
lymphatic, urogenital, central nervous system ophthalmologic, otologic, and musculoskeletal systems. 
The results of these evaluations did not show any drug-related changes in cardiovascular, neurologic, 
or respiratory function. 
In the 6-month study in cynomolgus monkeys in which ipilimumab was administered intravenously 
(10 mg/kg), as a single agent or in conjunction with a vaccine (SK-mel cells) on Days 0, 28, 56, 
84 and 140, no drug-related findings involving the safety pharmacology endpoints were reported. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 17/71 
 
 
 
Assessments of similar parameters and frequency performed in other repeat-dose studies also did not 
show any drug-related findings. 
The specificity of ipilimumab and its molecular size limit possible access to ion channels in the 
myocardium, and ipilimumab is not expected to affect ion currents or channel selectivity as can occur 
with a variety of small molecule drugs.  
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
The pharmacodynamic activity of ipilimumab when administered in combination with 
immunomodulatory antibodies to human CD137 (BMS-663513, 2 studies) or to PD-1 receptor (MDX-
1106, 1 study) was studied in cynomolgus monkeys. From these studies, co-treatment with BMS-
663513 did not affect the ability of ipilimumab to modulate antibody responses to a T cell-dependent 
antigen. Results of the study conducted in combination with MDX-1106 did not provide direct 
information on potential drug interaction. 
An assessment of the effect of dexamethasone on the anti-tumour activity of anti-mouse CTLA-4 
monoclonal antibody (mAb) was made (study MDX-010-001-R). Administration of systemic 
corticosteroids may be required in clinical studies with ipilimumab to treat immune-related adverse 
events; thus, it was of interest to determine how concurrent or sequential treatment with 
dexamethasone affects anti-CTLA-4 mAb anti-tumour effects. These studies showed that concurrent 
treatment with dexamethasone reduced the anti-tumour activity elicited by anti-CTLA-4 mAb; 
however, administration of dexamethasone after multiple anti-CTLA-4 mAb treatments did not negate 
the anti-tumour effect elicited by CTLA-4 blockade. Therefore, these data support the use of 
corticosteroids for the treatment of immune related adverse events (irAEs) which may occur during 
anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapy. 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Methods of analysis 
The Applicant developed different methods of analysis for the determination of ipilimumab in plasma 
and serum which were improved and validated along the development programme. A first non-
validated flow cytometric assay was used to quantify serum ipilimumab in the 2-week intermittent- 
dose studies. An ELISA method was developed and validated for the determination of ipilimumab in 
plasma of monkey and human. This method was used in the 79-day comparability, 6-month and 3-
month toxicology studies. This method was further developed to determine ipilimumab in serum and 
plasma of cynomolgus monkeys in the single-dose IV comparability study, the 1-month intermittent-
dose combination toxicity study, the repeat-dose pharmacology study and the 1-month intermittent-
dose combination toxicity study. Validation criteria were tightened for these two second methods. The 
Applicant developed and validated three different methods to determine anti-ipilimumab antibodies in 
serum and plasma. Two of them were ELISA based assays, and the third one was an 
electrochemiluminiscence method. It should be highlighted that the bridging ELISA (bivalent anti-
ipilimumab antibodies) was not validated for cynomolgus monkey plasma, only for human plasma. This 
method was used in the 3-month intermittent-dose study. It is not known whether the presence of 
anti-ipilimumab antibodies interfered with the detection of ipilimumab. 
Absorption 
All studies were performed in cynomolgus monkey and ipilimumab was administered intravenously. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 18/71 
 
 
 
In the single dose kinetics, the half life time of ipilimumab is long, 8 to 15 days depending on the 
study, as was the mean residence time. Consistent with the long T1/2, the CLT was low (0.17-
0.21 mL/h/kg). The Vss is similar to the plasma volume of monkeys. 
Studies with every 3rd day dosing. Serum concentrations increased in males in a manner proportional 
(study 0919-128) or greater than dose proportional (study 71114-100) to the dose increment between 
3 and 10 mg/kg. Consistent with the long half-life predose concentrations doubled in these studies 
between Day 4 and Day 7, indicative of accumulation of ipilimumab when dosed every 3 days. 
Studies with weekly dosing. In study DS060604 10 mg/kg ipilimumab was or was not combined with 
BMS-663513 (anti-CD137 agonistic antibody). BMS-663513 did not affect the kinetics of ipilimumab. 
Data from 8 animals followed up after the last administration revealed a long half-life (approximately 
12 days). Also in study SUV00106 where ipilimumab was administered together with MDX1106 an 
increase in serum concentration of ipilimumab was seen after repeated dosing. A dose proportional 
increase in serum concentration was seen between 3 and 10 mg/kg dose group. 
Studies with monthly dosing. In two studies plasma concentrations of ipilimumab tended to increase 
with repeated dosing (study 1416-128, 01-3460). This increase was most pronounced between the 
first and second dose, and also visible after the third dose. No significant increase was visible after 
subsequent dosing (only study 01-3460). This trend for accumulation was not observed in a third study 
(SUV0006). In all studies ipilimumab was still detectable in predose samples, thus 4 weeks after the 
last dose. There was a greater-than-proportional increase in exposure as the monthly dose increased 
from 1 to 10 mg/kg (study 1416-128). 
In all studies serum/plasma concentrations of ipilimumab were similar between males and females and 
between animals receiving ipilimumab only or ipilimumab in combination with another substance (BMS-
663513, MDX1106 or Oligo-CpG).  
During the development ipilimumab has been produced in three different processes. Two non-clinical 
bridging studies were performed comparing processes. There were no differences in pharmacokinetics 
(PK) parameters. Of note, these studies were not powered to test bioequivalence. 
The immunogenic potential of ipilimumab, as measured by the formation of ipilimumab specific 
antibodies, was evaluated in all pivotal toxicity studies, as well as a number of exploratory studies. 
Ipilimumab generally was not immunogenic in monkeys. When including the animals with a weak 
antibody response, a value of 12% was calculated for the frequency of anti-ipilimumab-Ab positive 
animals.  
Distribution 
No radiolabeled tissue distribution/mass balance or metabolism studies with ipilimumab were 
conducted in animals. Serum protein binding was not evaluated. Following a single 10-mg/kg IV dose 
of ipilimumab to male and female cynomolgus monkeys (single-dose IV comparability study, DS07167, 
and 79-day intermittent-dose comparability study, 1416-128), the Vss (81 ± 14 and 44 ± 6.1 mL/kg, 
respectively) was similar to the plasma volume of monkeys, suggesting that ipilimumab does not 
distribute out of the plasma compartment. 
Metabolism and excretion 
No studies were conducted to evaluate the metabolism, metabolic pathways and excretion of 
ipilimumab in animals. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 19/71 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic drug interactions 
Monoclonal antibodies are expected to be metabolised into small peptides and amino acids via 
biochemical pathways that are independent of cytochrome P450 enzymes. Consequently, ipilimumab is 
not expected to have interactions with molecules that are metabolized by these enzymes. 
However, in a GLP- compliant intermittent-dose study (DS06064) conducted to determine the potential 
toxicity of ipilimumab administered alone or in combination with BMS-663513, there was no difference 
between the Cmax or AUC(0-48 h) values for monkeys receiving ipilimumab alone and monkeys 
receiving ipilimumab in combination with BMS-663513. These results do not provide any evidence of a 
PK drug-drug interaction between ipilimumab and BMS-663513 in monkeys. 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
The cynomolgus monkey was selected as the toxicology species because ipilimumab binds specifically 
to macaque CTLA-4, but not to homologous CTLA-4 in other traditional toxicology species (mouse, rat, 
rabbit), and has pharmacologic activity only in primates. Since ipilimumab is administered 
intravenously to humans, the IV route was evaluated in all monkey studies.  
All pivotal studies were conducted with product that was comparable to clinical material in use at the 
time the studies were conducted based on comprehensive analytical evaluations of drug product and 
pharmacokinetic equivalence.  
Single dose toxicity 
Pivotal single-dose studies with ipilimumab were not conducted since the initial doses in repeat-dose 
studies were considered adequate to characterize its acute toxicity. No acute toxicity was noted in 
monkeys following ipilimumab doses up to 30 mg/kg in the repeat-dose toxicology studies. Further, no 
adverse toxicities were observed in a single-dose exploratory comparative pharmacokinetics study in 
monkeys of ipilimumab at 10 mg/kg.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
A summary of the repeated-dose toxicity studies is provided in Table 1. 
Table 1 – Overview of repeated-dose toxicology studies  
Study ID 
Sex/ 
Dose 
Day of dosing 
Antigen 
NOEL 
Major findings 
Number 
(mg/kg) 
(mg/kg/day) 
126-002 
2F 
0919-128 
2M 
2/sex 
7114-100 
2M 
2/sex 
ds06064 
5/sex 
3 
3 
10 
3 
30 
10 
1,4,7 
1,4,7 
1,4,7 
1,4,7 
1,4,7 
1, 8, 15, 22 
5/sex 
10b  
1, 8, 15, 22 
1, 29 
1, 29 
0992-128 
2/sex 
2/sex 
1416-128 
3/sex 
3/sex 
10 
10c 
1 
1 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
3 
10 
3 
10 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
KLH 
KLH 
HBsAg 
HBsAg 
- 
Small increase CD3+ 
cells. 
30: > leukocyte, WBC, 
lymph, neutr, mono, 
- 
> 10+ CpG: 
lymphocyte count 
1, 29, 57 
HBsAg, SKmel 
10 
- 
10 x weekly 
HBsAg, SKmel 
Page 20/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3/sex 
3/sex 
1-3460 
2/sex 
10 
10a 
10a 
1, 29, 57 
HBsAg, SKmel 
1, 29, 57 
HBsAg, SKmel 
0, 28, 56, 84, 
- 
140 
3/sex 
10a 
0, 28, 56, 84, 
SKmel 
a: process A material 
b: ipilimumab was given together with BMS-663513 
c: ipilimumab was administered together with CpG 
140 
↓ organ weight 
(testes, thyroid) 
At 30 mg/kg ipilimumab dosed for 2 weeks, haematological effects were noted, decreased erythrocyte 
count (10%), haemoglobin (10%) and haematocrit (5%) in males at day 14. Potential relationship of 
these findings with ipilimumab treatment could not be excluded and for further studies of longer 
duration, 10 mg/kg was selected as the highest dose tested. Slight decreases in red blood cell 
parameters were also observed in a 4-week repeat dose study even in control group. 
Three out of 100 cynomolgus monkeys in the ipilimumab non-clinical toxicology program presented 
severe adverse effects. Fatal colitis and persistent dermatitis/rash observed in two animals along the 
toxicology programme were considered by the Applicant as immune-related adverse event (irAEs) 
linked with the intended pharmacologic basis of CTLA-4 blockade. 
Apart from these cases of severe adverse events, ipilimumab generally did not result in adverse 
toxicities in any other monkeys when administered IV at doses up to 30 mg/kg for 1 week, 10 mg/kg 
administered weekly for 1 month, 1 mg/kg weekly for 10 weeks, or 10 mg/kg monthly for up to 
6 months. 
Decreased mean testes weights and ratios, and thyroid/body weight and thyroid /brain weight ratios 
were noted in animals treated for 6 months with ipilimumab and SK-mel cells, without accompanying 
histopathologic findings.  
Genotoxicity 
No standard genotoxicity battery of studies was performed with ipilimumab.  
Carcinogenicity 
Carcinogenicity studies for ipilimumab were not conducted. 
Reproduction Toxicity 
Reproductive, developmental, or juvenile toxicology studies have not been submitted with ipilimumab. 
In tissue cross-reactivity studies, ipilimumab specifically bound to activated lymphocytes expressing 
CTLA-4 in several normal human and/or cynomolgus monkey tissues. In addition, ipilimumab bound 
specifically to connective tissue in human and cynomolgus monkey placenta and to connective tissue in 
cynomolgus monkey ovary; no specific binding was observed in human ovary. CTLA-4 protein 
expression on placental fibroblasts has been previously reported and may be involved in the 
maintenance of pregnancy. However, the role of CTLA-4 in pregnancy is still unclear. 
Despite specific binding of ipilimumab to cynomolgus monkey ovarian tissue, no gross or microscopic 
ovarian findings were observed in ipilimumab toxicity studies conducted in monkeys and therefore is 
not expected to have any biological or toxicological relevance, especially since similar binding was not 
observed with human ovaries. The lack of specific binding in the remaining human and cynomolgus 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 21/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
monkey tissues was expected and consistent with reports that indicate that CTLA-4 is primarily 
transiently expressed on activated mononuclear cells. 
In repeat-dose toxicology studies, drug-related changes in reproductive organ weights were limited to 
decreases in absolute and relative testicular (27 to 50%) weights in the 6- month study at 10 mg/kg; 
however, there were no corresponding microscopic changes in these organs. 
No formal reproductive, developmental, or juvenile studies were submitted to support the proposed 
indication. 
Toxicokinetic data 
Systemic exposure to ipilimumab generally increased as a function of dose in a greater than dose-
proportional manner, and there was a trend for ipilimumab to accumulate, which is consistent with its 
long half-life (up to ~ 13 ± 4 days) relative to the dosing interval (~ 3 ± 28 days). There were no 
gender-related differences in pharmacokinetics or evidence of a difference in the toxicity profiles 
between ipilimumab manufactured through different processes. When present, antibodies usually 
correlated with rapid elimination of circulating levels of ipilimumab. 
Local Tolerance  
In the intravenous repeat-dose studies in monkeys with ipilimumab no substantial irritation was 
observed at injection sites of ipilimumab. Ipilimumab was administered from preformulated (ready-to-
use) vials at the clinical concentration (generally ~5 mg/mL). However, injection rates were faster and 
varied from ~3 to 10 mL/min (up to 50 mg/min) in the nonclinical studies compared with 90-min 
clinical infusion (total dose of 210 mg for a 70 kg person, up to 2.3 mg/min), thus, providing a safety 
factor of approximately up to ~22-fold based on infusion rate. 
Other toxicity studies 
Antigenicity 
The immunogenic potential of ipilimumab, as measured by the formation of ipilimumab-specific 
antibodies, was evaluated in all pivotal toxicity studies, as well as a number of exploratory studies. As 
indicated previously, ipilimumab generally was not immunogenic in monkeys. When including the 
animals with a weak antibody response, a value of 12% was calculated for the frequency of anti-
ipilimumab-Ab positive animals.  
Immunotoxicity 
As a selective immunomodulator, ipilimumab was expected to have effects on the immune system. The 
immunologic effects of ipilimumab (including special assessments of biomarkers of mechanism of 
action) were studied in the pivotal and exploratory repeat-dose studies in monkeys. That is, in addition 
to standard immune hematologic (i.e., leukocyte counts and differentials) and clinical chemistry (i.e., 
globulins) assessments and gross and histopathologic examinations of lymphoid tissues included in the 
repeat-dose studies, specialized immune parameters were incorporated into several of the studies 
including peripheral blood lymphocyte phenotyping (including activated T-cell and regulatory T-cell 
subsets), lymphocyte phenotyping in spleen, inguinal lymph node, and colon epithelium, anti-nuclear 
antibody assessments, T cell-dependent antibody response assessments, DTH assessments, and 
intracellular staining of ex vivo stimulated cytokine (IL-2, TNF-α and/or IFN-γ) production by monkey 
peripheral blood T cells. The T-cell dependent response as elicited by KLH administration clearly 
showed the effect of ipilimumab.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 22/71 
 
 
 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
According to the CHMP guideline “Guideline on the Environmental Risk Assessment of Medicinal 
Products for Human Use” (ref. EMEA/CHMP/SWP/4447/00, dated 01 June 2006), ‘Vitamins, 
electrolytes, amino acids, peptides, proteins, carbohydrates and lipids are exempted because they are 
unlikely to result in significant risk to the environment. Similarly, vaccines and herbal medicinal 
products are also exempted due to the nature of their constituents’. 
Ipilimumab is a natural substance (protein composed of natural amino acids), the use of which will not 
alter the concentration or distribution of the substance in the environment. Therefore, ipilimumab is 
not expected to pose a risk to the environment. 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Ipilimumab binds to human and cynomolgus CTLA-4, but not to CTLA-4 of other potential test species.  
As a result ipilimumab showed specific binding to activated, but not resting, T cells from the 
cynomolgus monkey and from humans. These data make the cynomolgus monkey a relevant test 
species, however the affinity of ipilimumab for monkey CTLA-4 is approximately 2-4 times lower when 
compared to humans CTLA-4; therefore the potency/activity of ipilimumab may be lower in 
cynomolgus monkeys when compared to humans.  
In vitro data indicate that ipilimumab does not elicit CDC up to concentrations of 50 μg/ml. However, 
this is lower than the concentrations reached in human plasma after the 3mg/kg dose (Cmax ~85 
μg/ml). In vitro data indicate that ADCC could occur in vivo. However, given the lack of effects on T 
cell numbers in the in vivo studies it is likely that ADCC does not occur in vivo at biological relevant 
levels.  
The anti-tumour activity of ipilimumab was tested in a human CTLA-4 transgenic, mouse CTLA-4 knock 
out mouse. Anti-tumour activity was only seen when ipilimumab was administered at or near the time 
of the expected peak of the primary (anti-tumour) immune response. For the current application the 
relevance of this study, and other cited anti-tumour studies using homologous mouse tumour models 
is limited because in all these studies the (blocking) CTLA-4 antibody was administered at the time or 
shortly after tumour inoculation i.e. at time of a (primary) immune response against the tumour.   
In cynomolgus monkeys ipilimumab (10 mg/kg) administered concurrently with T cell antigens 
enhanced the antigen-specific antibody response. Immunophenotypic analysis of the T cell 
compartment indicated that there were no ipilimumab-related changes in the frequencies of CD4+ or 
CD8+ T cells, nor in the expression pattern of various subpopulation/activation markers (e.g. CD69, 
CD25, or HLA-DR). Thus administration of ipilimumab does not appear to result in an over-stimulation 
of the T cell compartment. 
There was no pharmacological justification for dose chosen in these studies. The results with the KLH-
test and the immunogenicity data with SKmel indicated that the dose of 10 mg/kg is certainly an active 
level, but no dose-response was studied, and the dose inducing the maximum pharmacological effect is 
not known. 
According to ICH S7A Guideline on safety pharmacology studies for human pharmaceuticals 
(CPMP/ICH/539/00), biotechnology-derived products that achieve highly specific receptor targeting, it 
is often sufficient to evaluate safety pharmacology endpoints as a part of toxicology and/or 
pharmacodynamic studies, and therefore safety pharmacology studies can be reduced or eliminated for 
these products. In ipilimumab development, these endpoints were included as part of the pivotal 
repeat-dose toxicology studies, performed in compliance with GLP Principles. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 23/71 
 
 
 
 
Most of the PK parameters have been calculated/measured at only one dose level, i.e. 10 mg/kg, 
therefore only little is known on the effect of the dose on PK parameters. In addition there was no 
discussion on the possible PK/PD relationship. This may be due to the special character if the PD 
endpoint (enhancement of the immune response) which may be difficult to qualify/quantify. 
There were no differences in PK between males and females. When studied serum concentrations 
increased dose- or supradose-proportional. This indicates that the dose may affect the PK profile of 
ipilimumab. A dose effect on PK parameters due to target mediated drug disposition can occur for 
substances with specific and high affinity binding such as ipilimumab.  
An anti-ipilimumab-antibody response was detected in 12% of the monkeys receiving ipilimumab, 
although it should be noted that this frequency is likely to be underestimated due to interference of 
(serum) ipilimumab with the antibody detection assay. It is difficult to assess whether the exposure 
was sufficient in the antibody positive animals. 
Ipilimumab was well tolerated at all doses in monkeys following treatment for up to 6 months with no 
clinical manifestations of major target-organ toxicity or autoimmunity in the majority of monkeys.  
The most notable concern identified during non-clinical testing was a low incidence of serious irAEs, 
manifested as colitis or dermatitis, in 2 of over 100 monkeys dosed with ipilimumab. These 
inflammatory responses are consistent with the proposed key role of CTLA-4 in maintaining self-
tolerance in the immune system and subsequent immunostimulation afforded by blockade of this 
receptor and are similar in nature to the primary adverse events seen with clinical ipilimumab therapy. 
It is assumed that these observations should be taken as a general indication that ipilimumab might be 
associated with immune-related serious adverse effects, which cannot always predicted in character 
from animal studies.  
In a 6-month toxicity study in cynomolgus monkeys, ipilimumab in a dose of 10 mg/kg with monthly 
intervals (4 times over these 6 months) was not associated with adverse drug-related toxicity, but a 
possible treatment-related reduction in thyroid and testes weight have been noted. Although it may be 
likely that these observations are due to the low number of animals and the biological variability, 
potential similar findings on the testes and thyroid have been reported for anti-CTLA-4 therapy. 
Therefore a potential treatment-related effect on these organs cannot be ruled out. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicology studies were not performed with ipilimumab. As part of the 
routine histopathological examination of organs collected in toxicity studies, the male and female 
reproductive organs were evaluated including assessments of sperm and follicle/ovum morphology and 
maturation. There were no histopathologic changes in these organs that could be attributed to 
ipilimumab.  
Human IgG1 is expected to cross the placental barrier; in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. 
The effects of ipilimumab on the development of the immune system in foetuses are not clear, 
therefore the use of ipilimumab in pregnant women is generally not recommended. Women of child-
bearing potential should use effective contraception during treatment with ipilimumab. Given the short 
life-expectancy and physiologic status of advanced melanoma adult patients and the potential benefits 
from the use of ipilimumab in pregnant women despite its potential risks, a combined embryofoetal, 
pre/post-natal development study is ongoing. As indicated in the Risk Management Plan, final results 
of this study will be submitted when available. Human IgG1 is known to be secreted in the first human 
milk gift, the colostrum, the potential for infant exposure to ipilimumab via breast milk also exists. The 
use of ipilimumab during pregnancy is probably only theoretical due to the serious disease stage (see 
section 4.6 and 5.3 of the Summary of Product Characteristics). 
In accordance with ICH S6 (R1) guideline and ICH S1A Guideline on the need for carcinogenicity 
studies of pharmaceuticals (CPMP/ICH/140/95) no studies on genotoxicity and carcinogenicity were 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 24/71 
 
 
 
conducted, which was acceptable. In addition, considering the lack of relevance of the rodent species 
for ipilimumab, the limited value of short-term carcinogenicity studies with homologous products (as 
reflected in the draft reviewed version of the guideline), and the advanced condition intended to be 
treated by ipilimumab, the lack of conventional carcinogenicity studies is acceptable. 
Local tolerance was assessed as part of the toxicity studies. No substantial irritation at the ipilimumab 
injection-site was observed. 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The most notable concern identified during non-clinical testing was a low incidence of serious irAEs, 
manifested as colitis or dermatitis, for which no safety margin could be determined. It is assumed that 
these observations should be taken as a general indication that ipilimumab might be associated with 
immune-related serious adverse effects.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab has not been studied in healthy volunteers and most data were from 
patients with advanced melanoma. Non-compartmental PK analysis was conducted in the studies with 
intensive PK data. These studies comprehend comparison of the two manufacturing process products, 
single and multiple dose PK of ipilimumab, dose-proportionality and time dependency. A population 
pharmacokinetic (PPK) model was developed, using the to-be-marketed product, to evaluate covariate 
factors and to evaluate concentration-effect relationships.  
Two methods have been used to quantify ipilimumab in plasma and serum. The latter assay was 
validated according current standards while the earlier method used less stringent criteria in the 
beginning but validation was updated. No cross-validation of the 2 methods was conducted, but 
sufficient data are present with the commercial scale batch / serum ELISA (PPK analysis). 
Development of antibodies against ipilimumab was measured throughout the clinical program. Finally, 
a three tier ECL method was developed and validated but there remain some questions regarding the 
sensitivity of the serum and plasma assay in presence of ipilimumab and the specificity of the assay as 
predose samples were scored as positive for anti-ipilimumab antibodies. As indicated in the RMP, the 
applicant commits to improve the specificity and sensitivity of the serum ECL assay to detect 
antibodies, which will be used for ongoing and future clinical studies. 
Absorption  
Bioavailability 
Ipilimumab was only administered intravenously throughout the program. Thus, no bioavailability 
study was conducted. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 25/71 
 
 
 
Bioequivalence 
Two manufacturing processes were used in the development of the ipilimumab drug substance. The 
first process, Process A, involved manufacture of ipilimumab in a hybridoma cell line. The second 
process, Process B, referred to the manufacturing process in a recombinant Chinese hamster ovary 
(CHO) cell line. This process was initially based on a reduced bioreactor scale (Process B -reduced 
scale) that was subsequently scaled up to commercial scale (Process B-commercial scale).  
Based on the direct comparison in study MDX010-15, PK of ipilimumab derived from Process A and 
Process B-reduced scale are comparable.  For upscaling from Process B -reduced scale to Process B -
commercial scale, no direct comparison of the PK of ipilimumab has been made. The across study 
comparison indicated that there were no major differences in pharmacokinetics after upscaling. Both 
the reduced scale and commercial scale products have been used in the phase 3 study and the 
commercial scale product, intended for marketing, has been used in the PPK analysis.  
Distribution 
No plasma protein binding study was conducted.  
PK parameters derived by non-compartmental methods with extensive sampling during induction 
therapy with ipilimumab from MDX010-15 and pooled data at 10 mg/kg from BMS studies CA184007 
and CA184008 are presented in Table 2. 
Table 2 – Summary of PK parameters in melanoma subjects (MDX010-15, CA184007 and CA 
184008)  
Study 
Protocol 
Process
a 
Matri
x 
Dose 
Samp
le 
size 
Mean Pharmacokinetic Parameters of 
Ipilimumab 
Mean (CV%)b 
Treatme
nt 
Dose 
(mg/kg
) 
MDX010-
15 
MDX010-
15 
MDX010-
15 
MDX010-
15 
CA184007
& 
CA184008 
CA184007
& 
CA184008 
A 
B-
reduced 
scale 
B-
reduced 
scale 
B-
reduced 
scale 
B-
commer
cial 
scale 
B-
commer
cial 
scale 
Plasm
a 
Plasm
a 
Plasm
a 
Plasm
a 
Seru
m 
Dose
#1 
Dose
#1 
Dose
#1 
Dose
#4 
Dose
#1 
3 
N=12 
2.8 
N=13 
10 
N=7d 
10 
N=13d 
10 
N=15 
Seru
m 
Dose
#3 
10 
N=16 
Cmax 
(µg/m
L) 
84.5 
(38%) 
79.9 
(24%) 
300 
(24%) 
441 
(36%) 
205 
(19%) 
223 
(24%) 
Tmax 
(hr) 
(Rang
e) 
1.75 
(1.5-
4) 
2.5 
(1.5-
5.5) 
2 
(1.5-
7) 
2.5 
(1.25-
48) 
1.58 
(1.5-
1.75) 
1.58 
(1.45-
24) 
AUC 
(0-21d) 
(µg.h/m
L) 
12383 
(32%) 
12081 
(44%) 
37706 
(24%) 
55433 
(35%) 
34176 
(19%) 
48924 
(24%) 
T-
HALF 
(day
) 
17 
(11)c 
16 
(9.5)
c 
15 
(8.3)
c 
15 
(9.4)
c 
9.45 
(3.1
7) 
15.6 
(6.8
9) 
CL 
(mL/h
r) 
VSS 
(L) 
13.8 
(8.1) 
5.9 
(1.6) 
12.8 
(6.8) 
5.5 
(2.1) 
15.7 
(6.2) 
6.7 
(2.3) 
N/Ae 
N/Ae 
18.3 
(5.88) 
5.75 
(1.6
9) 
N/Ae 
N/Ae 
a  All the data in this table are from the formulation manufactured by Process B and assayed by STM1693 and 
Human Serum ELISA Metod. 
b  Arithmetic means (SD) except Cmax and AUC which are expressed as geometric mean (CV%), and Tmax as 
median (range). 
c  Values manually converted from hours to days. 
d These are from different cohorts (MDX010-15) 
e CL and VSS in the third/fourth dose are not calculated (not available, N/A) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 26/71 
 
 
 
 
The PK of ipilimumab was also characterized by population pharmacokinetic analysis from 498 subjects 
with advanced (Stage III or IV) melanoma who were enrolled in four Phase 2 studies (CA184004, 
CA184007, CA184008, and CA184022) receiving induction doses ranging from 0.3 to 10 mg/kg 
administered once every 3 weeks for 4 doses. The PPK of ipilimumab was characterized by a linear 
two-compartment model with zero-order input and first-order elimination. The model was 
parameterized in terms of clearance (CL), volume of central compartment (VC), inter-compartmental 
clearance (Q), and volume of peripheral compartment (VP).  
Cmax, Cmin and AUC of ipilimumab were found to be dose proportional within the dose range 
examined. Upon repeated dosing of YERVOY administered every 3 weeks, clearance was found to be 
time-invariant, and minimal systemic accumulation was observed as evident by an accumulation 
index 1.5 fold or less for Cmax, Cmin and AUC. Ipilimumab steady-state was reached by the third dose 
administered once every 3 weeks. Based on population pharmacokinetic analysis, the geometric mean 
volume of distribution was at steady-state of 7.22 l with CV% of 10.5%. The average (±SD) 
ipilimumab serum trough concentrations achieved at steady-state with a 3 mg/kg induction regimen 
was 21.8 µg/ml (± 11.2). 
Other covariates tested were: age, gender, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, estimated glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR), concomitant budesonide, prior IL-2 therapy, prior systemic therapy, performance 
status (ECOG), immunogenicity (HAHA status), presence of allele HLA-A2*0201, and metastatic stage. 
The effect of race was not examined as there were insufficient data in non-Caucasian ethnic groups. 
The effects of these demographic and clinical covariates were not statistically significant or the 
magnitude of the effect was considered to be of minimal clinical relevance (less than ± 20% effect on 
the typical value of a model parameter relative to the reference value) 
Elimination 
Based on the PPK analysis, the half-life of ipilimumab was between 10 and 17 days with a mean (SD) 
of 15 (4.62) days, which is consistent with the elimination half-life of other IgG antibodies. The 
geometric mean systemic clearance was of 15.3 ml/h with percent coefficient of variation (CV%) 
of 38.5% (ranging from 12.8-18.3 ml/min across studies). 
No formal metabolism studies were conducted as ipilimumab is a human monoclonal immunoglobulin 
and not metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes, it is degraded to small peptides and individual 
amino acids. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose proportionality assessment was examined in study MDX010-15 from single dose data ranging 
from 2.8 mg/kg to 20.0 mg/kg. Ipilimumab exposure AUC(0-21d) and AUC(INF) appeared less than 
dose proportional. However, Cmax, elimination half-life and volume of distribution were reasonably 
comparable across the dose range of ~ 3 to 20 mg/kg.  
Across CA184 studies, the mean Cmin value prior to Dose 4 for patients who received 0.3, 3, and 
10 mg/kg ipilimumab were 2.1 (N=30), 21.8 (N=33), and 57.4 (N=193) µg/mL, respectively. Thus, 
the mean Cmin values increased in the ratio of 1: 11: 28, respectively, suggesting an approximate 
dose-proportional increase in ipilimumab exposure. 
Overall, the PK of ipilimumab seemed dose proportional over the dose range 0.3 mg/kg to 10 mg/kg. 
Ipilimumab accumulation ratio of 1.5 was consistent with the estimated half-life of approximately 
2 weeks and dosing every 3 weeks. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 27/71 
 
 
 
Special populations 
The PPK analysis indicated that ipilimumab clearance increased with increasing body weight and with 
increasing lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) at baseline. Particularly, ipilimumab clearance increased by 
20% over the reference typical value only for LDH values in excess of 550 IU/L (2.4-fold upper limit of 
normal [ULN]). This difference is not clinically relevant. Therefore no dose adjustment is required for 
elevated LDH or body weight after administration on a mg/kg basis. 
Clearance was not affected by age (range 26-86 years), gender, hepatic function (as measured by 
albumin and alkaline phosphatase), concomitant use of budesonide, renal function (estimated 
GFR 22 ml/min or greater), performance status, HLA-A2*0201 status, and prior use of systemic 
anticancer therapy. The effect of race was not examined as there was insufficient data in 
non-Caucasian ethnic groups. No controlled studies have been conducted to evaluate the PK of 
ipilimumab in the paediatric population or in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
No formal drug-drug interaction study was carried out because ipilimumab is a protein and does not 
undergo metabolism by the cytochrome P450 enzymes.  
The clearance of human monoclonal antibody, such as ipilimumab, is rarely affected by other drugs 
except immunosuppressants. Thus, an integrated PPK analysis was conducted to assess the impact of 
budesonide, a glucocorticoid, on the PK of ipilimumab with data from 3 Phase 2 studies. Concomitant 
treatment with 9 mg oral budesonide had no effect on the PK of ipilimumab. However, as systemic 
immunosuppressants could interfere with the pharmacodynamic activity of ipilimumab, a warning on 
the concomitant use of immunosuppressive agents, including systemic corticosteroids, has been 
included in the Product information. 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials  
No in vitro studies were conducted. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
Activated T Cells increase after ipilimumab treatment 
To investigate the effect of ipilimumab on the peripheral immune system, activated T-cells were 
examined by flow cytometry of peripheral blood. In study CA184004, the mean percent of activated 
HLA-DR+ CD4+ and CD8+T cells increased after treatment with ipilimumab. There was no difference in 
increase in percentage activated T cells between the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg dose. The percentage 
activated T-cells did not increase from week 4 to week 12. The percentage activated HLA-DR+ CD4+ 
en CD8+ T-cells at baseline was high in study CA184004 probably due to the tetanus booster 
administered prior to baseline blood collection in study CA184004. 
Comparable data were obtained in study CA184007 after treatment with 10 mg/kg ipilimumab. 
Although flow cytometry on samples from CA184007 did not distinguish between HLA-DR+ and CD69+ 
status, based on earlier ipilimumab clinical studies (MDXCTLA4-01, MDXCTLA4-02, MDX010-15, 
MDX010-19), the increase in percent of activated T cells is likely derived primarily from the HLA-DR+ 
population. No other meaningful and consistent changes in the percent of T cell subset, B cell or NK 
cells have been reported following 10 mg/kg ipilimumab administration, including intestinal homing T 
cells (CCR9+), CD25+ T cells, B cells (CD19+), or NK cells (CD16+56+). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 28/71 
 
 
 
Absolute Lymphocyte Count (ALC) 
ALC is a composite measure of all circulating T and B lymphocytes. Baseline ALC has been shown to be 
positively associated with overall survival (OS) in patients with a variety of cancers including myeloma, 
lymphoma, carcinoma, and sarcoma. In MDX010-20, this same positive association between baseline 
ALC and OS was also observed, independent of treatment group. In studies MDX010-20, CA184004, 
CA184007, CA184008, and CA184022, ALC was found to be a pharmacodynamic biomarker of immune 
cell activation by 3 and 10 mg/kg ipilimumab. In the Phase 2 studies CA184022 and CA184004, ALC 
increased on average after ipilimumab treatment in a dose-dependent fashion. For patients treated 
with 3 or 10 mg/kg ipilimumab, ALC continued to increase over the induction-dosing period, supporting 
the induction period dosing of one dose every 3 weeks. The magnitude of change in ALC after 
treatment with either 0.3 mg/kg ipilimumab (CA184022) or gp100 peptide vaccine alone (MDX010-20) 
was significantly different from, and smaller than, that after ipilimumab treatment at doses of 3 mg/kg 
or above.  
Ipilimumab Enhanced Humoral Response In an Antigen-Specific Fashion 
In CA184004, humoral response to T-cell-dependent antigens (tetanus or influenza) or T-cell-
independent antigens (pneumococcal) was measured before and after receiving vaccine or booster and 
ipilimumab. No difference was observed between the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups. Increases in 
humoral titers to influenza vaccine were observed in the majority of patients who received a vaccine 
but in only one patient who did not receive the influenza vaccine. Responses to pneumococcal and 
tetanus antigens were observed even in patients who never received vaccination on study. These 
results are consistent with RT-PCR of whole blood collected from patients with melanoma treated with 
ipilimumab in CA184004, which demonstrated an increase in expression of immunoglobulin lambda 
chain (IGL) mRNA. 
Baseline Tumour Immunology Biomarkers 
In the biomarker study, CA184004, tumour biopsies were taken before and after ipilimumab dosing. 
There was no consistent pattern in necrosis or presence of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes in the 
biopsies pre and post-treatment. 
Secondary pharmacology 
In study CA184007, the effect of prophylactic oral budesonide 9 mg on the safety of ipilimumab 
10 mg/kg was investigated. Oral budesonide 9 mg did not affect the incidence of GI irAEs. The 
temporal association between stool calprotectin and GI irAEs was not examined due to the lack of 
specificity observed in CA184007, CA184008 and CA184022. Thus, stool calprotectin is not 
recommended as a screening assay for GI inflammation in ipilimumab treated patients. 
For MDX010-20, the patient’s ability to develop or maintain disease control in the presence and 
absence of systemic steroids was analyzed. Of 137 patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy group, 
34 patients had received steroids prior to best overall response assessment and 103 did not receive 
any steroids prior to best overall response assessment. The rate of CR, PR, or SD, not followed by PD, 
was 8.8% for patients who received steroids and 14.6% for patients who did not receive steroids. 
Of 403 patients in the ipilimumab + gp100 group, 92 patients had received steroids prior to best 
overall response assessment and 311 did not receive any steroids best overall response assessment. 
Between these 2 subgroups of patients, the rate of CR, PR, or SD, not followed by PD, was similar 
(7.6% for patients who received steroids and 8.4% for patients who did not receive steroids). 
Additionally, for those patients who had a response, maintenance of clinical response following 
ipilimumab treatment was similar with or without the use of systemic corticosteroids.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 29/71 
 
 
 
No formal QTc prolongation study was conducted. Effect of ipilimumab 3 and 10 mg/kg does not seem 
to produce clinically significant changes in ECG intervals or rhythm. 
Relationship between plasma concentration and effect 
Exposure-response analyses indicated that safety and efficacy were correlated with ipilimumab Cmin at 
steady-state (Cminss). Baseline LDH and performance status along with Cminss were significant 
predictors of OS. The risk of death increased with increasing LDH at baseline and ECOG performance 
status greater than zero and decreased with increasing Cminss. The probability of immune related 
adverse events (irAEs) especially Grade ≥ 3 also increased in a Cminss dependent fashion.  
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
The PK of ipilimumab (including that on the commercial product) has been sufficiently studied. Effects 
of antibodies against ipilimumab on the PK of ipilimumab are uncertain as questions remain on the 
sensitivity of the assay as previously indicated. Further optimisation of the specificity and sensitivity of 
the serum ECL assay to detect antibodies can be handled after approval for ongoing and future clinical 
studies, as indicated in the RMP.  
Based on population pharmacokinetic results, no specific dose adjustment is necessary in patients with 
mild to moderate renal dysfunction.  
Being a human monoclonal antibody that is not metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes or other 
drug metabolizing enzymes, ipilimumab is not expected to have an effect on CYPs or other drug 
metabolizing enzymes in terms of inhibition or induction. Therefore, ipilimumab is not expected to have 
pharmacokinetic based interactions. 
In patients with melanoma who received YERVOY, the mean peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte 
counts (ALC) increased throughout the induction dosing period. In Phase 2 studies, this increase was 
dose dependent. In MDX010 20, YERVOY at 3 mg/kg with or without gp100 increased ALC throughout 
the induction dosing period, but no meaningful change in ALC was observed in the control group of 
patients who received an investigational gp100 peptide vaccine alone. This biomarker has been 
proposed as prognosis factor related to OS, although there is not a clear and definitive relationship 
between this measure and survival, there is a documented trend in this sense. The threshold of 
baseline ALC associated with a shorter OS has been proposed in approximately < 1 x 109. The 
Applicant submitted a report which explored the relationship between ALC and the biologic action of 
ipilimumab. ALC may be considered as biomarker of the ipilimumab action, however, the relation 
between OS and ALC cannot be supported because the pivotal study was not designed to show that 
association. 
In peripheral blood of patients with melanoma, a mean increase in the percent of activated HLA DR+ 
CD4+ and CD8+ T cells was observed after treatment with YERVOY, consistent with its mechanism of 
action. A mean increase in the percent of central memory (CCR7+ CD45RA ) CD4+ and CD8+ T cells 
and a smaller, but significant, mean increase in the percent of effector memory (CCR7  CD45RA) CD8+ 
T cells also was observed after treatment with YERVOY. 
Preliminary data suggested that an increase in tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes in tumour biopsies 
occurred more often in patients who benefited from ipilimumab treatment, although no relation with 
ipilimumab dose was observed. 
The most common drug-related adverse events were immune-related in nature, consistent with the 
mechanism of action of the drug and generally medically manageable with topical and/or systemic 
immunosuppressants. Prophylactic oral budesonide 9 mg did not affect the incidence of GI irAEs Grade 
≥ 2 diarrhoea. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 30/71 
 
 
 
In addition, data from the pivotal study MDX010-20 was reviewed to analyse patient’s ability to 
develop or maintain disease control in the presence and absence of systemic steroids. It was concluded 
that the development or maintenance of clinical activity following ipilimumab treatment was similar 
with or without the use of systemic corticosteroids. Therefore, the use of systemic corticosteroids at 
baseline, before starting YERVOY, should be avoided because of their potential interference with the 
pharmacodynamic activity and efficacy of YERVOY. However, systemic corticosteroids or other 
immunosuppressants can be used after starting YERVOY to treat immune-related adverse reactions. 
The use of systemic corticosteroids after starting YERVOY treatment does not appear to impair the 
efficacy of YERVOY (see section 4.4 of the Summary of Product Characteristics). 
No formal QTc prolongation study was conducted. As ipilimumab is an IgG monoclonal antibody against 
CTLA-4, no effects on ECG are anticipated. Effect of ipilimumab 3 and 10 mg/kg does not seem to 
produce clinically significant changes in ECG intervals or rhythm. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Overall, the pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab has been adequately studied. Further optimisation of the 
specificity and sensitivity of the serum ECL assay to detect antibodies can be handled after approval for 
ongoing and future clinical studies, as indicated in the RMP.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
The clinical aspects of the application were supported by one phase 3 pivotal study MDX010-20 and 
seven supportive phase 1/2 studies. During the procedure, data from a phase 3 study CA184024 was 
also submitted. The designs of the studies are summarised in the table below. 
Table 3 – Clinical study designs  
Study nr 
Phase 
Type of study 
Patients 
Aim  
MDX010-20 
Phase 3  Randomized, 
Pivotal study 
double-blind, 3 
groups multicenter 
study 
HLA-A2*0201-positive, 
previously treated, 
unresectable stage III or 
IV melanoma 
In 125 sites in 
Europe, North 
America, South 
America and Africa 
3 mg/kg q3 wk x 4 +/- gp 
100 or gp100 alone 
(induction) followed by re-
induction 
Compare OS of 
patients 
administered 
ipilimumab in 
combination with 
gp 100 versus 
those 
administered 
ipilimumab 
placebo in 
combination with 
gp100  
CA184022 
Phase 2  Randomized, 
double-blind, dose-
ranging, 3 group 
multi centre study 
In 66 sites in 13 
countries 
Previously treated 
unrespectable Stage III 
and IV melanoma 
0.3, 3, or 10 mg/kg q3 wk 
X 4 (induction) followed by 
maintenance dosing q 12 
wk 
Estimate BORR in 
patients receiving 
ipilimumab doses 
0.3, 3 and 10 
mg/kg 
CA184004 
Phase 2  Randomized, 
double-blind, 2-
group, biomarker 
study 
Unrespectable Stage III or 
IV melanoma 
3 or 10 mg/kg q3 wk x 4 
Analyze pre-
treatment 
characteristic of 
patients and/or 
Primary 
endpoint 
Overall 
survival 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
BORR, 
major 
durable 
response 
rate, 
duration of 
response, 
PFS, time 
to 
progressio
n 
BORR 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
OS, DCR, 
PRS, time 
to 
response, 
and 
duration of 
response 
Biomarker 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 31/71 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In 14 sites in 7 
countries 
(induction) followed by 
maintenance dosing q 12 
wk 
MDX010-08 
Phase 2  Randomized, 
double-blind, 2 
group study 
In 12 sites in the 
US 
Chemo therapy naïve 
metastatic melanoma 
3 mg/kg q4 wk x 4 +/- 
DTIC (induction)  
CA184008 
Phase 2  Open-label, single-
group study 
In 50 sites in 
Europe and North 
America 
CA184007 
Phase 2  Randomized, 
double-blind, 2 
group study 
In 11 sites in 6 
countries in Europe, 
North America, and 
South America 
CA184042 
Stage 1 
Phase 2  Open-label study 
In 8 sites in US 
MDX010-15 
Group B 
Phase 
1/2 
Open-label study 
In 5 sites in US 
MDX010-28 
Phase 2 
Survival 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Previously treated, 
unrespectable Stage III or 
IV melanoma 
10 mg/kg q3 wk x 4 
(induction) followed by 
maintenance dosing q 12 
wk 
Unresectable Stage III or 
IV melanoma 
10 mg/kg q3 x 4 +/- 
budesonide (induction) 
followed by maintenance 
dosing q 12 wk 
Stage IV melanoma with 
brain metastases 
10 mg/kg q3 wk x 4 
(induction) followed by 
maintenance dosing q 12 
wk 
Unresectable Stage III or 
IV melanoma 
10 mg/kg q3 wk x 4 
(induction) 
Patients enrolled in 
MDXCTLA-02, 
MDX010-08 or MDX010-15 
tumour with 
clinical tumour 
response, in other 
to identify 
candidate 
markers 
predictive of 
response and/or 
serious toxicity to 
ipilimumab dosed 
at 3 or 10 mg/kg 
q 3 weeks 
To determine the 
safety and activity 
profile of multiple 
doses of 
ipilimumab and to 
determine 
whether the 
addition of 
cytotoxic 
chemotherapy 
would augment 
the effects of 
ipilimumab  
To evaluate the 
BORR  
To estimate the 
rate of Grade ≥ 2 
diarrhoea in 
patients treated 
ipilimumab at 10 
mg/kg given with 
either 
prophylactic oral 
budesonide or 
placebo 
To assess the 
disease control 
rate determined 
after Week 12 
using the 
modified WHO 
(mWHO) tumor 
assessment 
criteria  
Determine the 
safety and 
pharmacokinetic 
profile of single 
and multiple 
doses of 
ipilimumab 
derived from a 
transfectoma or a 
hybridoma cell 
line 
BORR, OS, 
DCR, PFS, 
time to 
response, 
and 
duration of 
response 
ORR 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
OS, DCR, 
PFS, 
duration of 
response, 
and time 
to 
response 
BORR 
Secondary 
endpoints; 
OS, DCR, 
PFS, time 
to 
response, 
and 
duration of 
response 
Safety 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
BORR, OS, 
DCR, PFS, 
time to 
response, 
and 
duration of 
response 
DCR 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
BORR, 
PFS, and 
duration of 
response 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
BORR 
DCR, time 
to 
response, 
and 
duration of 
responses 
OS 
Page 32/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Follow-up 
Study 
CA184024 
Phase 3  Randomized, 
double-blind, 2 
groups multicenter 
study 
Previously untreated 
patients with unresectable 
Stage III or IV melanoma 
10 mg/kg q3 wk x 4 +/-
dacarbazine (induction)  
followed by maintenance 
To compare 
overall survival in 
patients receiving 
dacarbazine plus 
10mg/kg 
ipilimumab vs. 
dacarbazine with 
placebo. 
OS 
Secondary 
endpoints: 
BORR, 
PFS, DCR 
BORR= best overall response rate; DCR= disease control rate; DTIC= dacarbazine; ORR= overall response rate; 
OS= overall survival  
Three of the clinical studies (MDX010-20, CA184022 and CA 184004) evaluated the recommended 
dose of 3 mg/kg administered once every 3 weeks (q3w) for 4 doses; in MDX010-08, 3 mg/kg was 
administered every 4 weeks (q4w) for 4 doses. Phase 2 studies CA184008, CA 184007, CA 184042 and 
MDX010-15 and Phase 3 study CA184024 evaluated ipilimumab at 10 mg/kg. 
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
No formal dose response studies were included in the application. Data from phase 1 and 2 studies was 
reviewed to support the dose used in the pivotal trial.  
Study MDX010-15 (phase 1/2) 
The primary objective of this study was to determine the safety and pharmacokinetic profile of single 
and multiple doses of ipilimumab. One of the secondary objectives of this study was determination of 
the single-dose maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ipilimumab. 
Of the 90 patients enrolled for this study, 88 were treated, with 2.8 to 10 mg/kg multiple doses or with 
7.5 mg/kg to 20 mg/kg single dose.  
The applicant concluded that ipilimumab at single doses up to 20 mg/kg and multiple doses up to 
10 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses was tolerable with a safety profile consistent with that 
demonstrated in other studies of ipilimumab (see clinical safety section). The single-dose MTD of 
ipilimumab was not identified.  
Study CA184022 (phase 2) 
The primary objective of the study was to estimate best overall response rate (BORR) (as per modified 
World Health Organization (mWHO) criteria) in patients with previously treated, therapy-refractory or 
intolerant, Stage III (unresectable) or Stage IV melanoma receiving ipilimumab at doses 0.3, 3, and 
10 mg/kg. Estimation of differences in BORR in patients receiving 3 vs 0.3 mg/kg, 10 vs 0.3 mg/kg 
and 10 vs 3 mg/kg was one of the secondary objectives of this study.  
For this study 73, 72 and 72 patients were treated with respectively 0.3, 3 or 10 mg/kg ipilimumab 
induction therapy, every 3 weeks for a total of 4 separate doses followed by maintenance period in 
which ipilimumab was administrated every 12 weeks. 
Tumour response for the induction phase was assessed at weeks 12, 16, 20 and 24. During the 
maintenance period tumour assessment was performed every 6 weeks. After week 48, tumour 
assessment was preformed every 12 weeks. Tumour response was evaluated by independent radiology 
review committee (IRC) based on mWHO criteria and by the investigators. The IRC assessment was 
considered primary. Tumour response as assessed by the IRC was based on the change from baseline 
in total tumour volume of index and non-index lesions.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 33/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 217 randomized patients, 214 patients were treated in the induction period, of which 
20 patients were also treated during the maintenance period. Approximately 60% of the patients 
randomized to the 0.3 and 3 mg/kg group received 4 doses induction therapy and 40% of the patients 
randomized to the 10 mg/kg group received 4 doses induction therapy.  
As assessed by the IRC, none of the patients who received 0.3 mg/kg ipilimumab responded. The 
BORR in the 3 mg/kg treatment group was 4.2% (3/72 patients) and 11.1% (8/72 patients). In the 
10 mg/kg group 2/8 responders achieved CR and 6/8 responders achieved PR. The results indicated a 
statistically significant trend (p=0.0015) of increased BORR with increased dose, suggesting a dose 
effect.  
Other studies 
For the pivotal study, a dose of 3 mg/kg ipilimumab was used. The rationale of the Applicant for using 
this dose was that preliminary studies provided evidence of clinical activity of ipilimumab at doses of 
1 and 3 mg/kg in patients with metastatic melanoma. 
In study MDXCTLA-4, a single infusion of ipilimumab at 3 mg/kg was associated with PR in 1 of 
17 patients. In Protocol MDX010-05, patients were administered an initial dose of ipilimumab at 
3 mg/kg followed by either 1 mg/kg (n=27) or 3 mg/kg (n=29) every 3 weeks; all doses in were 
administered in combination with the same gp100 vaccine as used in MDX010-20. A dose response 
was observed based on durable responses, suggesting that the 3 mg/kg dose might have more clinical 
activity than the 1 mg/kg dose. In study MDX010-08, patients were administered ipilimumab 3 mg/kg 
q4 weeks as monotherapy (n=37) or in combination with dacarbazine (n=37). In the monotherapy 
group, 2 patients had PRs (both ongoing at > 1year) (ORR 5%) and in the combination group 
2 patients had CRs (both ongoing at >1.5 years) and 4 patients had PRs (1 ongoing at > 1.5 years) 
(ORR 17%). Together, these data indicted that ipilimumab at 3 mg/kg every 3 to 4 weeks was 
associated with clinical activity. Higher doses of ipilimumab had not been adequately studied at the 
time the pivotal study was initiated.  
2.5.2.  Main study: MDX010-20 
Methods 
Study MDX010-20 is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter study comparing ipilimumab (MDX-010) 
monotherapy, ipilimumab in combination with a melanoma peptide vaccine (gp100), and gp100 
monotherapy in HLA-A*0201-positive patients with previously treated unresectable stage III or IV 
melanoma. 
Study Participants  
The inclusion criteria were the following:  
  Histologic diagnosis of malignant melanoma 
  Measurable unresectable Stage III or Stage IV melanoma: 
  At least 18 years of age 
  Positive for HLA-A2*0201 
  Patient demonstrated 1 of the following in response to at least 1 cycle of 1 or more regimens 
containing 1 or more of the following: IL-2, dacarbazine, temozolomide, fotemustine and/or 
carboplatin: 1) relapse following an objective response (PR/CR); 2)failed to demonstrate an 
objective response (PR/CR); or 3) inability to tolerate treatment due to unacceptable toxicity 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 34/71 
 
 
 
 
 
  At least 28 days since treatment with chemotherapy, biochemotherapy, surgery, radiation, or 
immunotherapy, and 14 day for gamma knife treatment and recovered from any clinically 
significant toxicity experienced during treatment (prior treatment must be completed by the 
time of study drug administration); 
  Women met one of the following criteria: post-menopausal for at least 1 year; surgically 
incapable of bearing children; or utilizing a reliable form of contraception. Women of 
childbearing potential had a negative serum β-human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) hormone 
pregnancy test conducted during screening and a negative urine β-HCG pregnancy test 
conducted prior to study drug administration 
  Men who could have fathered a child agreed to use of male contraception for the duration of 
their participation in the trial 
  Life expectancy ≥ 4 months 
  Eastern Cooperative Oncology group (ECOG) performance status of 0 or 1 
  Required values for initial laboratory tests: 
  ≥ 2500/µL 
  White blood cell (WC) count  
  Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1500/µL 
Platelet count  
 
  Haematocrit (Hct)    
  Haemoglobin (Hb)   
  Creatinine   
  Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) ≤ 2 *ULN, except for patients with  
   ≥ 30% 
   ≥ 10/µL 
   ≤ 2 upper limit of normal (ULN) 
   ≥ 100* 103/µL 
 
Total Bilirubin  
         ≤ 2 *ULN, except patients with 
     ≤ 2 *ULN attributed to liver metastases 
  Gilbert’s Syndrome, who must have had a                         
total bilirubin < 3.0 mg/dL  
Amongst the exclusion criteria were the following: Primary ocular melanoma; Active, untreated central 
nervous system (CNS) metastasis. 
Treatments 
Subjects were randomized in a 3:1:1 ratio to receive ipilimumab plus gp100, ipilimumab monotherapy, 
or gp100 monotherapy, respectively. The regimens were as follows: 
- 
- 
Ipilimumab plus gp100: ipilimumab (3 mg/kg q3 weeks up to 4 doses) in combination with 
gp100 (2 mg Peptide A and 2 mg Peptide B q3 weeks up to 4 doses); 
Ipilimumab monotherapy: ipilimumab (3 mg/kg q3 weeks up to 4 doses) plus vaccine placebo 
(q3 weeks up to 4 doses); or 
-  gp100 monotherapy: ipilimumab placebo (q3 weeks up to 4 doses) plus gp100 (2 mg Peptide A 
and 2 mg Peptide B q3 weeks up to 4 doses). 
A complete induction cycle consisted of 4 doses of ipilimumab/ipilimumab placebo plus 4 doses of 
gp100/vaccine placebo and is referred to as 4 doses of study drug. Likewise, each re-induction cycle 
consisted of 4 doses of study drug. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to compare OS of subjects administered ipilimumab in combination with 
melanoma peptide vaccine versus those administered ipilimumab placebo in combination with 
melanoma peptide vaccine. 
The secondary objectives of this study were: comparison of OS of subjects administered ipilimumab 
plus gp100 vs. those administered ipilimumab in combination with placebo, and of subjects 
administered gp100 monotherapy vs. those administered ipilimumab monotherapy, determination of 
the safety, evaluation of best overall response rate (BORR), determination of major durable response 
rate, duration of response, progression-free survival (PFS), time-to-progression and evaluation of 
health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 35/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary endpoint was overall survival, defined for each patient as the time between randomization 
date and death. If a patient was still alive, the patient was censored at the last known alive date. The 
primary efficacy analysis compared the difference in OS between ipilimumab plus gp100 vs. gp100. 
The Survival rate at 12, 18 and 24 months was defined as the probability that a patient is alive at 
these time points following randomization date.  
Secondary endpoints included BORR determined from Week 12 to Week 24 and confirmed at least 
4 weeks later, disease control rate (DCR), duration of response, time to response, PFS, PFS rate 
(PFSR) at Week 12, and time-to-progression, delayed response, Health-related Quality of Life and 
safety. Tumour response status was assessed by the investigator. 
Sample size 
The original number of patients (750) that should be enrolled for the study was based on a primary 
endpoint of BORR. Due to advice of Health Authorities, the primary endpoint was changed to overall 
survival. Based on the new OS endpoint, the sample size was revised. A total of 481 events were 
required in all 3 groups (assuming that the events are distributed with ratios as 3:1:1 in ipilimumab 
plus gp100, ipilimumab monotherapy, and gp 100 monotherapy, respectively). On the basis of these 
assumptions 650 patients were to be enrolled into the study.   
Randomisation 
A centralised randomization scheme was used to assign subjects in a 3:1:1 ratio to the ipilimumab plus 
gp100, ipilimumab monotherapy, or gp100 monotherapy group. The randomization was stratified 
according to 1) baseline TNM status (M0, M1a or M1b versus M1c); and 2) prior treatment with IL-2 or 
not. A stratified randomization list was independently generated before the study was initiated using a 
block size of 20. 
Blinding (masking) 
This was a double-blind study: for masking of the “none” treatment matching placebos were used. 
Matching vaccine placebo for gp100 existed of 0.9% sodium chloride which was subcutaneously 
administrated. For ipilimumab a matching placebo was used that was like ipilimumab administered as 
an IV infusion.  
Statistical methods 
The statistical analysis plan (SAP) had 6 amendments, the major change being in primary endpoint 
(from ORR to BORR to OS), as advised by Health Authorities.  
Sample size was ultimately set for the comparison of overall survival between patients administered 
ipilimumab in ipilimumab + gp100 and those administered gp100. On the basis of a simulation using 
the collected blinded survival data from this study and historical literature data, the hazard ratios for 
the overall survival of ipilimumab + gp100 versus gp100 at 8 months, 12 months, and 24 months were 
assumed to be 1, 0.2017, and 0.6126, respectively. Based on these assumptions, the median overall 
survival times of ipilimumab + gp100 and gp100 are 10.8 and 8.6 months, respectively. Therefore, a 
total of 385 events and a total of 500 enrolled patients for these 2 groups are required to achieve a 
90% power to detect the difference of overall survival between these 2 groups at the 0.05 significance 
level, log-rank test using EAST 5. Approximately a total of 481 events are required in all 3 groups 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 36/71 
 
 
 
(assuming that the events are distributed with ratios at 1:3:1 in gp100, ipilimumab + gp100, 
ipilimumab, respectively) to observe 385 events in ipilimumab + gp100 and gp100 treatment groups.  
For the primary efficacy analysis, the difference in OS between ipilimumab plus gp100 vs. gp100 
monotherapy was compared using stratified log-rank test. The 2 stratification factors were baseline 
TNM status (M0, M1a, or M1b versus M1c), and prior or no prior treatment with IL-2. The median 
estimates with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed using Brookmeyer and Crowley method.  
The secondary efficacy analysis of survival compared the OS of ipilimumab monotherapy to gp100 
monotherapy and ipilimumab plus gp100 to ipilimumab monotherapy. Treatment differences for the 
BORR were compared using the stratified CMH test. The duration of response was summarized by 
treatment group using descriptive statistics for responder patients only. The HRQoL was compared for 
treatment differences using an Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA) model. 
Safety parameters were summarized using descriptive statistics (frequency tabulation). 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 37/71 
 
 
 
Results 
Participant flow 
Figure 1 – Study MDX010-20 Participants flow 
Recruitment 
Subjects were randomized between 27-Sep-2004 and 24-July-2008. Enrolment into the study was 
closed effective 25-July-2008. Data was unblinded on 15 January 2009.  
Conduct of the study 
A number of amendments to the protocol were made. Initially, the primary endpoint was BORR. As 
indicated previously, the primary endpoint was changed to overall survival further to advice of Health 
Authorities, including that of the CHMP Scientific Advice. Accordingly, the sample size was amended. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 38/71 
 
 
 
 
Baseline data 
Demographic summary and baseline characteristics in Study MDX010-20 are presented in the table 
below. 
Table 4 – Demographic and Baseline Characteristics (ITT population) MDX010-20 
ULN=upper limit of normal; Min=minimum; Max=maximum; (n%) 
Almost all patients included in the MDX010-20 study had had prior surgery related to cancer, and all 
patients had received prior systemic therapies; IL-2, dacarbazine, temozolomide, fotemustine and/or 
carboplatin. Over ninety percent (91.9%) of the patients received prior chemotherapy. In the 
ipilimumab monotherapy group 40.1% of the patients received prior immunotherapy, whereas of the 
imipilimumab+gp100 group 47.9% of the patients received prior immunotherapy. Prior immune 
treatment options included: interferon alfa (2A or 2B), interleukin 2 or 7 and/or investigational 
immunotherapy (PEG-interferon alfa 2A or 2B). In the ipilimumab group 43.8% of the patients had 
prior radiotherapy and in the ipilimumab+gp100 group 38.2% had prior radiotherapy. 
Initial diagnosis of melanoma by treatment is presented in the table below. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 39/71 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 – Initial diagnosis of melanoma (ITT population) 
Numbers analysed 
The study populations are summarised in Error! Reference source not found.. The primary efficacy 
population was ITT (all randomized).  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 40/71 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6 – Study Population by Treatment Group (MDX10-20-All Subjects) 
Ipi+gp100 
n=403 
Ipi 
n=137 
gp100 
n=136 
Total 
n = 676 
Study populations (n %) 
    Intent-to-Treat 
403 (100.0) 
137 (100.0) 
136 (100.0) 
676 (100.0) 
    Safety - efficacy analyses  
381 (94.5) 
131 (95.6) 
131 (96.3) 
643 (95.1) 
    Safety - safety analyses 
380 (94.3) 
131 (95.6) 
132 (97.1) 
643 (95.1) 
    Per-protocol 
315 (78.2) 
106 (77.4) 
101 (74.3) 
522 (77.2) 
    Re-induction - efficacy analyses 
23 (5.7) 
    Re-induction - safety analyses 
      1 Cycle 
      2 Cycles 
29 (7.2) 
29 (7.2) 
4 (1.0) 
8 (5.8) 
9 (6.6) 
9 (6.6) 
3 (2.2) 
1 (0.7)  
32 (4.7) 
2 (1.5) 
2 (1.5) 
0 
40 (5.9) 
40 (5.9) 
7 (1.0) 
1 (0.2) 
      3 Cycles 
a All randomized, as randomized; includes subjects who were randomized but not treated. 
b All treated, as randomized 
c All treated, as treated; 1 subject was randomized to Ipi+gp100 but treated with gp100. Therefore, the dosing and 
safety analyses count this subject in the gp100 treatment group. 
d Safety population for Re-induction; includes all subjects who received re-induction treatment (safety analyses) 
regardless of eligibility. 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint: Overall survival 
The primary endpoint overall survival is presented in the table and figure below. The median follow-up, 
assessed for 151 patients known to be alive, was 21.0 months for the ipilimumab+ gp100 group, 
27.8 months for the ipilimumab monotherapy group and 17.2 months for the gp100 monotherapy 
group. 
Table 7 – Overall Survival by Treatment (MDX010-20 Study - ITT Population) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 41/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 – Overall Survival by Treatment (MDX010-20 Study - ITT Population) 
Secondary endpoint: Best Overall Response Rate 
Best overall response rate results are presented in the table below. 
Table 8 – Best Overall Response Based on Modified WHO Criteria by Treatment (MDX010-20 
Study - ITT Population) 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 42/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Secondary endpoint: Progression-Free Survival 
PFS results are presented in the figure below. 
Figure 3 – Progression-free Survival by Treatment (MDX010-20 Study - ITT Population) 
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup comparisons for OS were performed across pre-specified categories : M-stage (M0, M1a or 
M1b versus M1c), prior IL-2 baseline LDH (≤ ULN versus > ULN), age (<65 years versus ≥ 65 years), 
sex, response to prior systemic therapy, and region for MDX010-20. Of note, for women above 50 
years of age the HR was close to 1. 
Figure 4 – Overall Survival Hazard Ratio and 95% Confidence Interval for subgroup Analysis 
(Ipilimumab monotherapy vs gp100) MDX010-20 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 43/71 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main study 
The following tables summarise the efficacy results from the main studies supporting the present 
application. These summaries should be read in conjunction with the discussion on clinical efficacy as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 9 – Summary of Efficacy for trial MDX010-20 
Title:  A  Randomized,  Double-blind,  Multicenter  Study  Comparing  MDX-010  Monotherapy,  MDX-010  in 
Combination  with  a  Melanoma  Peptide  Vaccine,  and  Melanoma  Vaccine  Monotherapy  in  HLA-A*0201  Positive 
Patients with Previously Treated Unresectable Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma 
Study identifier 
MDX010-20,  EUDRACT 2004-005059-32, IND 9186 
Design 
Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, multicenter  
Duration of main phase: 
Induction phase: 12 weeks 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase: 
not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority of Ipilimumab + gp100 vs gp100 
Treatments groups 
Ipilimumab + gp100  
(Ipi + gp100) 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Ipilimumab + placebo 
(Ipi) 
Placebo + gp100 
(gp 100) 
Primary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoints 
Secondary 
endpoints 
Overall 
survival (OS) 
Best overall 
response rate 
(BORR) 
Progression 
free survival 
(PFS) 
Database lock 
7 October 2009 
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Induction cycle every 3 weeks for total of 4 doses 
Ipilimumab: 3 mg/kg IV infusion 
gp100: 2 mL or 2mg of Peptide A + 2 mL or 2 mg 
of Peptide B, SC 
Possibility of re-induction  
Induction cycle every 3 weeks for total of 4 doses 
Ipilimumab: 3 mg/kg IV infusion 
gp100 placebo: sterile 0.9% sodium chloride SC 
Possibility of re-induction  
Induction cycle every 3 weeks for total of 4 doses 
Ipilimumab placebo 
gp100: 2 mL or 2mg of Peptide A + 2 mL or 2 mg 
of Peptide B, SC 
Possibility of re-induction  
Time between randomization date and death.  
Best overall response (BOR) based on 
investigator’s assessment (modified WHO criteria)  
Time between randomization date and the date of 
progression or death.  
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Intent to treat (all randomized patients) 
Primary efficacy treatment comparison: Ipi + gp100 vs gp100 
Secondary efficacy treatment comparisons: Ipi + gp100 vs Ipi and Ipi vs gp100 
Treatment group 
Ipi+gp100  
Ipi  
gp100  
No. of subjects 
403 
137 
136 
Overall survival 
No. of events 
Median (months) 
306 
9.95 
100 
10.12 
119 
6.44 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 44/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95% CI for median 
(months) 
HR vs gp100 (95% 
CI) 
(8.48, 11.50) 
(8.02, 13.80) 
(5.49, 8.71) 
0.68 (0.55, 0.85) 
0.66 (0.51, 0.87) 
HR vs Ipi (95% CI) 
1.04 (0.83, 1.30) 
P-value (stratified 
logrank) vs gp 100 
P-value (stratified 
logrank) vs Ipi 
BORR  
(CR and PR) 
N (%) 
95% CI for 
proportion 
P-value ( Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel 
(CMH)) vs gp 100  
P-value ( Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel 
(CMH)) vs Ipi 
PFS 
0.0004 
0.7575 
0.0026 
23 (5.7) 
15 (10.9) 
2 (1.5) 
(3.7, 8.4) 
(6.3, 17.4) 
(0.2, 5.2) 
0.0433 
0.0012 
 0.0402 
Median (months) 
2.76 
2.86 
2.76 
95% CI for median 
(months) 
HR vs gp100 (95% 
CI) 
(2.73, 2.79) 
(2.76, 3.02) 
(2.73, 2.83) 
0.81 (0.66, 1.00) 
0.64 (0.50, 0.83) 
HR vs Ipi (95% CI) 
1.25 (1.01, 1.53) 
P-value (stratified 
logrank) vs gp 100 
P-value (stratified 
logrank) vs Ipi 
0.0464 
0.0007 
0.0371 
Note: 
log-rank test p-values were stratified by M-stage (M0, M1a, M1b vs. M1c) from the 
randomization list and prior treatment with IL-2 (Yes vs. No) 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Patients with significant hepatic and renal impairment were excluded from the study.  
Supportive studies 
Seven supportive studies were submitted in the application (CA184022, CA184004, MDX010-08, 
CA180008, CA184007, CA184042, MDX010-15 and MDX010-28). Ipilimumab was administrated to all 
patients included in the supportive studies (none of the studies contained a control arm). The primary 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 45/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
endpoint for most studies was BORR. During the application, the applicant also provided supportive 
data from Study CA184024, a randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study evaluating OS in patients 
with previously untreated, advanced melanoma.  
In general the response rates to ipilimumab monotherapy, obtained in the supportive studies were 
comparable to the BORR reported for the pivotal MDX010-20 study.  
Study CA1840042 
This was an open label multi-centre phase II study with a two-stage design. The study is still ongoing, 
and only results from an interim analysis of the first stage were submitted. The primary objective of 
the study was to assess the disease control rate (DCR) determined after week 12 using mWHO tumour 
assessment criteria, after ipilimumab monotherapy. Secondary endpoints were overall response rate 
and DCR of non-central nervous system lesions and global tumour burden using the mWHO tumour 
assessment criteria (Therasse P. Eur J Cancer 2002;38:1817–23) and immune response criteria (irRC). 
For the first stage of the study 28 patients with stage IV melanoma with brain metastases, were 
enrolled (Arm A). Included patients had not received corticosteroid therapy for a minimum of 10 days 
before their first dose of ipilimumab. During induction phase patients were treated with 10 mg/kg 
ipilimumab every 3 weeks for 4 doses.   
This study of ipilimumab in patients with advanced melanoma specifically included patients with brain 
metastases. Confirmed objective responses in the non-CNS compartment were associated with 
confirmed objective responses in the brain with 5/8 (17.9%) of patients achieving global and CNS 
based confirmed PRs, respectively. Likewise, disease control (CR, PR and SD) in non-CNS compartment 
was associated with disease control in the brain with a disease control rate of 7/28 (25%) and 
8/28 (28.6%), respectively.  
Study CA184004 
This was an exploratory study to determine potential predictive markers of response and/or toxicity in 
patients with unresectable stage III or IV malignant melanoma. In total 101 patients were enrolled and 
82 were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to be treated with 4 doses 3 or 10 mg/kg ipilimumab 3q weeks. 
Before randomization the patients were stratified by use of prior immunotherapy for malignant 
melanoma.  Secondary objectives were BORR (assessed according to mWHO criteria), DCR, PFS rate at 
week 12, PFS, OS, survival rate at 1 year, duration of response, time to response, safety, estimate the 
sensitivity and specificity of any candidate marker for prediction of clinical response and toxicity to 
ipilimumab. 
After the induction phase (4 doses ipilimumab), patients with stable disease (SD) or better through 
week 24 tumour assessment, could receive maintenance ipilimumab (3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg every 
3 months). Pre- and post-treatment biomarker assessments were performed including baseline blood 
for single-nucleotide polymorphisms, and pre- and post-treatment immune monitoring and tumour 
biopsy. All patients also had pre- and post treatment serial, triplicate ECG assessment.   
Tumour assessments were performed every 4 weeks from week 12 through 24 and every 12 weeks 
thereafter.  
Increase in ALC was associated with benefit, defined as objective response or SD lasting until at least 
24 weeks from first dose (P=0.00042). Baseline expression of tumour FoxP3 or the immunoregulatory 
enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase IDO was associated with benefit (P=0.014 and 0.012 
respectively). Both genes are markers for T-cell suppression, suggesting that if expression of T-cell 
suppressive genes is determined in the tumour,  response on ipilimumab is more likely.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 46/71 
 
 
 
Preliminary data suggested that an increase in tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes in tumour biopsies 
occurred more often in patients who benefited from ipilimumab treatment, although no relation with 
ipilimumab dose was observed.. 
Activation of circulating effectors T-cells and enhancement of humoral response to specific common 
antigens were observed, however the T-cell activation was not dose dependent. Biomarkers that were 
not predictive for benefit or safety were SNP genotypes, HLA allele A2*201, and medium-resolution 
HLA-A genotype. 
Study CA184024 
Study CA184024 is a randomized, placebo- controlled Phase 3 study evaluating OS in subjects with 
previously untreated, advanced (unresectable Stage III or IV) melanoma. The 2 treatment arms were 
ipilimumab plus dacarbazine (ipilimumab +DTIC; N=250) and placebo plus DTIC (DTIC; N=252). 
Randomization was 1:1 and was stratified by baseline TNM status (M0 vs M1a vs M1b vs M1c) and 
ECOG performance status (0 vs 1).  In the CA184024 study patients were enrolled without regard to 
HLA status and prospective HLA testing was not performed. Ipilimumab was administered at a dose of 
10 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses, followed by maintenance therapy with 10 mg/kg ipilimumab for 
eligible patients. The study has been finalised at the beginning of 2011; only high level results were 
available during the assessment of this application. 
Results for OS are presented in the table below. There was a 2.1 month improvement in median 
survival in the ipilimumab+DTIC arm compared to DTIC with the HR of 0.716 was significant 
(p=0.0009). The Kaplan-Meier curve for OS is shown in Figure 5.  
Table 10 – Study CA184024 Overall survival results 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 47/71 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 – Study CA184024 Overall Survival  
The Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival rates at 1 year, 2 years and 3 years were consistently higher in 
the ipilimumab +DTIC arm compared with DTIC (Table 11). 
Table 11 – Study CA184024 Kaplan-Meier survival results 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy  
For ipilimumab monotherapy a median overall survival of 10.12 months (95% CI; 8.02-13.80) was 
reported whereas the observed median overall survival for gp100 monotherapy was only 6.44 months 
(95% CI; 5.49-8.71). No statistically significant differences in overall survival between the ipilimumab 
monotherapy group and the combined therapy group were seen.  
Gp100 is considered to be an experimental anti-cancer agent and the effect of gp100 monotherapy on 
the OS of melanoma patients is not exactly known. However, no clinical benefit has yet been 
demonstrated for gp100 monotherapy vaccination. No placebo controlled clinical trials are published 
investigating the clinical effect of gp100 monotherapy in advanced melanoma patients. Other clinical 
trials (combination with IL-2) provide little information about the expected OS for melanoma patients 
after gp100 monotherapy. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 48/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The observed median OS of gp100 of 6.4 months was somewhat lower than those seen in recent phase 
III trials curve which are typically around 7-8 months (range 5.9 in Eisen up to 9.7 in Hauschild). The 
Applicant provided a sensitivity analysis showing that after addition of 1.5 months survival to the 
observed individual survival time of each gp100 patient, still a statistically significant OS benefit of 
ipilimumab treatment above gp100 treatment exits.  
Results of the CA184024 phase 3 trial in melanoma patients treated with DTIC versus DTIC and 
ipilimumab were submitted to support the efficacy data obtained in the MDX010-20 study. The 
CA184024 study showed an OS of 11.2 months for patients treated with DTIC+Ipilimumab and an OS 
of 9.1 months for patients treated with DTIC alone with a HR of 0.716  (p=0.0009).  
The CA184024 study results supported the results of the MDX010-20 study. The CHMP considered that 
based on all the available data, the efficacy in the claimed indication for the treatment of advanced 
(unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults who have received prior therapy was sufficiently 
supported.   
Based on effect-response analysis in study CA184022 and the other 3 phase 2 CA184 studies, it is not 
fully elucidated if the dose of 3 mg/kg ipilimumab in study MDX010-20 is the optimal dose for the 
target patient group. In the CA184024 study the used ipilimumab dose was 10 mg/kg. Given the 
differences in study design between the CA184024 and the MDX010-20 including different lines of 
ipilimumab treatment and different co-medication, the efficacy and safety results of the 10 mg/kg dose 
and the 3 mg/kg dose are not directly comparable. At this moment 3 mg/kg will be the dose 
recommended for ipilimumab in for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma 
in adults who have received prior therapy. However, it is unknown whether a higher dose of 10 mg/kg 
would have been better. As a condition to the marketing authorisation, the applicant shall collect 
further efficacy (with survival endpoint) and safety data in a randomised study comparing 3 mg/kg 
versus 10 mg/kg ipilimumab in advanced melanoma. 
By subgroup analysis, it has been shown that the observed OS benefit in study MDX010-20 was 
consistent within most of the subgroups of patients (M [metastases]-stage, prior interleukin-2, 
baseline lactate dehydrogenase, age, and sex). However, for women above 50 years of age, the data 
supporting an OS benefit of YERVOY treatment were limited. As the subgroup analysis includes only 
small numbers of patients, no definitive conclusions can be drawn from these data. The efficacy and 
safety of ipilimumab in these patients should continue to be analysed in ongoing and future clinical 
trials, particularly in the dose comparison study to be conducted. 
The impact of treatment on the Quality of life was investigated in the MDX010-20 study (data not 
shown). The Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) for patients with cancer is negatively impacted by 
both disease progression and treatment toxicities. Most changes from baseline in HRQoL domains were 
“no change” to “moderate” across the three treatment groups. The trend in global health status was 
towards a return to baseline. 
Patients with active brain metastases or ocular melanoma were excluded from the pivotal study. 
Results of the CA1840042 study suggest that ipilimumab might be effective against brain metastases. 
Given the mechanism of action of ipilimumab, anti-tumour effector cells should cross the blood-brain 
barrier before ipilimumab can be effective against brain-metastasis. The blood-brain barrier will be 
disrupted in patients who were treated with radiotherapy against the brain metastasis and by that 
lymphocytes can migrate into the CNS. Efficacy of ipilimumab for these patients might be expected, 
however for patients who were not treated with radiotherapy the effect of ipilimumab treatment is 
questionable.  
No data regarding the efficacy and safety of ipilimumab use in patients with ocular melanoma is 
provided. It is uncertain whether the immunogenicity of ocular and skin melanoma are comparable and 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 49/71 
 
 
 
by that whether a similar effect of ipilimumab is to be expected for both tumour types. As no additional 
safety concerns are expected, the CHMP considered that these should not be an absolute contra-
indication for ipilimumab treatment. It has however been included in the product information that 
patients with ocular melanoma, primary CNS melanoma and active brain metastases were not included 
in the pivotal clinical trial.  
In the main study MDX010-20 only patients with a positive HLAA2*201 test were included. Results of 
the CA184004 study indicated that HLA phenotype A2*201 was not a predictive biomarker for the 
efficacy or safety of ipilimumab treatment. According to the supposed working mechanism of 
ipilimumab, the activity of ipilimumab is not directly HLA dependent.  
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy  
Overall, the CHMP considered that the efficacy in the claimed indication for the treatment of advanced 
(unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults who have received prior therapy has been 
demonstrated based on an improvement in overall survival.   
Based on effect-response analysis, it is not fully elucidated if the dose of 3 mg/kg ipilimumab in study 
MDX010-20 is the optimal dose. At this moment 3 mg/kg will be the dose recommended for 
ipilimumab in for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults who 
have received prior therapy. As a condition to the marketing authorisation, the applicant shall collect 
further efficacy (with survival endpoint) and safety data in a randomised study comparing 3 mg/kg 
versus 10 mg/kg ipilimumab in advanced melanoma. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
Safety data from 1,107 patients is presented (975 patients received ipilimumab at 3 mg/kg (622) and 
at 10 mg/kg (353)) treated in Phase 2 and 3. The safety data were obtained by one Phase 3 study 
(MDX010-20), 4 completed phase 2 studies (CA184008, CA184022, CA184007 and CA184004, and 
one interim Phase 2 study (CA184042).  
Supplemental safety data from 568 treated patients of 14 completed studies, investigating ipilimumab 
for the treatment of metastatic melanoma or other cancers including prostate, renal, and breast were 
submitted.  
Adverse events  
Throughout the clinical program in advanced melanoma, the vast majority (>96%) of patients with 
metastatic melanoma experienced adverse events (AEs) of any grade during the induction phase, 
including in the gp100 monotherapy group as well as all ipilimumab treatment groups. Most common 
safety events of any grade reported in patients receiving ipilimumab were those affecting the GI tract 
and skin, these AEs are classified as irAEs which includes diarrhoea, pruritus and rash, each were more 
commonly reported in the ipilimumab groups than in the gp100 group. In addition, the incidences of 
colitis and endocrine insufficiency, were higher in the ipilimumab groups than in the gp100 group. 
Dyspnoea and pleural effusion were numerically more common in the gp100 monotherapy group. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 50/71 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients receiving ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy, the frequency of treatment related Grade 3-
4 AEs was 20.6% in the main study MDX010-20 and 14.4% in the pooled 3 mg/kg group. In most 
cases these events were Grade 3 in severity, with few reports of Grade 4 events (3.8% and 1.8%, 
respectively). The most common treatment-related Grade 3-4 AEs were colitis and diarrhoea.   
Table 12 – Treatment-related AEs Reported in at Least 5% of Subjects During the Induction 
Phase – Treated Subjects 
The most common treatment –related AEs associated with the use of ipilimumab were immune related 
(named immune-related AEs or irAEs). They primarily involve the GI tract and skin, and less 
frequently, the liver, endocrine glands, and nervous system. The early diagnosis of irAEs was 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 51/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
important to initiate therapy and minimize complications. Immune-related AEs were generally 
managed with either symptomatic therapy for Grade 1-2 events, systemic corticosteroids for Grade 3-4 
events, or other immunosuppressants (e.g., infliximab, mycophenolate mofetil) for steroid-
unresponsive GI or hepatic irAEs, as appropriate. Management of irAEs was usually paired with 
omission of dosing for mild or moderate events and permanent discontinuation for severe irAEs.  
Adverse reactions reported in patients with advanced melanoma who were treated with ipilumumab 
3 mg/kg in clinical trials (n= 767) are presented in Table 13. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 52/71 
 
 
 
Table 13 – Adverse reactions in patients with advanced melanoma treated with YERVOY 
3 mg/kg (n= 767)a 
Infections and infestations 
Uncommon 
sepsisb, septic shockb, meningitis, gastroenteritis, diverticulitis, urinary tract infection, 
upper respiratory tract infection, lower respiratory tract infection  
Neoplasms benign, malignant and unspecified (including cysts and polyps) 
Common 
tumour pain 
Uncommon 
paraneoplastic syndrome 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
anaemia, lymphopenia  
Uncommon 
haemolytic anaemiab, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, neutropenia  
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon 
hypersensitivity 
Endocrine disorders  
Common 
hypopituitarism (including hypophysitis)c, hypothyroidismc  
Uncommon 
adrenal insufficiencyc, hyperthyroidismc, hypogonadism  
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Very common 
decreased appetite 
Common 
dehydration, hypokalemia  
Uncommon 
hyponatremia, alkalosis, hypophosphatemia, tumour lysis syndrome 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
confusional state  
Uncommon 
mental status changes, depression, decreased libido  
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
peripheral sensory neuropathy, dizziness, headache, lethargy 
Uncommon 
Eye disorders 
Guillain-Barré syndromeb,c, syncope, cranial neuropathy, brain oedema, peripheral 
neuropathy, ataxia, tremor, myoclonus, dysarthria 
Common 
blurred vision, eye pain  
Uncommon 
uveitisc, vitreous haemorrhage, iritisc, reduced visual acuity, foreign body sensation in 
eyes, conjunctivitis 
Cardiac disorders 
Uncommon 
arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
hypotension, flushing, hot flush  
Uncommon 
vasculitis, angiopathyb, peripheral ischaemia, orthostatic hypotension  
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Common 
dyspnea, cough  
Uncommon 
respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndromeb, lung infiltration, pulmonary 
oedema, pneumonitis, allergic rhinitis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common 
diarrhoeac, vomiting, nausea  
Common 
Uncommon 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage, colitisb,c, constipation, gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
abdominal pain 
gastrointestinal perforationb,c, large intestine perforationb,c, intestinal perforationb,c, 
peritonitisb, pancreatitis, enterocolitis, gastric ulcer, large intestinal ulcer, oesophagitis, ileusd 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Common 
abnormal hepatic function 
Uncommon 
hepatic failureb,c, hepatitis, hepatomegaly, jaundice  
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Very common 
rashc, pruritusc  
Common 
dermatitis, erythema, vitiligo, urticaria, alopecia, night sweats, dry skin 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 53/71 
 
 
 
Uncommon 
 toxic epidermal necrolysisb,c, leukocytoclastic vasculitis, skin exfoliation 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common 
arthralgia, myalgia, musculoskeletal pain, muscle spasms  
Uncommon 
polymyalgia rheumatica, arthritis  
Renal and urinary disorders 
Uncommon 
renal failureb, glomerulonephritisc, renal tubular acidosis  
Reproductive system and breast disorders 
Uncommon 
amenorrhea 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common 
fatigue, injection site reaction, pyrexia 
Common 
chills, asthenia, oedema, pain  
Uncommon 
multi-organ failureb,c, infusion related reaction  
Investigations 
Common 
Uncommon 
increased alanine aminotransferasec, increased aspartate aminotransferasec, increased 
blood bilirubin, weight decreased  
abnormal liver function test, increased blood creatinine, increased blood thyroid 
stimulating hormone, decreased blood cortisol, decreased blood corticotrophin, increased 
lipasec, increased blood amylasec, decreased blood testosterone 
a 
b 
c 
d 
Frequencies are based on pooled data from 9 clinical trials investigating the YERVOY 3 mg/kg dose in 
melanoma. 
Including fatal outcome 
Additional information about these potentially inflammatory adverse reactions is provided in “Description of 
selected adverse reactions” and section 4.4. Data presented in those sections primarily reflect experience 
from a Phase 3 study, MDX010-20. 
Reported in recent studies outside the completed clinical trials in melanoma. 
Like in the MDX010-20 study in the CA184024 study the most common safety events of any grade 
reported in patients receiving ipilimumab were adverse events classified as immune related (irAEs). 
Most frequent AE’s affected the GI and the skin, the percentage of patients with a AE in GI and skin in 
the CA184024 study was comparable with the safety results of the MDX010-20 study (for GI: overall 
35.6% with 5.7% Grade 3-4 in CA184024 and overall 29.8% with 7.6% Grade 3-4 MDX010-20; for 
skin 42.9% overall with 3.2% Grade 3-4 in CA184024 and overall 42.7% overall with 1.5% Grade 3-4 
in MDX010-20). As could be expected, in comparison to the MDX010-20 study a higher proportion of 
grade 3-4 irAEs was reported in CA184024 after DTIC +ipilimumab treatment (56.3% in CA184024 vs 
20.6% in the MDX010-20 study). 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Diarrhoea and colitis were consistently the most common treatment-related serious adverse events 
(SAEs) reported in the clinical database for patients receiving ipilimumab across studies and doses. In 
patients receiving ipilimumab 3 mg/kg monotherapy, the frequency of treatment-related SAEs was 
16.8% in MDX010-20 and 17.1% in the pooled 3 mg/kg group.  
In the MDX010-20 study, treatment-related SAEs were reported in 16.8%, 12.6% and 3.8% of the 
patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100 and gp100 monotherapy groups, 
respectively. The most common treatment-related SAEs reported in the ipilimumab monotherapy and 
ipilimumab plus gp100 groups were primarily irAEs, most commonly GI irAEs of colitis (5.3% and 
3.4%, respectively) and diarrhoea (3.8% and 3.4%, respectively), both of which were not reported as 
treatment-related SAEs in the gp100 monotherapy group.  
For studies using a 10 mg/kg dose, the most common treatment-related SAE, were likewise diarrhoea 
(11.4%) and colitis (7.1%). Treatment related SAEs reported under the SOCs of investigations (4.0%) 
and hepatobiliary disorders (3.1%) were also common in the 10 mg/kg ipilimumab studies.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 54/71 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 – Treatment-related SAEs Reported in at Least 2 Subjects in Any Group During the 
Induction Phase -Treated Subjects 
Deaths 
Across studies and doses, ~ 20% to 25% of patients died during the induction phase, most (> 90%) 
due to disease progression or other causes considered unrelated to study drug. Treatment-related 
deaths were defined as treatment-related AEs with an outcome of death and were summarized for the 
entire study duration (including the induction phase, re-induction/ maintenance phases, and more than 
70 days after last dose). The rates of treatment-related deaths for the entire study duration ranged 
from ~ 2% to 3% across all groups. No treatment-related deaths were reported in the re-induction or 
maintenance phases.  
In MDX010-20, treatment-related deaths (for the entire study duration) were reported in 3.1%, 2.1%, 
and 1.5% of patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and gp100 monotherapy 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 55/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups, respectively. In the ipilimumab groups, 1.5% and 1.3% of patients experienced a treatment-
related death in association with an irAE. The rate of deaths during the induction phase as well as 
treatment-related deaths for the entire study duration was similar between the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg 
groups.  
Overall, the rate of treatment-related deaths in patients who received 3 mg/kg ipilimumab 
monotherapy was 2.5% (6/242; 4/131 [3.1%] in the ipilimumab monotherapy group in MDX010-20 
and 2/111 [1.8%] in the pooled 3 mg/kg group from the Phase 2 studies).  
Table 15 – Deaths During the Induction Phase and All Treatment-related Deaths During the 
Entire Study Duration - Treated Subjects 
No direct treatment related deaths were reported in the CA184024 study. In other phase 2 studies and 
in the ipilimumab+gp100 arm of the MDX010-20 study the percentage of treatment related death was 
+/- 2%.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 56/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Hematology 
Across studies and doses, most patients had normal baseline white blood cell (WBC) levels, absolute 
neutrophil counts (ANC), and platelet counts (> 90% of patients assessed for each parameter); 
baseline abnormalities in hemoglobin were common in all groups (~ 35% to 50% of patients in each 
group). 
In MDX010-20, most patients in each of the 3 treatment groups had normal on-study WBC, ANC, and 
platelet levels (> 90% of patients assessed for each parameter).  
On-study abnormalities in WBC, ANC, and platelets were primarily Grade 1-2 in severity. Grade 3-4 
abnormalities in ANC were reported in < 1% of patients in each group; no Grade 3-4 abnormalities in 
WBC or platelets were reported in any group. In the pooled 3 mg/kg group, ≥ 90% of patients had 
normal on-study WBC, ANC, and platelet counts; Grade 3-4 abnormalities in WBC, ANC, and platelets 
were each reported in ~ 2% of patients.  
On-study hemoglobin abnormalities were common (~ 50% of patients) and almost entirely Grade 1-2 
in severity. In MDX010-20, Grade 3-4 hemoglobin abnormalities were reported in 0.8%, 1.7%, and 
4.0% of patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and gp100 monotherapy 
groups, respectively). All but 1 of these patients (in the gp100 monotherapy group) had an abnormal 
baseline hemoglobin level. In the pooled 3 mg/kg group, on-study hemoglobin abnormalities were 
reported for 61.0% of patients (Grade 3-4 in 4.8% of patients, all but 1 of these patients had an 
abnormal baseline hemoglobin value).  
Most patients in the pooled 10 mg/kg group had normal on-study WBC, ANC, and platelet levels 
(92.2%, 94.2%, and 86.4% of patients, respectively). On-study abnormalities in WBC, ANC, and 
platelets were primarily Grade 1-2 in severity; Grade 3-4 abnormalities in WBC, ANC, and platelets 
were each reported in < 1% of patients in the pooled 10 mg/kg group. 
Liver enzymes 
Across studies and doses, most patients had normal LFTs at baseline, as assessed by baseline levels of 
ALT, AST, and total bilirubin (~ 90 to 95% of patients assessed for ALT and AST and ~ 97% of patients 
for total bilirubin). Baseline abnormalities in alkaline phosphatase (ALP) were reported in ~ 10 to 20% 
of patients. 
With the 3 mg/kg dose, on-study abnormalities in ALT, AST, total bilirubin, and ALP were primarily 
Grade 1-2 in severity. In MDX010-20, Grade 3-4 abnormalities in ALT and AST were each reported in 
< 2% of patients and Grade 3-4 abnormalities in total bilirubin were reported in < 1% of patients. In 
the pooled 3 mg/kg group, Grade 3-4 abnormalities in ALT and AST were each reported in ~ 2% of 
patients. Grade 3 abnormalities in ALP were reported in 3.3%, 1.7%, and 0.8% of patients in the 
ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and gp100 monotherapy groups, respectively, in 
MDX010-20 and 6.7% of patients in the pooled 3 mg/kg group; these abnormalities were mostly in 
patients with baseline abnormalities, including in all 4 of the patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy 
group and all 7 of the patients in the pooled 3 mg/kg group who had Grade 3 on-study abnormalities. 
One patient in the monotherapy group (M20-007-0059) died of hepatic failure associated with multi-
organ failure. 
In the pooled 10 mg/kg group, Grade 3-4 abnormalities in ALT, AST, and total bilirubin were reported 
in 7.5%, 7.2%, and 2.0% of patients, respectively. These rates are higher than with the 3 mg/kg dose 
and consistent with the higher rate of hepatic irAEs in the pooled 10 mg/kg group compared with 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 57/71 
 
 
 
 
MDX010-20 and the pooled 3 mg/kg group. In CA184042, no Grade 3-4 abnormalities in AST or ALT 
were reported. Grade 3 abnormalities in ALP were reported in 3.0% of patients and 4.0% of patients in 
CA184042; no Grade 4 abnormalities were reported in either group.  
Renal function tests 
Most patients had normal kidney function at baseline, as assessed by baseline creatinine levels 
(~ 92 to 96% of patients assessed in each group in MDX010-20 and 88% and 93% of patients 
assessed in the pooled 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg groups, respectively).  
In MDX010-20, most patients (~ 90%) in each of the 3 treatment groups had normal on-study 
creatinine levels (Table). On-study abnormalities in creatinine were primarily Grade 1 in severity; 
Grade 2 abnormalities were reported in ~ 2% of patients in each group. One (0.3%) Grade 3 
abnormality was reported in a patient in the ipilimumab plus gp100 group.  
In the pooled 10 mg/kg group, on-study abnormalities in creatinine levels were primarily Grade 1 in 
severity. Grade 2 abnormalities were reported in 3.6% of patients; 1 (0.3%) patient had a Grade 4 on-
study abnormality (who had a normal value at baseline). 
Pancreatic Enzymes 
Most patients had normal pancreatic function at baseline, as assessed by serum lipase and amylase 
levels (~ 90% of patients assessed for lipase, 90% to 95% of patients assessed for amylase).  
In MDX010-20, on-study lipase abnormalities were reported with similar frequency across the 3 groups 
(18.4%, 18.5%, and 19.7% of patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and 
gp100 monotherapy groups, respectively) (Table). Grade 3-4 abnormalities were reported in 9.6%, 
4.3%, and 5.1% of patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and gp100 
monotherapy groups, respectively (Table). In the pooled 3 mg/kg group, lipase abnormalities were 
reported in 20.8% of patients (Grade 3-4 in 8.5%). On-study abnormalities in amylase were primarily 
Grade 1-2 in severity. In MDX010-20, Grade 3-4 abnormalities in amylase were reported in 2.6% of 
patients in the gp100 monotherapy group compared with 0% and 0.9% of patients in the ipilimumab 
monotherapy and ipilimumab plus gp100 groups, respectively. In the pooled 3 mg/kg group, amylase 
abnormalities were primarily Grade 1-2; Grade 3-4 abnormalities were reported in 2.8% of patients. 
No cases of pancreatitis were reported in MDX010-20 or the pooled 3 mg/kg group.  
In the pooled 10 mg/kg group, on-study lipase abnormalities were reported in 22.7% of patients; 
Grade 3-4 lipase abnormalities were reported in 6.5% of patients. On-study abnormalities in amylase 
were primarily Grade 1-2 in severity. Grade 3-4 amylase abnormalities were reported in 1.6% of 
patients. Pancreatitis was reported in 2 (0.6%) patients in the pooled 10 mg/kg group. Data for 
amylase and lipase were not collected for CA184042.  
Safety in special populations 
The safety profile of ipilimumab was similar in most subgroups analysed. Patients with medical 
histories of alcohol abuse, diverticulosis/diverticulitis or family histories of auto-immune disease were 
too few to permit proper analysis. 
Treatment-related grade 3-5 AEs were less common in patients who had received immunotherapy prior 
to treatment with ipilimumab. This difference was observed in the 3 mg/kg groups, but not in the 
10 mg/kg groups. 
Differences between subgroups by tumour burden were expected. More AEs were reported in 
subgroups who received fewer doses. This is explained by these patients having met protocol-defined 
criteria for treatment modification for skipping or discontinuation due to irAEs. Death rate, due to 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 58/71 
 
 
 
disease progression, was higher in patients who received only one dose. These patients typically 
discontinued treatment because of disease progression. 
The phase 2 studies did not exclude HLA types other than HLA A2*0201. Analysis of irAEs over HLA 
types did not show a clear pattern. The pooled 3 mg/kg group shows no clear differences between HLA 
A2*0201 positive and negative patients, but based on the data from the 3 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg 
groups, influence of HLA type on the incidence of irAEs cannot be ruled out and needs to be studied 
further. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Clinical pharmacology studies were not performed to evaluate the metabolism and the metabolic 
pathways of ipilimumab in humans, or to determine the potential for any drug-drug interactions of 
ipilimumab with other molecules.  
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In MDX010-20, treatment related AEs leading to discontinuation of study therapy were reported in 
9.9%, 6.8%, and 3.0% of the patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and 
gp100 monotherapy groups, respectively. 
In Study CA184024, a very high number the patients treated with ipilimumab and DTIC discontinued 
study therapy during the initiation phase of the study due to drug toxicity (83 patients (33.6%) in the 
ipilimumab+DTIC group). 
Post marketing experience 
Not applicable. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety  
Safety data for the treatment of pretreated advanced melanoma with ipilimumab was gathered in 
clinical trials. Experience with treatment with ipilimumab 3mg/kg was combined with data from studies 
for which patients were treated with ipilimumab 10mg/kg. In the pivotal study, MDX010-20, 
ipilimumab 3mg/kg was compared with ipilimumab and gp100 tumour vaccine combination therapy 
and with gp100 monotherapy. Ipilimumab was not compared to a placebo or standard treatment in 
any of the smaller trials. Interpretation of the safety data is therefore more complex, since it cannot be 
ruled out that gp100 has an unfavourable safety profile that makes the data from the ipilimumab 
treated groups look better than it would in comparison with a placebo.  
Treatment related AEs were common in all groups. In the gp100 group the incidence of treatment 
related AEs was 78.8%, which is comparable to the incidence of treatment-related AEs in the 
ipilimumab only group. Treatment-related SAEs and deaths were less common in the gp100 group than 
in the ipilimumab monotherapy arm, but the numbers are nevertheless considerable. A 1.5% risk of 
treatment-related death is not justified by the very limited therapeutic value of gp100. 
The criteria for inclusion into the studies further limit the safety data. Patients with liver enzyme 
elevations, impaired renal function or a history of auto-immune disease were commonly excluded from 
the trials. In the pivotal study, only HLA A2*0201 positive patients were enrolled. The safety data base 
of 311 HLA A2 negative patients does not indicate a difference in irAEs for HLA A2 negative patients in 
comparison to HLA A2 positive patients. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 59/71 
 
 
 
 
Almost all patients experienced adverse events. Incidence of treatment-related AEs in the ipilimumab 
3mg/kg group was high. Most SAEs were immune related, as can be expected based on the 
mechanism of action. The majority of immune-related AEs could be treated successfully. One patient 
developed grade 3 symptoms suggestive for human anti-human antibodies (HAHA).  
There was 3.1% risk of treatment-related death associated with ipilimumab therapy, with half of these 
deaths occurring within the first month after treatment commenced. To address potential informative 
censoring in the analysis of OS, a conservative sensitivity analysis provided by the Applicant showed 
that, considering the treatment-related discontinuations and treatment-related deaths in the 
ipilimumab arm as deaths, this did not substantially change the result of OS analysis. Therefore, the 
CHMP considered that the gain in OS was not driven by possibly hidden treatment failure in the 
ipilimumab arm. 
Elevated liver enzymes were reported and may reflect liver injury caused by the treatment. Levels of 
concomitant medication that is metabolized in the liver may be affected.   
The characteristics of (ir)AEs reported for the CA184024 study are reasonably similar to the safety 
issues identified in the MDX010-20 study. The percentage of grade 3-4 AEs in the CA184024 study was 
higher than in the MDX010-20 study (37.2% in CA184024 vs 20.6% in the MDX010-20 study). 
Moreover, the number of patients discontinuing study therapy due to drug toxicity was much higher in 
the CA184024 study than in the MDX010-20 study (33.6% vs 9.9% respectively. However, the used 
ipilimumab doses in the CA184024 study is substantially higher than in the MDX010-20 study 
(10 mg/kg vs 3 mg/kg). The very high rate of discontinuation due to drug toxicity in the CA184024 
study could be indicative for the lack of tolerability of 10 mg/kg dose ipilimumab in combination with 
DTIC.  
Therefore, liver function tests and thyroid function tests should be evaluated at baseline and before 
each dose of YERVOY. In addition, any signs or symptoms of immune-related adverse reactions, 
including diarrhoea and colitis, must be assessed during treatment with YERVOY. 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY have not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. YERVOY 
must be administered with caution in patients with transaminase levels ≥ 5 x ULN or bilirubin levels 
> 3 x ULN at baseline. 
Patients with a history of autoimmune disease (other than vitiligo and adequately controlled endocrine 
deficiencies such as hypothyroidism), including those who require systemic immunosuppressive 
therapy for pre-existing active autoimmune disease or for organ transplantation graft maintenance, 
were not evaluated in clinical trials. The CHMP was of the opinion that considering the supposed 
mechanism of action and the observed AE which were mainly immune related, additional safety 
concerns might be expected in these patients. Ipilimumab is a T cell potentiator that enables the 
immune response and may interfere with immunosuppressive therapy, resulting in an exacerbation of 
the underlying disease or increased risk of graft rejection. Therefore, a warning has been included that 
ipilimumab should be avoided in patients with severe active autoimmune disease where further 
immune activation is potentially imminently life threatening and used with caution in other patients 
with a history of autoimmune disease, after careful consideration of the potential risk-benefit on an 
individual basis. This population not studied has been included in the risk management plan and 
further data should continue to be collected. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 60/71 
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Treatment-related adverse events were common, leading to discontinuation in 9.9% of patients and to 
death in 3.1% in MDX010-20. Most SAEs were immune related, as can be expected based on the 
mechanism of action. The majority of immune-related AEs could be treated successfully. Extensive 
guidance for the management of irAE including the use of systemic corticosteroids has been included in 
the product information.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan, which included a risk minimisation plan. 
Table 16 – Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
GI irARs (e.g.,. 
diarrhea, colitis, GI 
perforation) 
Hepatic irARs (e.g., 
hepatitis) 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
Important Identified Risks 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label).  
Enhanced PV - Targeted 
questionnaire will be used for 
GI irARs resulting in severe 
complications such as GI 
perforation or colectomy. 
Enhanced PV- Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study 
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label).  
Enhanced PV - Targeted 
questionnaire will be used for 
hepatic irARs with severe 
SmPC Section 4. 2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Tables 1A and 1B outline treatment modifications 
(discontinuation, dose omission) for toxicities, including 
GI irARs 
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
Precautions for Use: describes characteristics and 
recommended monitoring and management guideline. 
Immune-Related Gastrointestinal Reactions: describes 
characteristics and recommended monitoring and 
management guideline. 
SmPC Section 4. 8 Undesirable effects 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities:  
Additional communication tools will be distributed to 
HCPs to ensure that HCPs and their patients are made 
aware of signs, symptoms and risks associated with irARs 
and that HCPs have immediate access to treatment 
guidelines established to reduce serious complications.  
SmPC Section 4. 2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Tables 1A and 1B outline treatment modifications 
(discontinuation, dose omission) for toxicities, including 
hepatic irARs. 
Hepatic impairment: 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY have not been studied 
in patients with hepatic impairment. YERVOY must be 
administered with caution in patients with transaminase 
levels ≥ 5 × ULN or bilirubin levels > 3 × ULN at 
baseline. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 61/71 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
outcome such as hepatic 
failure or death.  
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Enhanced PV- Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study 
Immune-related hepatotoxicity 
Describes characteristics and recommended monitoring 
and management guideline. 
Skin irARs (e.g., 
rash, pruritus) 
Neurologic irARs 
(e.g., neuropathy) 
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label).  
Enhanced PV - Targeted 
questionnaire will be used for 
dermatologic irARs with 
severe outcome such as 
erythema multiforme, 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome, 
toxic epidermal necrolysis.  
Enhanced PV- Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study  
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label).  
Enhanced PV - Targeted 
questionnaire will be used for 
neurologic irARs with severe 
outcome such as Guillain-
Barre syndrome or severe 
autoimmune neuropathy  
Enhanced PV- Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study  
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma  
SmPC Section 4. 8 Undesirable effects 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities:  
Additional communication tools will be distributed to 
HCPs to ensure that HCPs and their patients are made 
aware of signs, symptoms and risks associated with irARs 
and that HCPs have immediate access to treatment 
guidelines established to reduce serious complications.  
SmPC Section 4. 2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Tables 1A and 1B outline treatment modifications 
(discontinuation, dose omission) for toxicities, including 
skin irARs 
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Describes characteristics and recommended monitoring 
and management guideline. 
SmPC Section 4. 8 Undesirable effects 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities:  
Additional communication tools will be distributed to 
HCPs to ensure that HCPs and their patients are made 
aware of signs, symptoms and risks associated with irARs 
and that HCPs have immediate access to treatment 
guidelines established to reduce serious complications.  
SmPC Section 4. 2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Tables 1A and 1B outline treatment modifications 
(discontinuation, dose omission) for toxicities, including 
neurologic irARs 
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Describes characteristics and recommended monitoring 
and management guideline. 
YERVOY is associated with serious immune-related 
neurological events.Fatal Guillain-Barré syndrome has 
been reported in clinical trials. Myasthenia gravis-like 
symptoms have also been reported. Patients may present 
with muscle weakness. Sensory neuropathy may also 
occur. 
Unexplained motor neuropathy, muscle weakness, or 
sensory neuropathy lasting > 4 days must be evaluated, 
and non-inflammatory causes such as disease 
progression, infections, metabolic syndromes and 
medicinal products should be excluded. For patients with 
moderate (Grade 2) neuropathy (motor with or without 
sensory) likely related to YERVOY, the scheduled dose 
should be omitted. If neurologic symptoms resolve to 
baseline, the patient may resume YERVOY at the next 
scheduled dose. Doses omitted due to toxicity must not 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 62/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
be replaced. 
YERVOY must be permanently discontinued in patients 
with severe (Grade 3 or 4) sensory neuropathy suspected 
to be related to YERVOY. Patients must be treated 
according to institutional guidelines, and the 
administration of intravenous corticosteroids (e.g. 
methylprednisolone 2 mg/kg/day) should be considered. 
Progressive signs of motor neuropathy must be 
considered immune-related and managed accordingly. 
YERVOY must be permanently discontinued in patients 
with severe (Grade 3 or 4) motor neuropathy regardless 
of causality. 
SmPc Section 4. 8 - Undesirable effects 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities 
Additional communication tools will be distributed to 
HCPs to ensure that HCPs and their patients are made 
aware of signs, symptoms and risks associated with irARs 
and that HCPs have immediate access to treatment 
guidelines established to reduce serious complications. 
Endocrine irARs 
(e.g., 
hypopituitarism, 
hypothyroidism, 
adrenal 
insufficiency) 
Other irARs (e.g., 
pneumonitis, 
nephritis, non-
infective 
myocarditis, 
pancreatitis, uveitis) 
Severe infusion 
reactions 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Enhanced PV - Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study 
SmPC Section 4. 2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Tables 1A and 1B outlines treatment modifications 
(discontinuation, dose omission) for toxicities, including 
endocrine irARs 
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Describes characteristics and recommended monitoring 
and management guideline. 
SmPC Section 4. 8 Undesirable effects 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities:  
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma 
Additional communication tools will be distributed to 
HCPs to ensure that HCPs and their patients are made 
aware of signs, symptoms and risks associated with irARs 
and that HCPs have immediate access to treatment 
guidelines established to reduce serious complications.  
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Enhanced PV - Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study 
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
SmPC Section 4. 2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Tables 1A and 1B outline treatment modifications 
(discontinuation, dose omission) for toxicities, including 
other significant irARs 
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
Describes characteristics and recommended monitoring 
and management guideline. 
Additional Risk Minimization Activities:  
Additional communication tools will be distributed to 
HCPs to ensure that HCPs and their patients are made 
aware of signs, symptoms and risks associated with irARs 
and that HCPs have immediate access to treatment 
guidelines established to reduce serious complications.  
SmPC Section 4. 3 Contraindication 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the 
excipients 
SmPC Section 4. 4 Special warnings and 
precautions for use 
There were isolated cases of severe infusion reactions in 
clinical trials. In case of a severe infusion reaction, 
YERVOY infusion must be discontinued and appropriate 
medical therapy administered. Patients with mild or 
moderate infusion reaction may receive YERVOY with 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 63/71 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Immunogenicity 
Difference in efficacy 
in women 50 years 
Paediatric data 
Reproductive and 
lactation data 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Planned study: a randomized 
study to compare 3 vs 
10mg/kg of ipilimumab on 
efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
close monitoring. Premedications with anti-pyretic and 
anti-histamine may be considered. 
SmPC Section 4. 8 Undesirable effects 
Important Potential Risks 
SmPC Section 5.1 Pharmacodynamic Effects 
Less than 2% of patients with advanced melanoma who 
received YERVOY in Phase 2 and 3 clinical studies 
developed antibodies against ipilimumab. None had any 
infusion-related or peri-infusional hypersensitivity or 
anaphylactic reactions. Neutralizing antibodies against 
ipilimumab were not detected. Overall, no apparent 
association was observed between antibody development 
and adverse events, or clearance of ipilimumab. 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label).  
To improve the specificity 
and sensitivity of the serum 
ECL assay to detect 
antibodies, which will be 
used for ongoing and future 
Phase 3 clinical studies. 
Analysis on immunogenicity 
will continue to be conducted 
in ongoing and future phase 
3 clinical trials. 
Subpopulation analyses will 
be conducted in future 
clinical trials 
Missing Information 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Benefit/risk of ipilimumab 
use in pediatric population 
will be evaluated according 
to PIP. 
Monitor ongoing pediatric 
study (CTEP7458/CA184070) 
Monitor studies in the PIP 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, close 
follow up, and reporting of 
individual AE and literature 
reports as appropriate, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Ongoing nonclinical study on 
embryofetal development 
and pre- and postnatal 
development. Final results 
will be submitted by 1Q2012. 
SmPC Section 4.2 Posology and method of 
administration 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY in children 
below 18 years of age have not been established. No 
data are available. YERVOY should not be used in the 
paediatric population. 
SmPC Section 4.6 Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no data on the use of ipilimumab in pregnant 
women. Final results of animal reproduction studies have 
not yet been reported. Human IgG1  crosses the 
placental barrier. The potential risk of treatment to the 
infant is unknown. YERVOY is not recommended during 
pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not 
using effective contraception, unless the clinical benefit 
outweighs the potential risk. 
Breastfeeding 
It is unknown whether ipilimumab is secreted in human 
milk. Secretion of IgGs in human milk is generally limited 
and IgGs have a low oral bioavailability. Significant 
systemic exposure of the infant is not expected and no 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 64/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Data in ethnic 
groups 
Potential 
pharmacodynamic 
interaction with 
systemic 
immunosuppressants 
Severe hepatic 
impairment 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Enhanced PV - safety data in 
ethnic groups will be 
collected in the Post-
marketing prospective 
observational cohort study 
Monitor ongoing clinical 
studies 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
effects on the breastfed newborn/infant are anticipated. 
However, because of the potential for adverse reactions 
in nursing infants, a decision must be made whether to 
discontinue breast-feeding  or to discontinue from 
YERVOY therapy taking into account the benefit of 
breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of YERVOY 
therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Studies to evaluate the effect of ipilimumab on fertility 
have not been performed. Thus, the effect of YERVOY on 
male and female fertility is unknown. 
SmPC Section 5.2 Pharmacokinetic properties 
The effect of race was not examined as there was 
insufficient data in non-Caucasian ethnic groups.  
SmPC Section 4.5 
medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interaction with other 
Other forms of drug interaction- corticosteroids 
The use of systemic corticosteroids at baseline, before 
starting YERVOY, should be avoided because of their 
potential interference with the pharmacodynamic activity 
and efficacy of YERVOY. However, systemic 
corticosteroids or other immunosuppressants can be used 
after starting YERVOY to treat immune-related adverse 
reactions. The use of systemic corticosteroids after 
starting YERVOY treatment does not appear to impair the 
efficacy of YERVOY. 
SmPC Section 4.2 
administration 
Hepatic impairment 
Posology and method of 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY have not been studied 
in patients with hepatic impairment. YERVOY must be 
administered with caution in patients with transaminase 
levels ≥ 5 x ULN or bilirubin levels > 3 x ULN at baseline.  
Section 5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
No controlled studies have been conducted to evaluate 
the pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab in the paediatric 
population or in patients with hepatic or renal 
impairment. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 65/71 
 
 
 
Safety issue 
Severe renal 
impairment 
Safety in patients 
with autoimmune 
disease 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Routine PV activities (e.g., 
monitoring, evaluation, and 
reporting of individual AE 
and literature reports, 
periodic aggregate safety 
data analysis, signal 
detection via the Medical 
Surveillance Team, timely 
update of safety label) 
Proposed risk minimization activities  
SmPC Section 4.2 
administration 
Posology and method of 
Renal impairment 
The safety and efficacy of YERVOY have not been studied 
in patients with renal impairment. Based on population 
pharmacokinetic results, no specific dose adjustment is 
necessary in patients with mild to moderate renal 
dysfunction.  
Section 5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
No controlled studies have been conducted to evaluate 
the pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab in the paediatric 
population or in patients with hepatic or renal 
impairment. 
SmPC Section 4.4 
precautions for use 
Special warnings and 
Patients with a history of autoimmune disease (other 
than vitiligo and adequately controlled endocrine 
deficiencies, such as hypothyroidism), including those 
who require systemic immunosuppressive therapy for 
pre-existing active autoimmune disease or for organ 
transplantation graft maintenance, were not evaluated in 
clinical trials. Ipilimumab is a T-cell potentiator that 
enables the immune response (see section 5.1) and may 
interfere with immunosuppressive therapy, resulting in 
an exacerbation of the underlying disease or increased 
risk of graft rejection. YERVOY should be avoided in 
patients with severe active autoimmune disease where 
further immune activation is potentially imminently life 
threatening  and used with caution in other patients with 
a history of autoimmune disease after careful 
consideration of the potential risk-benefit on an individual 
basis. 
Long-term safety 
The proposed post-marketing 
study will follow the patients 
for a minimum of 3 years. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  MA  application  is  of  the  opinion  that  the 
following  risk  minimisation  activities  are  necessary  for  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product:   
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to prescribe 
Yervoy are provided with the following: 
  Healthcare Professional FAQ Brochure 
  Patient Information Brochures including Alert Cards 
Key elements of the Healthcare Professional FAQ Brochure (Q&A format): 
  Brief introduction to ipilimumab (indication and the purpose of this tool). 
 
List of important immune-related adverse reactions (irARs) and their symptoms, as outlined in 
section 4.4 of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC): 
o 
Inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, such as colitis, which can lead to bowel 
perforation 
Inflammation of the liver, such as hepatitis, which can lead to liver failure 
Inflammation of the skin that can lead to severe skin reaction (toxic epidermal necrolysis) 
Inflammation of the nerves that can lead to neuropathy 
Inflammation of the endocrine system including the adrenal, pituitary, or thyroid glands 
Inflammation of the eyes 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o  Other related irARs (e.g. pneumonitis, glomerulonephritis, multi-organ failure…) 
o  Severe infusion reaction 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 66/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information that ipilimumab can cause serious side effects in many parts of the body that can lead 
to death and require early intervention, as outlined in the guidelines for the management of 
immune-related adverse reactions in section 4.4 of the SmPC. 
Importance of evaluating liver function tests (LFTs), TSH and signs/symptoms of irARs before each 
treatment. 
Follow-up of patients due to late onset (months after treatment) of irARs 
 
  Reminder to distribute the Patient Information Brochure, and to educate patients/caregivers about 
symptoms of irARs and of the need to report them immediately to the physician. 
Key elements for the Patient Information Brochure and Alert Card: 
  Brief introduction to ipilimumab indication and the purpose of this tool. 
 
Information that ipilimumab can cause serious side effects in many parts of the body that can lead 
to death and need to be addressed immediately 
  Request to inform the physician of all medical conditions before treatment. 
  Description of the main symptoms of irARs and the importance of notifying their treating physician 
immediately if symptoms occur, persist or worsen. 
Liver: yellowing of your skin or whites of your eyes 
o  Gastrointestinal: diarrhea, bloody stool, abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting 
o 
o  Skin: rash, blisters and/or peeling, mouth sores 
o  Eye: blurred vision, vision changes, eye pain, 
o  General: fever, headache, feeling tired, dizziness or fainting, dark urine, bleeding, 
weakness, numbness of legs, arms, or faces, changes in behavior, such as less sex drive, 
being irritable or forgetful 
 
 
 
The importance of not attempting to self-treat any symptoms without consulting their Healthcare 
professional first. 
Placeholder including the weblink of the Package Leaflet on the EMA website 
The importance of carrying the detachable wallet-sized Patient Alert Card at all times to show it at 
all medical visits to healthcare professionals other than the prescriber (e.g. emergency healthcare 
professionals). The Card reminds patients about key symptoms that need to be reported 
immediately to the physician/nurse. It also contains prompts to enter contact details of the 
physician and to alert other physicians that the patient is treated with ipilimumab. 
The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall agree the format and content of the above material with the 
National Competent Authority prior to launch in the Member State.  
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Description 
The applicant commits to submit the final report for study DN120020 
(Intravenous Study of Pre- and Post-natal Development in 
Cynomolgus Monkeys with a 6-month post-natal evaluation). 
Due date 
1Q2012 
The applicant shall perform a randomized comparison study of 
3 mg/kg versus 10 mg/kg evaluating efficacy and safety in advanced 
melanoma with a survival endpoint.  
Submission of protocol: 
4Q2011 
The applicant commits to continue analysing the efficacy and safety 
of ipilimumab in women over 50 years of age in ongoing and future 
clinical trials, particularly in the dose comparison study to be 
conducted.  
Submission of final report: 
4Q2017  
For dose study, Submission of 
protocol: 
4Q2011 
Submission of final report: 
4Q2017  
The applicant commits to improve the specificity and sensitivity of the 
serum ECL assay to detect antibodies, which will be used for ongoing 
and future clinical studies. 
1Q2012 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 67/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
The applicant commits to conduct Study CA184143, a multinational 
prospective, observational study in patients with unresectable or 
metastatic melanoma. 
Due date 
Final protocol: Aug 2011 
Annual interim results analysis 
reports from date of marketing 
authorisation 
Final study report: estimated 
2017 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
  Beneficial effects 
In the pivotal study MDX010-20, the efficacy of ipilimumab monotherapy and ipilimumab in 
combination with gp100, in comparison with gp100 monotherapy was investigated.  
For ipilimumab monotherapy a median OS of 10.1 months (95% CI; 8.02-13.80) was reported 
whereas the OS for gp100 monotherapy was only 6.4 months (95% CI; 5.49-8.71). The median OS for 
ipilimumab plus gp100 was 10.0 months. 
Long-term survival data indicates that 54 of the 403 patients in the ipilimumab plus gp100 group, 
24 of the 137 patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy group, and 16 of the 136 patients in the gp100 
monotherapy group, remain alive for a minimum of 2 years.  
The observed OS benefit was consistent within most of the subgroups of patients analysed by the 
Applicant. 
Also in the CA184024 study an OS benefit for patients treated with ipilimumab (DTIC+ipilimumab) was 
seen in comparison to patients treated with DTIC alone. The CHMP acknowledged the results of 
CA184024 as supportive for the efficacy results obtained in the MDX010-20 study. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects. 
For women above 50 years of age, the data supporting an OS benefit of YERVOY treatment were 
limited: A HR close to 1 for this patient group was observed in MDX010-20 study and just above 1 in 
Study CA184024.  As the subgroup analysis includes only small numbers of patients, no definitive 
conclusions can be drawn from these data. The efficacy and safety of ipilimumab in these patients will 
continue to be analysed in ongoing and future clinical trials, particularly in the dose comparison study 
to be conducted. 
The number of patients with active brain metastases treated with ipilimumab is limited. Moreover, no 
efficacy data for patients with ocular melanoma are available.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 68/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In vitro data indicated that ipilimumab does not elicit CDC up to concentrations of 50 μg/ml. However, 
this is lower than the concentrations reached in human plasma after the 3mg/kg dose (Cmax 
~85 μg/ml). The results of nonclinical pharmacodynamic studies indicated that the dose of 10 mg/kg is 
certainly an active level, but no dose-response was studied, and the dose inducing the maximum 
pharmacological effect is not known. Efficacy of the 3 mg/kg dose has been demonstrated in the 
pivotal study MDX010-20. Results of phase II studies suggest that a better efficacy might be expected 
for the 10 mg/kg dose, but also a higher toxicity is envisaged. However, results from the pivotal study 
with 3 mg/kg dose cannot be directly compared to those obtained from supportive studies conducted 
using the 10 mg/kg dose. A randomised comparison of 3 mg/kg versus 10 mg/kg evaluating efficacy 
and safety in advanced melanoma with a survival endpoint is warranted.  
Risks 
  Unfavourable effects 
The suggested working mechanism of ipilimumab is that by blocking CTLA-4, ipilimumab potentiates T-
cell activation and proliferation. It has been hypothesised that an increased immune activity indirectly 
impact the tumour cells, however the increased activity of the immune system also contributes to the 
appearances of  immune related AEs .  
Throughout the clinical program in advanced melanoma, the vast majority (>96%) of patients with 
metastatic melanoma experienced AE of any grade during the induction phase, including in the gp100 
monotherapy group as well as all ipilimumab treatment groups. Most common safety events of any 
grade reported in patients receiving ipilimumab were those affecting the GI tract and skin. These AEs 
are classified as irAEs and include diarrhoea, pruritus and rash, each were more commonly reported in 
the ipilimumab groups than in the gp100 group. In addition, the incidences of colitis and endocrine 
insufficiency were higher in the ipilimumab groups compared to the incidence in the gp100 group. 
Diarrhoea and colitis were consistently the most common treatment-related SAEs reported in the 
clinical database for patients receiving ipilimumab across studies and doses.  
In the MDX010-20 study, treatment-related SAEs were reported in 16.8%, 12.6% and 3.8% of the 
patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100 and gp100 monotherapy groups, 
respectively.  
Treatment-related death was reported for all treatment groups in the MDX010-20 study. Treatment-
related deaths (for the entire study duration) were reported in 3.1%, 2.1%, and 1.5% of the patients 
in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and gp100 monotherapy groups, respectively. 
No treatment related deaths were reported in the CA184024 study. The percentage of treatment 
related death is about 2% in the submitted phase 2 study.  
In MDX010-20, treatment-related AEs leading to discontinuation of study therapy were reported in 
9.9%, 6.8%, and 3.0% of the patients in the ipilimumab monotherapy, ipilimumab plus gp100, and 
gp100 monotherapy groups, respectively. Treatment-related adverse events leading to discontinuation 
were reported in 33.6% for the CA184024 study.  
The safety results of the CA184024 confirm the safety issues indentified in the MDX010-20 study. he 
characteristics of irAEs reported for the CA184024 study are reasonably similar to the safety issues 
identified in the MDX010-20 study.  
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 69/71 
 
 
 
 
Extensive guidance for the management of irAE including the use of systemic corticosteroids is 
included in the product information. The development or maintenance of clinical activity following 
ipilimumab treatment was similar with or without the use of systemic corticosteroids. 
  Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
No efficacy and safety data for patients with a history of any autoimmune disease other than vitiligo or 
adequately controlled endocrine deficiencies are available from the submitted clinical studies. 
Considering the supposed mechanism of action and the observed AEs which were mainly immune 
related, additional safety concerns might be expected in these patients. Therefore, a warning has been 
included that ipilimumab should be avoided in patients with severe active autoimmune disease where 
further immune activation is potentially imminently life threatening and used with caution in other 
patients with a history of autoimmune disease, after careful consideration of the potential risk-benefit 
on an individual basis. This population that was not studied has been included in the risk management 
plan and further data should continue to be collected. 
Benefit-risk balance 
 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
An improvement of overall survival was reported in the pivotal study in adult patients with advanced 
previously treated melanoma receiving ipilimumab monotherapy. Overall survival is an important 
objective in this population because of the very short long-term prognosis. 
In patients who received 3 mg/kg YERVOY monotherapy in MDX010-20, the most frequently reported 
adverse reactions (≥ 10% of patients) were diarrhoea, rash, pruritus, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, 
decreased appetite, and abdominal pain. The majority were mild to moderate (Grade 1 or 2). 
  Benefit-risk balance 
Extensive guidance for the management of irAEs including the use of systemic corticosteroids has been 
included in the product information.  
The CHMP considered that efficacy of 3 mg/kg ipilimumab treatment for patients with previously 
treated advanced melanoma patients, was demonstrated. The OS benefit is clinically relevant and 
compensates for the irAEs found.  
The severity and the number reported AEs constitute a need for an ongoing (post approval) search for 
sub-groups of patients for whom ipilimumab treatment will appear to work out more favourably, and 
for those in which it is less beneficial (possibly women above 50 years of age, patients with primary 
CNS or ocular melanoma). This is in particular important for sub-groups who are especially at risk to 
experience (severe) AEs, for instance patients with autoimmune disease.  
While the benefit-risk balance associated with the 3 mg/kg ipilimumab dosing is considered clearly 
positive, to gain a better understanding of the effect of dose of ipilimumab and benefits and risks, a 
further randomised study comparing of 3 mg/kg versus 10 mg/kg evaluating efficacy and safety in 
advanced melanoma with a survival endpoint is considered necessary.  
2.8.1.  Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The overall quality of the drug product has been demonstrated. The product is controlled by adequate 
test methods and specifications. Although the testing of clearance of host cell proteins (HCP) is 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 70/71 
 
 
 
 
 
sufficiently controlled by a generic CHO HCP assay, this generic assay is not considered the most 
suitable for its purpose based on the difficulties to fully demonstrate its sensitivity and accuracy. With 
this respect, the applicant is asked to continue the development and validation of a process-specific 
HCP assay.  
The efficacy of ipilimumab in the treatment of advanced melanoma has been shown. Because a clinical 
relevant OS benefit is observed, the CHMP was of the opinion that the overall risk/benefit balance of 
Yervoy is positive for the treatment of advanced (unresectable or metastatic) melanoma in adults who 
have received prior therapy. 
2.8.2.  Risk management plan 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
-  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns 
- 
the following additional risk minimisation activities were required:  
-  The Marketing Authorisation Holder shall ensure that all physicians who are expected to 
prescribe Yervoy are provided with a Healthcare Professional FAQ Brochure and Patient 
Information Brochures including Alert Cards in accordance with the key elements described 
in the conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product. 
2.9.  Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considered by consensus 
that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Yervoy  in  the  treatment  of  advanced  (unresectable  or  metastatic) 
melanoma in adults who have received prior therapy was favourable and therefore recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
CHMP assessment report  
EMA/CHMP/557664/2011 
Page 71/71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
