EMA/359824/2023  
EMEA/H/C/006022 
Yesafili (aflibercept) 
An overview of Yesafili and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Yesafili and what is it used for? 
Yesafili is a medicine used to treat adults with: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the ‘wet’ form of age-related macular degeneration (AMD), a disease which affects the central part 
of the retina (called the macula) at the back of the eye. The wet form of AMD is caused by 
choroidal neovascularisation (the abnormal growth of blood vessels under the macula), which may 
leak fluid and blood, causing swelling; 
impaired vision due to macular oedema (swelling) that follows blockage of either the main vein 
carrying blood from the retina (known as central retinal vein occlusion, CRVO) or of smaller branch 
veins (known as branch retinal vein occlusion, BRVO); 
impaired vision due to macular oedema caused by diabetes; 
impaired vision due to myopic choroidal neovascularisation (a severe type of short-sightedness 
where the eyeball continues to grow, becoming longer than it should be). 
Yesafili is a ‘biosimilar medicine’. This means that Yesafili is highly similar to another biological 
medicine (the ‘reference medicine’) that is already authorised in the EU. The reference medicine for 
Yesafili is Eylea. For more information on biosimilar medicines, see here. 
Yesafili contains the active substance aflibercept. 
How is Yesafili used? 
Yesafili is available as vials containing a solution for intravitreal injection (injection into the vitreous 
humour, the jelly-like fluid inside the eye). It can only be obtained with a prescription and must be 
given by a doctor who is experienced in giving intravitreal injections.  
Yesafili is given as an injection into the affected eye, repeated as appropriate at intervals of a month or 
more. How often the injections are given depends on the condition being treated and the response of 
the patient to treatment. 
For more information about using Yesafili, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Yesafili work? 
The active substance in Yesafili, aflibercept, is an engineered protein that has been designed to attach 
to and block the effects of a substance called vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A). It can 
also attach to other proteins such as placental growth factor (PlGF). VEGF-A and PlGF are involved in 
stimulating the abnormal growth of blood vessels. By blocking these factors, aflibercept reduces the 
growth of abnormal blood vessels and controls leakage and swelling. 
What benefits of Yesafili have been shown in studies? 
Laboratory studies comparing Yesafili with Eylea have shown that the active substance in Yesafili is 
highly similar to that in Eylea in terms of structure, purity and biological activity. Studies have also 
shown that giving Yesafili produces similar levels of the active substance in the body to giving Eylea. 
In addition, a study in 355 patients with diabetic macular oedema showed that Yesafili produced 
comparable improvements in the condition to those seen with Eylea. In this study, the average number 
of letters patients could recognise on a standard eye test improved by about 7 in both groups after 
8 weeks of treatment. 
Because Yesafili is a biosimilar medicine, the studies on effectiveness and safety of aflibercept carried 
out with Eylea do not all need to be repeated for Yesafili. 
What are the risks associated with Yesafili? 
The safety of Yesafili has been evaluated, and on the basis of the study carried out the side effects of 
the medicine are considered to be comparable to those of the reference medicine Eylea. 
For the complete list of side effects and restrictions of Yesafili, see the package leaflet.  
The most common side effects with Yesafili (which may affect more than 1 in 20 people) include 
conjunctival haemorrhage (bleeding from the small blood vessels on the surface of the eye at the site 
of injection), retinal haemorrhage (bleeding at the back of the eye), reduced vision, eye pain, vitreous 
detachment (detachment of the jelly-like substance inside the eye), cataract (clouding of the lens), 
vitreous floaters (small, dark shapes moving in the field of vision) and increased intraocular pressure 
(increased pressure inside the eye). 
Serious injection-related side effects (which have occurred in less than 1 in around 2,000 injections in 
studies) include blindness, endophthalmitis (inflammation inside the eye), cataracts, increased 
intraocular pressure, vitreous haemorrhage (bleeding into the jelly-like fluid in the eye, causing 
temporary loss of vision) and vitreous or retinal detachment (retina is pulled away from the normal 
position at the back of the eye).  
Yesafili must not be used in patients who have or are thought to have ocular or periocular infections 
(infections in or around the eyes), or in patients who have severe inflammation inside the eye. 
Why is Yesafili authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that, in accordance with EU requirements for biosimilar 
medicines, Yesafili has a highly similar structure, purity and biological activity to Eylea and is 
distributed in the body in the same way. In addition, studies in patients with diabetic macular oedema 
have shown that the safety and effectiveness of Yesafili is equivalent to that of Eylea in this indication. 
Yesafili (aflibercept)  
EMA/359824/2023  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
All these data were considered sufficient to conclude that Yesafili will behave in the same way as Eylea 
in terms of effectiveness and safety in its authorised uses. Therefore, the Agency’s view was that, as 
for Eylea, the benefits of Yesafili outweigh the identified risks and it can be authorised for use in the 
EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Yesafili? 
The company that markets Yesafili will provide information packs to patients to help them prepare for 
treatment, recognise serious side effects and know when to seek urgent attention from their doctor. It 
will also provide material for doctors to minimise the risks associated with the injection in the eye. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Yesafili have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Yesafili are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Yesafili are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Yesafili 
Yesafili received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 15 September 2023. 
Further information on Yesafili can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/yesafili.  
This overview was last updated in 09-2023. 
Yesafili (aflibercept)  
EMA/359824/2023  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
