EMA/262441/2015 
EMEA/H/C/000773 
EPAR summary for the public 
Yondelis 
trabectedin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Yondelis. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Yondelis. 
What is Yondelis? 
Yondelis is a cancer medicine that contains the active substance trabectedin. It is available as a 
powder that is made up into a solution for infusion (drip into a vein).  
What is Yondelis used for? 
Yondelis is used to treat adults with two types of cancer: 
• 
• 
advanced soft-tissue sarcoma, a type of cancer that develops from the soft, supporting tissues of 
the body. ‘Advanced’ means that the cancer has started to spread. Yondelis is used when 
treatment with anthracyclines and ifosfamide (other cancer medicines) have stopped working, or in 
patients who cannot be given these medicines; 
ovarian cancer (cancer of the ovaries) that has relapsed (come back after previous treatment) and 
is sensitive to medicines containing platinum. Yondelis is used in combination with pegylated 
liposomal doxorubicin (PLD, another cancer medicine). 
Because the numbers of patients with soft-tissue sarcoma and ovarian cancer are low, the diseases are 
considered ‘rare’, and Yondelis was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare diseases) 
on 30 May 2001 (for soft-tissue sarcoma) and on 17 October 2003 (for ovarian cancer). 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
How is Yondelis used? 
Yondelis must be given under the supervision of a doctor who is experienced in the use of 
chemotherapy (medicines to treat cancer). It should only be used by qualified oncologists (cancer 
specialists) or other health professionals who are specialised in giving cytotoxic (cell-killing) medicines. 
For soft-tissue sarcoma, the recommended dose of Yondelis is 1.5 mg per square metre of body 
surface area (calculated using the patient’s height and weight), given as a single infusion lasting 24 
hours every three weeks. For ovarian cancer, it is given at a dose of 1.1 mg/m2 every three weeks as 
an infusion lasting three hours, immediately after the PLD infusion. 
Treatment carries on for as long as the patient shows a benefit. It is recommended that Yondelis be 
given through a central venous line (a thin tube leading from the skin into the large veins just above 
the heart). To prevent vomiting and to protect the liver, patients must receive an infusion of 
corticosteroids such as dexamethasone before treatment. If the patient’s blood counts are abnormal, 
infusion with Yondelis should be delayed, the dose of Yondelis should be reduced or other medicines 
can be used to treat the blood problems. For more information, see the summary of product 
characteristics (also part of the EPAR). 
How does Yondelis work? 
The active substance in Yondelis, trabectedin, is a synthetic version of a substance that was originally 
extracted from a species of tunicate or ‘sea squirt’ (a marine animal). Cancer is a disease where cells 
divide too quickly, usually because the way their genes work is faulty. Trabectedin works by attaching 
to the DNA, the chemical molecule that makes up genes, and preventing some genes in human cells 
from increasing their activity. This can prevent the cells from dividing too quickly, slowing down the 
growth of various types of cancer. 
How has Yondelis been studied? 
For soft-tissue sarcoma, Yondelis has been studied in one main study involving 266 patients with 
liposarcoma (a sarcoma originating in fat cells) or leiomyosarcoma (a sarcoma originating in ‘smooth’ 
or involuntary muscle cells) that was advanced or metastatic (had spread to other parts of the body). 
All of the patients had been treated previously with an anthracycline and ifosfamide but this treatment 
had stopped working. The study compared two different dosing schedules of Yondelis: three times per 
month, or once every three weeks. 
For ovarian cancer, Yondelis in combination with PLD was compared with PLD alone in one main study 
involving 672 women whose disease had come back or got worse after previous treatment. Around 
two-thirds of the patients had cancer that was sensitive to platinum-containing medicines. 
In both studies, the main measure of effectiveness was how long the patients lived without their 
disease getting worse. 
What benefit has Yondelis shown during the studies? 
For soft-tissue sarcoma, Yondelis was more effective when it was given once every three weeks than 
when it was given with the alternative dosing schedule. Patients receiving it once every three weeks 
lived for an average of 3.8 months without their disease getting worse, compared with 2.1 months in 
those receiving Yondelis three times per month. 
Yondelis  
Page 2/4 
 
 
 
 
 
For ovarian cancer, the combination of Yondelis and PLD was more effective than PLD alone: patients 
receiving the combination treatment lived for an average of 7.3 months without their disease getting 
worse, compared with 5.8 months in those receiving PLD alone. The effect of Yondelis was more 
pronounced in the women whose cancer was sensitive to platinum-containing medicines. 
What is the risk associated with Yondelis? 
Most patients treated with Yondelis can be expected to have side effects. Around 10% of those patients 
treated with Yondelis as a single agent and 25% treated with Yondelis in combination therapy can be 
expected to have serious side effects. The most common side effects of any severity were neutropenia 
(low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), nausea (feeling sick), vomiting, increase in liver 
enzymes, anaemia (low red blood cell counts), tiredness, thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet 
counts), loss of appetite and diarrhoea. Fatal side effects have occurred in 1.9% and 0.9% of patients 
treated with Yondelis as a single agent and combination therapy, respectively. For the full list of all 
side effects reported with Yondelis, see the package leaflet. 
Yondelis must not be used in patients who have any serious or uncontrolled infection, in combination 
with the vaccine for yellow fever, or in breast-feeding women. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet.  
Why has Yondelis been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that Yondelis’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Yondelis was originally authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’, because, limited information was 
available at the time of approval on soft-tissue sarcoma. As the company had supplied the additional 
information requested, the ‘exceptional circumstances’ ended on 27 May 2015. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Yondelis? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Yondelis is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Yondelis, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients.  
Other information about Yondelis 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Yondelis on 17 September 2007.  
The full EPAR for Yondelis can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Yondelis, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The summary of the opinion of the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products for Yondelis can be found 
on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation 
• 
• 
ovarian cancer; 
soft-tissue sarcoma. 
Yondelis  
Page 3/4 
 
 
 
 
 
This summary was last updated in 05-2015. 
Yondelis  
Page 4/4 
 
 
 
 
 
