26 April 2018 
EMA/428932/2018  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): trabectedin 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003001/201709 
Period covered by the PSUR: 18 September 2016 to 17 September 2017   
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5520 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking  into  account  the  PRAC  Assessment  Report  on  the  PSUR(s)  for  trabectedin,  the  scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
Capillary leak syndrome (CLS) is a rare entity characterized by recurrent and unpredictable attacks of 
capillary  leakage  of  plasma  fluid  and  proteins  throughout  the  endothelium.  Capillary  leak  syndrome 
(CLS)  is  usually  characterized  by  peripheral  oedema,  hypotension  which  is  relatively  well  tolerated, 
oliguria with acute pre-renal failure. In some patients, a compartment syndrome can occur. CLS can be 
idiopathic (Clarkson’s disease) or secondary to various conditions and treatments. Secondary CLSs are 
mostly  due  to  malignant  hematological  diseases,  viral  infections,  and  treatments  such  as 
chemotherapies and therapeutic growth factors.  
Based  on  an  ad-hoc  review  of  CLS  cases  performed  by  an  External  Independent  Adjudication 
Committee (IAC), it was determined possible or probable trabectedin causality in 5 out of 6 fatal cases 
among  14  probable  CLS  cases.  The  Pharmacovigilance  and  Risk  Assessment  Committee  (PRAC) 
considered  the  results  of  the  IAC  report  highly  credible.  The  3  assessors  are  independent,  have  no 
conflict  of  interest,  are  all  specialists  on  CLS,  and  they  provided  a  relevant  description  of  their 
methodology  and  criteria,  a  distinction  between  possible  and  probable  CLS  and  for  the  probable  CLS 
cases,  that  are  fatal,  an  evaluation  of  trabectedin  causality.  Their  finding  of  possible  or  probable 
trabectedin  causality  in  5  of  6  fatal  cases  among  14  probable  CLS  cases  warrants  an  update  of  the 
SmPC within this procedure to reflect there are cases with a fatal outcome. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for trabectedin the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance  of  the  medicinal  product(s)  containing  trabectedin  is  unchanged  subject  to  the  proposed 
changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/428932/2018 
Page 2/2 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
