SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
1. 
Introduction 
Soft tissue sarcoma (STS) constitutes a rare and heterogeneous group of tumours generally classified 
according  to  the  normal  tissue  they  mimic.    Despite  control  of  the  primary  site,  about  50%  of  the 
patients  ultimately  succumb  to  metastases  or  local  recurrence.    In  adults,  there  are  only  few  active 
chemotherapeutic  options  available  and  the  expected  median  survival  after  diagnosis  of  metastatic 
disease is about 1 year. Established first-line treatment options include doxorubicin and ifosfamide in 
mono-therapy  or  in  combination  regimens.    DTIC  is  also  regarded  as  an  active  drug.    Despite 
numerous  drugs  being tested  for  phase  II  activity,  there  has  been  little  progress  with  respect  to  new 
active  compounds  since  the  introduction  of  ifosfamide  in  the  late  eighties,  the  exception  being 
imatinib  for  the  treatment  of  gastrointestinal  stromal  tumours.  From  a  regulatory  perspective, 
doxorubicin, ifosfamide and DTIC are licensed in at least some EU countries for the treatment of STS.  
Yondelis, formerly known as ET-743 PharmaMar, (ecteinascidin, trabectedin [INN]) is an anti-cancer 
medicinal  product  with  claimed  new  mechanisms  of  action.  It  is  a  tetrahydro-isoquinoline  and  was 
originally  extracted  from  the  marine  tunicate  Ecteinascidia  turbinata  a  colony  forming  tunicate  that 
grows in the coastal platform of several temperate seas. Today a synthetic manufacturing process has 
been developed. Trabectedin is proposed to block the transcriptional activation of a subset of inducible 
genes  without  affecting  their  constitutive  expression.  Yondelis  drug  product  is  presented  as  a 
lyophilized powder for concentrate for solution for infusion, in vials of 0.25 mg and 1 mg trabectedin.  
An  application  for  a  Marketing  Authorisation  was  submitted  through  the  Centralised  Procedure  in 
November  2001  for  Yondelis  in  the  treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  STS,  who  had  failed 
to  receive 
anthracyclines  and 
anthracyclines/ifosfamide.  The  demonstration  of  efficacy  was  based  on  three  single-arm  studies. 
Following the scientific assessment procedure the CHMP concluded that the benefit/risk profile of was 
not favourable. The negative opinion was mainly based on the fact that clinical efficacy had not been 
adequately demonstrated.  
ifosfamide  and  were  unsuitable 
ifosfamide,  or  had  failed 
The current application includes data from a randomised phase II study in patients with liposarcoma or 
leiomyosarcoma.  CHMP  scientific  advice  has  not  been  sought.  At  the  time  of  submission  of  the 
marketing  authorisation  application,  Yondelis  had  not  been  registered  in  any  country.  The  claimed 
indications  for  trabectedin  is  as  follows:  Yondelis  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
advanced  soft  tissue  sarcoma,  after  failure  of  anthracyclines  and  ifosfamide,  or  who  are  unsuited  to 
receive  these  agents.  Efficacy  data  are  based  mainly  on    liposarcoma  and  leiomyosarcoma  patients. 
The  proposed  posology  can  be  summarised  as  follows:  The  recommended  dose  is  1.5 mg/m2  body 
surface  area,  administered  as  an  intravenous  infusion  over  24 hours  with  a  three-week  interval 
between  cycles.  Administration  through  a  central  venous  line  is  strongly  recommended  (se  SPC, 
section 4.2). 
2. 
Part II:Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Introduction 
Yondelis  is  a  powder  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  containing  0.25  mg  and  1  mg  of 
trabectedin  per  vial.  Each  vial  is  reconstituted  with  5  ml  and  20 ml  of  sterile  water  for  injections, 
respectively. The reconstituted solution is a clear, colourless or slightly yellowish solution, essentially 
free of visible particles. The solution obtained has a concentration of 0.05 mg/ml and is for single-use 
only. Yondelis is supplied in either 10 ml or 25 ml Type I colourless glass vial with a grey bromobutyl 
rubber stopper with fluoropolymer coating. The stopper is sealed to the vial with an aluminium flip-off 
seal. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  preparation  of  Yondelis  are  sucrose,  potassium  dihydrogen  phosphate, 
phosphoric acid and potassium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment), and water for injections. 
©EMEA 2007 
1/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Active Substance 
The  active  substance  trabectedin  is  a  new  chemical  entity  initially  obtained  by  isolation  from  the 
marine  tunicate  Ecteinascidia  turbinata  by  extraction  and  purification.  A  synthetic  process  was 
subsequently developed  and  the  active  substance  is  since  then  produced  synthetically.  The  synthetic 
route  starts  from  the  secondary  metabolite  safracin-B,  isolated  from  fermentation  media  of 
Pseudomonas fluorescens. The Active Substance Master File (ASMF) procedure was followed for the 
active substance.  
Trabectedin is a white to off-white powder, soluble in polar organic solvents. Trabectedin is insoluble 
in  hydrocarbons.  In  aqueous  media,  trabectedin  is  practically  insoluble  in  water  but  solubility 
increases at acidic pH. 
Trabectedin is a single enantiomer with a total of seven stereogenic centres. Most of these centres are 
linked  together  through  a  short  bridge,  which  means  that  the  stereochemistry  of  these  centres  is 
interrelated.  No  change  has  been  observed  in  the  crystalline  form  of  trabectedin  during  storage, 
therefore, no evidence has been found of polymorphism.  
•  Manufacture 
Trabectedin is manufactured utilising a three or five steps synthetic process., it was demonstrated that 
the trabectedin produced from the manufacturers is equivalent.  
Confirmation  of  the  chemical  structure  of  the  starting  materials  was  provided  by  spectroscopic 
techniques and the impurity profile was characterised. The starting materials specification includes test 
for appearance, assay, identification, water content, impurities, heavy metals, and solvents.  
A comparison between the synthetic and natural trabectedin has been performed by HPLC and TLC, 
IR  and  proton  NMR,  optical  rotation  and  X-ray  diffractometry.  It  was  concluded  that  the  active 
substance obtained by both processes is equivalent.  
The structure of trabectedin was confirmed by elemental analysis, IR spectroscopy, high field NMR, 
UV spectroscopy, MS, X-ray crystallography and optical rotation.  
•  Specification 
The active substance specification set by the manufacturers of the active substance are identical and 
the same as that of the Applicant. The analytical methods used for the release of the active substance 
are also equivalent in all sites. 
The active substance specifications include tests for description, identification (IR, HPLC and optical 
rotation),  assay  (HPLC),  water  content  (coulometric  determination),  impurities  (HPLC),  residual 
solvents (GC), heavy metals,  inorganic impurities and bacterial endotoxins. 
The  method  for  assay  and  related  substances  by  HPLC  were  validated  for  specificity,  linearity  and 
range, limit of quantitation, precision, accuracy, stability of solutions and robustness. The GC method 
for residual solvents was validated for specificity, linearity and range, limit of quantitation, precision, 
accuracy  and  stability  of  solutions.  The  coulometric  determination  of  water  was  validated  for 
specificity, linearity, precision and accuracy. 
Batch analysis data was performed on a total of 25 batches of trabectedin. All batches complied with 
the proposed set of specifications. 
•  Stability 
Three  commercial  scale  batches  were  stored  at  -20oC  ±  5oC  for  24  months  (2  batches)  and  for  18 
months (1 batch) in the proposed primary packaging. In addition, the effect of short term excursions 
outside the storage conditions was evaluated on one batch at 25oC/60% RH for 30 days and 5oC for 6 
months.  All  the  batches  placed  on  stability  studies  complied  with  the  requirements  in  the  active 
substance specifications. The results from the short excursions study showed no significant changes at 
the  end  of  the  study  periods  for  any  parameter  although  there  was  a  trend  towards  increased  water 
content  at  higher  temperature.  Phostostability  and  stress  testing  using  thermal,  oxidative,  acidic  and 
alkaline conditions was also carried out. Stress conditions showed a slight increase in the impurities 
content and the photostability studies showed that the active substance is not affected by exposure to 
light. 
©EMEA 2007 
2/37 
 
 
 
The data provided is sufficient to confirm the proposed re-test period. 
Drug Product 
• Pharmaceutical Development 
The aim of the pharmaceutical development was to obtain a formulation of trabectedin, which could 
be  administered  by  intravenous  infusion  after  appropriate  dilution.  The  intended  route  of 
administration precluded the use of several excipients, such as stabilizers and non-aqueous solvents. 
Therefore,  a  simple  aqueous  solution  was  considered  the  most  appropriate  dosage  form.  Initially  a 
formulation  based  in  mannitol  and  phosphate  buffer  solution  was  designed.    Further  pharmaceutical 
development  led  to  an  improved  sucrose-based  formulation  using  synthetic  trabectedin  in  phosphate 
buffer that was selected for scale up and commercialisation, that allows the storage of the product at 2-
8ºC. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
Starting materials and excipients used for the manufacture of trabectedin powder for concentrate for 
solution for infusion do not contain materials that are of animal or human origin and are not in contact 
with materials of animal or human origin, during their manufacture.  
•  Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process for trabectedin powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is carried 
out under aseptic conditions in restricted areas and comprises: (1) sterilization and depyrogenation of 
primary packaging materials and equipment that comes into contact with the product (2) preparation of 
the  bulk  solution  (3)  sterilising  filtrations  (4)  filling  (5)  lyophilization  and  stoppering  (6)  final 
packaging. 
The validation of the manufacturing process was carried out at the proposed manufacturing sites The 
size of the validation batches corresponded to the proposed commercial manufacturing batch size. All 
the controls performed along the process validation complied with the pre-set acceptance criteria 
•  Product Specification 
The specifications for both strengths of trabectedin powder for concentrate for solution for infusion at 
release  and  shelf-life  are  identical,  exception  being  the  related  substances  test,  assay  and  the 
uniformity  of  content,  which  is  only  carried  out  at  release.  The  specifications  include  tests  for 
appearance  before  and  after  reconstitution  (visual  inspection),  reconstitution  time,  pH,  particulate 
matter, identification of trabectedin (UV and HPLC), assay (HPLC), related substances (HPLC), water 
content, uniformity of content (mass variation), bacterial endotoxins and sterility. 
All  analytical  procedures  used  for  testing  the  finished  product  were  adequately  described  and 
validated.  The  majority  of  the  methods  were  pharmacopoeial  methods  and  therefore  validation  was 
deemed  unnecessary.  The  endotoxin  determination  and  sterility  test  were  validated  at  both 
manufacturing sites. The HPLC method for the determination of assay and degradation products in the 
finished product was satisfactory validated for specificity, linearity, range, limits of quantitation and 
detection,  precision  (equipment  and  method  repeatability)  and  accuracy.  The  intermediate  precision, 
the stability of solutions and the robustness of the method were also evaluated. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Stability data was provided on batches manufactured at both sites and stored at 5ºC ± 3ºC (long term 
conditions) for either 18 or 24 months, and under accelerated conditions (25ºC ± 2ºC / 60% RH ± 5% 
RH)  for 6 months. 
Stability studies included tests for appearance before and after reconstitution, reconstitution time, pH 
of reconstituted solution, particulate matter, identification, water content, assay, degradation products, 
sterility  and  bacterial  endotoxins.  The  particulate  matter  sterility  and  endotoxins  were  tested  at 
different checkpoints depending on the manufacturer and stability protocol. 
Stability studies on the reconstituted and diluted solutions have also been performed for 30 hours at 
room  temperature/ambient  light  and  refrigerated  conditions  (5ºC  ±  3ºC)  in  order  to  simulate  the 
conditions  typically  encountered  in  a  clinical  setting.  It  was  demonstrated  that  the  drug  product 
©EMEA 2007 
3/37 
 
 
 
 
 
reconstituted  concentrated  solutions  are  physically  and  chemically  stable  for  30  hours  both  at  room 
temperature/ambient light and under refrigerated (5ºC ± 3ºC) conditions. 
In  addition,  photostability studies  were  also  performed  to  identify  possible  sensitivity  to  light  of  the 
drug  product  both  in  the  solid  state  and  after  reconstitution  with  water.  The  results  showed  that 
trabectedin powder for concentrate for solution for infusion is not sensitive to light. 
In  conclusion,  the  real  time  stability  data  provided  support  the  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as 
stated in the SPC. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Trabectedin  was  initially  obtained  by  isolation  from  Ecteinascidia  turbinata  but  was  subsequently 
produced synthetically, which resulted in a decrease in the level of impurities. The excipients used in 
the  preparation  of  the  product  were  chosen  based  on  the  physico-chemical  properties  of  the  active 
substance and the intended route of administration (intravenous), which precluded the use of several 
excipients.  The  results  showed  that  both  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  can  be 
manufactured  reproducibly.  This  indicates  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform 
performance  in  the  clinic.  At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  was  a  minor  unresolved  quality 
issue having no impact on the Benefit/Risk ratio of the product to be addressed as follow-up measure. 
The Applicant gave a Letter of Undertaking and committed to resolve the Follow Up Measures after 
the opinion, within an agreed timeframe.  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Introduction 
Trabectedin binds to the minor groove of DNA, bending the helix to the major groove. This binding to 
DNA triggers a cascade of events affecting several transcription factors, DNA binding proteins, and 
DNA repair pathways, resulting in perturbation of the cell cycle. Trabectedin has been shown to exert 
antiproliferative  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  activity  against  a  range  of  human  tumour  cell  lines  and 
experimental  tumours,  including  malignancies  such  as  sarcoma,  breast,  non-small  cell  lung,  ovarian 
and melanoma. 
Pharmacology 
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
The  antitumour  effect  of  trabectedin  has  been  investigated  in  a  panel  of  human  tumour  cell  lines  of 
mesenchymal  origin  or  directly  established  from  tissue  specimens  obtained  from  untreated  sarcoma 
patients. In 23/29 human tumour cell lines of mesenchymal origin exposed to trabectedin in vitro for 
72-96 hours, the IC50 value was below the expected Cmax in patients (13 nM). Those with higher IC50 
values included 2/4 chondrosarcomas, 1/2 fibrosarcomas, 1/4 osteosarcomas, 1/1 malignant peripheral 
nerve sheath tumour and 1/1 nephroblastoma. In the most sensitive cell lines (HT-1080, M8805, HS-
90, M9110, HS-16, HS-18, HS-30, HS-42), trabectedin was more potent (IC50 = 0.0002-0.3 nM) than 
methotrexate (IC50 = 15-230 nM), doxorubicin (IC50 = 10-160 nM), etoposide (IC50 = 16-90 nM) and 
paclitaxel  (IC50  =  0.2-1.2).  There  was  no  obvious  correlation  between  the  sensitivity  seen  for 
trabectedin  and  the  comparators.  Furthermore,  trabectedin  was  highly  effective  in  cisplatin-resistant 
sublines  of  osteosarcoma  U-2OS  and  Ewing's  sarcoma  Saos-2  cells  and  in  methotrexate-resistant 
osteosarcoma  cells.  When  tested  in  SK-LMS-1  leiomyosarcoma,  OSA-FH  osteosarcoma  or  CHSA 
chondrosarcoma  cells,  there  was  no  difference  between  the  antiproliferative  effects  of  natural  and 
synthetic trabectedin. 
Trabectedin  was  tested  for  antitumour  activity  in  a  number  of  sarcoma  xenografts  of  murine  and 
human origin (Table 1). 
©EMEA 2007 
4/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.  Antitumour effect in sarcoma xenografts of murine and human origin 
Tumour origin 
Mouse fibrosarcoma 
Mouse ovarian reticulosarcoma 
Human chondrosarcoma 
Human osteosarcoma 
Human rhabdomyosarcoma 
Cell line 
UV2237 
M5076 
CHSA 
OSA-FH 
TE-671 
Route and 
schedule 
IV qdx1 
IV q7dx2 
IV qdx2 
IV qdx5 
IV qdx1 
Dose 
(mg/m2/day) 
0.6 
0.45 
0.3 
0.12 
0.6 
Tumour growth 
inhibition (%) 
63 
64 
76 
67 
33 
Reference 
Meco et al. (2003) 
Donald et al. (2003) 
Morioka et al. (2003) 
Faircloth et al. (2001) 
Donald et al. (2003) 
In vivo, trabectedin had significant antitumour effects in five sarcoma xenograft models of murine or 
human  origin,  causing  33-76%  tumour  growth  inhibition  at  dose  levels  between  0.12-0.6 
mg/m2/treatment. 
There  is  a  substantial  body  of  published  data  addressing  the  mode  of  action  of  trabectedin.    In 
summary, these findings suggest that trabectedin binds to DNA by alkylating guanine at the exocyclic 
N2 position in the minor groove and bends the DNA towards the major groove, triggering a cascade of 
events affecting several transcription factors and DNA repair pathways. These events result in delayed 
entry  into  the  S phase  and  arrest  in  the  G2/M  interphase,  leading  to  apoptosis  through  a  p53-
independent  mechanism.  Other  mechanistic  investigations  have  shown  that  trabectedin  may  induce 
topoisomerase I cleavage complexes and cause disorganisation in the microtubule network around the 
nuclear  membrane.  These  effects,  however,  were  only  observed  in  cells  exposed  to  trabectedin 
concentrations  that  were  higher  than  those  required  to  induce  cytotoxicity  and  above  the 
therapeutically active levels in cancer patients. They are therefore unlikely to be clinically relevant. 
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
Secondary  pharmacodynamics  comprised  studies  of  the  myelotoxic  effects  of  trabectedin  in  normal 
haematopoietic  cells  in  vitro.  Dog  CFU-GM  progenitors  were  markedly  more  sensitive  to  the 
myelotoxic effects of trabectedin than those of murine or human origin. In human and murine cells, 
the IC50 values were within or not much above expected plasma levels in patients (13 nM); CFU-Meg 
progenitors were slightly more sensitive than CFU-GM progenitors. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
Safety pharmacology studies comprised a  modified Irwin's test in rats, a HERG assay and a test for 
cardio-respiratory effects in anaesthetised Cynomolgus monkeys. In the modified Irwin's test, groups 
of 5 male rats were injected IV with a single dose of 0, 12.5, 25 or 50 µg/kg of trabectedin (about 0, 
75, 150 and 300 µg/m2). There were no signs of adverse behavioral effects, neurological impairment 
or adverse autonomic responses at any dose level. In the HERG assay, trabectedin had no effect over a 
concentration range of 10-1000 nM. At 10,000 nM (7600 ng/mL), a 10% reduction relative to solvent 
was  observed.  In  groups  of  4  male  Cynomolgus  monkeys  anaesthetised  with  pentobarbitone  and 
infused with 0 or 90 µg/kg (1 mg/m2) of trabectedin IV over 60 minutes, there was a transient fall of 
about 20 mm Hg in diastolic arterial blood pressure after 180 minutes, but no effect on PR, QT, QTcF, 
QTcV  intervals  and  QRS  duration),  ECG  waveform  and  rhythm,  left  ventricular  variables,  cardiac 
output, stroke volume, arterial blood variables or respiratory variables. The Cmax level attained in this 
study was 10-11 ng/mL, which is similar to that observed in patients.  
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
Pharmacodynamic  drug  interactions  studies  have  focused  on  potential  synergism  associated  with 
concomitant or sequential use of trabectedin and other antineoplastic agents such as doxorubicin and 
cisplatin, which was investigated in vivo using xenografts of different origin. 
Pharmacokinetics 
PK  studies  were  primarily  conducted  in  the  rat  and  the  Cynomolgus  monkey  using  a  validated  LC-
MS/MS method with a limit of detection of 0.05 ng/mL for rat plasma and 0.02 ng/mL for monkey 
plasma.  Distribution  and  metabolism  studies  used  trabectedin  labeled  with  14C  in  a  metabolically 
stable position. 
In  both  species,  trabectedin  plasma  levels  dropped  rapidly  at  the  end  of  the  infusion,  followed  by  a 
much  more  gradual  decrease,  suggesting  multi-compartmental  kinetics.  Although  the  number  of 
animals investigated was limited (1-2 per dose level), there were no obvious differences in exposure 
©EMEA 2007 
5/37 
 
 
 
 
 
between  sexes  or  between  the  first  and  the  last  treatment  cycle  and  exposures  increased  fairly 
proportionally with dose. In the monkey, estimates of terminal half-lives ranged from 2 to 6 days. The 
apparent volume of distribution (94.4-287 L/kg) was larger than total body water indicating extensive 
distribution  in  the  tissues,  and  systemic  clearance  was  moderate  to  high  (1.43-3.68  L/h.kg).  Similar 
findings were obtained in a population analysis in patients treated with trabectedin 1500 µg/m2 every 3 
weeks, indicating that trabectedin plasma kinetics is similar in humans and the Cynomolgus monkey. 
Tissue  distribution  studies  were  conducted  in  non-pregnant  animals.  Studies  in  the  rat  using  14C-
labelled  drug  substance  showed  trabectedin  to  be  rapidly  and  extensively  distributed  to  peripheral 
tissues  including  bone  marrow,  lymphoid  organs,  gastro-intestinal  tissue,  liver,  kidney  and  muscle. 
After peak time, total radioactivity levels declined very slowly and appreciable amounts remained in 
the carcass at 1 week post-dose, indicating significant retention of trabectedin and/or its metabolites, 
particularly in females. In the monkey, trabectedin levels were determined in target organs of toxicity. 
The  derived  tissue  to  plasma  concentration  ratios  were  estimated  at  7.85-73.4  in  liver,  11.5-27.1  in 
kidney  and  5.11-68.6  in  bone  marrow,  indicating  that  tissue  concentrations  were  greater  than 
corresponding plasma concentration by a 5 to 70-fold factor. 
Trabectedin was a substrate for P-glycoprotein (P-gp) in vitro and experiments with P-gp knock-out 
mice  showed  elevated  levels  of  total  radioactivity  in  the  brain  (13-fold  increase)  and  testis  (2-fold 
increase)  relative  to  the  wild-type  controls.  Less  pronounced  increases  were  observed  in  other  P-gp 
expressing organs such as the small intestine and heart whereas parent drug levels were similar in the 
plasma and liver of both strains. 
Plasma  protein  binding  of  trabectedin  was  studied  in  vitro  in  plasma  from  mice,  rats,  rabbits,  dogs, 
Cynomolgus monkeys and humans, and blood distribution was examined in the same species except 
the monkey. Plasma protein binding was high (90-99%) in all species studied, including man, and the 
blood to plasma ratio ranged from 0.69 to 1.51 across species, reflecting the observed differences in 
the free fraction. 
Metabolism studies carried out in vitro showed that the hepatic metabolism of trabectedin is fast and 
extensive. The hepatic metabolism of trabectedin displayed substantial species differences; however, 
human  and  monkey  liver  fractions  had  similar  metabolic  profiles  and  all  metabolites  produced  by 
human  material  were  also  detected  in  Cynomolgus  monkey  fractions.  The  major  in  vitro  metabolic 
routes identified in man and monkey include N-demethylation (ET-729 formation), O-demethylation, 
carboxylic  acid  formation  with  and  without  additional  oxidation,  mono-oxidation  and  di-oxidation, 
aliphatic  ring  opening  and  demethylation  in  combination  with  mono-oxidation  or  with  di-oxidation. 
Whereas ET-729 was detected after incubation with hepatic subcellular fractions of all species in vitro, 
only trace amounts were found in monkeys in vivo and it was not detected in plasma, urine or bile of 
trabectedin-treated  patients.  Several  major  CYP  isoforms  including  CYP1A2,  2A6,  2B6,  2C8,  2C9, 
2C18, 2D6, 2E1, 3A4 and 3A4 were able to metabolise trabectedin in vitro, however, CYP3A4 was 
shown to be the main isoform at low, therapeutically achievable concentrations.  
In  rats,  mice  and  humans,  the  excretion  of  trabectedin-related  radioactivity  was  slow  and  occurred 
principally via the faeces (90-97% of the recovered radioactivity). Biliary excretion of trabectedin and 
its metabolites was confirmed in bile duct cannulated rats, but did not appear to involve P-gp transport 
as  the  excretion  pattern  was  similar  between  wild-type  and  P-gp  knock-out  mice.  In  the  rat,  male 
animals exhibited greater faecal excretion and less body retention of trabectedin-related material than 
females, but no such sex-differences have been found in humans. There were no excretion studies in 
the Cynomolgus monkey and no studies of the excretion of trabectedin in milk in any species.  
PK interactions caused by plasma protein binding were not investigated as therapeutic plasma levels 
are too low (typically less than 10 nM) to cause concern. Although trabectedin is metabolised in the 
liver by CYP3A4, there was no clear evidence of cytochrome P450 inhibition or induction in in-vitro 
studies using human liver microsomes, human hepatocytes or ex-vitro liver microsomes from rats and 
Cynomolgus monkeys treated with 3-weekly infusions of up to 300 and 1200 µg/m2 of trabectedin for 
3-4 cycles.  
©EMEA 2007 
6/37 
 
 
 
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
Single-dose  toxicity  studies  were  carried  out  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  Cynomolgus  monkeys 
administered trabectedin by IV bolus injection or short-term infusion. The maximum non-lethal dose 
was 450 µg/m2 in mice, 300 µg/m2 in female and 450 µg/m2 in male rats, 700 µg/m2 in dogs and 1050 
µg/m2  in  the  Cynomolgus  monkey.  Common  clinical  signs  included  diarrhoea,  emesis,  inappetence, 
lethargy, and loss of body weight. Predominant toxicities included myelosuppression characterised by 
neutropoenia, thrombocytopoenia, leukopoenia associated to hypocellularity in the bone marrow, and 
atrophy of the lymphoid tissues, and hepatotoxicity, characterised by increased serum transaminases, 
and  focal  hepatocyte  necrosis  in  all  species.  In  rodents  and  dogs,  acute  cholangitis,  hepatobiliary 
fibrosis  and  proliferation  were  observed  as  well.  This  toxicity  was  irreversible  in  rats,  and  more 
pronounced in female animals. In rodents, microscopic evaluation further revealed epithelial necrosis 
and ulceration in the gastro-intestinal tract and pancreatic acinar single cell necrosis and inflammation 
at the injection site. 
•  Repeated dose toxicity 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats,  dogs  and  Cynomolgus  monkeys  and  are 
summarised in Table 2. In all studies, trabectedin was administered IV either as a bolus injection or a 
3- or 24-hour infusion. 
Table 2.  Summary of repeat-dose toxicity studies 
Study ID 
GLP 
Species/sex/number 
per group 
4311-M001-94 
Yes 
Mouse/M+F/10 
1589/2 
Yes 
Mouse/M/20 
1589/5 
Yes 
Mouse/M/10-15 
1589/3 
Yes 
Rat/M/10 
M049-95 
Yes 
Rat/F/15 
M050-95 
No 
Rat/F/5 
5536 
Yes 
Rat/M+F/10 
Duration and 
dose (µg/m2) 
5 days 
120, 180, 240 
5 days 
60, 120 
q 3 w x 1-3 
60, 300 
5 days 
12, 105 
5 days 
30, 60, 90 
1-3 5-day 
treatments each 
followed by a 30-
day break 
15, 30, 60 
q 3 w x 3 
15, 60, 150, 300, 
450 
Type of IV 
administration 
NTEL 
(µg/m2) 
Principal findings 
Bolus injection 
< 120  Mortality, bone marrow depletion 
Bolus injection 
< 60 
Bolus injection 
< 60 
Bolus injection 
< 12 
Bolus injection 
< 30 
Mortality, reduced body weight, 
increased liver weight and enzymes, 
bone marrow and spleen depletion and 
reversible blood cell reductions 
Mortality, reduced body weight,  
injection site lesions, gall bladder 
oedema and reversible blood cell 
reductions 
Reduced body weight and WBC, 
increased liver enzymes and atrophy 
or necrosis in liver, bile ducts, thymus, 
spleen and GI tract 
Mortality, reduced body weight, RBC 
parameters and WBC, increased liver 
enzymes, injection site lesions and 
atrophy or necrosis in liver, bile ducts, 
thymus, spleen and GI tract 
Bolus injection 
< 15 
As above 
3-hour infusion 
< 15 
M008-95 
Yes 
Dog/M+F/1 
5 days 
140, 280 
Bolus injection 
< 140 
196 
Yes 
Dog/M+F/2 
5 days 
100, 160, 220 
Bolus injection 
< 100 
As above, but lesions more severe in 
females than males 
Diarrhoea, prostration, reduced body 
weight, blood cell reduction, increased 
liver enzymes, microscopic lesions 
(atrophy, necrosis or inflammation) in 
multiple organs 
As above in HD and MD animals, but 
limited to reversible liver and bone 
marrow pathology in LD dogs 
©EMEA 2007 
7/37 
 
 
 
 
Study ID 
GLP 
Species/sex/number 
per group 
Duration and 
dose (µg/m2) 
Type of IV 
administration 
NTEL 
(µg/m2) 
Principal findings 
5537 
Yes 
Cynomolgus 
monkey/M+F/2 
TOX5702 
Yes 
Cynomolgus 
monkey/M+F/2 
q 3 w x 3-4 
300-1440  
(range-finding) 
q 1-3 w x 3-4 
120-840  
(range-finding) 
3- or 24-hour 
infusion 
< 300 
3-hour infusion 
< 120 
TOX6809 
Yes 
Cynomolgus 
monkey/M+F/2 
q 3 w x 4 
300, 600, 840  
24-hour infusion 
< 300 
TOX7106 
Yes 
Cynomolgus 
monkey/M+F/2 
q 3 w x 4-8 
300, 600, 780 
3-hour infusion 
through central 
v. cava catheter 
< 300 
Mortality, reduced body weight, RBC 
parameters and WBC, increased liver 
weight and enzymes, increased kidney 
weight, injection site lesions and 
hypoplasia of bone marrow, spleen 
and thymus 
Mortality, reduced RBC parameters 
and WBC, increased liver enzymes, 
intestinal lesions, injection site lesions 
and hypoplasia of bone marrow, 
spleen and thymus 
Study terminated prematurely because 
of severe injection site lesions 
Mortality due to neutropoenia and 
intestinal infections, dropsy, reduced 
RBC parameters and WBC, increased 
liver enzymes, severe injection site 
lesions 
In mice, the target organs of toxicity comprised the bone marrow, liver and injection site. 
In  rats,  trabectedin  induced  dose-dependent  hepatotoxicity  characterised  by  increased  transaminases, 
ALP  and  bilirubin,  focal  hepatocyte  necrosis,  cholangitis,  bile  duct  inflammation,  proliferation,  and 
fibrosis. Most of these changes failed to recover three weeks after the last injection and were far more 
pronounced in females. Myelosuppression was characterized by reduced bone marrow cellularity and 
diffuse  atrophy  of  the  lymphoid  tissues.  These  changes  recovered  partially  or  completely  after  each 
treatment  cycle.  In  addition,  inflammation  and  necrosis  at  the  injection  site  and  single  cell  necrosis, 
ulceration and epithelial atrophy in the gastro-intestinal tract were common. 
In dogs, the target organs of toxicity comprised the bone marrow, liver and gut. 
In  monkeys,  repeated  i.v.  dosing  every  three  weeks  resulted  in  mortality  at  doses  of  420 µg/m²  and 
above.  Myelosuppression  was  characterized  by  anaemia,  neutropoenia, 
thrombocytopoenia, 
leucopoenia associated with depletion in the lymphoid organs and hypocellularity in the bone marrow. 
Most  of  these  changes  recovered  at  least  partially  between  treatment  cycles,  with  exception  of 
anaemia, which was slightly cumulative. Dose-dependent local intolerance at the injection site resulted 
in  severe  thrombophlebitis  extending  to  adjacent  tissues.  Hepatotoxicity  in  monkeys  was  less 
pronounced than in rats, not systematically observed and was found to be reversible, non-cumulative 
in  nature  and  characterised  by  transient  increase  in  transaminase  levels,  rare  increase  in  ALP, 
hepatocellular hypertrophy, focal hepatocyte degeneration and necrosis, and mixed inflammatory cells 
in  the  sinusoids  and  portal  tracts,  without  biliary  damage.  Kidney  tubular  dilatation,  with  flattened 
epithelium  and  slight  epithelial  degeneration/necrosis  were  seen  in  some  animals  at  high  doses. 
Finally,  focal  necrotic  ulcerations  of  the  colon/rectum  were  reported,  sometimes  with  bacteria-
mediated intestinal inflammatory, hemorrhagic and necrotic lesions, in the animals sacrificed or found 
dead after the first cycles of treatment. A NTEL was not established in any species. 
•  Genotoxicity 
Trabectedin was evaluated for its potential to induce mutations in bacteria, chromosome aberrations in 
mammalian cells in vitro and micronucleated polychromatic erythrocytes in mice in vivo. Trabectedin 
proved genotoxic in all three tests (data not shown). 
•  Carcinogenicity 
No carcinogenicity studies have been conducted. 
©EMEA 2007 
8/37 
 
 
 
 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Trabectedin was tested in conventional developmental toxicity studies in the rat and rabbit (data not 
shown).  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Toxicokinetic  evaluations  were  conducted  in  rats  and  monkeys.  Based  on  AUC  levels,  animal  to 
human exposure ratios did not exceed 0.3 in any study. Since a NTEL could not be established, animal 
to  human  safety  ratios  cannot  be  calculated.  It  is  nevertheless  obvious  that  trabectedin,  like  other 
cytotoxic  agents,  is  a  highly  toxic  drug  requiring  careful  monitoring  of  the  target  organs  of  toxicity 
such as the liver, blood forming organs and gastro-intestinal tract. 
•  Local tolerance  
Local  tolerance  was  examined  in  male  rabbits  after  single  and  repeated  IV  and  perivenous  dose 
administration.  Single  intravenous  injection  induced  a  dose-related  subacute  inflammation,  oedema 
with focal fibrinoid necrosis and endothelial necrosis. Repeated IV administrations (4 times) increased 
the  local  irritation.  After  single  perivenous  doses  of  12  and  120 µg/m2  at  concentrations  of  2.5 and 
25 µg/mL in a total volume of 0.3 mL, marked irritation (swelling of the injection site, mild to severe 
erythema,  haematoma  and  vessel  dilation)  was  seen.  These  changes  corresponded  histologically  to 
ulceration, focal fibrinoid necrosis, cutaneous epithelial necrosis, subacute inflammation, and oedema. 
Similar injection site lesions were a consistent finding in all toxicity studies in which trabectedin was 
administered by IV injection or infusion, irrespective of species. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
No environmental risk assessment has been submitted. 
Discussion on the non-clinical aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Trabectedin  binds  to  the  minor  groove  of  the  DNA,  bending  the  helix  to  the  major  groove.  This 
binding  to  DNA  triggers  a  cascade  of  events  affecting  several  transcription  factors,  DNA  binding 
proteins, and DNA repair pathways, resulting in perturbation of the cell cycle.  
Preclinical  data  indicate  that  trabectedin  has  limited  effect  on  the  cardiovascular,  respiratory  and 
central nervous system at exposures  below the therapeutic clinical range, in terms of AUC. 
The  effects  of  trabectedin  on  cardiovascular  and  respiratory  function  have  been  investigated  in  vivo 
(anesthetized  Cynomolgus  monkeys).  A  1-hr  infusion  schedule  was  selected  to  attain  maximum 
plasma levels (Cmax values) in the range of those observed in the clinic. The plasma trabectedin levels 
attained were 10.6 ± 5.4 (Cmax), higher than those reached in patients  after infusion of 1500 µg/m2 for 
24 (Cmax of 1.8 ± 1.1 ng/ml) and similar to those reached after administration of the same dose by 3-hr 
infusion (Cmax of 10.8 ± 3.7 ng/ml). 
Pharmacokinetics 
No studies have been submitted on the potential impact of other CYP substrates on the metabolism of 
trabectedin. However, Brandon et al. (2005) reported that the cytotoxic activity of trabectedin could be 
increased in combination with the CYP inhibitors metyrapone (3A4), phenanthrene (substrate for 2E1, 
3A4), piperonyl butoxide (3A), proadifen (2C9, 2E1, 3A4), ritonavir (3A4), and warfarin (2C9, 2C19) 
in  the  Hep  G2  cell  line  in  vitro,  suggesting  that  combination  therapy  of  trabectedin  with  CYP 
inhibitors, e.g. other anticancer drugs, could lead to changes in hepatotoxicity and therefore might be 
of clinical importance. The same applies to co-administration of trabectedin and other Pg-p substrates. 
Toxicology 
Myelosupression  and  hepatoxicity  were  identified  as  the  primary  toxicity  for  trabectedin.  Findings 
observed included hematopoietic toxicity (severe leucopenia, anemia, and lymphoid and bone marrow 
depletion) as well as increases in liver function tests, hepatocellular degeneration, intestinal epithelial 
necrosis,  and  severe  local  reactions  at  the  injection  site.  Renal  toxicological  findings,  mainly 
histopathological changes, were detected in multi-cycle toxicity studies conducted in monkeys. Since 
the  interpretation  of  these  toxicological  results  might  have  been  hampered  due  to  the  occurrence  of 
©EMEA 2007 
9/37 
 
 
 
secondary  histological  kidney  lesions,  uncertainly  attributable  to  the  severe  local  reactions  at  the 
injection site, caution must be guaranteed in the interpretation of these renal findings, and treatment-
related renal toxicity cannot be excluded.  
Trabectedin  is  genotoxic  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  Long-term  carcinogenicity studies  have  not  been 
performed. 
Fertility  studies  with  trabectedin  were  not  performed  but  limited  histopathological  changes  were 
observed  in  the  gonads  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies.  Considering  the  nature  of  the  compound 
(cytotoxic and mutagenic), it is likely to affect the reproductive capacity. 
Trabectedin,  like  other  cytotoxic  agents,  is  a  highly  toxic  drug  requiring  careful  monitoring  of  the 
target organs of toxicity such as the liver, blood forming organs and gastro-intestinal tract.  
Trabectedin was a strong irritant causing severe injection site inflammation, necrosis and fibrosis in all 
IV toxicity studies, irrespective of species, as well as in a conventional rabbit test for local tolerance 
using  single and  repeated  IV  and  perivenous  dose  administration.  It  is  therefore  appropriate  that  the 
SPC recommends administration by slow intravenous infusion through a central venous line.  
The  proposed  impurity  specifications  comprise  six  substances  at  levels  above  the  qualification 
threshold. These have been qualified in single- and repeat-dose toxicity studies and/or clinical studies 
using batches of drug substance or drug product containing impurity levels in excess of the proposed 
specifications. None of the impurities has been tested for genotoxicity, but since trabectedin is itself a 
genotoxic substance intended for the treatment of cancer patients with a poor prognosis, this is not a 
cause for concern.  
No  environmental  risk  assessment  has  been  submitted.  The  small  number  of  patients  suffering  from 
the proposed indication would preclude any substantial environmental exposure to the drug. 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Introduction 
The  clinical  development  program  supporting  the  efficacy  of  trabectedin  in  the  treatment  of  STS 
includes one ongoing pivotal, randomised, unblinded, dose-finding, Phase-II study (ET743-STS-201) 
and 3 completed Phase II, non-controlled studies, ET-B-005-98, ET-B-008-98, and ET-B-017-99. The 
original  Phase  II  studies  included  a  variety  of  different  histological  types  of  STS,  whereas  the 
randomised,  pivotal  Phase  II  study  was  restricted  to  patients  with  L-sarcoma  (liposarcoma  and 
leiomyosarcoma).  
Yondelis must be administered under the supervision of a physician experienced in the use of 
chemotherapy. Its use should be confined to qualified oncologists or other health professionals 
specialised in the administration of cytotoxic agents. The recommended dose is 1.5 mg/m2 body 
surface area, administered as an intravenous infusion over 24-hr with a three-week interval between 
cycles. Administration through a central venous line is strongly recommended (see SPC section 6.6). 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. The applicant 
has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community were carried 
out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics 
•  Absorption  
Trabectedin  is  administered  as  a  constant  rate,  intravenous  infusion.  Therefore,  the  clinical 
that  assess  bioavailability, 
pharmacology  program  did  not 
bioequivalence, food, and effect. 
include  conventional  studies 
©EMEA 2007 
10/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Distribution 
Trabectedin is extensively bound to plasma proteins. The mean free (unbound) fraction, evaluated by 
equilibrium  dialysis,  was  2.23%  and  2.72%  at  10  ng/mL  and  100  ng/mL,  respectively.  Trabectedin 
was more extensively bound to alpha-1 acid glycoprotein (free fraction, 9.95% at 0.05 g/dL of protein 
and  3.34%  at  0.1  g/dL  of  protein)  as  compared  to  albumin  (free  fraction,  13.98%  at  4.3  g/dL  of 
protein)  in  purified  solutions  of  each  protein  at  physiological  concentrations.  Binding  to  plasma 
proteins  was  also  assessed  by  ultracentrifugation.  The  free  fraction  was  5.8%  at  a  total  trabectedin 
concentration of approximately 3 ng/ml. 
The  ratio  of  trabectedin  concentration  in  blood  versus  plasma  averaged  0.89  during  in  vitro  studies. 
Thus, trabectedin distributes to the cellular components of whole blood to some degree. 
The  population  estimate  of  distribution  volume  in  the  central  compartment  is  16.1  L  and  13.9  L  in 
male and female patients, respectively. The distribution volume at steady state is 6070 L and 5240 L, 
respectively.  
•  Elimination 
Trabectedin is metabolized by various routes that produce a wide range of metabolites upon incubation 
with  human  hepatic  subcellular  fractions  and  hepatocytes.  Those  identified  include  N-demethylation 
(formation of N-desmethyl trabectedin or ET-729), O-demethylation, carboxylic acid formation with 
and  without  additional  oxidation,  mono-oxidation  and  di-oxidation,  aliphatic  ring  opening,  and 
demethylation 
in  combination  with  mono-oxidation  or  with  di-oxidation.  No  appreciable 
glucuronidation  of  trabectedin  was  demonstrated.  In  addition,  no  metabolites  were  formed  after 
incubation with trabectedin with human whole blood. Although most major CYP enzymes metabolize 
trabectedin in vitro, CYP3A4 is considered to be the main CYP enzyme responsible for the oxidative 
metabolism of trabectedin at clinically relevant concentrations. 
Experiments  were  conducted  using  membrane  preparations  of  E.  coli  expressing  individual  human 
CYPs  together  with  human  reductase.  Disappearance  of  trabectedin  (5  µM  or  3.81  µg/mL)  and 
concomitant  formation  of  radiolabelled  metabolites  after  incubation  with  CYP1A2,  2A6,  2C8,  2C9, 
2C18, 2D6, 2E1, and 3A4 was observed. Virtually no metabolite formation was seen with CYP1B1, 
2C19,  and  4A11.  In  vitro  experiments  with  cDNA  expressed  human  enzymes  indicated  CYP2C9, 
2D6, 2E1, and 3A4 metabolize trabectedin (50 µM or 38.1 µg/mL), whereas no notable metabolism by 
CYP1A1, 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, and 2C19 was observed. 
As  supra-therapeutic  concentrations  were  used,  another  set  of  experiments  was  conducted  aimed  at 
identifying the major CYP enzymes involved at clinically relevant concentrations of trabectedin (7.62 
nM or 10 ng/mL). Trabectedin was incubated together with pooled human liver microsomes (male and 
female donors) and the disappearance of unchanged drug from the incubation mixture was quantified. 
Selective  chemical  inhibitors  and  inhibitory  antibodies  directed  against  specific  CYPs  were  used  as 
diagnostic tools.  
Trabectedin metabolism was markedly diminished by chemical inhibitors of CYP3A4 (ketoconazole 
and  troleandomycin)  and  selective  inhibitory  antibodies  directed  towards  this  enzyme.  Chemical 
inhibitors  and/or  antibodies  of  other  CYP  enzymes  had  no  effect.  The  latter  experiments  strongly 
suggest  CYP3A4  is  the  predominant  CYP  enzyme  responsible  for  the  hepatic  metabolism  of 
trabectedin. 
Study ET-A-013-01 was mass balance study of ET-743 administered as a 3- or 24-hour intravenous 
infusion to patients with advanced cancer conducted in order to characterize the metabolic profile and 
routes of excretion of trabectedin in patients with solid tumors (mass balance and metabolism study). 
The  study  included  8  patients  and  was  an  open-label,  non-randomized  study  including  full  PK 
sampling  during  Cycle  1.  Urine  and  fecal  samples  were  collected  for  metabolite  profiling  and 
identification. A majority of the radio labelled material excreted was recovered in the faeces (57.6% of 
the dose) and smaller amounts recovered in the urine (5.8% of the dose) over a collection interval of 
up to 24 days and 10 days, respectively (ET-A-013-01). Negligible quantities of unchanged drug were 
recovered in urine (<1% of the dose) and faeces, confirming the extensive metabolism of trabectedin 
in  vivo.  The  insignificant  urinary  excretion  of  unchanged  trabectedin  was  confirmed  during  3  other 
Phase I studies.  
©EMEA 2007 
11/37 
 
 
 
The active metabolite ET-729, which was extracted from faecal samples only under acidic conditions, 
accounted for a minor fraction of the total radioactivity recovered in faeces and has not been recovered 
in urine. 
The population pharmacokinetics model used a single clearance parameter to describe elimination of 
trabectedin  by  all  routes  (Population  Pharmacokinetic  Analysis  of  Trabectedin  (ET-743)  in  Patients 
With  Cancer).  The  typical  value  of  trabectedin  plasma  clearance  and  the  corresponding  intersubject 
variability were 31.5 L/h and 51%, respectively. 
Most trabectedin-derived metabolites have not been identified due to, in part, the low concentrations 
of  metabolites,  low  faecal  extraction  recoveries,  and  complex  metabolite  profile  of  trabectedin.  N-
desmethyl-trabectedin  (ET-729)  is  a  pharmacologically  active  metabolite  of  trabectedin.  Its 
concentrations  in  plasma  were  below  the  limit  of  quantification  of  0.1  ng/mL  in  samples  collected 
from  14  patients  administered  trabectedin  as  a  3-hour  or  24-hour  infusion  during  6  Phase  I  and  II 
studies.  The  glucuronide  conjugates  of  trabectedin  could  not  be  measured  in  plasma  samples  of 
trabectedin-treated  patients.  The  metabolism  of  trabectedin  was  investigated  using  urine  and  faeces 
collected from patients with cancer administered a single-dose of 14C-labelled trabectedin as a 3- or a 
24-h  intravenous  infusion  (ET-A-013-01).  Radio-chromatograms  of  faeces  showed  that  trabectedin 
was  extensively  metabolized  to  several  radio  labelled  metabolites  including  ET-745  (carbonyl 
metabolite), ET-731, and ETM-217. Metabolites ET-729, ET-759A, and ETM-259 were recovered in 
faeces only under acidic conditions. Metabolites recovered in urine included ET-745, ET-759A, ETM-
259,  and  ETM-204.  There  was  no  evidence  that  unchanged  trabectedin  undergoes  direct 
glucuronidation.  However,  at  least  one  oxidative  metabolite  appears  to  be  glucuronidated  prior  to 
urinary excretion. 
These results are supported data indicating that urine and bile samples of trabectedin-treated patients 
did not contain measurable concentrations of ET-729 or glucuronide conjugates of trabectedin.  
Both ET-745 and ET-759A are known degradants of trabectedin. In addition, the “ETM compounds” 
may  have  been  produced  via  fragmentation  of  trabectedin  and/or  its  metabolites  in  the  mass 
spectrometer  during  sample  analysis.  Therefore,  it  is  not  clear  if  these  compounds  are  genuine 
metabolites or artefacts. 
•  Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Dose-proportional pharmacokinetics were demonstrated for the 3-hour intravenous infusion as well as 
for the 24 hour infusion.  
•  Special populations 
A formal clinical study to evaluate the impact of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of 
trabectedin has not not performed since only a minor fraction of the total dose is excreted in the urine 
as unchanged drug or derived metabolites.  
A  population  analysis  showed  no  relationship  between  the  concentration  of  liver  enzymes  in  serum 
(ranges:  AST,  0.15  to  3.49  x  ULN;  ALT,  0.03  to  4.76  x  ULN; alkaline  phosphatase,  0.17  to  6.82  x 
ULN;  LDH,  0.25  to  20.38  x  ULN;  total  bilirubin,  0.08  to  4.00)  and  the  plasma  clearance  of 
trabectedin. 
Clinically significant association between gender and plasma clearance was not observed during the 
population pharmacokinetic analysis.  
A study to evaluate the impact of race/ethnicity on the clinical pharmacokinetics of trabectedin has not 
been performed.  
In  light  of  the  available  information  on  the  distribution  and  elimination  of  trabectedin,  clinically 
significant effects of race/ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of trabectedin are not expected and dose 
adjustments are not recommended. 
The population pharmacokinetic analysis indicated that the plasma clearance and distribution volume 
of trabectedin is not influenced by patient age (range, 19 to 83 years).  
©EMEA 2007 
12/37 
 
 
 
Study  ET-A-008-00  was  a  phase  1  open-label,  non-randomised,  dose-escalating  multicenter  study 
enrolling 12 patients with pediatric refractory solid tumours (data not shown). Definitive conclusions 
cannot be drawn given the relatively small sample size of paediatric patients in each dose group. 
•  Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
CYP3A4 is the main CYP enzyme responsible for the hepatic metabolism of trabectedin at clinically 
relevant concentrations. Therefore, co-administration with potent inducers or inhibitors of CYP3A4 is 
expected  to  reduce  or  increase,  respectively,  the  plasma  concentrations  of  trabectedin.  Trabectedin 
metabolism  was  markedly  diminished  by  chemical  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  (ketoconazole  and 
troleandomycin) and selective inhibitory antibodies directed towards this enzyme in vitro.  
Weekly administration of 0.3 to 0.65 mg/m2 of trabectedin as a 3-hour infusion (with dexamethasone 
prophylaxis)  to  patients  with  cancer  had  minimal  impact  on  the  in  vivo  activity  of  the  CYP3A4 
enzyme.  
A pharmacokinetic study of liposomal doxorubicin and trabectedin has been conducted (data not 
shown). 
Pharmacodynamics 
•  Mechanism of action 
No clinical studies on the mechanism of action of trabectedin have been submitted. 
•  Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
No clinical studies on the primary and secondary pharmacolgy of trabectedin have been submitted. 
Discussion on Clinical Pharmacology 
Systemic  exposure  after  administration  as  a  24 hour  constant  rate  intravenous  infusion  is  dose 
proportional at doses up to and including 1.8 mg/m2. Trabectedin pharmacokinetic profile is consistent 
with a multiple-compartment disposition model. 
Following  intravenous  administration,  trabectedin  demonstrates  a  high  apparent  volume  of 
distribution, consistent with extensive tissue and plasma protein binding (94 to 98% of trabectedin in 
plasma  is  protein  bound).  The  distribution  volume  at  steady  state  of  trabectedin  in  human  subjects 
exceeds 5000 l. 
Clinically significant effects of race/ethnicity on the pharmacokinetics of trabectedin are not expected 
and,  therefore,  dose  adjustments  are  not  recommended  at  the  moment.  Nevertheless,  the  applicant 
commited to analyse the influence of race on pharmacokinetics when the data of the ongoing Phase 3 
study ET743-OVA-301 in ovarian cancer be available. 
Pharmacokinetics in children have not been established.  
Cytochrome  P450  3A4  is  the  major  cytochrome  P450  isozyme  responsible  for  the  oxidative 
metabolism of trabectedin at clinically relevant concentrations. Other P450 enzymes may contribute to 
metabolism.  Trabectedin  does  not  induce  or  inhibit  major  cytochrome  P450  enzymes.  Trabectedin 
metabolism  was  markedly  diminished  by  chemical  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  (ketoconazole  and 
troleandomycin) and selective inhibitory antibodies directed towards this enzyme. Chemical inhibitors 
and/or antibodies of other CYP enzymes had no effect.  
Trabectedin  was  administered  as  a  1-,  3-,  24-,  or  72-hour  constant  rate,  intravenous  infusion. 
Maximum  concentrations  of  trabectedin  in  plasma  were  typically  observed  either  during  or 
immediately  prior  to  the  end  of  the  infusion.  The  drug  concentrations  then  declined  in  a 
multiexponential  manner  upon  cessation  of  the  intravenous  infusion.  Initially,  a  marked  and  rapid 
decline  in  plasma  concentrations  was  observed  which  was  followed  by  more  prolonged  distribution 
and terminal phases. 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  trabectedin,  with  respect  to  plasma  Cmax  and  AUC,  are  dose-proportional 
when  administered  as  a  24-hour  or  3-hour  intravenous  infusion  within  the  clinically  relevant  dose 
range.. Furthermore, it is agreed that assessments of dose-proportional pharmacokinetics for other time 
points  are  deemed  to  be  inconclusive.  It  is  considered  likely  that  only  little  or  no  accumulation  of 
©EMEA 2007 
13/37 
 
 
 
trabectedin in plasma will occur upon repeat administration of 1-hour or 3-hour infusions at 3-week 
intervals.  
Little or no accumulation was apparent in the plasma concentrations of trabectedin when 1.5 mg/m2 
was  given  as  a  24-hour  infusion  every  3  weeks.  In  agreement  with  this,  simulated  plasma 
concentration-time profiles also predicted minimal accumulation of trabectedin following this dosing 
regimen  
The  clearance  of  trabectedin  in  whole  blood  is  approximately  35  L/h.  Thus,  trabectedin  may  be 
classified as drug with a moderate extraction ratio. Variability in the pharmacokinetics of trabectedin 
was moderate to large. This can not be ascribed to one factor including gender, age body weight, body 
surface  area,  plasma  clearance,  or  measures  of  hepatic  function.  The  difference  demonstrated  in 
central volume in distribution associated to gender should be considered without clinical relevance 
The distribution volume at steady state of trabectedin in human patients exceeds 5000. These results 
suggest trabectedin distributes extensively into peripheral tissues (outside the central compartment).  
Trabectedin is extensively metabolized. Renal elimination of unchanged trabectedin in humans is low 
(less  than  1%).  The  terminal  half-life  is  long  (population  value  of  the  terminal  elimination  phase: 
180-hr).  After  a  dose  of  radiolabelled  trabectedin  administered  to  cancer  patients,  faecal  mean  (SD) 
recovery of total radioactivity is 58% (17%), and urinary mean (SD) recovery is 5.8% (1.73%). Based 
on the population estimate for plasma clearance of trabectedin (31.5 l/h) and blood/plasma ratio (0.89), 
the  clearance  of  trabectedin  in  whole  blood  is  approximately  35 l/h.  This  value  is  approximately 
one-half the rate of human hepatic blood flow. Thus the trabectedin extraction ratio can be considered 
moderate. The inter-patient variability of the population estimate for plasma clearance of trabectedin 
was 51% and intra-patient variability was 28%. 
A  population  pharmacokinetic  analysis  indicated  that  the  plasma  clearance  of  trabectedin  is  not 
influenced  by  age  (range  19-83  years),  or  gender.  The  effects  of  race  and  ethnicity  on  trabectedin 
pharmacokinetics have not been studied. 
There  is  no  relevant  influence  of  renal  function  measured  by  creatinine  clearance  on  trabectedin 
pharmacokinetics  within  the  range  of  values  (≥ 34.4 ml/min)  present  in  the  patients  included  in  the 
clinical studies. No data are available in patients with a creatinine clearance of less than 34.4 ml/min. 
The low recovery (< 9% in all studied patients) of total radioactivity in the urine after a single dose of 
14C-labelled  trabectedin  indicates  that  renal  impairment  has  little  influence  on  the  elimination  of 
trabectedin or its metabolites. 
Although  the  population  analysis  showed  no  relationship  between  the  serum  liver  enzymes 
concentrations  and  the  plasma  clearance  of  trabectedin,  systemic  exposure  to  trabectedin  may  be 
increased in patients with hepatic impairment; therefore close monitoring of toxicity is warranted. 
Clinical efficacy 
•  Dose response study(ies) 
In the first application, four phase I studies in patients with solid tumours were provided (ET-A.001, 
PMA-002-95, ET-A-003-95 and ET-A-004-97). These studies evaluated different schedules (1, 3, 24 
and 72 hour infusions weekly, every 21 days and 1 hour infusion for 5 days in a 21 day cycle). Doses 
evaluated  ranged  from  50  to  1800  µg/m2  every  three  weeks.  DLT  were  thrombocytopenia, 
pancytopenia, fatigue, lethargy, emesis, rhabdomyolysis and hepatotoxicity. MTD for both 3h and 24 
hour infusions were 1.8 mg. The 1h and 72h infusional regimes were considered less appropriate for 
further  phase  II  studies.  In  this  application,  an  additional  study  (ET-A-005-99)  was  provided.  This 
study tested 3 hour infusions weekly for three weeks in four week cycles at doses ranging from 300 to 
650 µg/m2 weekly, in 31 patients. DLT were neutropenia, hepatotoxicity and rhabdomyolysis and the 
MTD was 650 µg/m2. Antitumour activity was only evaluated in study ET-A-004-97 (72 h infusion) 
and ET-A-005-99. 
•  Main study(ies)  
A  randomized,  multicenter,  open-label  study  of  Yondelis  (ET-743  Ecteinascidin)  administered  by  2 
different  schedules  (weekly  for  3  of  4  weeks  vs.  q3  weeks)  in  subjects  with  locally  advanced  or 
©EMEA 2007 
14/37 
 
 
 
 
metastatic liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma following treatment with an anthracycline and ifosfamide 
(ET743-STS-201). 
METHODS 
Study Participants  
Treatments 
Objectives 
The  study  was  originally  designed  to  select  the  most  appropriate  schedule  for  further  testing. 
Following  protocol  amendment,  the  objective  was  to  compare  the  time  to  progression  (TTP)  after 
treatment  with  trabectedin,  administered  on  two  different  treatment  schedules  in  patients  with 
liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma (L-sarcomas) who had been previously treated with an anthracycline 
and ifosfamide. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The initial primary efficacy endpoint was the point estimate (95% CI) for clinical benefit, a composite 
rate of confirmed CR or PR or SD lasting for at least 24 weeks. If the true clinical benefit rate was less 
than  20%  (14  or  fewer  patients  achieving  clinical  benefit),  this  would  lead  to  not  recommending 
further  evaluation  of  the  dose  regimen.  Alternatively,  further  development  would  have  been 
recommended if 15 or more patients achieved clinical benefit. 
Promising preliminary descriptive data were publicly disclosed during an oral presentation at the 2004 
annual meeting of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO). These early descriptive data in 
80 evaluable patients suggested that the q3wk 24-h regimen might be more efficacious than the qwk 3-
h  schedule.  Moreover,  these  early  data  also  suggested  that  the  qwk  3-h  schedule  was  active  in  this 
clinical setting. This led to extension of the study expanding the sample size in order to allow a formal 
comparison  between  the  two  trabectedin  schedules,  changing  the  endpoint  to  time  to  progression 
(TTP).  Crossover  from  one  treatment  schedule  to  the  alternate  was  allowed  in  patients  after 
progressive disease to the treatment assigned by randomization.  
Secondary endpoints included to estimate the rate and duration of best overall objective response, to 
compare progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), to characterize the safety profile, 
and to estimate the pharmacokinetics of trabectedin. 
TTP was calculated as time between date of randomization (in ET743-STS-201 randomized study) or 
first dose (in the single-arm studies) and date of disease progression. Patients who were progression-
free at the time of data cut-off or died without disease progression in each study were censored at the 
date of the last tumor assessment. TTP was assessed by independent review. 
PFS was calculated as time between date of randomization (in ET743-STS-201 randomized study) or 
first  dose  (in  non-randomized  initial  studies)  and  date  of  disease  progression  or  death.  Patients  who 
were  progression-free  at  the  time  of  data  cut-off  in  each  study  were  censored  at  the  date  of  the  last 
tumor  assessment.  PFS  was  assessed  by  independent  review.  OS  was  calculated  between  date  of 
randomization (in ET743-STS-201 randomized study) or first dose (in the initial studies) and date of 
death. All patients who died, regardless of the cause of death, were considered to have had an event. 
Objective response was graded according to RECIST. 
Sample size 
The initial sample size of the original study was 45 patients in each study arm. The sample size was 
recalculated  with  the  protocol  amendment.  With  260  evaluable  patients  and  the  observation  of  217 
TTP  events  (final  analysis),  the  study  would  have  greater  than  90%  power  to  detect  a  minimum  of 
60% improvement in median TTP at a 2-sided 5%  significance level. 
Randomisation 
Subjects  were  centrally  assigned  to  either  arm  in  a  1:1  ratio  by  permuted-block  randomisation  and 
were stratified according to ECOG status (0-1).  
©EMEA 2007 
15/37 
 
 
 
Blinding (masking) 
It  was  an  open-label  study,  although  a  blinded  independent  radiological  review  panel  of  tumour 
assessments and an IDMC were instituted. 
Statistical methods 
The  final  version  of  the  SAP  is  dated  February  3rd,  2006.  Apparently,  the  database  for  the  interim 
analysis (locked after cut-off date the 31 May 2005) was planned to be made available to the sponsor 
on  13  February  2006.  In  August  05,  the  IDMC  conducted  an  analysis  on  the  interim  data  and 
recommended to advise patients still under treatment and progression-free, to cross over from the qwk 
to the q3wk arm. The efficacy evidence is based on the prospectively planned interim analysis of the 
amended study, which was to happen when 150 TTP events had taken place. The final analysis is to be 
performed  when  217  events  take  place,  with  alpha  0.25  for  each analysis.  TTP  was  to  be  compared 
using  a  2-sided  un-stratified  log-rank  test.  The  Kaplan-Meier  method  would  be  used  to  estimate  the 
distribution  functions  for  each  treatment  arm.  The  effect  of  baseline  prognostic  factors  on  time-to-
event  endpoints  was  to  be  analysed  using  Cox  regression  models.  The  primary  analysis  was  to  be 
based on tumour assessment from the independent radiological review on the “all randomised set”.   
The  date  of  progression  was  to  be  assigned  based  on  the  time  of  the  first  evidence  of  progression. 
Subjects who were lost to follow-up or who were still being treated without documented DP were to 
be censored at the time of the last tumour assessment. Apparently, no imputation of missing data was 
performed for the primary analysis. A patient was considered to have a missing tumour assessment if 
an assessment was not performed within 1.5 weeks of the scheduled assessment. However, the impact 
of  potential  missing  tumour  assessment  on  the  TTP  analysis  was  to  be  examined  by  2  imputation 
analyses. In the first one, the  midpoint of the last 2 assessment dates on or prior to the documented 
disease  progression  were  to  be  used  to  impute  the  date  of  DP.  In  the  second  one,  a  predetermined 
schedule  would  be  used.  A  TTP  analysis  based  on  the  imputed  data  was  to  be  performed.  In  this 
analysis,  all  progression  and  censoring  dates  were  to  be  imputed  by  their  corresponding  scheduled 
tumour assessment dates. 
©EMEA 2007 
16/37 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS 
Participant flow 
Recruitment 
Recruitment started on 12 May 2003. By August 2004 (when the major amendment was performed), 
146  patients  had  already  been  recruited,  and  by  cut-off  date  (May  2005)  266  patients  had  been 
randomized. 
Conduct of the study 
Eligibility exceptions were noted in 22 patients (16.4%) in qwk 3-h and in 13 (9.8%) in the q3wk 24-h 
arm. Deviations regarding efficacy assessments were detected in a similar number of patients in each 
treatment arm (approximately 9%).  
Baseline data 
Demographic  baseline  data,  including  age,  seem  to  be  evenly  distributed  among  treatment  arms.  In 
general,  there  were  no  evident  imbalances  regarding  EOCG  status,  time  from  initial  diagnosis, 
histology  or  histopathological  grade,  tumour  size,  liver  or  lung  metastasis,  or  previous  treatments. 
Virtually all patients had received both anthracyclines and ifosfamide. Information regarding next line 
therapy has not been provided. 
©EMEA 2007 
17/37 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographic characteristics 
©EMEA 2007 
18/37 
 
 
 
 
 
Primary tumour location and histology 
Patients were enrolled in the US (n=181), Russia (n=26), Canada (n=24), France (n=17), Italy (n=8), 
Australia (n=4), Belgium (n=3) and Spain (n=3). 
Numbers analysed 
The “all-randomised” set was used for the primary analysis (n=266).  
Outcomes and estimation 
Results for the primary and main efficacy secondary endpoints are shown in the following tables and 
figures. For visual comparison, the data on L-sarcoma population treated with 24-h regimen q3wk for 
the initial phase II studies (ET-B-005—98, ET-B-008-98, ET-B-017-99) are also provided (N=100, 
see Supportive Studies in the section on Clinical Efficacy). 
Time to Progression 
Time to Progression (Integrated L-sarcoma Population) 
©EMEA 2007 
19/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kaplan-Meier of Time to Progression (Integrated L-sarcoma Population) 
Progression-Free Survival (Integrated L-sarcoma Population) 
©EMEA 2007 
20/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Survival 
Kaplan-Meier of Overall Survival (Integrated L-sarcoma Population) 
Overall Response Rate 
There were no complete responses according to the independent review. Overall response rates were 
low  whereas  the  SD  rates  were  in  the  30%  -  50%  range.  The  rate  of  PD  as  best  response  was 
consistently below 50% in all three set of patients. Of note, 95% confidence intervals for PR, SD and 
PD overlap. 
©EMEA 2007 
21/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Best Overall Response (Integrated L-sarcoma Population) 
Ancillary analyses 
An Updated Clinical Study Report was submitted including a number of new statistical analyses. The 
key efficacy result of the ET743-STS-201 study, i.e., the final TTP primary analysis per independent 
review, assessed at cut-off date 31 May 2006, shows statistically significant differences favouring the 
q3wk  24-h  regime  (log-rank  p=0.0302;  significance  level  for  206  progression  events  after  alpha 
spending adjustment foreseen in the Statistical Analysis Plan, p=0.0340). The results are summarised 
in  Table  XXX.  Different  TTP  sensitivity  analyses  were  conducted  to  assess  the  impact  of  different 
methods  of  adjudication  of  progression  in  case  of  missing  evaluations  (data  not  shown).  These 
sensitivity analyses consistently showed similar relative risk reductions in each assessment for patients 
treated  in  the  q3wk  24-h  arm.  The  results  were  statistically  significant  in  the  primary,  protocol-
specified analysis of TTP as well as in the majority of sensitivity analyses. 
Summary  of  final  results  for  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint:  time  to  progression  as  per 
independent review (ET743-STS-201 study) 
Efficacy variables 
qwk 3-h 
(n=134)  
q3wk 24-h 
(n=136)  
LR* (p-value) HR* 
(p-value)  
TTP, months (independent review) 
Number of events, n (%) Median (95% 
CI) No PD at 3 months, % (95% CI) No 
PD at 6 months, % (95% CI)  
102 (76.1%) 
2.3 (2.0-3.5) 
45.1% (36.3-
53.9%) 27.3% 
(19.0-35.6%)  
104 (76.5%) 3.7 
(2.1-5.4) 53.4% 
(44.6-62.2%) 
37.2% (28.4-
46.0%)  
. LR: 4.698 
(p=0.0302)** HR: 
0.734 (p=0.0320) . .  
Data for TTP are shown for all randomised patients. *Log rank and HR q3wk 24-h vs. qwk 3-h group. ** The level of 
significance (log-rank) to be reached for 206 events after alpha spending adjustment was =0.0340. CI, 
confidence interval; HR, hazard ratio; LR, log-rank; PD, progressive disease; TTP, time to progression. 
In a multivariate analysis including all available variables, the known prognostic factors for metastatic 
STS  emerged  as  independent  prognostic  factors.  In  a  multivariate  model,  the  statistically  significant 
treatment effect was confirmed (HR=0.680; p=0.0174). 
The  results  of  the  different  time-to-event  analyses  (TTP,  PFS  and  OS)  conducted  in  the  all 
randomised,  all  treated  and  confirmed  L-sarcoma  data  sets  demonstrated  a  consistent  pattern  of 
treatment benefit favouring the q3wk 24-h trabectedin regimen (data not shown).  
There were no statistically significant differences in TTP outcomes pre-vs. post-amendment. The HRs 
reflecting  the  greater  benefit  associated  with  the  q3wk  24-h  regime  over  the  qwk  3-h  regime  were 
virtually identical in both cohorts (0.729 vs. 0.738) and consistent with the HR of 0.734 obtained in 
the intention-to-treat (ITT) population of 270 randomised patients.   
©EMEA 2007 
22/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tumour shrinkage of any magnitude assessed by independent review was achieved by 50.5% 
of patients treated with the trabectedin q3wk 24-h regime as compared to 32.4% of patients 
treated with trabectedin qwk 3-h.  
The  sponsor  was  asked  to  submit  an  updated  exploratory  survival  analysis  (including  an  analysis 
censoring patients at time of cross-over to the alternative regimen). At the most recent cut-off date (25 
May 2007), a total of 206 deaths had been reported in all randomised patients (last death recorded on 
19  April  2007):  106  deaths  in  the  qwk  3-h  arm  and  100  deaths  in  the  q3wk  24-h  arm.  The  median 
follow-up was 30.0 months (95% CI, 25.0-36.6 months) in the q3wk 24-h arm and 27.9 months (95% 
CI, 23.6-37.3 months) in the qwk 3-h arm (p=0.7838). Forty-three patients (32.1%) crossed over from 
the qwk 3-h to the q3wk 24-h arm, most of them (29 patients) after progression of the disease. Only 
six  patients  (4.4%)  crossed  over  from  the  q3wk  24-h  to  the  qwk  3-h  arm,  all  of  them  after  disease 
progression. Additional OS analyses have been done by censoring patients at the time of crossover to 
the alternative trabectedin regime. Censoring of patients at time of crossover to the alternative regime 
increased the difference in overall survival between treatment arms (data not shown). The survival at 
12 months was in the range of 48.5-51.4% in the qwk 3-h arm and in the range of 60.2-66.7% in the 
q3wk  24-h  arm.  In  this  exploratory  analyses,  an  improvement  in  one  year  survival  with  trabectedin 
q3wk 24-h was observed in the “all randomised” population and the most important effect  was found 
in the “all treated” and “confirmed L-sarcoma” populations (data not shown). 
•  Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The  applicant  provided  a  separate  analysis,  for  patients  with  liposarcoma  or  leyomiosarcoma 
compared  to  patients  with  other  kinds  of  STS.  Comparison  of  efficacy  data  obtained  in  the 
ET743-STS-201  study  vs.  pooled  data  from  three  previous  phase  II  trials  with  the  q3wk  24-h 
trabectedin regime 
ET743-STS-201  
(interim data 31-05-2006) 
q3wk 24-h 
132 
qwk 3-h 
134 
Total 
266 
Pooled data previous  
phase II studies q3wk 24-h 
Non-L-sarcomas 
83 
L-sarcomas 
100 
Total 
183 
2.1 
(1.9-3.6) 
46.1 
(35.9-56.4) 
28.9 
(19.0-38.7) 
2.1 
(1.9-3.4) 
45.1 
(35.2-55.0) 
26.9  
(17.6-36.2) 
3.8 
(2.1-5.4) 
53.1 
(42.9-63.3) 
37.1 
(26.4-47.8) 
3.5 
(2.0-4.5) 
50.2 
(40.3-60.1) 
34.6 
(24.5-44.7) 
3.0 
(2.1-3.8) 
49.7 
(42.5-56.9) 
32.9 
(25.6-40.2) 
2.5 
(2.0-3.6) 
47.7 
(40.7-54.7) 
30.6 
(23.7-37.5) 
3.4 
(1.7-3.9) 
51.7 
(41.6-61.8) 
25.0 
(16.1-33.9) 
2.7 
(1.7-3.7) 
48.8 
(38.8-58.7) 
23.6 
(15.1-32.1) 
1.9 
(1.6-3.0) 
40.0 
(29.0-51.0) 
19.1 
(9.7-28.4) 
1.8 
(1.5-2.9) 
38.3 
(27.8-48.8) 
19.0 
(10.1-28.0) 
2.7 
(1.7-3.5) 
46.5 
(39.0-53.9) 
22.4 
(15.9-28.8) 
2.3 
(1.6-3.2) 
44.0 
(36.8-51.3) 
21.5 
(15.3-27.7) 
n 
TTP 
Median (months) 
No PD at 3 months (%) 
No PD at 6 months (%) 
PFS 
Median (months) 
PFS >3 months (%) 
PFS >6 months (%) 
OS 
Median (months) 
% Alive at 12 months 
% Alive at 24 months 
16.7  
(12.2-nr) 
61.6 
(50.5-72.6) 
NA 
11.8  
(8.9-14.9) 
49.4 
(37.9-60.9) 
NA 
10.3 
(8.7-13.9) 
47.5 
(40.2-54.8) 
29.3  
22.6-36.0 
7.7 
(4.3-12.5) 
Data shown are per independent review. In brackets, 95% confidence intervals (CI). nr, upper limit not reached. L-sarcomas, liposarcoma 
or leiomyosarcoma; NA, not available; RR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; PFS, progression-free survival; TTP, time to 
progression.. 
11.2 
(9.1-17.2) 
49.3 
(39.5-59.2) 
34.7  
(25.3-44.2) 
12.0 
(6.4-20.0) 
8.7 
(5.7-13.9) 
45.2 
(34.4-56.0) 
22.8  
13.6-31.9 
2.4 
(0.3-8.4) 
13.4 
(11.1-15.9) 
55.4 
(47.4-63.5) 
NA 
2.5 
(0.8-5.8) 
1.0 
(0.0-5.5) 
4.0 
(1.1-9.9) 
RR (%) 
•  Clinical studies in special populations 
No  specific  studies  have  been  performed  in  special  populations.  Children  were  not  included  in  the 
pivotal study. Twelve patients aged ≤ 16 were enrolled within two phase II studies.  
Thirty-five  (13.2%)  patients  over  65  were  included  in  the  pivotal  trial.  In  the  SPC  it  is  stated  that 
plasma clearance and distribution volume is not influenced by age, so the same initial dose should be 
recommended in elderly patients. 
Conventional  restrictions  of  liver  function  parameters  were  used  in  the  pivotal  trial.  In  addition, 
patients with active viral hepatitis, chronic liver disease or creatinine above the ULN were excluded 
©EMEA 2007 
23/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from the pivotal trial. Approximately 15% of patients in each treatment arm had hepatic metastasis at 
baseline. 
•  Supportive study(ies) 
Results  from  phase  II,  non-comparative  studies  ET-B-005-98,  ET-B-008-98  and  ET-B-017-99  are 
provided  as  supportive  evidence.  These  studies  included  STS  patients  with  up to  2  prior  treatments, 
measurable disease, WHO PS <2, adequate hematologic, hepatic and renal function. Trabectedin was 
administered with the same q3wk 24-h dose and regime and the population was similar in these three 
studies (patients with STS after failure of previous chemotherapy), although for study 017, PD was not 
a formal requirement for eligibility. Evaluations were performed every 6 weeks. The primary endpoint 
was  RR  according  to  the  WHO  criteria.  In  the  provided  analysis,  patients  with  GIST  and  Ewing’s 
sarcoma were excluded (6 patients). Results are summarised in the following table.  
Results of phase II uncontrolled studies 
n  
RR (%) 
TTP 
 Median (months) 
No PD at 3 months (%) 
No PD at 6 months (%) 
PFS 
Median (months) 
PFS >3 months (%) 
PFS >6 months (%) 
OS 
Median (months) 
% Alive at 12 months 
% Alive at 24 months 
ET-B-005-98 
(Group A) 
44 
9.1 
(2.5-21.7) 
ET-B-005-98 
(Group C) 
55 
10.9 
(4.1-22.3) 
ET-B-008-98 
(Group 1) 
23 
0 
(0-14.8) 
ET-B-008-98 
(Group 2) 
27 
3.7 
(0.9-19.0) 
3.1 
(2.0-3.9) 
52.6 
(36.8-68.5) 
20.5 
(7.4-33.5) 
2.6 
(1.4-3.7) 
45.5 
(30.7-60.2) 
17.7 
(6.2-29.1) 
8.7 
(5.5-11.7) 
34.1 
(20.1-48.1) 
18.2  
(6.8-29.6) 
2.9 
(1.8-4.6) 
49.7 
(36.3-63.1) 
23.7 
(11.5-36.0) 
2.9 
(1.8-4.6) 
49.7 
(36.3-63.1) 
23.7 
(11.5-36.0) 
13.9 
(8.9-19.4) 
53.8 
(40.5-67.1) 
32.5  
(19.8-45.2) 
1.9 
(1.5-3.9) 
47.6 
(26.1-69.2) 
26.5 
(6.9-46.0) 
1.9 
(1.5-3.9) 
41.4 
(20.8-62.0) 
23.0 
(5.4-40.7) 
12.9 
(6.9-26.6) 
52.2 
(31.8-72.6) 
39.1  
(19.2-59.1) 
2.2 
(1.3-5.0) 
44.4 
(25.7-63.2) 
25.9 
(9.4-42.5) 
2.2 
(1.3-5.0) 
44.4 
(25.7-63.2) 
25.9 
(9.4-42.5) 
10.7 
(4.2-17.2) 
42.4 
(23.1-61.6) 
25.4 
 (8.1-42.7) 
ET-B-017-99 
34 
8.8 
(1.9-23.7) 
1.6 
(1.3-3.5) 
34.6 
(18.0-51.3) 
16.2 
(2.5-29.8) 
1.6 
(1.3-2.8) 
33.8 
(17.6-50.0) 
17.6 
(4.2-30.9) 
12.6 
(8.1-24.2) 
55.9 
(39.2-72.6) 
35.3  
(19.2-51.4) 
Total 
(pooled data) 
183 
7.7 
(4.3-12.5) 
2.7  
(1.7-3.5) 
46.5 
 (39.0-53.9) 
22.4  
(15.9-28.8) 
2.3 
(1.6-3.2) 
44.0 
(36.8-51.3) 
21.5 
(15.3-27.7) 
10.3 
(8.7-13.9) 
47.5 
(40.2-54.8) 
29.3  
(22.6-36.0) 
Data shown are per independent review. In brackets, 95% confidence intervals (CI). 005-A: first cohort or pretreated STS patients in 
ET-B-005-98 study. 005-C: second cohort or pretreated STS patients in the ET-B-005-98 study. 008(1): moderately pre-treated STS patients 
(≤2 single agents or one combination regime) in ET-B-008-98 study. 008(2): extensively pre-treated STS patients (≥3 different single agents 
or >1 combination regime, or one combination and one or more single agents) in ET-B-008-98 study. The final reports of these three phase II 
trials had a total of 189 patients. For the current analysis, six patients were excluded: four with GIST in ET-B-008-98 study (3 in arm 008(1) 
and one in arm 008(2), and 2 patients with Ewing’s sarcoma in ET-B-017-99 study. RR, objective response rate; OS, overall survival; PFS, 
progression-free survival; TTP, time to progression. 
•  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  main  study  evaluated  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  trabectedin,  administered  by  two  2  different 
treatment  regimens  in  266  patients  with  locally  advanced  or  metastatic  leiomyosarcoma  or 
liposarcoma  (L-sarcoma)  whose  disease  had  relapsed  or  become  refractory  after  treatment  with  an 
anthracycline  and  ifosfamide  that  had  been  given  either  in  combination  or  in  sequence.  The 
distributions  of  demographic  characteristics  were  well  balanced  in  the  two  study  groups.  The  two 
study  groups  were  well  balanced  regarding  important  prognostic  variables  e.g.  age,  ECOG 
performance status (PS score of 0 or 1), histology (liposarcoma or leimyosarcoma), histopathological 
tumor grade, presence of liver metastases, bulky disease and time from diagnosis to treatment. 
The  interim  analysis  presented  showed  a  median  TTP  (according  to  the  independent  review)  of  2.1 
months (95% CI, 1.9-3.6 months) in the qwk 3-h group and 3.8 months (95% CI, 2.1-5.4 months) in 
the q3wk 24-h group (log-rank p=0.0382), which represents a clinically significant difference. These 
results  were  not  statistically  significant  at  the  5%  level  after  considering  the  alpha  spending 
adjustement. However, consistent trends were observed for other time-dependent variables (PFS and 
OS). 
The updated analyses provided further evidence to support the existence of a significant difference in 
terms of TTP and PFS. The further analyses did not suggest significant effects on OS but this might be 
©EMEA 2007 
24/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
due  to  cross-over,  although  some  support  came  from  exploratory  analyses  of  OS  censoring  patients 
before cross-over. 
The final study report confirms the conclusions from the interim analysis provided in the initial MAA. 
Trabectedin has a definite antitumour activity in patients with STS whether the qwk 3-h or the q3wk 
24-h regimens are used. The latter regimen seems to be the optimal one supported by robust TTP and 
PFS data assessed by an independent review panel.  The results of the study in these time dependent 
variable are regarded as strongly consistent across the different sensitivity analyses carried out by the 
Applicant as per the CHMP request and confirmed in the final study results. 
There were a number of methodological deficiencies that hampered the assessment of the efficacy of 
trabectedin in the treatment of STS. Crucial aspects included the timing and sponsor’s access to data at 
the time of protocol amendment leading to a change of the primary endpoint. Although the decision to 
amend  to  protocol  was  data-driven,  sufficient  reassurance  is  provided  in  the  exploratory  analyses 
presented to indicate that the conclusions as regards a clinically significant effect on TTP still hold. 
Clinical safety 
•  Patient exposure 
Following the most recent update, the assessment of the clinical safety of Yondelis is based on data 
from clinical trials of 569 patients treated up to April 2007 with the recommended treatment regimen 
in  several  cancer  types  including  soft  tissue  sarcoma,  breast  cancer,  osteosarcoma,  ovarian  cancer, 
GIST,  melanoma  and  renal  carcinoma.  This  database  is  used  as  the  basis  for  the  description  of 
undesirable  effects  in  the  SPC.  The  assessment  of  clinical  safety  has  also  included    the  “integrated 
safety database” for the initial safety summary, consisting of a total of 1018 cancer patients receiving 
trabectedin  in  phase  II  clinical  studies  (511  of  whom  had  received  trabectedin  at  the  proposed 
schedule).  A  larger  series  also  described  includes  any  patients  with  advanced  malignancies  that  had 
been treated with trabectedin (as of 31 May 2005, 3087 patients). Updated safety databases have also 
been provided during the procedure (data not shown). 
The  median  number  of  cycles  initiated  was  2  (range  1-38;  mean  3.83)  for  patients  receiving 
trabectedin in the integrated safety database. The median duration of exposure, was 8.4 weeks (range 
2- 125.9; mean 14.31 weeks). The median cumulative trabectedin dose was 3.50 mg/m2 for patients in 
the  integrated  safety  database  and  very  similar  (3.0  mg/m2)  for  patients  receiving  the  q3wk  24-h 
regimen (Table 8). Median relative dose intensity was 90% for a treatment essentially administered in 
late-stage  palliation.  Single-agent  trabectedin  q3wk  24-h  has  been  consistently  administered  across 
studies for 6 or more cycles in 24% of patients, 10 or more cycles in 6% of patients, and some patients 
receiving treatment for more than 2 years (the maximum treatment duration was 125.9 weeks in one 
patient treated with q3wk 24-h schedule). 
•  Adverse events  
Concerning the 569 patients database, approximately 91% of patients can be expected to have adverse 
reactions of any grade. Around 40% of patients are expected to have adverse reactions of grade 3 or 4 
severity.  The  most  common  adverse  reactions  of  any  severity  grade  were  nausea,  fatigue,  vomiting, 
anorexia, neutropenia, and increases in AST/ALT.  
Adverse reactions 
The  frequencies  of  the  adverse  reactions  reported  below  are  classified  as  very  common  (≥ 1/10), 
common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) and uncommon (≥ 1/1000 to < 1/100). 
The table below displays the adverse reactions reported in ≥ 1% of patients according to the standard 
MedDRA  system  organ  class.  Both  adverse  events  and  laboratory  values  have been  used  to provide 
frequencies. Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects are presented in order of decreasing 
seriousness. 
Most frequent adverse reactions 
For  Blood  and  Lymphatic  system  and  Hepatobiliary    disorders  (see  laboratory  findings).  Nausea, 
vomiting, diarrhoea and constipation: Nausea and vomiting were reported in 63 and 38.5% of patients 
respectively. Grade 3-4 nausea and vomiting were reported in 6% and 6.5% of patients, respectively. 
Grade 3-4 diarrhoea and constipation were reported in less than 1% of patients. Stomatitis: Grade 3-4 
©EMEA 2007 
25/37 
 
 
 
mucositis was reported in less than 1% of the patients. Fatigue/Asthenia: Grade 3-4 fatigue/asthenia 
occurred in 9 and 1% of patients respectively. Anorexia: Grade 3-4 anorexia occurred in less than 1% 
of the patients. Dyspnoea: Grade 3-4 dyspnoea reported as trabectedin related occurred in 2% of the 
patients.  Alopecia: Alopecia was reported in approximately 3% of all patients, of which the majority 
was grade 1 alopecia. 
Adverse reactions reported in ≥ 1% of patients in clinical trials at the 
recommended regime [1.5 mg/m2, 24 hour infusion every 3 weeks (24-h q3wk)] 
Very Common 
Blood creatine phosphokinase increased, Blood creatinine increased, Blood albumin 
decreased 
Common 
Weight decreased 
Very Common 
Neutropenia, Thrombocytopenia, Anaemia, Leukopenia 
Common 
Febrile neutropenia  
Very Common 
Headache 
Common 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy, Dysgeusia, Dizziness, Paraesthesia 
Common 
Dyspnoea, Cough 
Very Common 
Vomiting , Nausea, Constipation 
Common 
Diarrhoea , Stomatitis, Abdominal pain, Dyspepsia, Upper abdominal pain 
Common 
Alopecia 
Common 
Myalgia, Arthralgia, Back pain  
System Organ 
Class 
Investigations 
Blood and 
Lymphatic System 
Disorders 
Nervous System 
Disorders 
Respiratory, 
Thoracic and 
Mediastinal 
Disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
Subcutaneous 
Tissue Disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and Connective 
Tissue Disorders 
Metabolism and 
Nutrition Disorders 
Very Common 
Anorexia 
Common 
Dehydration, Decreased appetite, Hypokalaemia  
Infections and 
Common 
Infection 
Infestations 
Vascular Disorders  Common 
General Disorders 
and Administration 
Site Conditions 
Hepatobiliary 
Disorders 
Psychiatric 
Disorders 
Hypotension, Flushing 
Very Common 
Fatigue, Asthenia 
Common 
Pyrexia, Oedema, Oedema peripheral, Injection site reaction  
Very Common 
Hyperbilirubinemia, Alanine aminotransferase increased, Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased, Blood alkaline phosphatase  increased, Gamma-glutamyltransferase 
increased 
Common 
Insomnia 
In  the  integrated  safety  database,  between  49%  and 57%  of  patients  experienced  Grade  3-4  AEs,  of 
which approximately two-thirds were considered related to study drug. The most common AEs in all 3 
groups  were  nausea,  fatigue,  vomiting,  and  constipation.  The  most  frequent  drug-related  Grade  3-4 
©EMEA 2007 
26/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AEs  in  this  category  were  neutropenia,  transaminase  elevations,  nausea,  fatigue,  asthenia,  vomiting, 
and thrombocytopenia.  
Drug-related Grade 3 or 4 AEs in ≥1% of Patients in Either Treatment Group by Preferred 
Term (Integrated safety database) 
•  Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
The overall frequency of patients with ≥1 SAE regardless of grade and causality attribution was 28% 
and  was  similar  across  regimens  (27%  -  29%).  The  most  frequent  SAEs  were  also  similar  for  the  3 
regimens:  dyspnea,  vomiting,  nausea,  pyrexia,  and  abdominal  pain.  Deep  vein  thrombosis  had  a 
frequency of 3% in the q3wk 24-h group but only 1% in the qwk 3-h group and none in the q3wk 3-h 
group. A total of 10% of patients had drug-related SAEs, with an incidence in the q3wk 24-h group 
(7%)  which  was  about  half  that  in  the  q3wk  3-h  group  (13%).  Drug-related  SAEs  that  occurred  in 
more than one patient in the q3wk 24-h group were nausea (2%), vomiting (2%), neutropenia (1%), 
and  pyrexia  (1%).  A  total  of  8%  of  patients  had  drug-related  Grade  3-4  SAEs;  the  incidence  was 
approximately 2-fold higher in the q3wk 3-h group (12%) compared to the qwk 3-h (7%) and q3wk 
24-h (6%) groups. 
©EMEA 2007 
27/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug-related SAEs in ≥1% of Patients in any Dose Group by Preferred Term (Available data 
population) 
In the integrated database, of 1018 treated patients, 29 (3%) died in association with an AE occurring 
during  treatment  or  within  30  days  of  the  last  dose  of  treatment.  Similar  percent  of  patients  in  each 
group (q3wk 24h 1.8%, qwk 3h 1.0%, q3wk 3h 1.5%) died in association with AEs that were assessed 
by  the  investigator  to  be  related  to  study  drug.  In  the  569  patients  database,  fatal  adverse  reactions 
have  occurred  in  1.9%  of  patients.  They  were  often  the  result  of  a  combination  of  events  including 
pancytopenia,  febrile  neutropenia,  some  of  them  with  sepsis,  hepatic  involvement,  renal  failure  and 
rhabdomyolysis. 
•  Laboratory findings 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
In  the  569  patients  database  transient  grade  3  increases  of  aspartate  aminotransferase  (AST)  and 
alanine aminotransferase (ALT) were observed in 38% and 44% of the patients and grade 4 elevations 
in 3% and 7% of the patients, respectively. The median time to reach the peak values was 5 days for 
both AST and ALT. Most of the values had decreased to grade 1 or resolved by day 14-15. Grade 3 
elevations of AST and ALT occurred in 12% and 20% of cycles respectively. Grade 4 elevations of 
AST and ALT occurred in 1% and 2% of cycles respectively. Most transaminase elevations improved 
to grade 1 or to pre-retreatment levels within 15 days, and less than 2% of cycles had recovering times 
longer  than  25  days.  ALT  and  AST  increases  did  not  follow  a  cumulative  pattern  but  showed  a 
tendency towards less severe elevations over time. Grades 1 to 2 bilirubin increases were observed in 
23%  of  the  patients.  Grade  3  hyperbilirubinemia  occurred  in  1%  of  patients.  Bilirubin  peaks 
approximately  a  week  after  onset  and  resolves  approximately  two  weeks  after  onset.  Clinical 
manifestations of severe hepatic injury were uncommon with a lower than 1% incidence of individual 
signs  and  symptoms  including  jaundice,  hepatomegaly  or  liver  pain.  Mortality  in  the  presence  of 
hepatic injury occurred in less than 1% of patients. 
In a completed drug combination Phase I study (ET743-USA-11), 8 patients volunteered to undergo 
liver  biopsies.  All  patients  had  been  treated  with  a  combination  of  pegylated  liposomal  doxorubicin 
and trabectedin 1.1 mg/m2 with dexamethasone prophylaxis. Biopsy findings were consistent with a 
non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, with severity ranging from minimal steatosis to moderate steatosis with 
fibrosis. Pre- and post treatment biopsies showed no changes in 3 cases. One patient had minimal post-
treatment steatosis. No mitochondrial abnormalities or stellate cell activation were observed. 
©EMEA 2007 
28/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hematological Toxicity 
In  the  569  patients  database  neutropenia  occurred  in  77%  of  patients.  Grade  3  and  4  neutropenia 
occurred in 26% and 24% of patients respectively. The analysis per cycle showed that neutropenia of 
grade  3  and  4  occurred  in  approximately  19%  and  8%  of  cycles  respectively.  Febrile  neutropenia 
occurred in 2% of patients and in < 1% of cycles. Neutropenia followed a predictable pattern of rapid 
onset  and  reversibility,  and  was  rarely  associated  with  fever  or  infection.  In  the  integrated  safety 
database  seven  patients  (1%)  in  the  q3wk  24-h  schedule  had  a  grade  3-4  infectious  episode 
concomitant with grade 3-4 neutropenia. 
Grade 3 and 4 thrombocytopenia occurred in 11% and 2% of patients respectively. The analysis per 
cycle  showed  that  thrombocytopenia  of  grade  3  and  4  occurred  in  approximately  3%  and  < 1%  of 
cycles respectively. Bleeding events associated to thrombocytopenia occurred in < 1% of patients. 
Anaemia occurred in 93% of patients although 46% of patients were anaemic at baseline. Grade 3 and 
4  anaemia  occurred  in  10%  and  3%  of  patients  respectively.  The  analysis  per  cycle  showed  that 
anaemia of grade 3 and 4 occurred in approximately 3% and 1% of cycles respectively.  
A  summary  of  hematological  toxicity  in  the  integrated  safety  database  is  provided  in  the  following 
table.  Most  patients  in  each  group  had  hematological  toxicities  of  some  kind  during  trabectedin 
treatment.  NCI  CTC  Grade  3-4  hematological  toxicities  were  highest  for  neutrophils  and  WBC  and 
were higher in the q3wk 24-h group than in the other 2 groups. 
Hematological Tests by Worst On-treatment Toxicity Grade (Integrated safety database) 
CPK elevations of any grade were observed in 26% of patients. Grade 3 or 4 increases of CPK were 
observed in 4% of patients. CPK increases in association with rhabdomyolysis were reported in less 
than 1% of patients. 
Secondary  myelodysplasia  and  acute  leukemia  were  observed  in  3  patients  with  advanced 
malignancies that had been treated with trabectedin (as of 31 May 2005, 3087 patients). The diagnosis 
occurred  after  administration  of  2,  12,  and  14  trabectedin  treatment  cycles.  All  3  patients  who 
©EMEA 2007 
29/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
developed  acute  myeloid  leukemia  had  exposure  to  doxorubicin,  and  2  of  these  patients  had  prior 
radiation therapy. 
•  Safety in special populations 
There were no clinically relevant differences in the incidence of AEs, drug-related AEs, AEs leading 
to discontinuation, or deaths across the following groups: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Type of Cancer: L-sarcoma, non-L-sarcoma, Other cancers (q3wk 24-h only) 
Age: < 65, ≥ 65. 
Gender: Male, Female. 
Race, Region (US, Canada, Europe), Others, BMI, ECOG. 
The  safety  of  trabectedin  in  pregnant  or  lactating  women  has  not  been  established.  Whether 
trabectedin is secreted in milk has not been determined in animals nor in humans. 
One  pregnancy  occurred  in  a  22-year-old  woman  with  osteosarcoma  who  was  receiving  trabectedin 
1.3  mg/m2  as  a  24-h  infusion  every  3  weeks  under  compassionate-use.  Study  medication  was 
discontinued  after  4  cycles  of  treatment,  and  the  pregnancy  was  terminated  at  20  weeks’  gestation. 
Upon autopsy, the fetus’ pathology was normal. 
•  Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No formal analyses of drug-drug or drug-disease interactions were conducted. 
•  Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In  the  q3wk  24-h  group,  67%  patients  did  not  require  any  dose  reduction,  while  7%  had  1  dose 
reduction, 22% had 2 dose reductions, and 4% had 3 or more dose reductions. The qwk 3-h and the 
q3wk  3-h  regimens  required  more  dose  reductions.  Most  dose  reductions  were  the  result  of 
nonhematologic  toxicity,  whereas  hematologic  toxicity  represented  only  2%  to  9%  and  the 
combination of both toxicities only 1%. In the q3wk 24-h group 56% of patients required 1 (25%), 2 
(8%), or 3 or more (24%) treatment cycle delays of any length. Most of those delays were the result of 
hematologic  toxicity  (35%),  10%  were  due  to  nonhematologic  toxicity,  and  10%  were  due  to  other 
reasons. The most common reason for discontinuation was disease progression (66%); 8% of patients 
discontinued  treatment  in  association  with  AEs.  There  were  no  clinically  noteworthy  differences 
between treatment groups with respect to reasons for discontinuation. 
•  Post marketing experience 
None available. 
•  Discussion on clinical safety 
Significant  hematological  and  hepatic  toxicity  has  been  observed,  although  toxicity  was  usually 
reversible  and  cumulative  toxicity  has  not  been  observed.  The  proposed  posology  clearly  causes  a 
higher  incidence  of  hematologic  and  hepatic  toxicity  than  the  other  treatment  regimen.  The  most 
common Grade 3-4 AEs in the q3wk 24-h dose group were increased ALT (12%), neutropenia (12%), 
increased AST (8%), and dyspnea, fatigue, nausea, and vomiting (7% each). The most frequent SAEs 
were  dyspnea,  vomiting,  nausea,  pyrexia,  and  abdominal  pain.  Liver  toxicity  usually  presenting  as 
transaminitis  and  neutropenia  are  considered  to  be  the  two  dose  limiting  toxicities.  Mortality 
associated with hepatic injury has been rare (<1%).  
The  development  of  rhabdomyolysis  (associated  with  death  in  5  patients  (0.5%),  in  the  integrated 
safety  database)  is  of  concern  and  the  adherence  to  the  treatment  criteria  in  part  4.2  of  the  SPC  is 
essential.  
The  results  regarding  dose  reductions,  cycle  delays  and  treatment  discontinuations  confirm  that  the 
proposed  posology  is  close  to  the  threshold  where  a  majority  of  patients  would  experience  dose 
limiting toxicity. 
©EMEA 2007 
30/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant has provided updated safety data with a cut-off date of April 30th, 2007 (original cut-off 
date May 31st 2005). Overall, the safety database has been increased with data from 1403 additional 
patients, whilst the integrated safety database (patients included in clinical trials receiving trabectedin 
at  doses  and  schedules  considered  most  relevant  by  the  applicant),  has  been  updated  with  146  new 
patients. The updated safety data provided appeared to be consistent with those provided in the initial 
application (data not shown). 
It  can  be  considered  that  the  safety  profile  has  been  reasonably  characterised.  Altogether  available 
safety  data  showed  that  despite  being  manageable,  the  toxicity  of  trabectedin  is  undoubtedly 
significant.  Trabectedin’s  safety  profile  appears  to  be  similar  to  other  antineoplastic  (i.e.  severe  and 
frequent AE, in the context of a life-threatening disease), especially regarding general state conditions 
(asthenia,  anorexia),  nausea  and  vomiting,  or  haematological  toxicity.  Updates  on  hepatotoxic  data 
have  been  provided.  Hepatotoxicity  appears  to  be  one  of  trabectedin’s  most  relevant  AE  and  occurs 
more  frequently  with  the  q3wk  24-h  arm.  The  exact  mechanism  of  injury  is  still  not  clear. 
Considerable  increases  in  liver  enzymes  are  very  frequent,  are  apparently  transient,  non-cumulative 
and, especially taking into account the severity of the disease, adequately managed by dose. For the 
time  being,  a  low  incidence  of  symptomatic  hepatic  disease  with  frank  liver  injury  is  reported. 
Hepatotoxicity  and  rhabdomyolysis  appear  to  be  manageable  by  restrictions,  monitoring  and  dose 
adjustments.  Some  of  these  AE  will  need  to  be  closely  followed  by  pharmacovigilance  activities 
during post-marketing.  
Adequate information is provided in the SPC about posology and method of administration (see SPC 
section  4.2)  and  instructions  on  reconstitution  and  dilution  of  the  medicinal  product  before 
administration (see the SPC section 6.6). 
All patients should receive 20 mg of dexamethasone intravenously 30 minutes prior to Yondelis; not 
only  as  anti-emetic  prophylaxis,  but  also  because  it  appears  to  provide  hepatoprotective  effects. 
Additional anti-emetics may be administered as needed. 
The following criteria are required to allow treatment with Yondelis: 
- 
- 
- 
Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1,500/mm3 
Platelet count ≥ 100,000/mm3 
Bilirubin ≤ upper limit of normal (ULN) 
Alkaline  phosphatase ≤ 2.5 ULN  (consider  hepatic  isoenzymes  5-nucleotidase  or  GGT,  if  the 
- 
elevation could be osseous in origin). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Albumin ≥ 25 g/l. 
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) and Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) ≤ 2.5 x ULN 
Creatinine clearance ≥ 30 ml/min 
Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) ≤ 2.5 ULN 
Haemoglobin ≥ 9 g/dl 
The same criteria as above should be met prior to re-treatment. Otherwise treatment should be delayed 
for up to 3 weeks until the criteria are met. 
Additional  monitoring  of  haematological  parameters  bilirubin,  alkaline  phosphatase  and 
aminotransferases  and  CPK  should  occur  weekly  during  the  first  two  cycles  of  therapy,  and  at  least 
once between treatments in subsequent cycles. 
The same dose should be given for all cycles provided that no grade 3-4 toxicities are seen and that the 
patient fulfils the re-treatment criteria. 
Prior to re-treatment, patients should fulfil the baseline criteria defined above. If any of the following 
events occur at any time between cycles, the dose must be reduced to 1.2 mg/m2 for subsequent cycles: 
- 
- 
Neutropenia < 500/mm3 lasting for more than 5 days or associated with fever or infection 
Thrombocytopenia < 25,000/mm3 
©EMEA 2007 
31/37 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
Increase of bilirubin > ULN and/or alkaline phosphatase> 2.5 x ULN 
Increase of aminotransferases (AST or ALT) > 2.5 x ULN which has not recovered by day 21 
Any other grade 3 or 4 adverse reactions (such as nausea, vomiting, fatigue) 
Once  a  dose  has  been  reduced  because  of  toxicity,  dose  escalation  in  the  subsequent  cycles  is  not 
recommended. If any of these toxicities reappear in subsequent cycles in a patient exhibiting clinical 
benefit,  the  dose  may  be  further  reduced  to  1 mg/m2.  In  the  event  that  further  dose  reductions  are 
necessary, treatment discontinuation should be considered. 
In  clinical  trials,  there  were  no  pre-defined  limits  to  the  number  of  cycles  administered.  Treatment 
continued whilst clinical benefit was noted. Trabectedin has been administered for 6 or more cycles in 
24%  of  patients  treated  with  the  proposed  dose  and  schedule.  This  regime  has  been  used  for  up  to 
38 cycles. No cumulative toxicities have been observed in patients treated with multiple cycles. 
Paediatric patients 
The safety and efficacy of trabectedin  in paediatric  patients has  not yet been established.  Therefore, 
this  medicinal  product  should  not  be  used  in  children  and  adolescents  until  further  data  become 
available. 
Elderly patients 
No specific studies in elderly patients have been performed. Overall 18% of the 1018 patients in the 
integrated safety analysis were over 65 years. No relevant differences in the safety profile were seen in 
this patient population. It seems that plasma clearance and distribution volume of trabectedin are not 
influenced  by  age.  Therefore,  dose  adjustments  based  uniquely  on  age  criteria  are  not  routinely 
recommended. 
Patients with impaired hepatic function 
No  studies  with  the  proposed  regime  have  been  conducted  in  patients  with  liver  dysfunction.  Thus, 
data  are  not  available  to  recommend  a  lower  starting  dose  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment. 
However special caution is advised and dose adjustments  might be necessary in these patients since 
systemic  exposure  is  probably  increased  and  the  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  might  be  increased.  Patients 
with elevated bilirubin should not be treated with Yondelis (see section 4.4). 
Patients with impaired renal function 
Studies including patients with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) have not 
been conducted and therefore Yondelis should not be used in this patient population (see section 4.4). 
Considering the pharmacokinetic characteristics of trabectedin (see section 5.2), no dose adjustments 
are warranted in patients with mild or moderate renal impairment. 
Yondelis is contraindicated (see SPC section 4.3) in patients with hypersensitivity to trabectedin or to 
any of the excipients, concurrent serious or uncontrolled infection, in patients who are breastfeeding  
(see section SPC 4.6), or in combination with yellow fever vaccine (see SPC section 4.4) 
Adequate warnings are provided in the SPC section 4.4. Patients must meet specific criteria on hepatic 
function  parameters  to  start  treatment  with  Yondelis.  Since  systemic  exposure  to  trabectedin  is 
probably  increased  due  to  hepatic  impairment  and  because  the  risk  of  hepatotoxicity  might  be 
increased,  patients  with  clinically  relevant  liver  diseases,  such  as  active  chronic  hepatitis,  must  be 
closely monitored.  Dose adjustment may be necessary. Patients with elevated bilirubin should not be 
treated  with  trabectedin  (see  SPC  section  4.2).  Creatinine  clearance  must  be  monitored  prior  to  and 
during  treatment.  Trabectedin  should  not  be  used  in  patients  with  creatinine  clearance < 30 ml/min 
(see  SPC  section  4.2).  Grades  3  or  4  neutropenia  and  thrombocytopenia  associated  with  trabectedin 
therapy have been very commonly reported. A full blood cell count including differential and platelet 
count should be performed at baseline, weekly for the first two cycles and then once between cycles 
(see  SPC  section  4.2).  Patients  who  develop  fever  should  promptly  seek  medical  attention.  If  this 
occurs,  active  supportive  therapy  should  be  started  immediately.  Anti-emetic  prophylaxis  with 
dexamethasone should be administered to all patients (see SPC section 4.2). Trabectedin should not be 
used in patients with CPK > 2.5 ULN (see SPC section 4.2). Rhabdomyolysis has been uncommonly 
reported,  usually  in  association  with  myelotoxicity,  severe  liver  function  test  abnormalities  and/or 
©EMEA 2007 
32/37 
 
 
 
renal  failure.  Therefore,  CPK  should  be  closely  monitored  whenever  a  patient  may  be  experiencing 
any  of  these  toxicities.  If  rhabdomyolysis  occurs,  supportive  measures  such  as  parenteral  hydration, 
urine alkalinization and dialysis should be promptly established, as indicated. Treatment with Yondelis 
should  be  discontinued  until  full  recovery.  Reversible  acute  increases  in  aspartate  aminotransferase 
(AST) and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) have been reported in most patients. Yondelis should not 
be  used  in  patients  with  elevated  bilirubin.  Patients  with  increases  in  AST,  ALT  and  alkaline 
phosphatase between cycles may necessitate dose reduction (see SPC section 4.2). The use of central 
venous  access  is  strongly  recommended  (see  SPC  section  4.2).  Patients  may  develop  a  potentially 
severe  injection  site  reaction  when  trabectedin  is  administered  through  a  peripheral  venous  line. 
Co-administration of Yondelis with potent inhibitors of the enzyme CYP3A4 should be avoided (see 
SPC section 4.5). If this is not possible, close monitoring of toxicities are required and dose reductions 
of  trabectedin  should  be  considered.  Caution  should  be  taken  if  active  substances  associated  with 
hepatotoxicity or rhabdomyolysis (e.g. statins), are administered concomitantly with trabectedin, since 
the  risk  of  these  toxicities  may  be  increased.  Combination  of  trabectedin  with  phenytoin  or  live 
attenuated vaccines is not recommended (see SPC section 4.3). 
The  concomitant  use  of  trabectedin  with  alcohol  should  be  avoided  (see  SPC  section  4.5).  Men  in 
fertile age and women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment and 
3 months thereafter for women and immediately inform the treating physician if a pregnancy occurs, 
and 5 months after treatment for men   (see SPC section 4.6). 
Interactions with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction are adequately described in 
the SPC (see SPC section 4.5). In vivo interaction studies have not been performed. Since trabectedin 
is  metabolised  mainly  by  CYP3A4,  co-administration  of  substances  that  inhibit  this  isoenzyme  e.g. 
ketoconazole,  fluconazole  ritonavir  or  clarithromycin  could  decrease  metabolism  and  increase 
trabectedin concentrations. If such combinations are needed, close monitoring of toxicities is required 
(see  SPC  section  4.4).  Likewise  co-administration  with  potent  inducers  of  this  enzyme  (e.g. 
rifampicin, phenorbarbital, Saint John’s Wort) may decrease the systemic exposure to trabectedin. 
Alcohol consumption should be avoided during treatment with trabectedin due to the hepatotoxicity of 
the product (see SPC section 4.4). Preclinical data have demonstrated that trabectedin is a substrate to 
P-gp.  Concomitant  administration  of  inhibitors  of  Pgp,  e.g.  cyclosporine  and  verapamil,  may  alter 
trabectedin distribution and/or elimination. The relevance of this interaction e.g. CNS toxicity has not 
been established. Caution should be taken in such situations.  
Adequate  information  has  been  included  in  the  SPC  concerning  pregancy  and  lactation  (see  SPC 
section 4.6). No sufficient clinical data on exposed pregnancies are available. However, based on its 
known  mechanism  of  action,  trabectedin  may  cause  serious  birth  defects  when  administered  during 
pregnancy. Trabectedin should   not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary. If it is used 
during pregnancy, the patient must be informed of the potential risk to the foetus (see SPC section 5.3) 
and be monitored carefully. If trabectedin is used at the end of pregnancy, potential adverse reactions 
should  be  monitored  carefully  in  the  newborns.  Men  in  fertile  age  and  women  of  childbearing 
potential  must  use  effective  contraception  during  treatment  and  3  months  thereafter  for  women  and 
immediately inform the treating physician if a pregnancy occurs (see SPC section 5.3) and 5 months 
after  treatment  for  men  (see  SPC  section  4.4).  Trabectedin  can  have  genotoxic  effects.  Advice  on 
conservation  of  sperm  should  be  sought  prior  to  treatment  because  of  the  possibility  of  irreversible 
infertility due to therapy with Yondelis. If pregnancy occurs during treatment the possibility of genetic 
counselling  should  be  considered.  Genetic  counselling  is  also  recommended  for  patients  wishing  to 
have  children  after  therapy.  It  is  not  known  whether  trabectedin  is  excreted  in  human  milk.  The 
excretion  of  trabectedin  in  milk  has  not  been  studied  in  animals.  Breast-feeding  is  contraindicated 
during treatment and 3 months thereafter (see SPC section 4.3). 
No studies on the effects of the ability to drive and to use machines have been performed. However, 
fatigue and/or asthenia have been reported in patients receiving trabectedin. Patients who experience 
any of these events during therapy should not drive or operate machines (see SPC section 4.7). 
There  is  limited  data  on  the  effects  of  trabectedin  overdose.  The  major  anticipated  toxicities  are 
gastrointestinal,  bone  marrow  suppression  and  hepatic  toxicity.  There  is  no  specific  antidote  for 
trabectedin currently available. In the event of an overdose, patients should be closely monitored and 
symptomatic supportive care measures instituted as required (see SPC section 4.9). 
©EMEA 2007 
33/37 
 
 
 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management plan 
The  MAA  submitted  a  risk  management  plan  (RMP).  The  updated  version  of  the  RMP  is  in 
accordance with the EU-RMP template in most relevant aspects. Information on patient exposure has 
been  updated.  Data  on  most 
including  hepatoxicity,  CPK 
elevations/rhabdomyolysis,  neutropenia,  thrombocytopenia,  anaemia,  infections,  myelodysplasia  and 
AML,  emesis  and  local  infusions  has  been  updated.  Newly  identified  potential  risks  which  arose 
during  the  procedure,  including  pancreatic,  renal,  retinal  and  cardiovascular  toxicities  have  been 
added. No additional measures for these potential risks are deemed necessary at this stage other than 
those  proposed  by  the  applicant  (routine  pharmacovigilance  measures  and  monitoring  of  currently 
ongoing clinical data). 
identified 
relevant 
risks, 
Safety and efficacy of trabectedin in patients under 18 has not been established. The MAH addressed 
the  potential  risk  of  off-label  use,  which  is  considered  low  by  the  applicant  due  to  the  control 
cytotoxics are exposed to. This matter is reflected in the SPC. 
Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety issue 
Potential  risk  in  off-label  paediatric 
use.  
Risk of accidental 
Exposure to trabectedin in uterus. 
Risk  in  patients  with  severe  renal 
impairment.  
in  patients  with  hepatic 
Risk 
impairment. 
Hepatic reactions 
Neutropenia and infection 
Thrombocytopenia/bleeding 
Anaemia 
CPK elevations/ Rhabdomyolysis 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Yondelis  is  not  indicated  for  paediatric 
use (SPC section 4.2). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Patients  of  both  genders  are  to  avoid 
conception (4.6). Contraindication: Breast-feeding (4.3). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC. Not recommended in patients with severe 
renal impairment (4.2). Treatment criteria includes renal function test 
(4.2). Warning (4.4). Renal events are labelled as uncommon (4.8). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Strict 
treatment  criteria 
include 
evaluation  of  LFTs.  Regular  monitoring  of  LFTS  is  required.  Dose 
adjustment guidelines provided in case of LFTs abnormalities (4.2). 
Special  caution  recommended  for  patients  with  impaired  hepatic 
function  in  section  4.2.  Warning:  treatment  should  not  be  given  if 
bilirubin is elevated (4.4). Hepatic events labelled in section 4.8. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Strict 
treatment  criteria 
include 
evaluation  of  LFTs.  Regular  monitoring  of  LFTS  is  required.  Dose 
adjustment guidelines provided in case of LFTs abnormalities (4.2). 
Special  caution  in  patients  with  impaired  liver  function  (4.2). 
Warnings:  AST/ALT  elevations,  treatment  should  not  be  given  if 
bilirubin is elevated (4.4). Hepatic events labelled in section 4.8. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Strict 
treatment  criteria 
include 
neutrophil  test.  Regular  monitoring  required.  Dose  adjustment 
guidelines  provided  in  case  of  haematology  abnormalities  (4.2). 
Contraindication:  Ongoing  serious  or  uncontrolled  infection  (4.3). 
Warning of neutropenia and advice if fever occurs (4.4). Neutropenia 
and neutropenic fever events are labelled as expected (4.8).  
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC. Strict treatment criteria include platelets 
tests.  Regular  monitoring  required.  Dose  adjustment  guidelines 
provided  in  case  of  haematology  abnormalities  (4.2).  Warning  of 
thrombocytopenia  (4.4).  Thrombocytopenia  is  labelled  as  expected 
(4.8). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Strict 
include 
haemoglobin  test.  Regular  monitoring  required.  Dose  adjustment 
guidelines  provided  in  case  of  haematology  abnormalities  (4.2). 
Anaemia is labelled as expected (4.8). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC. Strict treatment criteria include CPK test 
(4.2).  Warning  of  rhabdomyolysis  and  severe  CPK  elevations. 
Clinical context in which it appears and recommendations for clinical 
measures are provided (4.4). CPK increases and rhabdomyolysis are 
labelled as expected (4.8). 
treatment  criteria 
Emesis 
Dyspnoea 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Preventive  anti-emetic  prophylaxis  is 
required (4.2). Nausea and vomiting are labelled as expected (4.8). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC. Dyspnoea is labelled as expected (4.8). 
©EMEA 2007 
34/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Local infusion reactions 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC. Administration via a central venous line 
is  recommended  in  sections  4.2.  Handling  precautions  given  in 
section 6.6. 
Myelodysplasia/AML 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Routine PV (particular attention will be paid to publication 
Renal toxicity 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC section 4.4 
of this type of cases in the medical literature). 
Pancreatic toxicity 
Cardiovascular toxicity 
Retinal toxicity 
Potential  risk  of  interactions  with 
other medicinal products. 
Potential 
including overdose 
for  medication 
error 
Potential 
for 
infectious agent 
transmission 
of 
Potential for misuse 
Potential for off-label use 
Creatinine  clearance  must  be  monitored  prior  to  and  during 
treatment. Trabectedin should not be used in patients with creatinine 
clearance < 30 ml/min (see section 4.2). 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  None 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  None 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  None 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC section 4.4 and 4.5 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk  minimisation  by  SPC.  Posology,  dosage  adjustment  and 
preparation  instructions  are  provided  in  the  SPC.  Recommended 
measures in case of overdose are provided in section 4.9. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance  Risk minimisation by SPC. The product is to be used by specialised 
personnel (4.2). Instructions for aseptic preparation of the iv infusion 
and for appropriate disposal are provided (6.6). 
The SPC sets the recommended use and disposal of the product. 
The  approved  therapeutic  indications  are  indicated  in  section  4.1. 
The product is to be used by specialized personnel (4.2) and is under 
prescription. 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
Routine Pharmacovigilance 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Trabectedin  was  initially  obtained  by  isolation  from  Ecteinascidia  turbinata  but  was  subsequently 
produced synthetically, which resulted in a decrease in the level of impurities. The excipients used in 
the  preparation  of  the  product  were  chosen  based  on  the  physico-chemical  properties  of  the  active 
substance and the intended route of administration (intravenous), which precluded the use of several 
excipients.  The  results  showed  that  both  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  can  be 
manufactured  reproducibly.  This  indicates  that  the  product  should  have  a  satisfactory  and  uniform 
performance  in  the  clinic.  At  the  time  of  the  CHMP  opinion,  there  were  minor  unresolved  quality 
issues  having  no  impact  on  the  Benefit/Risk  ratio  of  the  product.  The  Applicant  gave  a  Letter  of 
Undertaking  and  committed  to  resolve  the  Follow  Up  Measures  after  the  opinion,  within  an  agreed 
timeframe. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Trabectedin binds to the minor groove of DNA, bending the helix to the major groove. This binding to 
DNA triggers a cascade of events affecting several transcription factors, DNA binding proteins, and 
DNA repair pathways, resulting in perturbation of the cell cycle. Trabectedin has been shown to exert 
antiproliferative  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  activity  against  a  range  of  human  tumour  cell  lines  and 
experimental  tumours,  including  malignancies  such  as  sarcoma,  breast,  non-small  cell  lung,  ovarian 
and melanoma. 
Preclinical  data  indicate  that  trabectedin  has  limited  effect  on  the  cardiovascular,  respiratory  and 
central nervous system at exposures below the therapeutic clinical range, in terms of AUC. 
The  effects  of  trabectedin  on  cardiovascular  and  respiratory  function  have  been  investigated  in  vivo 
(anesthetised  Cynomolgus  monkeys).  A  1  hour  infusion  schedule  was  selected  to  attain  maximum 
plasma levels (Cmax values) in the range of those observed in the clinic. The plasma trabectedin levels 
attained were 10.6 ± 5.4 (Cmax), higher than those reached in patients  after infusion of 1500 µg/m2 for 
24 (Cmax of 1.8 ± 1.1 ng/ml)  and  similar  to  those  reached  after  administration  of  the  same  dose  by 
3 hour infusion (Cmax of 10.8 ± 3.7 ng/ml). 
Myelosupression  and  hepatoxicity  were  identified  as  the  primary  toxicity  for  trabectedin.  Findings 
observed  included  haematopoietic  toxicity  (severe  leukopenia,  anaemia,  and  lymphoid  and  bone 
marrow  depletion)  as  well  as  increases  in  liver  function  tests,  hepatocellular  degeneration,  intestinal 
©EMEA 2007 
35/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
epithelial  necrosis,  and  severe  local  reactions  at  the injection  site.  Renal  toxicological  findings  were 
detected  in  multi-cycle  toxicity  studies  conducted  in  monkeys.  These  findings  were  secondary  to 
severe  local  reaction  at  the  administration  site,  and  therefore  uncertainly  attributable  to  trabectedin; 
however,  caution  must  be  guaranteed  in  the  interpretation  of  these  renal  findings,  and  treatment-
related toxicity cannot be excluded.  
Trabectedin  is  genotoxic  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo.  Long-term  carcinogenicity studies  have  not  been 
performed. 
Fertility  studies  with  trabectedin  were  not  performed  but  limited  histopathological  changes  were 
observed  in  the  gonads  in  the  repeat  dose  toxicity  studies.  Considering  the  nature  of  the  compound 
(cytotoxic and mutagenic), it is likely to affect the reproductive capacity. 
Efficacy 
The efficacy and safety of trabectedin is based in a randomised trial in patients with locally advanced 
or  metastatic  liposarcoma  or  leiomyosarcoma,  whose  disease  had  progressed  or  relapsed  after 
treatment with at least anthracyclines and ifosfamide. In this trial trabectedin was administered either 
at  1.5 mg/m2  as  a  24-hour  intravenous  infusion  every  3  weeks  or  at  0.58 mg/m2  weekly  as  a  3-hour 
intravenous infusion for 3-weeks of a 4-week cycle. The protocol specified final time to progression 
(TTP) analysis showed a 26.6% reduction in the relative risk of progression for patients treated in the 
24-h  q3wk  group  (Hazard  Ratio = 0.734 CI 0.554-0.974).  Median  TTP  values  were  3.7  months 
(CI: 2.1-5.4 m)  in  the  24-h  q3wk  group  and  2.3 months  (CI: 2.0-3.5 m)  in  the  3-h  qwk  group 
(p=0.0302).  No  significant  differences  were  detected  in  overall  survival  (OS).  Median  OS  with  the 
24-h  q3wk  regime  was  13.9 months  (CI: 12.5-18.6)  and  60.2%  of  patients  were  alive  at  1  year 
(CI: 52.0-68.5%). Additional efficacy data are available from 3 single-arm Phase II trials with similar 
populations treated with the same regime. These trials evaluated a total of 100 patients with lipo and 
leiomyosarcoma and 83 patients with other types of sarcoma.  
Safety 
The safety database is formed by 1018 patients, which constituted the “integrated safety database” for 
the  initial  safety  summary.  No  further  safety  signals  had  been  identified  in  the  2000  additionally 
exposed  patients  when  the  initial  documents  were  submitted.  Updates  on  renal,  pancreatic, 
ophtalmological  and  cardiac,  toxicity  have  been  provided  for  the  1200  patients  who  have  been 
exposed to trabectedin since then. 
The most common AEs in all 3 treatment groups were nausea (60%), fatigue (50%), vomiting (35%), 
and constipation (18%). The most common (≥5%) Grade 3-4 AEs in the q3wk 24-h dose group were 
increased  ALT  (12%),  neutropenia  (12%),  increased  AST  (8%),  and  dyspnea,  fatigue,  nausea,  and 
vomiting  (7%  each).  The  incidence  of  increased  ALT  (12%  vs.9%),  neutropenia  (12%  vs.  6%)  and 
increased AST (8% vs. 3%) was consistently higher in the proposed q3wk 24-h dose group.  
Liver  toxicity  usually  presenting  as  transaminitis  and  neutropenia  are  considered  to  be  the  two  dose 
limiting  toxicities.  A  considerably  higher  number  of  patients  in  the  proposed  q3wk  24-h  regimen 
developed grade 3 (41% vs. 12%) and grade 4 (7% vs. 0%) liver toxicity (ALT-elevations) compared 
to the qwk 3-h arm of the pivotal study. A similar pattern of increased toxicity in the proposed q3wk 
24-h treatment arm was observed for other liver function tests like AST and bilirubin. 
Hematological toxicity was substantially and consistently higher in the q3wk 24-h group compared to 
the qwk 3-h group: grade 3/4 anemia (13% / 4% vs. 4% / 1%), grade 3/4 neutropenia (27% / 22% vs. 
8% / 1%) and grade 3/4 platelets (20% / 4% vs. 3% / <1%). The incidence of grade 3/4 bleeding was 
rare (approximately 1 %). 
4%  of  patients  developed  febrile  neutropenia  in  the  proposed  q3wk  24-h  regimen  compared  to  less 
than 1% in the qwk 3-h group. The frequency was lower in Study ET743-STS-201, where it was 1.6% 
in each treatment arm.  
CPK elevations of any grade based on laboratory values were observed in 20% of patients, regardless 
of  the  dosing  regimen.  The  development  of  rhabdomyolysis  (associated  with  death  in  5  patients 
(0.5%), in the integrated safety database) is of concern. 
©EMEA 2007 
36/37 
 
 
 
From  the  safety  database  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  have  been  appropriately 
described  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics.  Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the 
risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  proposed  activities  described  in  section  3.5 
adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
Readability  testing  has  been  conducted  and  the  readability  of  the  package  leaflet  is  adequate.  Some 
aspects  regarding  the  understanding  of  the  leaflet,  however,  will  require  confirmation  through 
additional data and will be assessed as a follow-up measure. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
The pivotal study failed to formally demonstrate statistical significance in its primary objective at the 
interim analysis as defined in the original protocol but shows a difference between the two treatment 
arms favoring the proposed posology of q3wk 24-h. The difference was observed in terms of TTP, and 
despite  methodological  weaknesses  in  the  trial  design  and  conduct,  a  number  of  sensitivity  analyses 
and  updated  analyses  support  this  conclusion.  Secondary  endpoints,  including  PFS  and  overall 
survival, and previous phase II studies also support the demonstration of benefit in this indication. 
Ideally, Yondelis should have been compared in an adequately designed and analysed randomised trial 
to best care or investigator’s choice. Unfortunately, a direct comparison of the efficacy of trabectedin 
compared to best care or investigator’s choice is not possible because no internal control arm has been 
used  in  the  pivotal  study.  The  applicant  has  claimed  that  a  comparison  to  best  supportive  care  is 
considered very difficult in this patient population.  
Adequate  exploratory  data  should  be  made  available  to  identify  patients  that  are  most  likely  to 
respond. The population of soft tissue sarcoma  patients after failure of anthracyclines and ifosfamide 
is  considered  to  be  heterogenous  and  clinical  efficacy  data  for  Yondelis  are  mainly  based  on  L-
sarcoma. Still, individual subpopulations are considered too rare for adequately powered randomized 
controlled  trials  to  be  conducted  against  best  supportive  care  to  explore  factors  associated  with 
response  to  treatment  within  reasonable  time.  Thus,  due  to  the  rarity  of  the  disease  the  CHMP  has 
considered  that  the  marketing  authorisation  could  be  granted  under  exceptional  circumstances.  The 
applicant has committed to explore further the population that might benefit most from the treatment 
as a specific obligation. 
The  available  safety  data  showed  that  the  toxicity  of  trabectedin  is  undoubtedly  significant  but 
manageable.  A  risk  management  plan  was  submitted.  The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data 
submitted,  was  of  the  opinion that  routine  pharmacovigilance  was  adequate  to  monitor  the  safety  of 
the product.  
Similarity with authorised orphan medicinal products 
The  CHMP  is  of  the opinion  that  Yondelis  is  not  similar  to  Glivec  or  Sutent within  the  meaning  of 
Article  3  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No.  847/200,  due  to  differences  in  the  structure  and 
mechanism of action.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus  that  the  risk-benefit  balance  of  Yondelis  in  the  “treatment  of  patients  with  advanced  soft 
tissue  sarcoma,  after  failure  of  anthracyclines  and  ifosfamide,  or  who  are  unsuited  to  receive  these 
agents; efficacy data are based mainly on liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma patients,” was favourable 
and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  marketing  authorisation  under  exceptional 
circumstances. 
And 
In addition, the CHMP, with reference to Article 8 of Regulation EC No 141/2000, considers Yondelis  
not to be similar (as defined in Article 3 of Commission Regulation EC No. 847/2000) to Glivec or 
Sutent for the same therapeutic indication. 
©EMEA 2007 
37/37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
