Part VI: Summary of risk management plan for Yondelis 
Summary of risk management plan for Yondelis (trabectedin) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  Risk  Management  Plan  (RMP)  for  Yondelis.  The  RMP  details 
important risks of Yondelis, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will 
be obtained about Yondelis's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Yondelis's  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet  (PL)  give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Yondelis should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Yondelis  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, which is part 
of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Yondelis's 
RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Yondelis is authorised for the treatment of adult patients with advanced soft tissue sarcoma, 
after  failure  of  anthracyclines  and  ifosfamide,  or  who  are  unsuited  to  receive  these  agents. 
Efficacy data are based mainly on liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma patients (see SmPCs for 
the full indication). 
Yondelis  in  combination  with  pegylated  liposomal  doxorubicin  (PLD)  is  authorised  for  the 
treatment of patients with relapsed platinum sensitive ovarian cancer (see SmPC for the full 
indication). 
It contains trabectedin as the active substance and it is given by intravenous infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of Yondelis benefits can be found in Yondelis EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/yondelis#overview-section. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or further characterise 
the risks  
Important risks of Yondelis, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Yondelis's risks, are outlined below. Measures to minimise the 
risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
• 
•  The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that 
the medicine is used correctly; 
•  The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR) assessment, so that 
taken  as  necessary.  These  measures  constitute  routine 
immediate  action  can  be 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
 
 
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Yondelis are risks  that  need special risk management activities to further 
investigate  or  minimise  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely  administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Yondelis. Potential risks are concerns for which 
an  association  with  the  use  of  this  medicine  is  possible  based  on  available  data,  but  this 
association  has  not  been  established  yet  and  needs  further  evaluation.  Missing  information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important Identified Risks 
Important Potential Risks 
Missing Information 
Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS) 
Injection site reactions  
Acute Myeloid Leukaemia/ Myelodysplasia (AML/ MDS) 
Cardiac Dysfunction 
Pancreatitis, Lipase and/or Amylase increased 
None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Capillary Leak Syndrome (CLS)  
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
- PSUR 16 (cut off date 17 September 2019) 
- Investigator’s Brochure v.13 
- CLS Expert Report 2016 
•  A  cumulative  review  of  postmarketing  and  clinical  trial  cases 
through  9  December  2014  reporting  single  or  multiple 
concurrent events potentially associated to CLS by an External 
Independent  Adjudication  Committee  provided  sufficient 
evidence to consider this event an Adverse drug reaction (ADR) 
for  trabectedin.  The search  retrieved  102  cases  which  were 
independently  reviewed  by  the  experts  and  rated  for  the 
likelihood of CLS diagnosis (based on pre-specified diagnostic 
criteria  agreed  in  consensus  by  the  3  experts)  as  well  as  their 
causality  assessment  with  trabectedin.  Of  these  102  cases,  38 
cases  were  deemed  not  to  be  CLS,  in  48  cases  CLS  was 
considered as possible (defined as more information is needed 
to exclude or confirm diagnosis diagnostic criteria met), in 14 
cases  CLS  was  considered  probable  (defined  as  very  strong 
clinical  suspicion  with  at  least  3 diagnostic  criteria  met)  for 
which causality was assessed as doubtful in 4 of these cases and 
at least possible in the remaining 10 cases, and in 2 cases, no 
conclusion could be drawn. Based on this cumulative review, the 
Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  decided 
the 
trabectedin SmPC to include CLS as an ADR with a frequency 
category (estimated from clinical trials) of uncommon. 
CLS can be idiopathic (Clarkson’s disease) or secondary that is mostly 
due to malignant hematological diseases, viral infections, and treatments 
such as chemotherapies and therapeutic growth factors (66). 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Section 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4. where advice is given on re-assessing serum albumin 
levels  and  discontinuing  trabectedin  if  a  diagnosis  of  Capillary  Leak 
Syndrome is confirmed. 
PL section 2 and 4. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
to  update 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
Important identified risk: Injection site reaction 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
- PSUR 16 (cut off date 17 September 2019) 
- Investigator’s Brochure v.13 
- Clinical trials (CCDS v.14) 
• 
In patients with soft tissue sarcoma, in the integrated clinical 
trials  phase  2  and  3,  assigned  to  the  recommended  regimen 
[1.5 mg/m2,  24  hour  infusion  every  3  weeks],  injection  site 
reactions  incidence  was  of  8.5%.  In  patients  with  ovarian 
cancer,  in  the  integrated  phase  3  clinical  trials,  assigned  to 
combination  therapy  with  trabectedin  plus  PLD,  catheter  site 
inflammation and catheter site pain incidence was of 1.6% and 
2.4% respectively. 
- Clinical trial and postmarketing (CCDS v.14 and SmPC) 
•  During clinical studies and post-marketing surveillance, a few 
cases  of  trabectedin  extravasation  with  subsequent  tissue 
necrosis  requiring  debridement  have  been  reported.  SmPC 
includes these ADRs as uncommon ADRs. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
this  formation  easier 
In 1 trial on the use of fosaprepitant, younger age (<50 years), low BMI 
(<22)  were  both  risk  factors  for  injections  site  reactions  (67). 
The potential for tissue damage is affected by the factors such as the drug 
concentration, high vesicant potential of drug and the unfiltered amount, 
tissue exposure and extravasated zone, repeated use of drugs having the 
vesicant  characteristic.  The  risk  factors  affecting  the  formation  of 
extravasation  or  making 
involves  patient 
characteristics (e.g. extreme age, patients with fragile veins, sedated or 
confused patients, etc.), diseases where  patients are exposed to repeated 
treatment infusion requiring indwelling catheters such as cancer patients, 
issues  related  to  the  venous  access  line  (such  as  peripheral  IV 
particularly in areas such as antecubital fossa, on hand, on foot, wrist, 
thickness of the IV catheter tip, IV catheter length, placement of central 
catheter in the region instable to motion, bending or dislocation of the 
catheter, injection needle on the port not fully accessed, excessive back 
pressure  around  the  needle,  fibrin  deposition  or  thrombosis  on  the 
catheter)  or  issues  with  the  insertion  line  technique  (such  as 
inexperienced  staff  and 
the  drug 
insufficient 
management) (68,69). 
Routine risk minimisation measures  
SmPC Sections 4.4 and 4.8 
SmPC sections 4.2, 4.4 and 6.6 where it is recommended to administer 
trabectedin through a central venous line. 
PL section 2, 3 and 4. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
information  on 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Acute Myeloid Leukaemia/ Myelodysplasia (AML/ MDS) 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
- PSUR 16 (cut off date 17 September 2019) 
- Investigator’s Brochure v.13 
- Secondary haematological malignancies Adhoc report (23 Sept 2014) 
•  The  cumulative  analysis 
identified  28  cases 
in  patients  who 
reporting 
haematolog¬ical  malignancies 
received 
trabectedin irrespective of causality. The source distribution of 
cases was 22 cases from clinical trials and 6 spontaneous cases. 
Twelve (12) cases out of the 28 reported a fatal outcome, 9 due 
to AML and 3 due to other causes. 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
•  Based  on  this  cumulative  review  of  clinical  studies  and 
spontaneous cases, the role of trabectedin in the occurrence of 
AML/MDS is yet to be determined. The majority of the reported 
cases adequately documented were heavily confounded, mainly 
by previous or concomitant chemotherapy or radiotherapy well 
known  to  induce  secondary  malignancies  and  specifically 
AML/MDS. Only 1 case was not considered to be confounded. 
Patients  heavily  pre-treated  with  chemotherapy  and  radiation.  Among 
other cytotoxics, PLD and alkylating agents such as ifosfamide have been 
associated with an increased risk for secondary AML and MDS. Other 
risk factors include smoking which can double or triple the risk of AML, 
syndrome, 
genetics,  blood  disorders 
autoimmune  conditions  such  as  rheumatoid  arthritis,  and  being  over 
weight. 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC section 5.3 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
such  as  myelodysplastic 
Important potential risk: Cardiac Dysfunction 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
- PSUR 16 (cut off date 17 September 2019) 
- Investigator’s Brochure v.13 
- Yondelis SmPC 
- Cardiac Safety Report (28 Jun 2018) 
•  This  report  summarizes  the  cardiac  safety  data  from  clinical 
studies and integrated data analysis sets for subjects with solid 
tumors  who  received  trabectedin  as  a  monotherapy  or  in 
combination  with  Doxil.  The  specific  clinical  studies  and 
integrated safety analysis sets contributing to this report include: 
Three  randomized,  open-label,  Phase  3  studies  (SAR-3007, 
OVA-301,  and  OVC-3006).  In  Study  SAR-3007,  trabectedin 
was  administered  as  a  monotherapy  and  in the 2  other  studies 
(OVA-301  and  OVC-3006),  trabectedin  was  administered  in 
combination with Doxil; Integrated safety data from 10 Phase 2 
studies and 1 Phase 3 study (SAR-3007) in STS and other solid 
tumors where trabectedin was administered as a monotherapy at 
a dose of 1.5 mg/m2 once every 3 weeks as a 24-h IV infusion 
(q3wk; 24-h); Integrated safety data from the 2 Phase 3 ovarian 
cancer  studies  (OVA-301  and  OVC-3006)  where  trabectedin 
was administered in combination with DOXIL. 
•  The analysis confirmed the need for caution when administering 
trabectedin  as  monotherapy  to  patients  with  risk  factors  for 
developing  cardiac  related  TEAEs  or  myocardial  dysfunction 
(ie,  those  patients  with  a  Left  Ventricular  Ejection  Fraction 
(LVEF)  <Lower  Limit  of  Normal  (LLN),  a  history  of 
cardiovascular disease or prior cumulative anthracycline dose of 
≥300  mg/m2).  If,  after  careful  consideration  of  benefit  versus 
risk, treatment with trabectedin is initiated in patients with risk 
factors for developing cardiac-related Adverse Events (AEs) or 
 
 
 
myocardial  dysfunction,  close  monitoring  for  symptoms  and 
signs  of  myocardial  dysfunction,  including  but  not  limited  to 
regular  LVEF  assessments,  is  strongly  recommended.  For 
subjects  with  a  Grade  3  or  4  cardiac  AEs  or  serious  cardiac 
events  indicative  of  cardiomyopathy  or  for  subjects  with  an 
LVEF  that  decreases  below  the  LLN,  trabectedin  should  be 
discontinued.  Additionally, 
that 
administration  of  trabectedin  concurrently  with  Doxil  is 
associated  with  an  increased  risk  for  cardiotoxicity  compared 
with Doxil monotherapy 
suggested 
data 
the 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
increasing  age, 
Cardiac dysfunction can be inherited or can be caused by viral infections, 
autoimmune  diseases or  exposure  to  toxins and  certain  medicines.  The 
elderly are particularly at risk with more than 80% of deaths and prevalent 
cardiac failure cases occuring in patients ≥ 65 years of age in the USA 
and Europe. Men also have a greater risk of cardiac failure than women.  
Patient-related risk factors for cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction 
include: those with pre-existing cardiac risk factors such as hypertension, 
diabetes  mellitus,  smoking,  previous  left  ventricular  dysfunction,  heart 
failure,  coronary  disease, 
female  gender,  and 
postmenopausal sta0tus (70). Additional risk factors for developing heart 
damage  include  hypertension,  obesity,  radiation  therapy  involving  the 
heart  region,  exposure  to  or  previous  exposure  to  cyclophosphamide, 
iphosphamide  or  amsacrine  and  existing  heart  disease.  Chemotherapy 
induced cardiotoxicity often presents as dose-dependent cardiomyopathy 
that  can  lead  to  chronic  heart  failure. Anthracyclines  are recognised  to 
increase  the  risk  of  cardiac  dysfunction  with  more  than  one  half  of 
patients  exposed  to  anthracyclines  developing  some  degree  of  cardiac 
dysfunction 10 to 20 years after chemotherapy, with 5% developing overt 
chronic heart failure. (71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77). 
In  Trial  ET743-SAR-3007,  Higher  CAD,  advancing  age,  abnormal 
baseline  LVEF,  and  cardiac  medical  history  were  identified  through  a 
Multi-Variate Analysis (logistic regression) as independent risk factors of 
LVEF decline. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Section 4.8 
SmPC section 4.4 where advice is given on monitoring LVEF. 
PL section 2, 3 and 4 
Additional risk minimization measures: 
None proposed 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Important potential risk: Pancreatitis, Lipase and/or Amylase increased 
Evidence for linking the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Risk minimisation measures 
or 
or 
other 
biliary 
pancreatic 
- PSUR 16 (cut off date 17 September 2019) 
- Investigator’s Brochure v.13 
- Yondelis SmPC 
Concomitant  use  of  drugs  described  to  produce  pancreatitis,  including 
ranitidine,  paroxetine,  celecoxib,  and/  or  capecitabine,any  previous  or 
concomitant    biliary  tract  disease,  or  gallstones,  prior  history  of 
cholecystectomy 
surgery, 
hypercholesterolemia,  history  of  use  of  ethanol  (alcoholism),  recent 
abdominal  trauma,  pancreatic    malignancy,  or  a  family  history  of 
pancreatitis.. Risk factors for developing severe acute pancreatitis (with 
increased mortality) are older age (>55), obesity (Body Mass Index >30), 
organ failure and pleural effusion and/or infiltrates at admission. Several 
populations at higher risk have been identified during research in drug-
induced  pancreatitis.  Predisposing  demographic  characteristics  are 
female gender and younger age. Three types of diseases were recognised 
as  the  most  frequent  predisposing  health  factors  in  drug-induced 
pancreatitis:  inflammatory  bowel  diseases,  human  immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection and cancer treated by combined chemotherapy. 
Routine risk minimization measures: 
No risk minimisation measures 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None proposed 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation 
of Yondelis. 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Yondelis.  
 
