10 December 2020 
EMA/47907/2021 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Yuflyma  
International non-proprietary name: adalimumab 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/005188/0000 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the  CHMP with  all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European  Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure ............................................ 10 
1.1. Submission of the dossier ........................................................................... 10 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ................................................. 13 
2. Scientific discussion ............................................................................. 15 
2.1. Quality aspects......................................................................................... 16 
2.1.1. Introduction .......................................................................................... 16 
2.1.2. Active Substance.................................................................................... 16 
2.1.3. Finished Medicinal Product ........................................................................ 21 
2.1.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ........................... 29 
2.1.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects .................... 30 
2.1.6. Recommendation for future quality development ............................................ 30 
2.2. Non-clinical aspects ................................................................................... 30 
2.2.1. Pharmacology........................................................................................ 30 
2.2.2. Pharmacokinetics ................................................................................... 30 
2.2.3. Toxicology ............................................................................................ 31 
2.2.4. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment.................................................... 32 
2.2.5. Discussion on non-clinical aspects............................................................... 32 
2.2.6. Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ......................................................... 33 
2.3. Clinical aspects......................................................................................... 33 
2.3.1. Introduction .......................................................................................... 33 
2.3.2. Pharmacokinetics ................................................................................... 35 
2.3.3. Pharmacodynamics ................................................................................. 48 
2.3.4. Discussion on clinical pharmacology ............................................................ 49 
2.3.5. Conclusions on clinical pharmacology........................................................... 50 
2.4. Clinical eff icacy ........................................................................................ 50 
2.4.1. Main study............................................................................................ 50 
2.4.2. Supportive study .................................................................................... 68 
2.4.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .................................................................... 69 
2.4.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy .............................................................. 72 
2.5. Clinical safety .......................................................................................... 72 
2.5.1. Discussion on clinical safety .................................................................... 108 
2.5.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety.............................................................. 112 
2.6. Risk Management Plan ............................................................................. 113 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance .................................................................................. 116 
2.8. Product inf ormation ................................................................................. 116 
2.8.1. User consultation ................................................................................. 116 
2.8.2. Additional monitoring ............................................................................ 117 
3. Biosimilarity assessment .................................................................... 117 
3.1. Comparability exercise and indications claimed ............................................... 117 
3.2. Results supporting biosimilarity .................................................................. 118 
3.3. Uncertainties and limitations about biosimilarity.............................................. 120 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 2/126 
 
  
  
3.4. Discussion on biosimilarity ........................................................................ 120 
3.5. Extrapolation of safety and efficacy ............................................................. 122 
3.6. Additional considerations .......................................................................... 123 
3.7. Conclusions on biosimilarity and benefit risk balance ........................................ 123 
4. Recommendations .............................................................................. 123 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 3/126 
 
  
  
 
List of abbreviations 
%AUCextrap 
Extrapolated AUC percentage  
%CV 
ACR 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ADA 
ADCC 
aDP 
AE 
AESI 
AHU 
AI 
ALT 
Percent coefficient of variation 
American College of Rheumatology 
ACR 20%  improvement criteria 
ACR 50%  improvement criteria 
ACR 70%  improvement criteria 
Anti-drug antibody 
Antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity 
assembled Drug Product 
Adverse event 
Adverse event of special interest 
Air Handling Unit 
Auto-injector 
Alanine aminotransferase 
ANCOVA 
Analysis of covariance model 
AR 
AS 
AST 
AUC 
AUC 
AUC0-168hr 
AUC0-inf  
AUC0-last 
AUT 
BD 
BLA 
BLGF 
BLQ 
BMI 
BMWP 
BPD 
Brx 
CCM 
CD 
CD 
CDAI 
CDC 
CELISA 
CE-SDS 
Assessment Report 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Aspartate aminotransferase 
Area under the (serum concentration-time)  curve 
Analytical Ultra  Centrifugation 
Area under the serum concentration-time curve from 0 to 168 
hours 
AUC from time zero to infinity 
AUC from time zero to time of last quantifiable concentration 
Autoclave 
Becton, Dickinson 
Biologic License Application 
Break Loose and Gliding Force 
Below the  lower limit  of quantification 
Body mass index 
Biosimilar Medicinal Products Working Party 
Biological Product Development 
Bioreactor 
Cell Culture Manufacturing 
Crohn’s disease 
Circular Dichroism 
Clinical disease activity index 
Complement-dependent cytotoxicity 
Cell-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
Capillary Electrophoresis-Sodium Dodecyl Sulfate 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 4/126 
 
  
  
cGMP 
CHMP 
CHO 
CI 
cIEF 
CIPC 
CIPT 
C1q 
CL/F 
CLL 
Cmax 
CMC 
COA 
COP 
CPK 
CPP 
CQA 
CRP 
CSR 
CTCAE 
CT-P17 
Ctrough 
CUP 
CV 
CV 
DAS28 
DCS 
DMARD 
DNA 
DSC 
DT 
ECG 
ECLA 
ELISA 
EMA 
EOS 
EOW 
EPAR 
EPCB 
ESR 
current Good Manufacturing  Practices 
Committee for Medicinal  Products for Human use 
Chinese Hamster Ovary 
Confidence interval(s) 
capillary Isoelectric Focusing 
Critical In-Process Control 
Critical In-Process Test 
Complement component 1q /  A subcomponent of complement C1, 
involved in immunoglobulin  initiation  of complement activation via 
the classical pathway 
Apparent total  body clearance 
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukaemia 
Maximum serum concentration 
Chemistry, manufacturing and control 
Certificate of Analysis 
Clean-Out of-Place 
Creatine phosphokinase 
Critical Process Parameters 
Critical Quality Attributes 
C-reactive protein 
Clinical study report 
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 
Biosimilar adalimumab (CELLTRION) 
Trough serum concentration 
Central Utilities  Plant 
Coefficient of variation 
Column Volume 
Disease activity score 28 joints 
Distributed Control System 
Disease modifying anti-rheumatic  drug 
Deoxyribonucleic Acid 
Differential Scanning Calorimetry 
Doubling Time 
Electrocardiogram 
Electrochemiluminescence assay 
Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay 
European Medicines Agency 
End of study 
Every other week 
European public  assessment report 
End-of-Production Cell Bank 
Erythrocyte sedimentation rate 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 5/126 
 
  
  
EU 
EULAR 
FACS 
Fc 
FcRn 
FcyR 
FcyRI 
FcyRIIa 
FcyRIIb 
FcyRIIIa 
FcyRIIIb 
FDA 
fDP 
FTIR 
GBS 
GCP 
GGT 
GLP 
GVP 
GWD 
h 
HAQ 
HCCF 
HCP 
HF 
HPLC 
HRP 
HS 
HV 
HVAC 
IBD 
ICH 
European Union 
European League Against Rheumatism 
Fluorescence-Activated Cell Sorting 
Fragment crystallizable region of immunoglobulin 
Neonatal Fc receptor 
Fc gamma receptor 
Fc gamma receptor I 
Fc gamma receptor IIa 
Fc gamma receptor IIb 
Fc gamma receptor IIIa 
Fc gamma receptor IIIb 
Food and Drug Administration 
finished Drug Product 
Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy 
Guillain Barré syndrome 
Good Clinical Practice 
Gamma-glutamyl transferase 
Good Laboratory Practice 
Good pharmacovigilance practices 
Glassware Washer Drye 
Hour(s) 
Health  assessment questionnaire 
Harvested Cell Culture Fluid 
Residual Host  Cell Protein 
Human Factor 
High-Performance Liquid  Chromatography 
Horseradish Peroxidase 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa 
Healthy Volunteers 
Heating,  Ventilation and Air Conditioning 
Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
International Council for Harmonisation 
IEC-HPLC 
Ion-Exchange High-Performance Liquid  Chromatography 
IFU 
IGF 
IgG 
IGRA 
IL-6 
IND 
INN 
IPC 
Instruction for use 
Insulin like Growth Factor 
Immunoglobulin G 
Interferon-γ Release Assay 
Interleukin-6 
Investigational New Drug 
International Non-proprietary Name 
In-Process Control 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 6/126 
 
  
  
IPM 
IPT 
ISR 
ITT 
IV 
JIA 
KD 
kDa 
LC-MS 
LIVCA 
LOD 
LOQ 
LRV 
LS 
LSM 
LTα3 
MAA 
MALS 
MCB 
In-Process Monitoring 
In-Process Test 
Injection site reaction 
Intent-to-treat 
Intravenous 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Dissociation Constant 
Kilodalton 
Liquid  Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry 
In vitro Cell Age Limit 
Limit  of Detection 
Limit  of Quantitation 
Log Reduction Value 
Least square 
Least squares mean 
Lymphotoxin-alpha3 
Marketing Authorisation Application 
Multi-Angle  Light  Scattering 
Master Cell Bank 
MedDRA 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
MFI 
MLR 
MoA 
MOV 
MPA 
MRI 
MS 
MSH 
MTX 
NAb 
NF 
NHL 
NSAID 
NWP 
OECD 
ON 
PASI 
PASI 75 
PBMC 
PBS 
PC 
Micro-Flow  Imaging 
Mixed Lymphocyte Reaction 
Mechanisms of Action 
Maintenance Of Validation 
Microscopic Polyangiitis 
Magnetic resonance imaging 
Multiple  sclerosis 
Material Storage and Handling 
Methotrexate 
Neutralizing antibody 
National Formulary 
Non–Hodgkin’s  lymphoma 
Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug 
Normalised Water Permeability 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
Optic neuritis 
Psoriasis area severity index 
Psoriasis area severity index score improvement of at least 75% 
relative to baseline 
Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell 
Phosphate Buffered Saline 
Polycarbonate 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 7/126 
 
  
  
PCA 
pCD 
PD 
PFS 
PFS-S 
Ph. Eur. 
PK 
PLC 
PML 
PP 
PP 
PPD 
pPs 
Ps 
PsA 
PSUR 
PT 
pUV 
PV 
PVDF 
QA 
QC 
Qp 
QS 
QTPP 
RA 
RCB 
RH 
RMP 
RMP 
RNS 
RPLS 
SA 
SAE 
SAWP 
SC 
SCC 
SD 
SDAI 
Polymerase Cycling Assembly 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Pharmacodynamic(s) 
Pre-filled syringe 
Pre-Filled Syringe with  Safety guard (needle guard) 
European Pharmacopoeia 
Pharmacokinetic(s) 
Programmable Logic Controller 
Progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
Process Parameter 
Per-protocol 
Purified protein derivative 
Paediatric Plaque Psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Periodic safety update report 
Preferred term 
Paediatric Uveitis 
Process Validation 
Polyvinylidene Fluoride 
Quality Assurance 
Quality Control 
Specific productivity 
Quantum satis 
Quality Target Product Profile 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Research Cell Bank 
Room Humidity 
Risk management plan 
Reference Medicinal Product 
Rigid Needle Shield 
Reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome 
Scientific advice 
Serious adverse event 
Scientific Advice Working Party 
Subcutaneous(ly) 
Single Cell Clones 
Standard deviation 
Simplified disease activity index 
SEC-HPLC 
SF-36 
Size Exclusion High-Performance Liquid  Chromatography 
36-item  short form health survey 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 8/126 
 
  
  
SmPC 
SOC 
SPR 
sTNFα 
T½ 
TB 
TEAE 
TEM 
TESAE 
TFF 
TK 
Tmax 
tmTNFα 
TNFR 
TNFα 
TOC 
TSB 
TSE 
UC 
uDP 
UF 
UF/DF 
US 
USP 
USPI 
UV 
VAS 
WCB 
VCD 
VF 
WFI 
Vss 
Vz/F 
λz 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
System Organ Class 
Surface Plasmon Resonance 
Soluble tumour  necrosis factor alpha 
Terminal elimination  half-life 
Tuberculosis 
Treatment emergent adverse event 
Transmission Electron Microscopy 
Treatment-emergent serious adverse event 
Tangential Flow Filtration 
Toxicokinetics 
Time to Cmax 
Transmembrane tumour necrosis factor alpha 
TNF  receptor 
Tumour necrosis factor alpha 
Total Organic Carbon 
Tryptic Soy Broth 
Transmitting  animal Spongiform Encephalopathy 
Ulcerative colitis 
unassembled Drug Product 
Ultrafiltration 
Ultrafiltration/Diafiltration 
United  States 
United  States Pharmacopoeia 
US Product Information 
Uveitis 
Visual analogue scale 
Working Cell Bank 
Viable Cell Density 
Viral Filtration 
Water For Injection 
Volume of distribution  at steady state 
Apparent volume of distribution during the  terminal phase after 
non-intravenous administration 
Terminal elimination  rate constant 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 9/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. submitted  on 6 March 2020  an application for marketing 
authorisation to the  European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Yuflyma, through  the centralised procedure falling 
within  the Article 3(1) and point  1 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No  726/2004.  
The applicant applied for the following indications: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Yuflyma in  combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to  severe, active rheumatoid arthritis  in adult patients when  the response 
to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in  adults not previously treated 
with  methotrexate. 
Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to  methotrexate or when continued treatment 
with  methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to 
improve physical function,  when given in combination with  methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic  arthritis 
Yuflyma in  combination with methotrexate is indicated for the  treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis,  in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to  methotrexate or when continued treatment with  methotrexate is inappropriate (for the  efficacy 
in monotherapy see section 5.1).  Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged less than  2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis  in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who  have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see section 
5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with  severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an 
inadequate response to  conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic evidence of AS 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with  severe axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic 
evidence of AS but with  objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, who have had an 
inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 10/126 
 
  
  
 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis  in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-
ray in patients  with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1)  and to  improve 
physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult  patients who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the  treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from 4 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical therapy and 
phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with  an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy (see sections 5.1  and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult  patients who 
have not  responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with  a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric patients 
(from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including  primary 
nutrition  therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients  who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine (6-
MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who  are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in  patients in need of corticosteroid- 
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in  patients from 2 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant  to conventional therapy, or in whom 
conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 11/126 
 
  
  
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 10(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC  – relating to applications for a biosimilar medicinal product 
The application submitted is  
composed of administrative information, complete quality data, appropriate non-clinical and clinical data for a 
similar biological medicinal product. 
The chosen reference product is: 
Medicinal product which  is or has been authorised in accordance with Union  provisions in force for not less 
than 6/10  years in the EEA:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength,  pharmaceutical form: Humira, 40mg, solution  for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: AbbVie Deutschland GmbH Co. KG 
Date of authorisation:  08-09-2003   
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/03/256/001 
Medicinal product authorised in the Union/Members State where the application is made or European 
reference medicinal product:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength,  pharmaceutical form:  Humira, 40mg, solution  for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: AbbVie Deutschland GmbH Co. KG 
Date of authorisation:  08-09-2003 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
Marketing authorisation numbers: EU/1/03/256/001;  EU/1/03/256/012-019;  EU/1/03/256/023-25 
Medicinal product which  is or has been authorised in accordance with Union  provisions in force and to which 
bioequivalence has been demonstrated by appropriate bioavailability studies:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
Product name, strength,  pharmaceutical form: Humira, 40mg, solution  for injection 
Marketing authorisation holder: AbbVie Deutschland GmbH Co. KG 
Date of authorisation:  08-09-2003;  28-07-2015;  28-07-2015 
Marketing authorisation granted by:  
−  Union 
−  Union Marketing authorisation  numbers: EU/1/03/256/003;  EU/1/03/256/013;  EU/1/03/256/016 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Not  applicable 
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No. 141/2000  and Article 3 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 12/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
847/2000,  the applicant  did not submit a critical report addressing the possible similarity with  authorised 
orphan medicinal products because there is no authorised orphan medicinal product for a condition related to 
the proposed indication. 
Scientific advice 
The applicant received the following  Scientific advice on the  development relevant for the indication subject 
to the present application: 
Date 
Reference 
SAWP  co-ordinators 
14/09/2017   
EMEA/H/SA/3634/1/2017/III 
Dr Peter Kiely, Prof. Brigitte Blöchl-
Daum 
The Scientific advice pertained to the  following quality and clinical aspects: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The adequacy of the proposed set of physicochemical and biological tests  to demonstrate similarity to 
Humira in terms of quality; 
The overall design of the PK equivalence study, namely the study population and inclusion/exclusion 
criteria, dose and route of administration,  endpoints, sampling time points and duration for PK and 
immunogenicity, sample size, choice of equivalence margin and the  use of both EU-Humira  and US-
Humira in the study; 
The overall design of a phase III study conducted in plaque psoriasis patients,  namely the study 
population and inclusion/exclusion criteria, dose, endpoints, the equivalence margin, the sample size 
and power, the  time for the  primary analysis, the blinding strategy and the use of US-Humira  in the 
study; 
The size and scope of the proposed safety and immunogenicity database. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the  CHMP were: 
Rapporteur: Outi  Mäki-Ikola 
Co-Rapporteur: Melinda Sobor 
The application was received by the EMA on 
The procedure started on 
6 March 2020 
26 March 2020 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
12 June 2020 
members on 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP 
15 June 2020 
members on 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 13/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The PRAC Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all 
17 June 2020 
PRAC members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
N/A 
CHMP  during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to be sent to 
23 July 2020 
the applicant during the  meeting on 
The applicant submitted the  responses to the  CHMP consolidated List of 
11 September 2020 
Questions on 
The Rapporteurs circulated the  Joint Assessment Report on the 
N/A 
responses to the List  of Questions to all CHMP  members on 
The PRAC agreed on the PRAC Assessment Overview and Advice to 
N/A 
CHMP  during the meeting on 
The CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding  issues in writing  to be sent to 
12 November 2020 
the applicant on 
The applicant submitted the  responses to the  CHMP List  of Outstanding 
17 November 2020 
Issues on  
The Rapporteurs circulated the  Joint Assessment Report on the 
25 November 2020 
responses to the List  of Outstanding  Issues to  all CHMP  members on  
The outstanding issues were addressed by the applicant during an oral 
N/A 
explanation before the CHMP during the  meeting on 
The CHMP, in the  light of the overall data submitted  and the scientific 
10 December 2020 
discussion within  the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting 
a marketing authorisation to  Yuflyma on  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 14/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2.  Scientific discussion 
About the product 
Yuflyma (company code: CT-P17) has been developed as a biosimilar to the reference medicinal product EU 
approved Humira. 
Yuflyma is a genetically engineered recombinant human immunoglobulin IgG1 monoclonal antibody, which 
binds specifically to tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α)  and neutralises its  biological function  by inhibiting 
interaction with  the p55 and p75  cell surface TNF  receptors. 
The proposed therapeutic indications for Yuflyma are identical to the  indications in the EU approved Humira 
label: rheumatoid arthritis  (RA), juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA; polyarticular JIA and enthesitis-related 
arthritis),  axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis [AS] and axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic 
evidence of AS), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), psoriasis (Ps), paediatric Ps, hidradenitis suppurativa (HS),  Crohn’s 
disease (CD), paediatric CD, ulcerative colitis (UC), uveitis (UV) and paediatric UV.  
Currently, Yuflyma is being developed and available only in 40 mg/0.4  mL (100 mg/mL)  pre-filled syringe 
(PFS) and pre-filled pen (autoinjector (AI)) presentations. The recommended posology for adult  and partial 
paediatric indications  for Yuflyma are the same as for Humira.  However, the originator is also available in vial 
and in 40mg/0.8mL,  80mg/0.8mL,  20mg/0.2mL  strength. The vial size affects posology and in this respect, 
the proposed SmPC of Yuflyma is justifiably different from the originator regarding posology. 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
This Marketing Authorisation Application is an abridged application for a similar biological medicinal product 
under Article 10(4)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  as amended by Directive 2004/27/EC. 
The development programme for Yuflyma was designed to demonstrate biosimilarity to the  EU approved 
Humira.  
The clinical development programme includes three clinical studies in healthy volunteers (HV)  and two  in RA 
patients (Studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2 and 3.1 for biosimilarity; Studies CT-P17 1.3  and 3.2 for device 
development). The clinical development programme applied the  following guidelines: 
•  Guideline on similar biological medicinal products (CHMP/437/04  Rev 1) 
•  Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing  biotechnology-derived proteins as active 
substance: non-clinical and clinical issues (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/  42832/2005  Rev 1) 
•  Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing  monoclonal antibodies - non-clinical and 
clinical issues (EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010) 
•  Guideline on the  investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev 1/  Corr**) 
•  Guideline on the  clinical investigation of the  pharmacokinetics of therapeutic proteins 
(CHMP/EWP/89249/2004) 
•  Guideline on immunogenicity assessment of biotechnology-derived therapeutic proteins 
(EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/14327/2006  Rev 1) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 15/126 
 
  
  
The applicant sought scientific and procedural advice from the  CHMP (EMEA/H/SA/3634/1/2017/III)  on the 
CT-P17 development programme, which covered questions on the quality, non-clinical and clinical program 
including a proposed Phase 3 study in  patients with  Ps. Overall, the  development programme was compliant 
with  CHMP guidance and scientific advice. However, after receiving final advice, the applicant revised the 
development plan. The proposed Phase 3 clinical study was revised to be conducted in  patients with  RA 
instead of Ps. Therefore, scientific advice was not given regarding study design and endpoints  in the RA 
setting.  Please also see section 1.1.   “Scientific Advice”. 
The applicant has not  submitted a paediatric investigation plan (PIP) for the current development 
programme, which is acceptable to CHMP,  as this is a biosimilar medicinal product. 
2.1.  Quality aspects 
2.1.1.  Introduction 
Yuflyma was developed as a biosmilar to Humira. The finished product is presented as a sterile solution for 
injection containing 40  mg of adalimumab as active substance.  
Other ingredients are: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80 and water for 
injections.   
The product is available in 0.4 mL single dose pre-filled syringe (PFS), PFS with  needle safety guard (PFS-S) 
or prefilled-pen (auto-injector, AI). 
2.1.2.  Active Substance 
General  information 
The active substance, adalimumab (CT-P17)  is a recombinant human monoclonal IgG1 antibody subclass 
antibody that  selectively binds directly to human tumour necrosis factor α (TNFα). 
Like other IgG subclasses, CT-P17 is a glycoprotein with  one N-linked glycosylation site in the CH2 domain of 
each heavy chain. The molecular formulae for the heavy and light chains are C2197H3404N584O678S15 
and C1027H1610N282O332S6 (considering C-terminal lysine cleavage: C2191H3392N582O677S15 and 
C1027H1610N28 2O332S6),  respectively. Each heavy chain consists of 451  amino acids with  11 cysteine 
residues, and each light  chain consists of 214 amino acids with  5 cysteine residues. The total  mass of 
145,189  Da is a theoretically predicted molecular mass intact CT-P17 molecule based on the amino acid 
sequence.  
Manufacture, characterisation and process controls 
Description of manufacturing process and process controls 
The manufacturing process is a straightforward monoclonal antibody production process. The active 
substance is produced in a Chinese Hamster Ovary CHO cell line. The manufacturing process starts with 
working cell bank (WCB) vial thaw  and continues with inoculum  expansion steps. The upstream process 
continues with  seed bioreactor steps leading to production bioreactor. Cells are harvested via centrifugation 
and filtration, and finally transferred for purification. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 16/126 
 
  
  
 
Purification of CT-P17 is accomplished via three chromatography steps and finalised with  ultrafiltration, virus 
filtration,  and further filtration  before filling into  the sterile containers. 
Detailed manufacturing flow charts for each process steps including non-critical and critical process 
parameters (input  variables), and in-process tests  (output  variables) have been provided. In addition to 
manufacturing flow charts, descriptions of each process step have also been provided. 
Control of materials 
A standard, two-tiered  cell banking system is in  place. The description of the cell bank establishment is 
adequate and sufficient.  Both master cell bank (MCB) and WCB are adequately tested for adventitious 
viruses. Additionally, specification for mycoplasma, sterility, and identity are in place. An acceptable protocol 
is presented for the preparation, qualification,  and storage of future  WCB. Limit  of in vitro cell age has been 
evaluated and genetic stability demonstrated for cells of proposed age. Genetic stability studies have been 
performed and adequately demonstrated at end of production cells (EOPC) level. Genetic testing  was 
performed also on the MCB. Program for monitoring the stability  of the  cell banks (WCB and MCB) has been 
provided. Stability will  be monitored periodically. The method description and the  summary of validation 
studies of the methods used to  characterise and test  the cell banks were provided. 
Raw materials of biological and non-biological origin used for the manufacture of adalimumab CT-P17 are 
adequately presented. For the compendial materials reference is made to the  Ph. Eur. and/or USP. For non-
compendial raw materials, in-house acceptance criteria have been described. Upon request, information on 
growth media composition has been provided. In addition, a confirmation that an agreement is in place with 
the supplier of complex media to notify the  applicant in case of changes to the medium has been provided. 
Raw materials of biological origin have appropriate specifications for identity and microbial safety.  
Control of critical steps and intermediates  
A comprehensive control strategy for CT-P17 active substance manufacture is in place. The development of 
the control strategy and, overall, the approach to define the criticality of parameters and in-process tests  is in 
line with  relevant EMA guidelines.  
The presented process controls and in-process tests and for CT-P17 active substance manufacturing are 
appropriate. The applicant has presented target values and acceptable ranges for each process parameter 
and in-process test,  which are, according to  the applicant, based on development studies and/or historical 
production data. Historical data values for each parameter and a summary of process characterisation data 
used for establishing critical parameters and their acceptable ranges or acceptance criteria were provided. 
Non-critical process parameters and tests are listed as part of the manufacturing flow charts and part of 
process validation studies. 
Process validation 
Process validation for CT-P17 active substance was carried out at commercial scale at the  intended 
production site for CT-P17. Validation of the CT-P17 manufacturing process was performed at commercial 
scale using several batches. Process validation was performed by evaluation of the  ability to control process 
parameters, ability to meet the acceptance criteria for all in-process tests,  and the  ability to meet 
specification for all routine tests. There was no batch failure during validation, and all active substance results 
met the acceptance criteria. Only few, minor deviations during process validation were identified, however all 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 17/126 
 
  
  
 
 
the minor deviations were all adequately assessed and discussed. Based on the process validation data, it  can 
be concluded that  the process consistency was demonstrated by the  input and output  parameters and 
controls repeatedly meeting their requirements. 
Several hold points  during active substance manufacturing process were identified. Maximum hold times for 
each hold points  were appropriately validated. In addition,  validated hold times for buffers and cell culture 
media were adequately established. Resin lifetime studies were performed in small-scale models. 
Establishment and qualification of small-scale models was performed and adequately described. Maximum 
hold time of thawed active substance has been defined. 
The capability of the purification process to  reduce process-related impurities was sufficiently demonstrated 
by small-scale impurity clearance studies. Methods have been adequately described. Data for small-scale 
qualifications have been provided and considered acceptable. The impurity  clearance validation studies are 
further supported by the low  impurity levels measured in CT-P17 active substance as well as process 
validation data of commercial scale batches confirming the removal of impurities to acceptable levels. 
Reprocessing of virus filtration, ultrafiltration/diafiltration  (UF/DF)  pool and final filtration  have been studied 
in small-scale but  are not yet validated in  commercial manufacturing scale. Reprocessing will be validated if 
need for such occurs. Based on a small-scale data, acceptance criteria for reprocessing at manufacturing 
scale has been set. The approach is considered acceptable. 
All liquid filters used for media preparation, bioreactors, harvest, purification,  buffer preparation and hold are 
part of the validation studies. The filters were categorised based on risk assessment to  designate the required 
tests for filter validation studies. Results of the filter  validation studies were provided and are considered 
acceptable. 
The shipping container is maintained at  the recommended storage conditions during transportation. The 
presented shipping  validation studies cover the shipping  of CT-P17 in the  active substance container 
representing the  worst-case scenarios. Summary data from the shipping  validation was provided confirming 
that  all the tested quality attributes  met the acceptance criteria. 
Manufacturing  process development 
Four different processes (A to D) have been described for CT-P17 active substance. Non-clinical  studies were 
performed using material from Process A and B batches, Process C material was used for clinical studies and 
Process D material was used for process validation and similarity studies. Process D is the  proposed 
commercial process. 
Comparability between Process A and B, Process B and C, as well as Process C and D was appropriately 
demonstrated. The comparability assessment between Process C and Process D is discussed below in more 
detail. 
For Process D upstream process, only minor changes were introduced to when compared to Process C 
manufacture. For the downstream process, a number of adaptations were made. Comparability study 
included several batches of Process C and several batches of Process D, which were, with  some exceptions, 
compared side-by-side by using batch release tests as well as other physicochemical/biological tests. 
Furthermore, additional evaluation was performed for in-process tests for several batches from each process. 
No significant  differences in quality  attributes were observed. Stability profile on each process batches was 
also studied  demonstrating similar stability.   
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 18/126 
 
  
  
 
In conclusion, based on the comparability data, the  quality and physicochemical and biological characteristics 
of the Process C active substance used in clinical studies and commercial Process D active substance material 
are considered comparable. 
Characterisation 
A summary of the  characterisation studies has been provided. The studies are further discussed in  the 
Biosimilarity section. The characterisation of CT-P17 adalimumab included determination of structure 
(primary, secondary, and higher-order), charge variants, N-linked glycans, disulphide bonds, free thiols,  and 
thermal stability. In general, the studies  included in  the characterisation are considered comprehensive and 
relevant. 
All process-related impurities were observed in constant  low levels and the presented data demonstrate that 
the CT-P17 active substance manufacturing process for commercial production clears process-related 
impurities to acceptable levels. The approach to  control process-related impurities can be supported. 
Summary tables including safety evaluation of each impurity have also been provided.  
Specification 
Specification 
The release specification proposed for the  active substance includes tests for appearance, identity, 
purity/impurity, quantity,  potency attributes, endotoxins and bioburden. All the  specifications were set in 
accordance with guideline ICHQ6B.  
The proposed active substance specification includes compendial tests (clarity, colour, pH,  endotoxin, and 
bioburden) and non-compendial tests (identity,  oligosaccharide profile, purity, charge variants, process 
related impurities,  protein concentration, and potency by In vitro hTNFα  Neutralisation. 
The biological activity of CT-P17 finished product is determined based on the  human Tumour Necrosis Factor-
α (hTNFα)  neutralisation assay. 
Overall, the test  parameters proposed to be included in the  active substance specification are considered 
relevant and in line with  the current guidance. The applicant has also discussed all the test acceptance 
criteria separately. Justification  as well historical data for each acceptance criteria have been provided. 
Generally, the approach to set the acceptance criteria solely on statistical  evaluation is not fully supported, as 
the acceptance criteria for release and stability should be set based on manufacturing history including 
clinical qualified batch data and characterisation data from the reference medicinal product. However, in this 
particular case, very little variation between batches is observed and thus, the  proposed limits are tight 
enough and supported by the clinical batch data. 
Acceptance criteria for total level of the  main fucosylated species, G0F, G1F  and G2F  is proposed to be 
controlled. In addition, major afucosylated species and high mannose variants are controlled. Additionally, 
upon request, the applicant proposed to set a new specification for total afucosylated glycans %, which is 
considered appropriate. As proposed to control the most important glycan species is considered acceptable.  
Based on the provided batch analysis data, these approaches are considered acceptable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 19/126 
 
  
  
 
 
Analytical methods 
A summary of the  analytical methods validation has been provided. Analytical results of several batches have 
been submitted,  manufactured by Process A, Process B, Process C and Process D. All results are within 
specification of the  corresponding stage of development. 
The validation verification results for compendial methods have been presented in  the dossier. For non-
compendial methods, validation reports were also provided and based on the  provided data the methods are 
considered appropriately validated for their intended use. 
In conclusion, the applicant has followed the principles of ICH Q2R1 guideline to demonstrate the  validity of 
the methods. 
Batch  analysis  
Batch analysis data from CT-P17 active substance several lots used in the non-clinical studies, clinical 
studies, and stability studies have been provided. Batch data from all manufacturing processes A to  D have 
also been provided. All acceptance criteria were met. 
Reference  standard 
The strategies for establishing the reference standards (RS) during the active substance development have 
been provided. The reference standards used throughout  the product development have been adequately 
described. The applicant has a plan to establish a two-tiered system for in-house reference material involving 
primary and working reference standards. The characterisation tests  and analytical procedures for 
establishing a new working reference standard (WRS) were provided. 
In conclusion, the reference standards have been adequately presented and thoroughly qualified. 
Container closure system 
The active substance containers are pre-sterilised (by gamma irradiation), pyrogen free bottles. Containers 
are stated to  meet pharmacopoeial requirements. Specifications for containers are in place including 
description, cytotoxicity, endotoxin, and gamma irradiation. Certificates of Analysis (CoAs) from the supplier 
as well as representative drawings of the  containers have been provided. Gamma irradiation is performed by 
the supplier. Non-compendial container closure integrity test was performed to study the suitability  of the 
containers for its intended  use. Adequate information about compliance of the containers with  Ph. Eur. has 
been provided.  
Summary data from extractable and leachable studies of primary containers of active substance have been 
provided. Furthermore, a risk assessment for disposable materials used for manufacture has also been 
provided. Based on the provided data it  can be concluded that low levels of leachables are present in the 
active substance and they are not expected to  pose a safety risk. 
Stability 
Stability data has been provided on several active substance batches at long term, intermediate, accelerated 
and stressed storage conditions.  In addition,  a photo stability study has been performed confirming that the 
active substance is photo-sensitive. Stability studies were carried out according to the  Guideline ICHQ5C. All 
stability samples have been stored in model containers of the same material as the actual active substance 
container. The model containers have been filled to represent the  worst-case surface area to volume ratio at 
scale of active substance containers. The use of reduced size containers representative of the  commercial 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 20/126 
 
  
  
scale containers in the stability studies  is acceptable. Real-time data is currently available for several batches 
representative of clinical material and commercial active substance. No critical changes or significant trends 
have been observed in the  tested parameters at the long-term conditions or in  the completed intermediate 
storage condition  study. The applicant commits to  continue testing  all of the CT-P17 active substance batches 
included in the stability  studies. In the event that  stability test  results are not within  the limits  of the 
specification at any time point,  the regulatory authorities will  be informed. 
Overall, the stability  of the  active substance has been adequately addressed. As stated in  ICH Q5C guideline, 
primary data to support a requested storage period should be based on long-term, real-time, real-condition 
stability studies. Thus,  the claimed shelf life for the active substance when stored at the  recommended 
storage conditions  is considered acceptable. 
2.1.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Description of the product and pharmaceutical development 
Description of the product 
The finished product is formulated for subcutaneous (SC) administration as a sterile solution  in a pre-filled 
syringe (PFS), PFS with  needle safety guard (PFS-S) or pre-filled pen (auto-injector, AI) intended to deliver 
40 mg of adalimumab per 0.4 mL solution  at a concentration of 100  mg/mL. Besides the active substance, 
adalimumab, the finished product solution also contains acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, 
polysorbate 80 and water for injections.  
Pharmaceutical development 
The Quality Target Product Profile (QTPP) profile was developed in accordance with ICH Q8 (R2): 
Pharmaceutical development, taking into  consideration the intended use in clinical setting,  route of 
administration, dosage form, physical, chemical, biological or microbiological properties, dosage strength, 
container closure system, sterility,  purity, and stability. 
Formulation development 
The optimal stabiliser was evaluated in  two formulation studies. In the first study, formulations with  various 
stabilisers (e.g, sugars and amino acids) were compared after storage at long-term condition  (5 ± 3°C), at 
accelerated condition (40 ± 2°C  / 75 ± 5% RH),  and after freeze/thaw stress. Formulation with  optimal 
concentration of glycine was chose as the final stabiliser. The formulation studies demonstrated that  the 
optimal formulation for Yuflyma contains glycine, sodium acetate, polysorbate 80 and protein concentration 
of 100 mg/mL. 
Manufacturing  process development 
Several changes to the finished product manufacturing process were implemented during the manufacturing 
process development. The product formulation, manufacturing site and scale were changed. In addition, 
minor changes and adjustments to some of the analytical methods were included due to manufacturing site 
and equipment changes. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 21/126 
 
  
  
 
Several manufacturing processes were described for the finished product. Processes were used for non-
clinical studies, comparability studies, clinical studies and process validation. The process used for process 
validation is the proposed commercial manufacturing process.  
Extensive comparability studies were conducted between consecutive processes and demonstrated that the 
consecutive manufacturing processes are comparable. Comparability between the commercial process and 
the process used in clinical studies was shown using additional physicochemical and biological 
characterisation studies and all results were similar. 
Container closure 
The safety and effectiveness of the auto-injector has been assessed in usability studies with  the intended 
users and in its  intended environment. The usability studies have been assessed in detail in the clinical 
assessment report. 
The medical devices have been appropriately studied for suitability  for use, functional performance, container 
closure integrity,  usability study, mechanism of action. 
Microbiological attributes 
The microbial safety of the active substance, excipients and finished product is effectively controlled. The 
container closure components are sterilised, and the integrity  of container closure system was confirmed. 
Manufacture of the product and process controls 
Manufacturers 
The information given on the finished product manufacturers is found acceptable. 
Manufacturing  process 
The finished product manufacturing process consists of formulation, sterile filtration, aseptic filling and visual 
inspection processes, to produce the finished product as an unassembled finished product (uFP) in a pre-filled 
syringe without  plunger rod. The uFP is further assembled into prefilled syringes (PFS),  pre-filled syringes 
with  safety guard (PFS-S) or auto-injector (AI). The manufacturing process was described in sufficient  detail. 
Control of critical steps and intermediates 
The manufacturing process is controlled by raw material testing  and several process variables that have 
defined target set-points/operating ranges and/or defined acceptance limits.   
Characterisation of active substance and finished product batches demonstrated that  the finished product 
manufacturing process has no impact on aggregation, fragmentation, charge variants, glycosylation or 
potency. 
The process control strategy for the finished product manufacture is acceptable. In-process controls (IPCs) 
(with  acceptance criteria) and critical process parameters (CPPs) are defined for each process step where 
relevant. Overall, the  IPC tests and proposed limits are considered acceptable. Critical quality attributes 
(CQAs) were determined based on knowledge from previous commercial manufacturing experience as well as 
characterisation and similarity assessment with  the reference product Humira. Comprehensive lists of CPPs 
and critical in-process controls linked to  relevant CQAs were provided.  
Manufacturing  process validation 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 22/126 
 
  
  
The manufacturing process steps were validated using several validation batches of uFP.  Manufacturing 
process validation data for formulation of final bulk, sterile filtration,  aseptic filling, visual inspection, and 
assembly of the final finished product were provided. Process validation data included process parameters, 
in-process controls and release specification testing.  All process validation results were within  acceptance 
limits.  The sterilisation processes of equipment and container closure components were qualified.  
Product specification 
The specification for routine release of finished product includes compendial tests  for clarity, colour, visible 
particles, pH, extractable volume, osmolality, uniformity of dose, sub-visible particles, endotoxin, and 
sterility.  
Non-compendial tests for identity, purity, concentration, and potency are in place. Furthermore, functionality 
tests for PFS and PFS-S are presented. A comprehensive panel of specifications has been presented for the 
finished product release and shelf-life specification.  
Acceptance limits for individual test parameter were generated. Similar specification limits have been set as 
for the active substance. For shelf life acceptance criteria slightly wider acceptance criteria is proposed for 
charge variants. This is considered acceptable and justified  by the stability  data. 
Characterisation of impurities 
No additional impurities are detected in  the CT-P17 finished product compared to the active substance. For 
discussion on impurities please refer to the Characterisation section. 
A summary of the  risk assessment for elemental impurities in accordance with  ICH Q3D has been provided. 
Furthermore, the presence of possible nitrosamine impurities was discussed, and a risk assessment was 
provided. Based on the provided assessments, the  risk for elemental and nitrosamine impurities  in the CT-
P17 finished product is considered negligible. 
Analytical methods 
Similar methods with  few exceptions are used for CT-P17 finished product. Release tests used specifically for 
the finished product are functionality  tests for the uFP, PFS, PFS-S and AI.  
Batch  data 
Batch analysis data derived from several lots of CT-P17 finished product manufactured throughout 
development are presented. These lots are manufactured using manufacturing process used for non-clinical, 
clinical, and stability as well as biosimilarity studies. All lots met the acceptance criteria in place at  the time of 
release. 
Container closure system 
The finished product is presented as a solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe with  a plunger stopper and 
a needle with  a needle shield. 
The primary packaging components that comes into  direct contact with  the finished product are: the 
borosilicate glass syringe with  a pre-staked needle (unassembled FP, uFP)  and an elastomeric plunger 
stopper. Overall, the description of the  primary and secondary container closure system as well as safety and 
usability of the devices are deemed sufficient and acceptable from the quality point of view. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 23/126 
 
  
  
Stability of the product 
Data have been provided on finished product stability studies  performed at the  long-term storage condition, 
at the accelerated storage condition,  and at the stress storage condition. Stability studies have been 
conducted on 2 presentations: uFP (unassembled FP i.e. CTP17 FP in  a PFS) and AI (uFP assembled with 
syringe unit  and drive unit).  The finger flange, plunger rod, and safety guard are assembled on top of the PFS 
and are not in  direct contact  with the  CT-P17 FP solution, and thus  are likely to have no impact on the 
stability of the CT-P17 FP solution.  It is agreed that  the stability data from CT-P17 uFP  represent also stability 
of the assembled CT-P17 PFS and CT-P17 Pre-Filled Syringe with  Safety guard (needle guard) (PFS-S). 
Real-time data is available for several uFP lots. There were no significant  changes in the quality  attributes of 
CT-P17 finished product during storage at the  long-term conditions during the submitted  period. In 
functionality stability  testing of CT-P17 finished product devices, CT-P17 uFP met the acceptance criteria for 
break loose and glide forces following storage during the  submitted period under long-term storage 
conditions. For the  CT-P17 AI, all functionality stability  test results met the acceptance criteria following 
storage during the  submitted period under long-term storage conditions. 
Overall, the stability  of Yuflyma finished product has been adequately addressed. As stated in  ICH Q5C 
guideline, primary data to support a requested storage period should be based on long-term, real-time, real-
condition stability  studies. Thus, the proposed shelf-life of 2  years when stored at 2°C – 8°C  is acceptable. 
The proposed additional shelf-life claim of 30 days for CT-P17 finished product when stored at  25±2°C is 
supported by the  provided data and acceptable. 
A confirmatory photostability study was performed and the results of the  study indicated that CT-P17 finished 
product (uFP)  secondary packaging provides sufficient protection from light  as Yuflyma is photostable when 
stored in its carton package or in the  assembled AI.  
In conclusion and based on the stability data provided the proposed shelf-life of 2 years when stored at 2°C  – 
8°C is acceptable for the finished product. Yuflyma may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C 
for a period of up to  30 days. The pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen must be protected from light  and 
discarded if not used within  the 30-day period. 
Biosimilarity  
The finished product was formulated as a biosimilar to Humira. However, there are some minor differences in 
the compositions of Yuflyma and Humira: the formulation of Yuflyma is different from Humira. 
Similarity assessment 
A comprehensive similarity exercise following the general principles outlined in  the Guideline on similar 
biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance - Quality issues 
(EMA/CHMP/BWP/247713/2012)  has been performed (Table 1). The comparability studies have been done by 
analysing Yuflyma and Humira-EU, side-by-side with  qualified state of-the-art physicochemical and biological 
methods. Active substance batches included were independent of active substance batches used to produce 
finished product batches included in the similarity assessment. The batches reflected a range of expiration 
dates and product ages. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 24/126 
 
  
  
 
The quality range was set by statistical analysis of several batches of Humira-EU  for key biological assays 
related to  the known and putative mechanisms of action of adalimumab. Overall strategy was included, when 
differences were observed, to evaluate the potential  of these on safety, efficacy, PK/PD and immunogenicity. 
Method  qualification 
Extensive orthogonal methodologies applied to CT-P17 and Humira-EU  for similarity assessment were 
qualified where feasible, performance parameters i.e. precision, specificity and/or accuracy was applied on a 
case by case basis, using the principles of method validation as defined in ICH Q2 (R1). A summary of 
qualification results for physicochemical test methods was presented. Upon request the  applicant provided 
the qualification/validation reports to demonstrate that  the methods used in biosimilarity characterisation are 
suitable for the intended use. 
Summary of results 
An overall Summary and results of a 2-way similarity assessment is presented in  the table below. 
Table 1  Overall Summary of 2-way Similarity Assessment 
Similarity 
Attributes 
Analytical Test Method 
Summary of Results 
Conclusions 
A slight difference in the amount of 
N-terminal pyro-glutamate and C-
terminal lysine variants is not 
considered  clinically relevant. 
The difference in oxidation is small 
and considered  not clinically 
significant) and a forced degradation 
study showed  that a substantial 
increase in oxidation has no impact 
on TNFα neutralisation activity, CDC 
activity, or FcγRIIIa binding  affinity. 
IEC-HPLC peak fractionation studies 
suggest  that proline amidation has no 
adverse effect on FcγRIIIa-V binding 
affinity, FcRn binding affinity, TNFα 
neutralisation activity or CDC activity. 
A lower level of glycation is generally 
considered  a desirable quality 
characteristic  and none of glycation 
sites exists in either epitope or Fc 
receptor binding  regions. 
Therefore, the small differences in 
levels of post-translational 
modifications are not considered to 
be clinically meaningful. 
Considering  other high order 
structure  analysis results which 
showed high  similarity between the 
products,  the small difference in free 
thiols does not appear  to affect 
antibody structure  or biological 
activities. 
EU-approved  Humira® and 
CT-P17 have identical 
primary structure. 
Minor differences between 
the two products  were 
detected in levels of N-
terminal pyroglutamic acid, 
oxidation, C-terminal lysines, 
proline amidation and 
glycation of the light chain. 
Other post-translational 
modifications were observed 
to be at similar levels. 
CT-P17 has identical 
disulphide bond  structure  to 
EU-approved  Humira®. The 
free thiol levels of CT-P17 
were slightly higher  than EU-
approved Humira®. 
CT-P17  was  highly  similar in 
secondary  and  higher  order 
structure. 
Primary 
Structure 
N-terminal Sequencing 
C-terminal Sequencing 
Peptide Mapping  (LC-MS) 
Intact Mass  (LC-MS) 
Glycation 
Higher order 
Structure 
Free Thiol Analysis 
Disulphide Bonds 
FTIR 
DSC 
CD 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 25/126 
 
  
  
 
Similarity 
Attributes 
Analytical Test Method 
Summary of Results 
Conclusions 
Content 
Protein Concentration 
Extractable Volume 
Aggregates 
and 
Monomeric 
Purity 
SEC-HPLC 
SEC-MALS 
AUC 
MFI 
Fragmentation 
Aglycosylation 
CE-SDS (Reduced and Non-
reduced) 
Charged 
Variants 
cIEF 
IEC-HPLC 
CT-P17 and EU-approved 
Humira® had similar protein 
concentrations. 
The extractable volume of 
the two products  was highly 
similar and both products 
had a mean extractable 
volume of 0.41  mL.  
CT-P17 and EU-approved 
Humira® predominantly 
contain monomer with low 
levels of HMW and  very low 
levels of LMW. 
CT-P17  had  a slightly  higher 
level  of  HMW 
than  EU-
approved  Humira  by  SEC-
HPLC and AUC. 
CT-P17 and EU-approved 
Humira® are comprised of a 
single dominant monomer 
species (95.2 – 98.3% in 
abundance)  with an S-value 
of 6.7 
The numbers  of sub-visible 
particles in CT-P17 
determined by MFI were 
comparable to, or lower 
than, those of EU-approved 
Humira® batches. 
CE-SDS analysis showed that 
CT-P17  has  a  slightly  lower 
level  of  non-glycosylated 
heavy chain and a lower level 
of 
than  EU-
fragments 
approved Humira®.  
The  same  five  major  peaks 
(Peak  1-5)  and  three  minor 
peaks (Peak 1a, Peak 4a and 
Peak  5a)  were  detected  by 
cIEF  in both  CT-P17  and  EU-
approved  Humira®,  and  the 
pI of each peak was the same 
in the two products 
IEC-HPLC suggested that CT-
P17 and EU-approved 
Humira® contain the same or 
similar charge variants. 
Some minor differences were 
noted in the relative 
proportion  of the 6 IEC-HPLC 
peaks/peak groups.  CT-P17 
had lower levels of acidic 
group  and basic group 1 and 
higher levels of main peak. 
CT-P17 also had  a slightly 
higher level of basic group  2 
than EU-approved  Humira®. 
The data for protein concentration 
and extractable volume show that 
CT-P17 and EU-approved  Humira® 
deliver the same dose of 
adalimumab. 
Levels of HMW remained < 1%, and 
had no impact on biological activities 
and no impact on immunogenicity or 
safety in clinical studies. Therefore, 
the slightly higher level of HMW in 
CT-P17 has no significant effect on 
safety and efficacy. 
Lower levels of these impurities are 
generally considered to be desirable 
and had no effect on biological 
activities. 
The lower level of the acidic group 
and basic group  1, and higher  level of 
main peak as observed in CT-P17 are 
generally considered desirable in a 
mAb. Although CT-P17 contains  0.6% 
higher level of basic group  2 
containing CT-P17 specific form than 
EU-approved  Humira®, it is so small 
as to be highly unlikely to have an 
adverse impact on the efficacy and 
safety of CT-P17, as is supported  by 
data on biological activities and by 
the clinical study data. 
Glycosylation 
Oligosaccharide profile 
N-linked glycan analysis 
The  types and  proportions  of 
the  glycans  were  reasonably  
conserved 
EU-
approved  Humira®  and  CT-
between 
Small difference in high  mannose 
content is not expected to impact PK 
in humans in a measurable manner. 
Since the levels of total afucosylated 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 26/126 
 
  
  
 
  
Similarity 
Attributes 
Analytical Test Method 
Summary of Results 
Conclusions 
P17. CT-P17 had lower levels 
of mannosylated  glycans and 
higher  levels of  afucosylated 
glycans.  Statistical  analysis 
showed that over 90% of CT-
P17  samples were  within  the 
quality range  of EU-approved 
Humira® in total afucosylated 
glycans. 
glycans (mannosylated glycans + 
afucosylated glycans) in CT-P17 were  
similar to EU-approved  Humira® and 
biological activities including 
FcγRIIIa-V and ADCC are highly 
similar, CT-P17 can be considered  to 
be similar to EU-approved  Humira® in 
glycosylation profile and minor 
differences in levels of individual 
glycan species are highly unlikely to 
be clinically meaningful  
CT-P17 was highly similar to 
EU-approved  Humira® in 
binding to TNFα and 
neutralisation of TNFα which 
are the primary mechanism 
of action of adalimumab.  
CT-P17 was also highly 
similar to EU-approved 
Humira® in binding to 
tmTNFα and in apoptosis 
induced  by reverse signalling 
following binding to tmTNFα  
CT-P17 was highly similar to 
EU-approved  Humira® in 
activities relevant to putative 
mechanisms of action of 
adalimumab, including C1q 
binding affinity, FcγRIIIa-V 
binding affinity, FcγRIIIa-F 
binding affinity, FcγRIIIb 
binding affinity, FcγRIIa 
binding affinity, FcγRIIb 
binding affinity, FcγRI 
binding affinity, and FcRn 
CT-P17 drug  product and 
EU-approved  Humira® 
showed similar biological 
activities in the additional 
biological properties  relevant 
to inflammatory bowel 
disease. 
There 
is  no  residual  uncertainty  
related to biological activities. CT-P17 
and  EU-approved  Humira  can  be 
expected  to  have  similar  efficacy  in 
vivo. 
There 
is  no  residual  uncertainty  
related  to  biological  activities.  The  
high  similarity in  Fc-receptor  binding 
affinity and  C1q  binding  support  that  
the products  can  be expected to have  
the same Fc-receptor mediated effects 
in  vivo.  The  high  similarity  in  FcRn 
binding  affinity  suggests  that  the  
products  can  be expected to have the  
same PK profile in vivo. 
There 
is  no  residual  uncertainty  
related to biological activities relevant 
to  IBD.  CT-P17  can  be  expected  to 
mediate  the  same  effects  as  EU-
approved Humira® in IBD. 
CT-P17 drug  product and 
EU-approved  Humira® 
showed similar biological 
activities in the additional 
biological properties  relevant 
to inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD). 
There is no residual uncertainty 
related to additional biological 
activities relevant to IBD. CT-P17 can 
be expected to mediate the same 
effects as EU-approved Humira® in 
IBD. 
Neither CT-P17 or EU-approved 
Humira bind to LTα3.  
Biological 
activity 
(F(ab’)2-
related 
Function) 
In vitro TNFα neutralisation 
TNFα biding affinity 
tmTNF binding affinity  
Apoptosis (reverse signaling) 
Biological 
Activity  
(Fc-related 
Binding) 
Fc-Related 
Biological 
Activities 
 (Fc-F(ab’)2- 
related 
Function) 
Additional 
Biological 
Properties 
Relevant to 
IBD 
Indications 
and LTα3 
Binding 
C1q binding  
FcγRIIIa-V binding affinity 
FcγRIIIa-F binding  affinity 
FcγRIIIb binding  affinity 
FcγRIIa binding affinity 
FcγRIIb binding affinity 
FcγRI binding affinity 
FcRn binding affinity 
CDC 
ADCC 
TNFα-induced  apoptosis 
inhibition assay 
TNFα-induced  IL-8 release 
inhibition assay 
TNFα-induced  VCAM-1 
release inhibition assay 
Induction  of regulatory 
macrophages  in MLR assay 
Inhibition of cellular 
proliferation in MLR assay 
LTα3 binding assay (ELISA) 
Similarity has been demonstrated for physico-chemical and biological quality attributes.  The observed 
differences were small and unlikely to have a clinical impact. Minor  differences noted were mainly in charge 
variants, in mannosylated and afucosylated glycans. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 27/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
N-terminal cleaved form at heavy chain was exclusively detected in CT-P17 basic group 2 region by IEC-
HPLC, but  in small quantities. Upon  request, the applicant  provided further discussion on the potential  impact 
of N-terminal cleaved form variant on functional properties and safety. According to the applicant, the 
cleaved form is considered as a product-related impurity, which can be controlled by IEC-HPLC at in  process 
as well as active substance and finished product specification levels. It was emphasised, that  the cleaved 
form was a biosynthetic variant, which is mostly removed during the  downstream purification process, it  is 
not a degradation product, and therefore it  can be effectively controlled. Data from long-term, accelerated 
and stress stability  studies did not reveal any sizeable increase in % area basic group 2, therefore 
accumulation of the cleaved form during storage is not  expected. Furthermore, the low amount of the variant 
(≤ 2% basic group 2) is unlikely to  have an impact on the functional properties of the CT-P17 active 
substance. This conclusion can be agreed upon. 
High  mannose species were slightly  higher in  EU-approved Humira and afucosylated species were slightly 
lower in EU-approved Humira in comparison to CT-P17, but  the total  afucosylated glycans (Sum of high 
mannose species and afucosylated species) were similar between EU-approved Humira and CT-P17. The 
differences observed in the  glycans did not result in a detectable difference in Fc related biological activity 
and are unlikely to have any clinical impact. Upon  request, the applicant  has included a new active substance 
release specification for total number of afucosylated species. 
In accelerated and stressed conditions,  the stability profiles of CT-P17 and EU-approved Humira were similar. 
In the forced degradation studies under oxidative stress, UV stress, high temperature stress, and high pH 
stress conditions,  the data further support the similarity of CT-P17 finished product, and EU-approved 
Humira. Different degradation profiles of CT-P17 FP and EU-approved Humira were observed under low pH 
(acidic stress), which  is anticipated as the  result of the  different formulation composition.  
In conclusion a high  similarity between CT-P17 and Humira-EU has been demonstrated for the following 
physico-chemical and biological properties: 
- 
Primary and higher order structure 
-  Content and extractable volume 
-  Size heterogeneity  
-  Charge variants (with  some minor exceptions) 
-  Glycan profiles  
-  Binding to soluble and transmembrane TNFα  and neutralisation  of TNFα 
-  Reverse signaling activity 
-  Binding to Fc-receptors (FcγRIIIa [V, F],  FcγRIIIb, FcγRIIa, FcγRIIb, FcγRI and FcRn) 
-  Binding to C1q and CDC activity  
-  ADCC activity 
- 
- 
Inhibition  of TNFα-induced  apoptosis, IL-8 and VCAM-1 release 
Induction of regulatory macrophages and subsequent T-cell anti-proliferation 
-  Stability under accelerated and stressed conditions and forced degradation 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 28/126 
 
  
  
 
Adventitious agents 
The manufacturing process of Yuflyma does not contain  raw materials of human origin, however, some 
materials of animal origin are included.  
A TSE certificate for a raw material has been provided. Risk of TSE contamination of each animal origin 
material has been evaluated and the risk is considered negligible. Cell banks are appropriately tested free of 
adventitious viruses indicating  that these animal-based materials are an unlikely source of viral 
contamination. 
For the risk of mycoplasma, fungal and microbial contamination  adequate data have been provided. Sufficient 
microbial control is in place. The cell banks are sterile and tested unprocessed bulk batches have very low 
bioburden. In addition, bioburden is controlled throughout  the manufacturing process. 
Yuflyma is expressed in the well-described Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, which are known to express 
retrovirus-like particles (RVLPs). The applicant determined the retroviral burden from cell culture 
supernatants of three different Process D batches. Methods  used for viral testing  of unprocessed bulk are 
listed in the  dossier. Adequate validation reports have been provided. 
Viral clearance studies are performed. Four model viruses were chosen for viral clearance studies. The 
methods used for viral titer  testing has been described. Summary data from viral clearance studies 
performed in small-scale columns has been provided. Comparison of process parameters used in virus 
clearance study and production  scale as well as and the rationale for parameters has been appropriately 
described. 
The purification processes steps involved in viral removal include two  chromatography steps, virus 
inactivation and virus filtration. The applicant has also provided adequate viral clearance study data from 
used resins. The assays used for viral testing  have been described. Overall, it  can be concluded from the 
summary table and provided validation report that  the viral clearance and inactivation studies performed 
result in a satisfactory outcome. 
Only endogenous retrovirus particles have been observed in the MCB and EPCB by transmission electron 
microscopy (TEM) examination. The manufacturing process has been validated and provides assurance that 
endogenous particles are sufficiently removed during purification processes. 
GMO 
Not  applicable. 
2.1.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
In general, the provided Module 3  for Yuflyma is of good quality and relevant areas have been satisfactorily 
covered.  
Overall, the manufacturing process of the active substance and finished product and the control strategy 
have been appropriately presented. 
The similarity between Yuflyma and the reference product, Humira-EU  has been addressed in a 
comprehensive comparability exercise. Based on the provided quality data similarity between Yuflyma and 
Humira-EU  can be agreed upon. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 29/126 
 
  
  
 
2.1.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The overall quality of Yuflyma is considered acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions as 
defined in the SmPC.  
The different aspects of the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological documentation comply with  existing 
guidelines. The manufacturing process of the active substance is adequately described, controlled and 
validated. The active substance is well characterised and appropriate specifications are set. The 
manufacturing process of the finished product has been satisfactorily described and validated. The quality  of 
the finished product is controlled by adequate test methods and specifications. Adventitious agents’ safety 
including TSE have been sufficiently assured. 
2.1.6.  Recommendation for future quality development 
In the context of the obligation of the MAHs  to take due account of technical and scientific progress, the 
CHMP  recommended a point for further investigation. 
2.2.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.2.1.  Pharmacology 
The pharmacological activity of CT-P17 and Humira-EU was characterised in a series of comparative in vitro 
studies in a stepwise manner. The biological assays evaluated Fab-related biological activity of adalimumab 
as it engages with  its target TNFα  and the Fc-based functionality  that can affect the effector functions and 
pharmacokinetics. 
Two-way in vitro similarity assays with  CT-P17 100 mg/mL and Humira-EU  100 mg/mL were included as part 
of the Quality dossier (see Section 2.1. ). 
Sufficient number of batches of CT-P17  and Humira-EU were included in  the similarity exercise . The 
similarity analyses were performed side-by-side using qualified in-house reference standard. 
CT-P17 was similar to  Humira-EU in binding  to TNFα  and tmTNFα,  C1q and Fc receptors (FcγRIIIa [V type 
and F type], FcγRIIIb, FcγRIIa, FcγRIIb, FcγRI and FcRn) and in TNFα  neutralisation, CDC, ADCC and 
apoptotic activity (reverse signalling).  The glycan profiles were similar with  some minor variation in  the high 
mannose and afucosylation contents.  CT-P17 had slightly higher total afucosylation contents  being 8.08 % ± 
0.7 than  Humira-EU (6.80 % ± 0.6),  but this  difference did not result in differences in the Fc-related 
functions, i.e. binding  to FcγRIIIa and ADCC activity. 
The additional biological assays which were done to  support the extrapolation to  other indications  (including 
inflammatory bowel disease), indicated that  CT-P17 and Humira-EU had similar effects on inhibition  of TNFα-
induced apoptosis, IL-8 and VCAM-1 release, regulatory macrophage induction and subsequent T-cell anti-
proliferation. 
2.2.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
No separate pharmacokinetic studies were conducted to  support biosimilarity of CT-P17 and Humira-EU. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 30/126 
 
  
  
 
One toxicology/toxicokinetic study with CT-P17 and Humira-EU  was conducted in  cynomolgus monkeys for 
support of the similarity assessment (see section 2.2.3.  Toxicology). Validated electrochemiluminescence 
assays were used for measurement of CT-P17 and Humira-EU and anti-CT-P17  or anti-EU-approved Humira 
antibodies in monkey serum. The data did not allow drawing of definite conclusions of serum concentration-
time profile similarity of CT-P17 and Humira-EU due to the  study limitations (see section 2.2.5.  Discussion on 
nonclinical aspects). 
2.2.3.  Toxicology 
Repeat dose toxicity 
A 28-day repeat-dose toxicity study (with  TK and immunogenicity testing) in  cynomolgus monkeys was 
conducted to support the safety of CT-P17 and to detect any biologically relevant differences between CT-P17 
and the reference product Humira-EU  to support clinical trials in patients,  and to meet the  requirements for a 
global development strategy. 
Analytical bridging  studies demonstrated that  an early pilot scale finished product process 1 CT-P17 finished 
product used in the toxicology study was comparable with  CT-P17 scaled up commercial manufacturing 
process finished product, used in analytical and functional similarity studies and clinical trials. 
Once weekly subcutaneous administration of 32 or 157 mg/kg CT-P17 and Humira-EU  was well tolerated. The 
only CT-P17- or Humira-EU  related observations were microscopic findings in the immune system in  lymph 
nodes, spleens, or thymus, and were as expected, and in  line with the  findings reported in cynomolgus 
monkeys with  same Humira doses in the registration studies. Microscopic changes at the  injection site 
occurred with  a low  incidence and minimal severity and were similar in  CT-P17 and Humira-EU  treated 
animals. 
The mean concentration-time profiles for CT-P17 or Humira-EU increased with  the increase in dose level from 
32 to 157  mg/kg. The increases in mean maximum serum concentration (Cmax) and AUC0-168hr values were 
generally dose proportional. There were no consistent  differences between males and females in individual 
serum concentration-time  profiles, AUC0-168hr (female to male AUC0-168hr ratios ranged from 0.856  to 0.996  for 
CT-P17 and 0.835 to  1.75 for Humira-EU) and Cmax values. 
The local tolerance and antigenicity  assessments were included in the repeated-dose toxicity study. Only one 
female at 32  mg/kg CT-P17 and one female at 32 mg/kg Humira-EU group on Day 29 was detected positive 
for anti-drug antibodies. The anti-drug-antibody formation did not affect the serum concentration-time 
profiles on Day 22. 
Genotoxicity, Carcinogenicity, Reproduction Toxicity 
No comparative carcinogenicity, reproductive and developmental studies were conducted and, in line with  the 
Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing  monoclonal antibodies: non-clinical and clinical 
issues” (EMEA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010),  are not required. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 31/126 
 
  
  
2.2.4.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The active substance is a natural substance, the use of which will  not alter the concentration or distribution  of 
the substance in the environment. Therefore, CT-P17 (adalimumab) is not expected to pose a risk to the 
environment. 
2.2.5.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
A stepwise risk-based comparative approach of nonclinical similarity assessment against the reference 
product Humira-EU  has been followed to  provide a ‘totality  of evidence’ for demonstrating biosimilarity. 
Comprehensive biological assays conducted, demonstrated the similar Fab-related biological activities of CT-
P17 and Humira-EU engaging with  its target TNFα,  and the Fc-based functionalities.  The glycan profiles were 
similar. Only some minor variations were observed in the high mannose and afucosylation contents (see also 
section 2.1.  Quality). CT-P17 had slightly higher total  afucosylation contents than  Humira-EU, but  this did 
not result in differences in the  Fc-related functions  (binding to FcγRIIIa and ADCC activity). Overall, the 
functional in vitro data demonstrate, that CT-P17 and Humira-EU  are similar, and no such quality (e.g. 
molecular structure, glycosylation profile) or non-clinical (e.g. target receptor binding, functional  activity) 
differences were found that  would likely have an impact on the efficacy and/or safety/immunogenicity of the 
CT-P17 in comparison to the  Humira-EU. 
To verify the in vitro data adequacy, the applicant was asked during the evaluation to  provide more 
information on the in vitro pharmacology methods and concentration-effect curves, Kd, EC50 or IC50 values 
with  the standard errors. This data was asked to be compared head-to-head between CT-P17 (2 FP  batches 
used in the clinical trials and 3 FP batches representative to the final product intended for marketing) and EU 
Humira batches used in  the clinical studies (e.g. KdHumira vs. KdYuflyma). In their response, the applicant 
provided the EC50 or Kd values, concentration-effect curves and SPR sensorgrams of each batch of CT-P17 
and EU-Humira allowing  the verification of in vitro reported functional data conclusions. The provided data 
supported the conclusion, that CT-P17 can be considered biosimilar to the  reference product EU-Humira from 
the non-clinical pharmacology point of view. 
The lack of secondary pharmacodynamics, safety pharmacology and pharmacodynamic interaction studies is 
acceptable. 
In addition to the  in vitro functional  studies, one 28-day repeat-dose toxicity study (with  TK and 
immunogenicity testing)  in cynomolgus monkeys was conducted. During the  assessment, the applicant was 
asked to comment on the validity of toxicology and toxicokinetic study, because of trace of adalimumab 
contamination in formulation buffers. After a week on study duration (Day 8), the control animals had 
already developed anti-adalimumab antibodies, and at day 29 all control animals were positive for anti-CT-
P17 and anti-Humira-EU  antibodies. Although the applicant  investigated the  root cause for the contamination, 
the exact cause was left open. Therefore, the study is considered not to  be fully valid for demonstration of 
toxicological or serum concentration-time  profile similarity of CT-P17 and Humira-EU.  Nevertheless, this issue 
was not further pursued by the CHMP  since toxicity study provides supplemental information due to the 
general insensitivity of toxicological studies to  reveal the subtle  differences and does not have an impact to 
the overall conclusion on the similarity. 
The adequacy of the method to  detect anti-drug antibodies in the presence of higher concentrations of free 
drugs was doubted. However, this  issue was not further pursued by the  CHMP, as the triggering the antibody 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 32/126 
 
  
  
 
formation in animals against human protein is not  predictive and does not affect for the overall conclusion on 
similarity. 
SmPC section 5.3.  is identical  to that of Humira-EU. 
2.2.6.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The side-by-side in vitro nonclinical data are paramount for demonstration of biosimilarity from the 
nonclinical point of view. The functional in vitro data demonstrated, that  CT-P17 and Humira-EU are similar. 
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The applicant has provided a statement  to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the Community 
were carried out  in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
Table 2  Tabular overview of clinical studies 
Type of 
Study 
Study 
 ID 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Test Product(s);  Route of 
Administration; Dosage 
Regimen 
Objective(s)  of 
the Study 
Subjects 
(N) 
CT-P17 
1.1 
PK study 
for 
biosimila
rity 
Pilot 
study 
CT-P17 
1.2 
Phase 1, 
randomised, 
double-blind, 
three-arm, 
parallel group, 
single-dose 
study in healthy 
male and female 
subjects 
Pilot Phase 1, 
randomised, 
double-blind, 
two-arm, 
parallel group, 
single-dose 
study in healthy 
male subjects 
Single dose (40 mg) of 
either CT-P17, 
EU-Humira®, or US-
Humira® by SC injection 
via PFS 
Test product: 
CT-P17 40 mg/0.4 mL 
(100 mg/mL)  
Reference  drugs: 
US-Humira®, 40 mg/0.4 
mL (100 mg/mL)  
EU-Humira®, 40 mg/0.4 
mL (100 mg/mL)  
Single dose (40 mg) of 
either CT-P17 or EU-
Humira® by SC injection 
via PFS 
Test product: 
CT-P17 40 mg/0.4 mL 
(100 mg/mL)  
Reference  drug: 
EU-Humira®, 40 mg/0.4 
mL (100 mg/mL)  
PK study 
between 
AI and 
PFS 
CT-P17 
1.3 
Phase 1, 
randomised, 
open-label, two-
arm, parallel 
Single dose (40 mg) of CT-
P17 via either AI or PFS 
Test product: 
Primary: 
To demonstrate 
the PK similarity 
in terms of AUC0-
inf, AUC0-last and 
Cmax 
Secondary: 
To evaluate the 
additional PK 
parameters,  safety 
and 
immunogenicity 
Primary: 
To evaluate safety 
in terms of 
treatment-
emergent  adverse 
events (TEAEs) 
Secondary: 
To evaluate the 
PK parameters 
and additional 
safety including 
immunogenicity 
Primary: 
To demonstrate 
the PK similarity 
in terms of AUC0-
Duratio
n of 
Treatm
ent 
Up to 
Day 71 
(Week 
10) 
Healthy 
Subject
s or 
diagnos
is of 
patients 
Healthy 
male or 
female 
subjects 
Study 
Status; 
Type of 
Report 
Complet
ed 
CSR 
CT-P17 
1.1 
N=312 
CT-P17:103 
EU-Humira®: 
106 
US-Humira®: 
103 
N=30 
CT-P17: 15 
EU-Humira®: 15 
Up to 
Day 120 
(Week 
17) 
Healthy 
male 
subjects 
Complet
ed 
CSR 
CT-P17 
1.2 
N=193 
CT-P17 PFS: 95 
CT-P17 AI: 98 
Up to 
Day 71 
(Week 
10) 
Healthy 
male or 
female 
subjects 
Complet
ed 
CSR 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 33/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
Study 
Study 
 ID 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Test Product(s);  Route of 
Administration; Dosage 
Regimen 
Objective(s)  of 
the Study 
Subjects 
(N) 
Duratio
n of 
Treatm
ent 
Healthy 
Subject
s or 
diagnos
is of 
patients 
Study 
Status; 
Type of 
Report 
CT-P17 
1.3 
group, single-
dose study in 
healthy male 
and female 
subjects 
CT-P17 40 mg/0.4 mL 
(100 mg/mL) AI 
Reference  drug: 
CT-P17 40 mg/0.4 mL 
(100 mg/mL) PFS 
CT-P17 
3.1 
Confirm
atory 
efficacy 
and 
safety 
study 
Phase 3, 
randomised, 
active-
controlled, 
double-blind , 
multicentre 
study in patients 
with moderate 
to severe  active 
RA 
AI 
usability 
study 
CT-P17 
3.2 
Phase 3, 
open-label, 
single-arm, 
multiple-dose 
study in patients 
with moderate 
to severe  active 
RA 
Multiple single-dose (40 
mg) of either  CT-P17 or 
EU-Humira® administered 
by SC injection via PFS 
EOW in combination with 
MTX (between  12.5 to 25 
mg/week, or 10 mg/week if 
intolerant to a higher dose, 
oral or parenteral 
[intramuscular  or SC] 
dose) and folic acid (≥ 5 
mg/week, oral dose) 
Prior to dosing at Week 26, 
all patients will undergo a 
second randomisation 
process. Patients in the 
Humira® treatment group 
will be randomly assigned 
in a ratio of 1:1 to either 
continue Humira or 
undergo transition to CT-
P17 from Week  26 and 
thereafter  up to Week 48. 
Test product: 
CT-P17 40 mg/0.4 mL 
(100 mg/mL) 
Reference  drug: 
EU-Humira® 40 mg/0.4 
mL (100 mg/mL) 
Multiple dose (40 mg) 
administered EOW by SC 
injection via AI from 
Week  0  to Week  24 in 
combination with MTX 
(12.5 to 25 mg/week, or 10 
mg/week if intolerant to a 
higher dose, oral or 
intramuscular)  and folic 
acid (≥ 5 mg/week, oral 
dose) 
Test product: 
CT-P17 40 mg/0.4 mL 
(100 mg/mL) AI 
inf, AUC0-last and 
Cmax 
Secondary: 
To evaluate the 
additional PK 
parameters,  safety 
and 
immunogenicity 
Primary: 
To demonstrate 
similarity of 
efficacy  in terms 
of clinical 
response 
according  to 
ACR20 at Week 
24 
Secondary: 
To evaluate 
additional 
efficacy,  PK, PD, 
usability and 
overall safety, 
including 
immunogenicity 
and biomarker 
Primary: 
The usability as 
assessed by 
patients rating 
using PRE- and 
POST-Self-
Injection 
Assessment 
Questionnaire  at 
Week  4 
Secondary: 
To evaluate 
change  in 
usability assessed 
by patients and 
observer  over time 
up to Week  24, 
and overall safety 
and efficacy 
N= 648 
CT-P17: 324 
EU-Humira®: 
324 
Up to  
Week 
52 
N=62 
CT-P17 AI: 62 
Up to  
Week 
28 
Complet
ed 
CSR 
CT-P17 
3.1 
Complet
ed 
CSR 
CT-P17 
3.2 
Male or 
female 
patient 
with 
moderat
e to 
severe 
active 
RA 
diagnos
ed 
accordin
g to the 
2010 
ACR/ 
EULAR 
classific
ation 
criteria, 
despite 
previous 
treatmen
t with 
MTX 
over at 
least 12 
weeks 
Male or 
female 
adult 
patients 
with 
moderat
e to 
severe 
active 
RA 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 34/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of 
Study 
Study 
 ID 
Study Design 
and Type of 
Control 
Test Product(s);  Route of 
Administration; Dosage 
Regimen 
Objective(s)  of 
the Study 
Subjects 
(N) 
Duratio
n of 
Treatm
ent 
Healthy 
Subject
s or 
diagnos
is of 
patients 
Study 
Status; 
Type of 
Report 
ACR20: American  College of Rheumatology 20% improvement criteria,  AI: auto-injector, AUC0-inf: Area  under the concentration-time  curve  from time 
zero  to infinity, AUC0-last: Area  under the concentration-time  curve from time zero to last quantifiable serum concentration,  Cmax: Maximum serum 
concentration, CSR: Clinical study report, EOW: Every other week, MTX: Methotrexate, PD: Pharmacodynamic,  PFS: Pre-filled syringe, PK: 
Pharmacokinetic, Q: Quarter, RA: Rheumatoid arthritis, SC: Subcutaneous  
2.3.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetics data were generated in four clinical studies. 
•  Study CT-P17 1.1 was the pivotal PK study conducted to demonstrate similar PK between CT-P17 
PFS, EU-Humira  PFS and US-Humira PFS. 
•  Study CT-P17 1.3 was conducted to demonstrate similar PK between CT-P17 PFP (or AI) and PFS 
devices. 
•  Study CT-P17 3.1 was a phase 3, randomised, active-controlled, double-blind study to compare 
efficacy and safety of CT-P17 PFS with EU-Humira  PFS when co-administered with  methotrexate 
(MTX) in patients  with  moderate to severe active RA. This study provided supportive comparative PK 
data (trough serum concentrations [Ctrough] following repeated SC injections). 
•  Study CT-P17 1.2:  was a pilot study  to evaluate the safety and PK of CT-P17 PFS and EU-Humira 
PFS. Limited PK data were collected as a secondary endpoint. PK results for study CT-P17 1.2 do not 
affect the overall assessment of biosimilarity. 
Analytical methods 
A Meso Scale Discovery - Electrochemiluminescence (MSD-ECL) based method was used in  PK studies to 
quantify CT-P17 and adalimumab (EU-Humira  and US-Humira) concentrations in both healthy human serum 
as well as in RA human serum samples. The assay has been validated according to current guidelines. The 
assay seems to perform similarly for CT-P17 and the originator in terms of selectivity, precision and accuracy. 
The applicant has provided an overlay figure representing calibration curves of CT-P17 and EU-and 
US-Humira. 
The immune response after adalimumab administration  was also evaluated by the MSD-ECL based method 
for the detection of ADAs in healthy human serum and RA serum samples. In line with guidelines, a three-
tiered approach was used. The methods for healthy and RA samples were similar. 
The applicant has used an MSD platform based electrochemiluminescence assay (ECLA) for the evaluation of 
neutralizing antibodies (NAb). The method was first validated to  be used in the clinical study CT-P17 1.2.  The 
NAb-detection method validated for clinical study CT-P17 1.2  was further validated to be used for NAb 
detection in healthy and RA serum samples (CT-P17 clinical studies 1.1, 1.3  and 3.1). An appropriate method 
validation following the current guidance was provided. The intra-run,  inter-day and inter-run precisions were 
below 13% and thus acceptable. No matrix interference in healthy or RA serum was observed and drug 
tolerance was acceptable. Stability studies were presented. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 35/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
PK Study CT-P17 1.1 
Study CT-P17 1.1 is the pivotal comparative PK study.  It was a randomised, double-blind,  three-arm, parallel 
group, single-dose study to compare the pharmacokinetics and safety of CT-P17 and Humira (US-licensed 
Humira and EU-approved Humira) in  healthy subjects. Subjects were randomly assigned to one of 3 
treatment groups in a 1:1:1 ratio. In each treatment group, all subjects received a single dose (40 mg) of 
either CT-P17, US-Humira, or EU-Humira by SC injection on Day 1 followed by 10 weeks (70 days) during 
which PK, safety, and immunogenicity measurements were made. The randomisation to treatment 
assignment was stratified by baseline body weight  (≥80 kg and <80 kg), gender, and study centre. The 
study drug was administered as a single SC injection via PFS to the  subject’s lower abdomen (except for the 
5 cm around the  subject’s navel). 
The three primary endpoints  of the  study were AUC0-inf, AUC0-last, and Cmax. PK sampling time points  were as 
follows: Study Day 1 pre-dose (within  60 minutes prior to administration of the study drug) and at 6,  12, 24, 
48, 72,  96, 108,  120, 132,  144, 168,  192 hours and 14, 21, 28,  42, 56 and 70 days (Study Day 71; end-of-
study [EOS]) after the administration. Blood samples for ADA and NAb were taken at baseline (prior to study 
drug administration on Day 1) and at Study Day 15,  29 and 57 and 71. 
A total of 312 subjects were randomised. Four  randomised subjects did not  receive the study  drug. A total  of 
5 subjects discontinued after study drug administration: 2 subjects were lost to follow-up,  2 subjects due to 
withdrawal by subject, and 1 subject due to  an adverse event (AE). 
The PK population consisted of 290 subjects: subjects whose terminal elimination  rate constant  (λz) could not 
be estimated as not having at least 3 time points  following Cmax were excluded from the PK population as per 
protocol. In addition, the extrapolated AUC percentage (%AUCextrap) was required to  be ≤ 20%  to retain the 
subject’s AUC0-inf in statistical  analysis. 
Mean serum concentrations of adalimumab versus time profiles are presented for the PK population  in Figure 
1. The primary serum PK parameters of adalimumab are summarised by treatment for the  PK population in 
Table 3.  Statistical analysis of primary serum PK parameters of adalimumab is summarised by treatment  for 
the PK population in Table 4. Median Tmax was 167, 167  and 144 h for CT-P17, US-Humira and EU-Humira, 
respectively. Minimum Tmax was 48  h for each product. 
Since subjects with  extrapolated AUC (%AUCextrap) > 20%  were not included in the  initial PK analysis, upon 
CHMP’s request, the applicant conducted additional statistical  analyses of primary PK endpoints (AUC0-inf, 
AUC0-last and Cmax) for all subjects who  received a full dose of study drug. For the analysis of AUC0-inf, only the 
subjects who had less than 3  time points after Cmax and AUC0-inf not calculable were excluded (Table 5). 
Results of the initially presented statistical  analyses (Table 4)  as well as the requested supplementary 
analyses (Table 5)  supported the conclusion of biosimilarity between CT-P17 and the reference products. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 36/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Study CT-P17 1.1: Mean (±SD)  Serum Concentrations of Adalimumab Versus Time (PK Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 37/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Table 3  Study CT-P17 1.1:  Primary PK Parameters of Adalimumab by Treatment Group (PK Population). 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 38/126 
 
  
  
 
Table 4  Study CT-P17 1.1:  Statistical Analysis of Primary PK Parameters for Adalimumab by Treatment 
(ANCOVA, PK Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 39/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5  Study CT-P17 1.1:  statistical Analysis of Primary PK parameters of Adalimumab in  (ANCOVA) (All 
Subjects Who Received a Full Dose) 
Vast majority of subjects had ADA following the  single adalimumab SC injection.  The number of ADA negative 
subjects was 3  (3.1%), 5 (5.4%),  5 (5.0%)  within  CT-P17, US-Humira, and EU-Humira  treatment groups, 
respectively. An additional  ANCOVA analysis was performed in subjects identified as having a positive ADA 
status and the 90%  CIs of the geometric LSM ratios were within  the predefined 80%  to 125% equivalence 
margin. Due to the  small number of subjects who were negative for ADA, it was not  possible to perform the 
ANCOVA analysis in this  subset. 
PK Study CT-P17 1.3 
This was a randomised, open-label, two-arm, parallel-group, single-dose study, which was designed to 
compare the PK and safety of the  CT-P17 SC administration via AI and PFS in healthy subjects. Enrolled 
subjects were randomly assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups in a 1:1  ratio. In each treatment group, all 
subjects received a single dose (40 mg) of CT-P17 via either AI or PFS on Day 1, followed by 10 weeks 
during which PK, safety, and immunogenicity measurements were made. The randomisation to  treatment 
assignment was stratified by baseline body weight  (≥80 kg and <80 kg), gender, and study centre. 
The three primary endpoints  of the  study were AUC0-inf, AUC0-last, and Cmax. PK sampling time points  were as 
follows: Study Day 1 pre-dose (within  60 minutes prior to administration of the study drug) and at 6,  12, 24, 
48, 72,  96, 108,  120, 132,  144, 168,  192 hours and 14, 21, 28,  42, 56 and 70 days (Study Day 71; EOS) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 40/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
after the administration. Blood samples for ADA and NAb were taken at baseline (prior to study drug 
administration on Day 1) and at Study Day 15,  29 and 57 and 71. 
A total of 193 subjects were randomised. Thirteen randomised subjects were discontinued  from the study 
before study drug was administered. In addition to  these 13  subjects, a total  of 16  subjects were excluded 
from the  PK population:  3 subjects were excluded due to a major protocol deviation and 13 subjects were 
excluded due to their λz not being estimated as not  having at  least 3 time  points following Cmax. 
The reasons for the major protocol deviations in the 3 subjects were: 
•  One subject met an exclusion criterion (the  subject was dosed with morphine in another clinical trial, 
but  withdrew from that study after Day 15 due to investigator decision shortly after dosing with 
morphine). 
• 
Two subjects were not fully administered study treatment (the AI was injected into  the subject’s 
abdomen, but  during the dose the plunger stopped moving and appeared to have stopped pushing in 
the study drug for both subjects). 
The PK population consisted of 164 subjects: subjects whose terminal elimination  rate constant  could not  be 
estimated as not  having at  least 3  time points following Cmax were excluded from the PK population as per 
protocol. In addition, the extrapolated AUC percentage (%AUCextrap) was required to  be ≤ 20%  to retain the 
subject’s AUC0-inf in statistical  analysis. During the assessment, the CHMP  requested supplementary analyses 
including these subjects. Statistical analysis using ANOVA model without  covariates was also requested as 
supplementary data. 
Mean serum concentrations of adalimumab versus time profiles are presented for the PK population  in Figure 
2. The primary serum PK parameters of adalimumab are summarised by treatment for the  PK population in 
Table 6.  Statistical analysis of primary serum PK parameters of adalimumab is summarised by treatment  for 
the PK population in Table 7. Minimum  Tmax was 24 h and 48 h for CT-P17 AI and CT-P17 PFS, respectively, 
and median Tmax was 132  h for both  products. The majority of subjects (82 out  of 84 subjects in  the CT-P17 
AI treatment  group and 78 out  of 80 subjects in  the CT-P17 PFS treatment group) had at least one ADA 
positive post-treatment result. As was done for Study CT-P17 1.1,  upon CHMP’s request, the applicant 
conducted an additional statistical analysis to demonstrate PK similarity for all primary PK parameters with all 
subjects who received a full dose. For the analysis of AUC0-inf, only the subjects who had less than  3 time 
points after Cmax and AUC0-inf not calculable were excluded (Table 8). 
Results of the initially presented statistical  analyses (Table 6)  as well as the requested supplementary 
analyses (Table 8)  supported the conclusion of comparable pharmacokinetics between CT-P17 AI and CT-P17 
PFS. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 41/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 Study CT-P17 1.3: Mean (±SD)  Serum adalimumab concentrations (PK Population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 42/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 6  Study CT-P17 1.3:  Primary PK Parameters of Adalimumab by Treatment Group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 43/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7  Study CT-P17 1.3:  Statistical Analysis (ANCOVA) of Primary PK Parameters. 
Table 8  Study CT-P17 1.3:  statistical Analysis of Primary PK parameters for Adalimumab (ANCOVA) (All 
Subjects Who Received a Full Dose)
Efficacy and safety  study CT-P17 3.1 
Study CT-P17 3.1 was a randomised, double-blind, study designed to evaluate efficacy and safety of multiple 
single-doses (40  mg every 2 weeks) of either CT-P17 or EU-Humira  administered by SC injection  via PFS in 
combination with  MTX in patients with  moderate to  severe active RA. Serum adalimumab trough levels 
(Ctrough) were measured as a secondary endpoint. 
The PK population consisted of all patients who received at least one full  dose of either of the study drugs 
and had at least 1 post-treatment adalimumab concentration data. In PK population, patients  who show at 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 44/126 
 
  
  
 
 
least one “Positive” result in immunogenicity test  obtained after study drug exposure up to Week 24 were 
considered as “at least one ADA positive subgroup”. All patients who only have “Negative” results in post-
treatment immunogenicity test  up to Week 24 were considered as “all ADA negative subgroup”. 
The mean Ctrough of adalimumab for both treatment groups in the PK population and by ADA status  increased 
following the first doses and appeared to reach the plateau before week 22 (Figure 3).  Adalimumab 
concentrations were lower in ADA positive subgroup than  ADA negative subgroup in both treatment  groups. 
Adalimumab Ctrough levels are summarised in  Table 9 and by ADA status in Table 10. The mean Ctrough of 
adalimumab was slightly (9%  to 13%)  higher in the  CT-P17 treatment group compared with the Humira 
treatment group. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 45/126 
 
  
  
Figure 3 Study CT-P17 3.1: Mean (±SD)  Adalimumab Ctrough by Treatment and ADA Status;  PK Population. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 46/126 
 
  
  
 
Table 9  Study CT-P17 3.1:  Mean (SD) Adalimumab Ctrough (μg/L); PK Population. 
Table 10  Study CT-P17 3.1:  Mean (SD) Adalimumab Ctrough (μg/L) by ADA Status; PK Population 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 47/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Validated PD markers do not exist for the efficacy of TNF-α  inhibitors  and therefore, no pharmacodynamic 
data were evaluated in  the Phase 1 bioequivalence studies in healthy volunteers.  
Regarding the primary PD, a set of non-clinical in  vitro studies have been performed. No studies on 
secondary PD have been provided, nor have they been required according to the EMA guideline 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
In the Phase 3 study (CT-P17 3.1),  serum concentrations of RF, anti-CCP, CRP, and ESR were assessed as 
secondary PD endpoints. Upon CHMP’s  request, the  applicant provided graphical presentation (Figure 4).  The 
decreases in RF,  anti-CCP, CRP and ESR levels in RA patients  were similar up to Week 24 between CT-P17 
and EU-approved Humira treatment groups. Some divergence between treatment arms is seen after week 24 
(please see Discussion on clinical efficacy).  
Figure 4 Mean (±SD)  Decreases from Baseline in a) RF,  b) anti-CCP, c) CRP and d) ESR in  Study CT-P17 3.1 
during Overall Period (PD  population and PD population – Treatment Period II subset) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 48/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Analytical methods 
All the bioanalytical methods used in the clinical studies for CT-P17 have, in general, been appropriately 
described and validated according to relevant guidelines. One assay strategy was used both  for the 
determination of CT-P17 and the  reference medicinal products (EU-Humira  and US-Humira) in serum 
samples, as well as for evaluation of the immune response after adalimumab administration.  The assays 
seems to perform with  similar selectivity and sensitivity for CT-P17 and the reference products.  
Pharmacokinetics:  CT-P17 vs reference product 
Study CT-P17 1.1 was the pivotal study aiming to demonstrate PK similarity of CT-P17 with reference 
products from the  EU and the US. The applicant requested scientific advice (SA) from the CHMP  in June 2017. 
Although the  design of the conducted study CT-P17 1.1 is not  entirely the same as the design of the study 
presented in the  SA, CHMP  concluded that  the applicant complied with most recommendations of the advice. 
The parallel-group design, study population (healthy volunteers) and posology (single 40 mg SC injection) 
are acceptable to  the CHMP and compliant with  the “Guideline on similar biological medicinal products 
containing monoclonal antibodies – non-clinical and clinical issues” (EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
Duration of PK sampling (70 days following  the drug injection) was considered in the SA to  be adequate to 
cover the typical elimination period of adalimumab; however, it was also noted by the CHMP  that  the duration 
should capture approximately 80% of AUC0-inf. Immunogenicity sampling was conducted in accordance with 
the SA. The primary endpoints (AUC0-inf, Cmax, AUC0-last) and covariates (gender, body weight,  study centre) 
included in the ANCOVA model are acceptable to  the CHMP. However, definition of the PK population, 
especially exclusion of subjects with  extrapolated AUC (%AUCextrap) > 20%, was deemed not appropriate to 
the CHMP  and additional statistical analyses were requested. 
In the initial  statistical analyses for AUC0-last, AUC0-inf and Cmax the 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the 
test and reference products fell within  the conventional acceptance range of 80.00-125.00%  when comparing 
CT-P17 with  the reference product from EU as well as from US. Results for the additional analyses were in 
agreement with  the initial  analyses and supported the conclusion of biosimilarity. 
Study CT-P17 3.1 was a randomised, active-controlled, double-blind study designed to compare efficacy and 
safety of CT-P17 PFS with  EU-Humira PFS when co-administered with MTX in  patients with  moderate to 
severe active RA. This study provided supportive comparative PK data (trough  serum concentrations [Ctrough] 
following repeated SC injections) in a target patient population.  The mean Ctrough of adalimumab was 
generally higher in the CT-P17 treatment group over the first 24 weeks of study CT-P17 3.1,  but the overall 
variability was high in  both treatment groups. In both CT-P17 and Humira treatment groups, patients with 
ADA had markedly lower Ctrough levels compared with patients  without  ADA. High  ADA titre was also 
associated with  lower Ctrough levels; see section Clinical safety / Immunological events of this  assessment 
report. 
Pharmacokinetics:  AI vs PFS 
The primary aim of study CT-P17 1.3  was to  demonstrate similar exposure to adalimumab following SC 
administration via applicant’s AI and PFS devices. The parallel-group design, study population,  posology and 
the primary PK parameters (AUC0-inf, Cmax, AUC0-last) are acceptable to the CHMP.  However, definition  of the 
PK population, especially exclusion of subjects with  extrapolated AUC (%AUCextrap) > 20%,  was deemed not 
appropriate and additional statistical  analyses were requested. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 49/126 
 
  
  
For AUC0-last, AUC0-inf and Cmax the 90% confidence interval for the ratio of the  AI and the PFS devices fell 
within  the conventional acceptance range of 80.00-125.00%.  Results for the additional analyses supported 
the conclusion of comparable pharmacokinetics between CT-P17 AI and CT-P17 PFS. 
Pharmacodynamics 
No pharmacodynamic data were evaluated in healthy volunteers and none is required. Primary PD was 
assessed in a set of non-clinical in vitro studies. Results from non-clinical studies support similarity (see 
section 2.2.  non-clinical assessment). Secondary PD endpoints were assessed in study CT-P17 3.1 in RA 
patients (see section 2.4. clinical efficacy). 
Product information 
The information on clinical pharmacology in the proposed SmPC is in line with that  of the reference product. 
2.3.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
The clinical pharmacology data support the conclusions of biosimilarity of CT-P17 to the EU  reference product 
(Humira) and of comparable pharmacokinetics following administration of CT-P17 via AI and PFS. 
2.4.  Clinical efficacy 
2.4.1.  Main study 
Study CT-P17 3.1: A phase 3, randomised, active-controlled, double-blind, 
multicentre study designed to evaluate efficacy, PK, PD, usability, overall safety 
and immunogenicity of multiple single-doses (40 mg) of either CT-P17 or EU-
Humira administered by SC injection via PFS in combination with MTX in 
patients with moderate to severe active RA. 
PK, PD, immunogenicity, efficacy, safety and usability data up to Week 24 were submitted  at D0. Upon 
CHMP’s request, the full study  report, up to week 52, was submitted during the  procedure. 
Methods 
Study Participants  
The main inclusion criteria are listed  below:  
1.  Patient was male or female between 18 to 75  years old, both  inclusive. 
2.  Patient had a diagnosis of RA according to the 2010 ACR/EULAR classification criteria (Aletaha et  al., 
2010 1) for at least 24 weeks prior to the first administration of the study drug (Day 1). 
3.  Patient had active disease as defined by the presence of 6 or more swollen joints (of 
66 assessed), 6 or more tender joints (of 68 assessed), and either an erythrocyte sedimentation 
rate (ESR) >28  mm/hour or a serum C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration >1.0 mg/dL  (>10 
mg/L) at Screening. 
4.  Patient had been receiving oral or parenteral MTX at a dose of between 12.5 to 
1 Aletaha, Daniel, et al. "2010 rheumatoid arthritis classification criteria: an American College of Rheumatology / European League 
Against Rheumatism collaborative initiative." Arthritis & Rheumatism 62.9 (2010): 2569-2581. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 50/126 
 
  
  
 
25 mg/week, or 10 mg/week if intolerant to a higher dose, for at least 12 weeks and had been on a stable 
dose and route of MTX for at  least 4 weeks prior to the first  administration of the study drug (Day 1). 
5.  Patient had adequate renal and hepatic function at Screening as defined by the following  clinical 
chemistry results: 
•  Serum creatinine ≤1.5 ×  upper limit  of normal (ULN)  or an estimated creatinine clearance level 
>50 mL/min  (by Cockcroft-Gault formula) (System International [SI] units:  0.84 mL/s) 
•  Serum alanine aminotransferase ≤3.0 × ULN 
•  Serum aspartate aminotransferase ≤3.0 × ULN 
•  Serum total  bilirubin ≤1.5  × ULN 
6.  Patient had the following haematology laboratory test results at Screening: 
•  Haemoglobin >8.0 g/dL  (SI units:  >80 g/L  or 4.96  mmol/L) 
•  Absolute neutrophil count ≥1.5  × 10
•  Platelet count ≥75 × 103 cells/μL  (SI units:  ≥75 × 109  cells/L) 
cells/µL  (SI units:  ≥1.5 ×  10
3 
9 
cells/L) 
Patients, who had previously received biologic or targeted synthetic DMARDs (e.g., tofacitinib,  baricitinib) for 
the treatment of RA and/or TNF-α  inhibitor  for any purposes, were excluded. Exclusion criteria were in 
accordance with warnings and contraindications in the SmPC of Humira. 
Treatments 
Treatment Period I (from Week 0 to  Week 24) 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1  ratio to receive either CT-P17 (40 mg/0.4  mL) or EU-Humira (40  mg/0.4 
mL) up to  Week 24 as a SC injection via PFS every other week (EOW). In addition, all patients received MTX 
(between 12.5 to  25 mg/week, or 10 mg/week if intolerant  to a higher dose), and folic acid (≥5  mg/week, 
oral dose). 
Treatment Period II (after Week 24 to  Week 48) 
Prior to dosing at Week 26, patients underwent the  second randomisation process. Patients who were initially 
randomly assigned to EU-approved Humira were randomised again in a ratio of 1:1 to either continue EU-
approved Humira or undergo transition to  CT-P17. All patients who were initially  randomly assigned to CT-
P17 at Day 1 (Week 0) continued their treatment with  CT-P17. 
The total duration of the study was 58 weeks (per protocol), which included Screening (up to  6 weeks) and 
the last dose at 48 weeks plus the following  4 weeks off-dose period, prior to the End-of-Study (EOS) visit.  
Objectives 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate that CT-P17 is equivalent to EU-approved Humira, in 
terms of efficacy as determined by clinical response according to the American College of Rheumatology 
definition of a 20% improvement (ACR20) at Week 24. 
The secondary objective was to evaluate additional efficacy, PK, PD, and overall safety, including 
immunogenicity and biomarker data, and device usability (Bulgaria and Poland only). 
Upon request, the null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis for the primary efficacy endpoint were 
specified as below: 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 51/126 
 
  
  
H0 : |
where 
| ≥ 0.15, Ha : |
 − 
 is a response rate for CT-P17, and 
𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝
 − 
𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝
𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝
𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟
𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡
𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟
| < 0.15 
Outcomes/endpoints 
𝑟𝑟𝑟𝑟
𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝
𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡
𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝
𝑝𝑝𝑝𝑝
𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡
 is a response rate for EU-Humira. 
The primary efficacy endpoint of study CT-P17 3.1  was the proportion of patients  achieving clinical response 
according to  the ACR20 at Week 24 in the intent-to  treat  (ITT) population.  Equivalence was defined as a 95% 
CI for the estimate of treatment difference entirely within  the predefined equivalence margin of -15% to 
15%. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were 50% improvement of ACR (ACR50), 70%  improvement of ACR (ACR70) 
and hybrid ACR response, individual components of ACR, Disease Activity Score using 28 joint  counts (DAS28 
[ESR] score, DAS28 [CRP] score, and individual components), EULAR response criteria, clinical disease 
activity index (CDAI), simplified disease activity index (SDAI), quality of life (36-item short form health 
survey [SF-36]),  and joint damage progression. 
Safety, immunogenicity and device usability were also assessed as secondary endpoints. 
Sample size 
A sample size of 450  patients (225  patients in each treatment  group of CT-P17 and EU-approved Humira) led 
to 83%  statistical power for the demonstration of similarity of ACR20 at Week 24  based on the expected 
ACR20 rate of 64% with  an equivalence margin of -15%  to 15% using a two  one-sided 2.5% significance 
level of an equivalence test. The drop-out rate had been hypothesised at 20%;  therefore, approximately 564 
patients (282  patients in each treatment group of CT-P17 and EU-approved Humira)  were to be randomised. 
Randomisation and blinding (masking) 
Patients were randomly assigned at Day 1 (Week 0) to receive CT-P17 or EU-approved Humira using a 1:1 
allocation ratio. The randomisation to treatment  assignment was stratified by the following: 
•  Country 
•  Disease activity by simplified disease activity index (SDAI) at Screening; high (SDAI >26) versus not 
high (SDAI ≤26) 
Patients received CT-P17 or EU-approved Humira EOW up  to Week 24. Prior to dosing at Week 26, patients  in 
the EU-approved Humira  treatment group were randomly assigned in  a ratio of 1:1 to either continue EU-
approved Humira (Cohort 2) or undergo transition  to CT-P17 (Cohort 3) from Week 26. All patients who were 
initially randomly assigned to CT-P17 at Day 1 (Week 0) continued their treatment with  CT-P17 (Cohort 1) 
until  EOS. The second randomisation was also conducted in Cohort 1 prior to dosing at Week 26 to  maintain 
the study blind. 
The second randomisation to Cohorts 2 or 3 was stratified by the following: 
•  Disease activity by SDAI at Week 24;  remission (SDAI ≤3.3) versus non-remission (SDAI >3.3) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 52/126 
 
  
  
 
 
The appropriate number of study drug syringes was allocated to  each patient.  A tear-off label was attached to 
the outside of each patient  kit, as well as to the  immediate container. The text was in compliance with  the 
local regulatory requirements and included some of the following information: protocol number, patient 
number/study centre number, contents and quantity,  lot number, randomisation code/kit number, 
investigator’s name, storage instructions, caution statement,  Celltrion Inc.’s contact  and address, expiry 
date. 
Statistical methods 
The populations for main efficacy analyses were ITT and per-protocol (PP) population. 
The ITT population consisted of all patients enrolled and randomly assigned to receive a dose of either of the 
study drugs, regardless of whether or not any study drug dosing was completed. 
The PP population consisted of all randomly assigned patients  who had received all full doses of study drug 
up to Week 22  (total of 12 injections) and had an ACR assessment at Week 24. If a patient  received all doses 
of study drug up to Week 22 (total  of 12 injections), but  delayed study drug administration  more than 7 days 
from the  previous dosing, before Week 24, then the  patient was excluded from PP population. A major 
protocol deviation that  could affect the  interpretation of study results of primary efficacy endpoint was 
excluded from the PP population.  Final determinations of the PP population  were made at  the blinded data 
review meeting (DRM) held in accordance with  ICH harmonised tripartite guideline E9. 
Efficacy Evaluation 
Primary efficacy endpoint analysis was performed by treatment group between the CT-P17 and EU-approved 
Humira using the ITT and PP populations.  All secondary efficacy endpoint analyses up to Week 24 were 
performed by treatment  group, between the CT-P17 and EU-approved Humira  treatment groups, using  the 
ITT and PP populations. 
Primary Efficacy Analysis 
The following categories of patients were considered non-responders: 
• 
• 
• 
Patients with  an improvement according to the  ACR criteria of less than 20%. 
Patients who terminated from the study prior to  the week of interest. 
Patients who continued the  study/study treatment but  did not visit the centre for the  evaluation of ACR20 
at the week of interest. 
The analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint was conducted by the exact binomial approach using a 
Farrington-Manning  score method (Chan and Zhang, 1999 2; Inverting two one-sided test),  and the 95% CI 
for the difference in proportion between the 2  treatment groups was produced. Therapeutic equivalence of 
clinical response according to ACR20 criteria was concluded if the 95% CIs for the treatment  difference were 
entirely within  the limits of -15% to  15% at Week 24.  The primary efficacy endpoint was analysed using the 
ITT and PP populations. The ITT population  was the  predefined primary population for the  primary endpoint. 
A sensitivity analysis was performed on the primary efficacy endpoint, using  the logistic regression model 
with  treatment group as a fixed effect, and country and disease activity by SDAI at screening, as covariates. 
2 Chan, Ivan SF,  and Zhongxin Zhang. "Test 
Biometrics 55.4 (1999): 1202-1209. 
‐
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
 based exact confidence intervals for the difference of two binomial proportions." 
Page 53/126 
 
  
  
 
Results 
In total, 648  patients were randomised to receive either CT-P17 or EU-Humira (Figure 5).   
In Treatment Period II, 608  patients were randomly assigned to study drug and 607 patients  initiated the 
study treatment in Treatment Period II (303 [100.0%]  patients,  153 [100.0%]  patients,  and 151  [99.3%] 
patients in  the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively) 
(Figure 5). 
Participant flow 
Figure 5 Participant flow in  study CT-P17 3.1   
Abbreviations: AE, adverse event; TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse event. 
a Prior to dosing at Week 26, all patients underwent  the second  randomisation process. Patients who were initially 
randomly assigned to EU-approved Humira were randomised  again in a ratio of 1:1 to either continue  EU-approved Humira 
or undergo  transition to CT-P17. All patients who were initially randomly assigned to CT-P17 at Day 1 (Week 0) continued 
their treatment with CT-P17. 
b The numerical difference between patients who discontinued  the study treatment due to AE in patient disposition and 
summary of TEAE leading to discontinuation  is due to the fact that patient disposition’s summary was based on the number 
of patients discontinued  in each treatment period and the summary of TEAE leading to discontinuation  was based on the 
start date of AE.  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 54/126 
 
  
  
 
Recruitment 
First  patient randomly assigned to treatment: 05 December 2018. 
Last patient  last visit: 24 April 2020. 
Conduct of the study 
The original protocol (Version 1.0),  dated 10 May 2018, was amended 7 times during  the course of the study. 
•  2 Global protocol amendments 
o  First  amendment dated 11 July 2018  (Version 2.0 - prepared but  not submitted) 
o  Second amendment, dated 06 August 2018  (Version 3.0 - submitted  and approved) 
•  5 Country-specific protocol amendments 
Baseline data 
Baseline characteristics of the study population are described in Table 11. 
Table 11  Demographics and Stratification Details  in study CT-P17 3.1: ITT Population  
Age (years) 
n  
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min, max  
Gender, n (%) 
Male  
Female  
Female fertility status a, n (%) 
Surgically sterilised  
Post-menopausal  
Potentially able to bear children  
Race, n (%) 
White  
Other  
Ethnicity, n (%) 
Hispanic or Latino  
Non-Hispanic or Non-Latino  
Screening Height (cm)  
n  
Mean (SD)  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
CT-P17 
(N=324)  
324  
52.0 (12.11)  
53.5  
18, 75  
75 (23.1)  
249 (76.9)  
16 (6.4)  
129 (51.8)  
104 (41.8)  
299 (92.3)  
25 (7.7)  
29 (9.0)  
295 (91.0)  
EU-approved  
Humira  
(N=324)  
324  
51.8 (11.80)  
54.0  
19, 75  
59 (18.2)  
265 (81.8)  
14 (5.3)  
147 (55.5)  
104 (39.2)  
298 (92.0)  
26 (8.0)  
34 (10.5)  
290 (89.5)  
Total 
(N=648)  
648  
51.9 (11.95)  
54.0  
18, 75  
134 (20.7)  
514 (79.3)  
30 (5.8)  
276 (53.7)  
208 (40.5)  
597 (92.1)  
51 (7.9)  
63 (9.7)  
585 (90.3)  
324  
165.09 (9.206)  
324  
165.43 (8.721)  
648  
165.26 (8.961)  
Page 55/126 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Median  
Min, max  
Screening Weight (kg)  
   n  
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min, max  
Screening BMI (kg/m2)  
   n  
Mean (SD)  
Median  
Min, max  
Country, n (%)  
Bulgaria  
Hungary  
Lithuania  
Peru  
Poland  
Ukraine  
SDAI at Screening, n (%)  
SDAI ≤26  
SDAI >26  
164.0  
146.0, 204.0  
164.0  
146.0, 194.0  
164.0  
146.0, 204.0  
324  
72.64 (14.270)  
71.0  
41.0, 144.0  
324  
73.23 (14.163)  
71.0  
47.0, 111.7  
648  
72.94 (14.209)  
71.0  
41.0, 144.0  
324  
26.574 (4.2114)  
26.110  
15.06, 35.60  
324  
26.686 (4.2781)  
26.180  
17.65, 34.89  
648  
26.630 (4.2420)  
26.140  
15.06, 35.60  
20 (6.2)  
17 (5.2)  
4 (1.2)  
25 (7.7)  
231 (71.3)  
27 (8.3)  
30 (9.3)  
294 (90.7)  
19 (5.9)  
17 (5.2)  
5 (1.5)  
26 (8.0)  
231 (71.3)  
26 (8.0)  
34 (10.5)  
290 (89.5)  
39 (6.0)  
34 (5.2)  
9 (1.4)  
51 (7.9)  
462 (71.3)  
53 (8.2)  
64 (9.9)  
584 (90.1)  
Abbreviations: BMI, body mass index; ITT, intent-to-treat; max, maximum; min, minimum; SD, standard deviation; SDAI, simplified disease activity 
index. Note: Height, weight and BMI results summarized were  the screening  assessment values. a Percentages  were  calculated  by using the number of 
female  patients as the denominator.  
Baseline RA characteristics: 
The mean (SD) time since RA diagnosis was 6.79  (6.76) years in the  CT-P17 treatment group and 6.59 
(6.81)  years in the EU-approved Humira treatment group. 
The mean (SD) dose of MTX taken at first study drug administration was similar between the 2 treatment 
groups (18.9 [4.46]  mg/week for the CT-P17 treatment group and 18.4 [4.37]  mg/week for the EU-approved 
Humira treatment group). 
In addition to MTX, the  most frequently reported concomitant  medication in  treatment period I, by drug 
class, was corticosteroids for systemic use (170  [52.5%] patients  in the CT-P17 treatment group and 177 
[54.6%]  patients in the  EU-approved Humira treatment group), followed by anti-inflammatory and 
antirheumatic products (151  [46.6%] patients  in the CT-P17 treatment group and 153 [47.2%]  patients in 
the EU-approved Humira  treatment group). 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 56/126 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12  Analysis Populations in study CT-P17 3.1 TP I 
CT-P17 
(N=324)  
EU-approved  
Humira  
(N=324)  
Number (%) of patients 
Total 
(N=648)  
Intent-to-Treat Population  
324 (100.0)  
324 (100.0)  
648 (100.0)  
ITT Population - at least one ADA positive 
subgroup  
ITT Population - all ADA negative subgroup  
Per-Protocol Population  
PP Population - at least one ADA positive 
subgroup  
PP Population - all ADA negative subgroup  
Pharmacokinetic Population  
Pharmacodynamic Population  
Usability Population  
Safety Population  
143 (44.1)  
178 (54.9)  
285 (88.0)  
124 (38.3)  
161 (49.7)  
321 (99.1)  
321 (99.1)  
70 (21.6)  
324 (100.0)  
185 (57.1)  
138 (42.6)  
276 (85.2)  
151 (46.6)  
125 (38.6)  
323 (99.7)  
323 (99.7)  
76 (23.5)  
324 (100.0)  
328 (50.6)  
316 (48.8)  
561 (86.6)  
275 (42.4)  
286 (44.1)  
644 (99.4)  
644 (99.4)  
146 (22.5)  
648 (100.0)  
Abbreviations: ADA, anti-drug antibody; ITT, intent-to-treat; PP, per protocol. Note: Percentages were based on the 
number of patients in the ITT population per treatment group  and overall. A total of 4 patients (3 patients in the CT-P17 
and 1 patient in the EU-Humira) in the ITT population with no posttreatment ADA results were not included in either of the 
ADA subgroups.   
Table 13  Analysis in study CT-PT17 3.1 TP II 
Abbreviations: ITT, intent-to-treat; PD, pharmacodynamics; PK, pharmacokinetic; PP, per protocol. 
Note: Percentages were based on the number of patients in the ITT  population – Treatment Period II subset  per treatment 
group  and overall. 
a 4 patients excluded due to major protocol deviation (two patients: misrandomisation ) and other reason for exclusion 
from PP (one patient: no study drug  received, one patient: no post treatment efficacy assessment) , 50  patients were 
excluded from PP population – Treatment Period II subset  as they were already excluded from the PP population. 
b One patient (EU-Humira in Treatment Period I) was planned to be randomised to Humira maintenance group,  but actually 
received CT-P17 at Week 28, and therefore, included in the Humira maintenance  group in this table but included in the 
switched to CT-P17 group for the safety summary. 
c One patient (EU-Humira in Treatment Period I) was randomised  to switched to CT-P17 group  at Week 26, but did not 
receive any study drug  in Treatment Period II. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 57/126 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the ACR20 response rate at Week 24.  The 95%  CI for the estimate of 
treatment difference was entirely within  the  predefined equivalence margin of -15% to  15% (Table 14). 
Table 14  Proportion of Patients Achieving Response According to ACR20 at Week  24  
Treatment Group  
ITT Population  
CT-P17  
EU-approved Humira  
PP population  
CT-P17  
EU-approved Humira  
ACR20 Response Rate   Treatment Difference 
Estimate (%) a  
95% CI of  
Treatment Difference 
(%) a  
268/324 (82.72%)  
  268/324 (82.72%)  
248/285 (87.02%)  
240/276 (86.96%)  
0.00  
(-5.94, 5.94)  
0.06  
(-5.60, 5.78)  
Abbreviations: ACR, American College of Rheumatology; ACR20, ACR 20% improvement criteria;  CI, confidence  interval; ITT, intent-to-treat; PP, per 
protocol. Note: Patients who terminated from the study prior to the week  of interest, who continued the study/study treatment but did not visit the site for 
the evaluation of ACR20 at the week  of interest, and with incomplete data for  evaluation of ACR20 criteria at the week of interest were  considered  as 
nonresponder. a Estimate of the difference  in proportion and 95% CI between  the two treatment groups were  estimated using the exact binomial method 
using a Farrington-Manning score  method.  
The sensitivity analysis rendered similar results. The 95% CI for the estimate of treatment difference 
estimated from the  logistic regression using treatment group as a fixed effect, and country and disease 
activity by SDAI at screening as covariates was -5.75 to  5.86 for the ITT population  and -5.07  to 5.93  for the 
PP population. 
Hence, the primary objective of this trial  was met and the results were unchanged after controlling for 
country and disease activity. 
Secondary endpoints 
The proportions of patients achieving response according to the ACR20, ACR50, and ACR70 criteria seemed 
similar at all time points up to Week 52  between the CT-P17 and EU-approved Humira treatment groups in 
both the  ITT and PP populations.  Results are presented in Figure 6 and Table 15. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 58/126 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Proportions of Patients Achieving Response according to ACR Criteria ACR20/50/70 in Study CT-P17 
3.1 during Overall Period (ITT and PP Populations and ITT and PP Populations – Treatment Period II Subsets) 
In treatment period I (up to  week 24), the estimate of treatment difference in ACR20, ACR50 and ACR70 
response rates between treatment arms was small, ranging from -5.8% to 4.9%  with  95% CI remaining 
within  +/- 15%  in both the ITT and the PP populations at all time points (Table 15). 
In treatment period II (weeks 26 to  52), the 95%  CIs were wider. Nevertheless, estimates of difference 
between treatment arms were small and most of the 95%  CIs remained within  +/-  15% in both the  ITT and 
the PP populations at all time points. No  statistically significant differences were seen at any time point  (data 
not shown). 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 59/126 
 
  
  
 
Table 15  Estimated Difference (95%  CI of Difference) of Proportion of Patients Achieving Response according 
to ACR Criteria (ACR20/50/70)  in Study CT-P17 3.1 during Treatment Period I (ITT and PP Populations) 
Treatment Group, n (%) 
CT-P17 
EU-Humira 
Estimate of 
Treatment 
Difference1 
95% CI of 
Treatment 
Difference1 
Population 
Visit 
Efficacy 
Parameter 
ITT Population 
Week 2 
Week 4 
Week 12 
Week 24 
PP Population 
Week 2 
Week 4 
Week 12 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
102 (31.5) 
15 (4.6) 
5 (1.5) 
166 (51.2) 
66 (20.4) 
20 (6.2) 
247 (76.2) 
151 (46.6) 
96 (29.6) 
268 (82.7) 
195 (60.2) 
132 (40.7) 
94 (33.0) 
13 (4.6) 
3 (1.1) 
149 (52.3) 
61 (21.4) 
18 (6.3) 
224 (78.6) 
138 (48.4) 
89 (31.2) 
86 (26.5) 
15 (4.6) 
5 (1.5) 
176 (54.3) 
71 (21.9) 
21 (6.5) 
248 (76.5) 
155 (47.8) 
89 (27.5) 
268 (82.7) 
206 (63.6) 
144 (44.4) 
75 (27.2) 
13 (4.7) 
4 (1.4) 
152 (55.1) 
63 (22.8) 
18 (6.5) 
222 (80.4) 
138 (50.0) 
86 (31.2) 
4.94 
0.00 
0.00 
-3.09 
-1.54 
-0.31 
-0.31 
-1.23 
2.16 
0.00 
-3.40 
-3.70 
5.81 
-0.15 
-0.40 
-2.79 
-1.42 
-0.21 
-1.84 
-1.58 
0.07 
(-2.04, 11.94) 
(-3.24, 3.24) 
(-1.90, 1.90) 
(-10.77, 4.60) 
(-7.83, 4.74) 
(-4.06, 3.44) 
(-6.85, 6.23) 
(-8.92, 6.45) 
(-4.79, 9.11) 
(-5.82, 5.82) 
(-10.87, 4.08) 
(-11.31, 3.91) 
(-1.76, 13.38) 
(-3.63, 3.33) 
(-2.24, 1.45) 
(-11.04, 5.46) 
(-8.29, 5.45) 
(-4.26, 3.85) 
(-8.51, 4.84) 
(-9.85, 6.70) 
(-7.60, 7.74) 
(-5.51, 5.63) 
ACR20 
ACR50 
248 (87.0) 
181 (63.5) 
240 (87.0) 
187 (67.8) 
0.06 
-4.24 
ACR70 
Week 24 
121 (42.5) 
(-12.10, 3.61) 
(-13.96, 2.49) 
Abbreviations: ACR20, American College of Rheumatology 20% improvement criteria; ACR50, American College of 
Rheumatology 50% improvement criteria; ACR70, American College of Rheumatology 70% improvement criteria; ITT, 
intent- to-treat; PP, per-protocol. 
Note: Percentages are calculated by using  the number of patients in the population as the denominator. The 95% CI of the 
difference of ACR response proportion  between two treatment groups  is calculated using the asymptotic method. 
1 The difference in proportion  and 95% confidence interval between the two treatment groups is estimated using  the exact 
binomial method using a Farrington-Manning  score method. 
133 (48.2) 
-5.73 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 60/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All individual components of the ACR criteria as well as the  hybrid ACR response measure rendered similar 
response between treatment groups across different visit time points  in both ITT and PP populations. 
The actual values and changes from baseline of DAS28(CRP) and DAS28(ESR) over time across different visit 
time points in  both ITT and PP populations were similar between treatment arms. The difference between the 
mean changes from baseline in DAS28(CRP) at different visit time points did not  exceed 0.6 in  DAS28(CRP) 
score, generally approved to be the minimal difference of clinical importance. At week 24,  the 95% CI for the 
estimate of treatment difference in DAS28(CRP) was entirely within  the margin of clinical significance ±0.6% 
in both  the PP and the ITT populations at all time points (Table 16). Similar efficacy was maintained also after 
switching  to CT-P17 at week 26  and up to  week 52. 
Table 16  Analysis of Change from Baseline of DAS28 (CRP) at Week 24  (ANCOVA) ITT Population 
Treatment 
Estimate of treatment 
95% CI of 
n 
LS mean (SE) 
difference 
treatment difference 
CT-P17 
309 
-2.54 (0.099) 
Humira 
312 
-2.52 (0.098) 
-0.01 
(-0.19, 0.16) 
Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) was used for comparing the change from baseline of DAS28(CRP) at Week 24 between 
two groups  (CT-P17 and Humira), considering the treatment group as a fixed effect and country  and disease activity by 
simplified disease activity index (SDAI) at screening as covariates. Adjusted  least squares  means and standard  error, 
estimate of treatment difference [CT-P17 - Humira] and 2-sided 95% confidence interval calculated from the ANCOVA 
model.  
The results from all supportive secondary efficacy endpoints were similar between treatment arms. 
Ancillary analyses 
To examine the impact of FcγR genotype on efficacy response to CT-P17 and EU-Humira,  ACR20 results by 
genotype up to  Week 24 from Study CT-P17 3.1  were evaluated as post-hoc analyses, and the patients were 
analysed by genotype and treatment group. Patients’ polymorphism regarding the  FcγRIIa and FcγRIIIa gene 
were evenly distributed  in the two  treatment groups. The proportions of patients achieving response 
according to  ACR20 at Week 24  by genotype were comparable between the treatment arms when  comparing 
the same genotype. The response proportion was more than  80% in all subgroups. However, the sample size 
in some genotype constellation was too small to draw a definite corollary. 
Subgroup analysis was also performed in the ADA subgroups to examine the impact of ADA on efficacy in 
terms of ACR20/50/70.  The results are presented and discussed in the  safety section 2.5.  “Immunological 
events”. 
Upon CHMP’s  request, the applicant  provided estimates of treatment difference in ACR20 at weeks 12 and 24 
for the ITT and PP populations stratified by disease activity, country, geographical region, ADA status, age, 
sex and body mass index (BMI).  Results for the additional analyses were in  agreement with the  initial 
analyses and supported the  conclusion of biosimilarity. 
Impact of ADA on clinical outcome 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 61/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The impact of ADA on efficacy in terms of ACR20/50/70 in Treatment period I is presented graphically in 
Figure 7. 
Figure 7 Proportion of Patients  Achieving ACR20/50/70 by Post-treatment ADA Status up to  Week 24:ITT 
Population 
a) At least  one ADA positive subgroup 
b) All ADA negative  subgroup 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 62/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Upon request, the applicant provided the estimated treatment  difference, including 95% CI of difference, of 
proportion of patients  achieving response according to ACR20 by ADA status from both ITT and PP 
populations, from all time points. A summary of the  results are provided in Table 17. 
Table 17  Estimated Difference (95%  CI of Difference) of Proportion of Patients Achieving Response According 
to ACR20 criteria by ADA Status in Study CT-P17 3.1  
Visit 
ADA status1 
ACR20 Response Rate, n/N2 (%) 
Difference between 
CT-P17 and Humira 
95% CI for the 
Difference 
ITT Population and ITT Population – Treatment Period II subset3 4 
CT-P17 
EU-Humira 
Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
Week 36 
Week 48 
Week 52 
(EOS) 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
14/43 (32.6) 
88/278 (31.7) 
67/88 (76.1) 
179/228 (78.5) 
81/93 (87.1) 
187/216 (86.6) 
69/76 (90.8) 
200/222 (90.1) 
80/85 (94.1) 
186/202 (92.1) 
80/86 (93.0) 
164/181 (90.6) 
24/86 (27.9) 
62/236 (26.3) 
88/116 (75.9) 
159/202 (78.7) 
95/116 (81.9) 
173/196 (88.3) 
35/41 (85.4) 
102/112 (91.1) 
41/45 (91.1) 
99/105 (94.3) 
37/42 (88.1) 
82/87 (94.3) 
PP Population and PP Population – Treatment Period II subset3 5 
4.65 
5.38 
0.27 
-0.20 
5.20 
-1.69 
5.42 
-0.98 
3.01 
-2.21 
4.93 
-3.65 
(-12.26, 21.56) 
(-2.45, 13.22) 
(-11.56, 12.10) 
(-7.97, 7.56) 
(-4.57, 14.97) 
(-8.09, 4.71) 
(-7.20, 18.05) 
(-7.56, 5.60) 
(-6.70, 12.71) 
(-8.00, 3.59) 
(-6.25, 16.10) 
(-10.12, 2.83) 
Week 2 
Week 24 
Week 12 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
Positive 
Negative 
(-16.80, 18.88) 
(-1.36, 15.55) 
(-12.73, 11.60) 
(-10.41, 5.60) 
(-6.12, 13.84) 
(-8.50, 4.83) 
(-7.42, 18.53) 
(-6.89, 7.18) 
(-5.40, 15.91) 
(-8.50, 3.94) 
(-3.29, 21.19) 
(-10.94, 1.87) 
Note. Percentages are calculated by using the number of patients with ADA status at each visit as the denominator. The 
95% CI for the difference of ACR20 response  proportion  between two treatment groups  was calculated using asymptotic 
method. 
22/74 (29.7) 
53/202 (26.2) 
75/94 (79.8) 
147/182 (80.8) 
81/96 (84.4) 
159/180 (88.3) 
31/36 (86.1) 
92/102 (90.2) 
35/39 (89.7) 
91/97 (93.8) 
31/36 (86.1) 
78/82 (95.1) 
12/39 (30.8) 
82/246 (33.3) 
61/77 (79.2) 
163/208 (78.4) 
75/85 (88.2) 
173/200 (86.5) 
66/72 (91.7) 
187/207 (90.3) 
76/80 (95.0) 
173/189 (91.5) 
77/81 (95.1) 
154/170 (90.6) 
1.04 
7.10 
-0.57 
-2.40 
3.86 
-1.83 
5.56 
0.14 
5.26 
-2.28 
8.95 
-4.53 
Week 52 
(EOS) 
Week 36 
Week 48 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 63/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abbreviations: ACR20, American College of Rheumatology 20% improvement criteria; ADA, anti-drug antibody; EU, 
European  Union; ITT, intent-to-treat. 
1 Anti-drug antibody status  at each visit. 
2 The numerator  is based on number  of patients who had ADA positive or ADA negative results  at each visit. The 
denominator is based on number of patients who had immunogenicity results at each visit. 
3 For Treatment Period II, the results, 95% CI for difference were based on CT-P17 maintenance and Humira 
maintenance groups.   
4 ITT  population – Treatment Period II subset  was defined as all patients in ITT population who  are randomly assigned to 
receive a dose of either of the study drugs  prior to dosing  at Week 26, regardless  of whether or not any study drug 
dosing was completed. 
5 PP population – Treatment Period II subset consisted of all patients in PP population who receive at least 1 dose (full) of 
either of the study drugs on or after Week 26 and have at least 1 post treatment efficacy assessment after first study drug 
administration in Treatment Period II. 
In Treatment period 1 (up to week 24), ADA positive patients gained slightly better response rates with  CT-
P17 treatment than  with  Humira, while ADA negative patients  gained slightly  better response rates with 
Humira. The differences were small and not clinically significant in either of the study populations (ITT and 
PP) and at  all time points. 
From week 26 onward, the mean differences between treatment  arms grew slightly bigger, in particular 
among ADA positive patients.  At most, there was a difference of 12.8 percentage points  in ACR20 response 
rate among ADA positive patients between CT-P17 maintenance treatment and Humira maintenance 
treatment at week 26 in the ITT population. Confidence intervals were broad throughout treatment  period II 
and while all the 95% CIs contained 0, the upper limit of the 95%  CIs was continuously above 15% among 
ADA positive patients in both study  populations (Table 18). 
Among ADA negative patients differences between treatment arms in  ACR20 response were small, ranging 
from -4.5  to 2.3  percentage points and with 95%  CIs falling within  the  +/- 15% range. 
Table 18  Truncated summary of ACR20 by visit based ADA status ITT Population - Treatment Period II Subset 
Abbreviation: ADA = Anti-drug Antibody.  
Note: Percentages are calculated by using  the number of patients with ADA status at each visit as the denominator. The 
95% CI for the difference of ACR20 response  proportion  between two treatment groups  was calculated using asymptotic 
method.  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 64/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
The impact of immunogenicity on efficacy was also assessed by ADA titre in treatment period I and the 
analyses showed that,  while higher ADA titre  correlated with lower drug exposure, obvious correlation 
between immunogenicity and efficacy was not  found in either of the treatment  arms.  
Usability of PFS (CT-P17 3.1) 
The applicant has conducted usability assessments concerning PFS as part of study 3.1 using  PRE- and POST-
SIAQ questionnaire (patient rating) and Self-Injection Assessment Checklist (observer rating). Usability 
assessments were performed only for patients  who self-injected the study drug (Bulgaria and Poland only). 
Altogether, 146 patients  agreed to participate in the usability assessment (out  of the  501 patients in Poland 
and Bulgaria), 70  in CT-P17 group and 76  in EU-Humira group, respectively. Usability assessments were 
conducted at Weeks 4, 6, 8  and 24. 
According to the  applicant’s analyses, all patients  rated self-injection with  mean PRE- and POST-SIAQ scores 
over 7 on all domains of the SIAQ at Weeks 4,  6, 8 and 24, with  the exception of self-confidence, which 
ranged from mean score of 5 to 6.  All patients  were able to successfully complete, not  only the  critical tasks 
(N7,  N10, N11  and N12),  but also 14 instructions  from the Self-Injection Assessment Checklist for both 
treatment groups of the usability population throughout  all usability assessment periods up to Week 24. 
Some bias toward overly optimistic results might have occurred at week 4 due to training too close to the 
usability assessment and possibly due to patient  selection. However, results are similar for both CT-P17 and 
Humira and the overall usability of CT-P17 PFS is satisfactory. 
Summary of main study 
The following table summarises the efficacy results from the main study supporting the  present application. 
This summary should be read in conjunction with  the discussion on clinical efficacy as well as the biosimilarity 
assessment (see later sections). 
Table 19  Summary of Efficacy for trial CT-P17 3.1 
Title: A Randomised, Active-Controlled, Double-Blind, Phase 3 Study to Compare Efficacy and Safety of CT-P17 with 
EU-approved Humira when Co-administered with Methotrexate in Patients with Moderate to Severe Active 
Rheumatoid Arthritis 
Study identifier 
CT-P17 3.1 
Design 
This study was a randomised, active-controlled, double-blind, multicentre, Phase 3 study. A total 
of 648 patients with moderate to severe active RA were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive 
multiple single-dose (40mg) of either CT-P17 40 mg (N=324) or EU-Humira (N=324) 
administered by subcutaneous (SC) injection via pre-filled syringe (PFS) every other week (EOW) 
for 48 weeks. The study period for up to 52 weeks after 1st randomisation includes 48 weeks of 
treatment and 4 weeks of safety follow-up. Prior to dosing at Week 26, all patients underwent the 
2nd randomisation process. Patients who were initially randomly assigned to EU-Humira were 
randomised again in a ratio of 1:1 to either continue EU-Humira or undergo transition to CT-P17. 
The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients achieving clinical response according to the 
ACR criteria at Week 24. Secondary endpoints are to evaluate additional efficacy, PK, PD, 
usability and overall safety including immunogenicity and biomarker over 52 weeks.  
Duration of main phase: 
Duration of Run-in phase: 
Duration of Extension phase: 
24 weeks (primary endpoint), 48 weeks (end of active 
treatment) 
Not applicable 
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 65/126 
 
  
  
 
Hypothesis 
Equivalence margin of the difference in ACR20 response rate at Week 24 [-15%, 15%] 
Treatments groups 
CT-P17 
40 mg SC, EOW, up to Week 24, 324 patients randomised. 
EU-Humira 
CT-P17 
Maintenance 
EU-Humira 
Maintenance  
Switched to 
CT-P17 
Primary endpoint 
Secondary Efficacy 
endpoints 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
40 mg SC, EOW, up to Week 24, 324 patients randomised. 
40 mg SC, EOW, from Week 26 to Week 48, 303 patients randomised. 
40 mg SC, EOW, from Week 26 to Week 48, 153 patients randomised. 
40 mg SC, EOW, from Week 26 to Week 48, 152 patients randomised. 
ACR20  
ACR20 
ACR50 
ACR70 
ACR20 response rate at Week 24 
ACR20 (except for Week 24) response rate over  
52 weeks 
ACR50 response rate over 52 weeks 
ACR70 response rate over 52 weeks 
Hybrid ACR 
response 
Combined ACR20, ACR50, ACR70 and continuous 
score of the mean improvement in core set measures over 
52 weeks. 
DAS28  
EULAR 
response 
CDAI and 
SDAI 
Actual value and change from baseline in DAS28 (CRP), 
DAS28 (ESR) over 52 weeks. 
The European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) 
response over 52 weeks. 
Clinical disease activity index (CDAI) and Simplified 
disease activity index (SDAI) over 52 weeks. 
Database lock 
Interim Database lock (19 December 2019) for data up to Week 24. 
Final Database lock (25 June 2020) for data up to Week 52. 
Results and Analysis 
Analysis description 
Analysis population  and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Primary Analysis 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) population  
Per-protocol (PP) population 
Week 24  
Treatment group 
CT-P17 
Number of  subject 
ACR20 response rate (ITT) 
ACR20 response rate (PP) 
ITT: 324 
PP: 285 
268/324 
(82.72%) 
248/285 
(87.02%) 
EU-Humira 
ITT: 324 
PP: 276 
268/324 
(82.72%) 
240/276 
(86.96%) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
ACR20 response rate  
(ITT) 
Comparison groups 
CT-P17 vs. EU-Humira 
Treatment difference 
estimate (%) 
95% CI (%) 
0.00 
(-5.94, 5.94) 
Equivalence margin (%) 
[-15, 15] 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 66/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACR20 response rate  
(PP) 
Comparison groups 
CT-P17 vs. EU-Humira 
Treatment difference 
estimate (%) 
95% CI (%) 
0.06 
(5.60, 5.78) 
Equivalence margin (%) 
[-15, 15] 
Analysis description 
Secondary Analysis 
Analysis population  and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Intent-to-treat (ITT) population – Treatment Period II subset, Week 52  
Treatment group 
Number of  subject 
CT-P17 
Maintenance 
303 
ACR20 response rate 
244 (80.5%) 
ACR50 response rate  
201 (66.3%) 
ACR70 response rate  
135 (44.6%) 
Hybrid ACR (SD) 
64.542 (22.2846) 
DAS28 (CRP) mean  
change (SD)  
EULAR response (CRP) 
-2.945 
(1.1273) 
 No response 
 Moderate response 
 Good response 
6 (2.0%) 
63 (20.8%) 
195 (64.4%) 
EU-Humira 
Maintenance 
153 
119 (77.8%) 
95 (62.1%) 
75 (49.0%) 
67.039  
(22.4088) 
-3.074 
(1.1926) 
4 (2.6%) 
28 (18.3%) 
97 (63.4%) 
Switched to 
CT-P17 
152 
125 (82.2%) 
101 (66.4%) 
72 (47.4%) 
65.472  
(26.0275) 
-2.983 
(1.2529) 
9 (5.9%) 
28 (18.4%) 
97 (63.8%) 
CDAI mean change 
(SD) 
SDAI mean change 
(SD) 
ACR20 response rate 
-30.980  
(11.5170) 
-31.235  
(11.6048) 
Comparison groups 
-31.549  
(11.4058) 
-31.935  
(11.6042) 
CT-P17 Maintenance and 
Humira Maintenance 
-31.152 
(13.5302) 
-31.747 
(13.8054) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
ACR50 response rate  
Treatment difference 
estimate (%) 
2.75 
95% CI (%) 
Comparison groups 
Treatment difference 
estimate (%) 
(-4.99, 11.19) 
CT-P17 Maintenance and 
Humira Maintenance 
4.25 
95% CI (%) 
(-5.08, 13.81) 
ACR70 response rate  
Comparison groups 
Treatment difference 
estimate (%) 
CT-P17 Maintenance and 
Humira Maintenance 
-4.47 
95% CI (%) 
(-14.24, 5.35) 
DAS28 (CRP)  
Comparison groups 
CT-P17 Maintenance and 
Humira Maintenance 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 67/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment difference 
estimate (%) 
0.12 
95% CI (%) 
(-0.12, 0.36) 
Notes 
No statistical comparison was planned for secondary endpoints. For ACR20, ACR50, ACR70, 
DAS28(CRP), statistical comparisons were performed as post-hoc. 
Sensitivity analysis on primary efficacy endpoint using logistic regression confirmed the 
results. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not  applicable. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Not  applicable. 
2.4.2.  Supportive study 
The usability of the  AI has been studied in  human factor (HF)  studies (one formative HF  study and one HF 
validation study). In addition, usability of AI has been studied in the clinical study CT-P17 3.2. 
HF  validation study 
The applicant has conducted a HF  validation study with  the AI including  adult RA patients  (n=30),  adolescent 
JIA patients  (n=15),  lay caregivers (n=30) and healthcare professionals (n=15).  In total, 50%  of the  RA 
patients and lay caregivers were considered to be injection-naïve. According to the obtained results, 
altogether 19% (17/90)  of participants did not manage to deliver a full dose during the first  attempt 
(Instruction for use (IFU) optional).  Sixteen (16) participants  prematurely removed the injection device from 
the injection pad (before 2nd click) mainly due to  neglecting IFU and relying on previous experience with 
other devices. Altogether, 16 out of these 17 delivered a full  dose on the second injection simulation  (IFU 
mandatory). 
It was noted that  there were some limitations  in the HF  report and for example, the observed Use Errors/Use 
Difficulties in most important IFU  steps were not adequately discussed in the report. According to the report, 
only a few complaints were recorded concerning device interface. Despite the  limitations, the  root analyses of 
the study report provide evidence on safe AI usability. 
Study CT-P17 3.2 
The applicant has conducted a phase III, open-label, single-arm, multiple-dose study to evaluate usability of 
subcutaneous AI of CT-P17 in patients with  moderate to severe active RA. 
Altogether, 62 RA patients (mean 50.9, range 19-70  years) were analysed in terms of usability (usability 
population = ITT). Study population consisted of 20 males and 42 females, all whites.  A majority of patients 
(41 patients)  were classified to  have ACR functional status  class II, 17 had ACR functional  class I and 4  had 
class III functional ability. According to the  applicant, there were no major protocol deviations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 68/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
The primary usability endpoint was the patient’s rating  of PRE- and POST-SIAQ at Week 4. All patients in the 
usability and ITT populations  rated self-injection with  mean scores above 8 for pre- and post- injections on all 
domains of the  SIAQ at Week 4 except for the domain of self-confidence. 
The secondary usability endpoints were patient’s rating of PRE- and POST-SIAQ at Weeks 0, 2,  and 24,  and 
the observer’s rating of successful self-injection using self-injection assessment checklist at Weeks 0, 2, 4, 
and 24. All patients rated self-injection with  mean scores over 6 for pre- and post- injection on all domains of 
the SIAQ at Weeks 0 and 2 in the  usability and ITT populations except for the domain of self-confidence of 
PRE-SIAQ at Week 0. At Week 24,  all patients rated self-injection with  mean scores over 8 for pre- and post- 
injection on all domains of the SIAQ except for the domain of self-confidence. 
Scores related to post-injection  were generally higher than those of pre-injection. There was an increasing 
trend found in both  pre- and post-injection scores over time. 
According to the  applicant, all patients successfully administered the whole volume of medication at  weeks 0, 
2, 4 and 24 and all patients completed all necessary use tasks (self-injection assessment checklist) at all time 
points. The study CT-P17 3.2 was designed to assess usability based on a single trial of injection.  A majority 
of patients successfully performed self-injection at the first attempt.  However, three patients failed to inject 
the whole volume on first attempt.  All of these patients  self-injected successfully after further instructions 
during the same visit. The applicant decided to record these incidences as successful. This approach is not 
acceptable to the  CHMP as it obscures the results and defies the purpose of the study. However, as there 
were only three incidences of misrecording, the general conclusion of sufficient usability of the AI device is 
not affected. 
2.4.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
Study CT-P17 3.1 was the comparative study for assessment of similarity of clinical efficacy and safety 
between CT-P17 and the originator EU-Humira. It was a phase 3, randomised, active-controlled, double-
blind, multicentre  study designed to evaluate efficacy, PK, PD, usability,  overall safety and immunogenicity of 
multiple single-doses (40 mg) of either CT-P17 or EU-Humira  administered by SC injection via PFS in 
combination with  MTX in patients with  moderate to  severe active RA. The design of the study is considered 
adequate to  the CHMP and in line with  the EMA  guideline on assessment of biosimilarity 
(EMA/CHMP/BMWP/403543/2010). 
RA has been extensively used in applications for adalimumab biosimilars and RA is considered a sufficiently 
sensitive target  population. The selection criteria ensured inclusion of a representative target population  and 
known safety concerns were taken into  account in the exclusion criteria. 
The primary objective of this study was to demonstrate that CT-P17 is equivalent to EU-approved Humira as 
determined by clinical response according ACR20 at Week 24. The primary endpoint of study CT-P17 3.1 was 
the proportion of patients achieving clinical response according to  the ACR20 at  Week 24 in the ITT 
population. ACR20 is considered an acceptable primary endpoint in the EMA  Guideline on clinical investigation 
of medicinal products for the treatment of RA and it  has been widely used in equivalence trials. However, 
while ACR20 at 6 months is adequate for assessment of efficacy in non-inferiority trials, an earlier time point, 
before the therapeutic plateau is fully developed, is preferred in equivalence trials, to increase the sensitivity 
to detect possible differences.  In addition  to the primary efficacy endpoint of ACR20 response at week 24, 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 69/126 
 
  
  
the totality  of data, including ACR20 response at all time points, is thus considered important  for the 
assessment of equivalence on clinical efficacy. 
The predefined equivalence margin of -15% to  15% was not justified in the  study protocol, as advised in the 
EMA Guideline on the choice of the non-inferiority margin. According to the Summary of Clinical efficacy, 
written  after data analysis, the  delta was chosen to preserve 50% of the  effect of adalimumab over placebo 
seen in  two historical meta-analyses. The equivalence margin (EM) of -15%  to 15% is in line with  several 
previous adalimumab biosimilar processes and is acceptable to the  CHMP. Upon request, the applicant 
clarified that  the justification  of the  predefined EM was in place before the start of the study. Non-responder 
imputation  method was used in the  ITT population analyses of ACR response rates. However, in an 
equivalence trial, use of the  full analysis set with  non-responder imputation is generally not conservative.  In 
equivalence trials the PP population  is considered more conservative and the preferred population of analysis, 
as stated in the ICH E9 Statistical  Principles for Clinical Trials. Hence, the results for the PP population  are 
considered even more relevant than the results for the  primary ITT population. 
The secondary endpoints (ACR50, ACR70, hybrid ACR response, DAS28, EULAR response, CDAI, SDAI, 
quality of life [SF-36]) are validated and in line with  what has been used in previous applications with  RA 
indications. 
The 48-week treatment  duration is considered by the CHMP  sufficient to assess persistence of response and 
in line with  the EMA guideline (CPMP/EWP/556/95  Rev. 2). Of note, only data up to  week 24 was initially 
submitted.  The full  study report was provided during the procedure. Overall, the conduct  of the study  was 
adequate to  the CHMP. There was no GCP inspection conducted by local regulatory authorities and no specific 
GCP issues arose during assessment. However, some clarification was requested to  confirm that  planning of 
the statistical  analysis and reporting of the usability  results were prudent. All issues were resolved upon 
satisfactory clarification. 
The usability of the  AI and PFS was studied in the studies (CT-P17 3.1,  CT-P17 3.2 and a HF study).  Usability 
assessment in Studies CT-P17 3.1 and 3.2  with RA patients using PRE- and POST- modules of SIAQ and 
Self-Injection Assessment Checklist showed that CT-P17 PFS and AI devices can be used and self-injected 
safely to deliver the medicinal product to the target  population. 
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
In total, 648  patients with  moderate to severe active RA were randomised and initiated  treatment. The study 
population was representative of RA patients in general and the  treatment groups were well balanced in 
terms of basic demographic characteristics, disease duration,  disease severity and use of concomitant 
medication. 
In both treatment arms, 82.72%  of patients  in the ITT population achieved response according to ACR20 at 
week 24 (primary efficacy endpoint). The response rates are comparable to those seen in previous trials with 
Humira. The 95% CI for the  estimate of treatment difference in ACR20 response rates at  week 24 was 
entirely within  the predefined equivalence margin of -15% to  15% for both ITT and PP populations. The 
results were unchanged after controlling for country and disease activity. Hence, the primary objective of this 
trial was met and the result was unchanged by sensitivity analysis. However, as stated above, week 24 is not 
the most sensitive time point for assessing equivalence of efficacy in RA and therefore the totality of data, 
including response per each visit is important. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 70/126 
 
  
  
As the PP population is considered more conservative in equivalence trials, the results for the PP population 
are considered even more relevant than the results for the primary ITT population. 
Upon CHMP’s  request, the applicant  provided during the evaluation confidence intervals for the estimate of 
treatment difference in ACR20, ACR50, and ACR70 at all time points  up to the EOS for both  ITT and PP 
populations. Estimates of difference between treatment arms were small and most of the 95%  CIs remained 
within  +/- 15%  in both the ITT and the PP populations at all time points up to week 52. Data from the most 
sensitive time  points (weeks 8-16)  and from the more sensitive population of analysis (PP) confirmed 
similarity in efficacy according to ACR criteria between CT-P17 and Humira. Similar efficacy was maintained 
also after switching  to CT-P17 at week 26  and up  to week 52. Similarity was also supported by results on the 
continuous DAS28 scale. The data showed high  similarity between treatment arms in actual values and 
change from baseline of the DAS28(CRP) and DAS28(ESR) scores, over time, across different visit time 
points in both  ITT and PP populations. The difference between the mean changes from baseline in 
DAS28(CRP) at different visit time points were marginal and the point  estimates do not  exceed the difference 
of 0.6 in DAS28(CRP) score, generally approved to be the minimal difference of clinical importance. 
Moreover, the 95% CI for the estimate of treatment  difference in DAS28(CRP) was entirely within  the margin 
of clinical significance ±0.6%  in both the ITT and the PP populations at all time points up to week 52. 
The mean decreases from baseline in RF,  anti-CCP, CRP, and ESR were comparable between the 
two treatment  groups. Since the main efficacy endpoints were highly similar, the small differences in 
secondary PD markers, seen after week 24, do not preclude the  conclusion of similarity. 
The robustness of the efficacy results was confirmed by subgroup analyses. Estimates of treatment difference 
in ACR20 at weeks 12 and 24 for the ITT and PP populations were provided by subgroups of clinically relevant 
factors, such as disease activity, country, geographical region, age, sex and body mass index (BMI). 
Estimates of treatment differences were mostly within  +/- 10%  and did not exceed 20% in any subgroup. 
Results from the  sub-group analyses are in agreement with the  initial analyses and support the conclusion of 
biosimilarity. 
In treatment period I the proportions of patients achieving response according to ACR20 was slightly better 
with  CT-P17 treatment in the ADA positive group and slightly better with  EU-Humira treatment  in the ADA 
negative group. This is not intuitive,  since the drug concentrations were slightly higher (~10%)  in the CT-P17 
arm among ADA negative patients.  In treatment period II, the difference in ACR20 was enhanced among ADA 
positive patients, in favour of CT-P17. As the treatment groups were smaller in treatment  period II, no 
statistically significant  difference in efficacy was reached between treatment arms even among ADA positive 
patients, but  the 95%  CIs were broad and fell outside the  predefined equivalence margin of +/- 15%.  The 
point estimates of treatment difference ranged between 3.0  and 12.8  percentage points difference in ACR20 
response among ADA positive patients in  the ITT population  in treatment period II, being most pronounced at 
week 26. 
Interpretation of the results is complicated by the fact that  ADA status is a post randomisation event and, 
hence, the benefits of randomisation to the interpretation  of the  results are not maintained. The applicant 
was asked to analyse these results in  more detail with  focus on factors that may confound interpretation  of 
the results to better understand whether the difference in response rates in treatment period II is a factor of 
ADA positivity (including  ADA titres and drug concentrations) or whether there is a prognostic factor that 
impacts development of ADAs and through  that  the response status. 
In its response, the applicant pointed  out that  the efficacy assessment at week 26 is a reflection of the effect 
achieved by the  week 24 dose, i.e. before second randomisation. Therefore, it does not seem sensible to 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 71/126 
 
  
  
assess efficacy in the Humira/Humira and the Humira/CT-P17  arms separately at week 26. It  was concluded 
that  the proportion of ADA positive patients who achieved ACR20 at week 26  is very similar in the CT-P17 
Maintenance arm 67 (90.5%)  and in  the Switched to CT-P17 arm 47 (92.2%).  Since treatments were 
identical in the Humira  maintenance arm and Switched to  CT-P17 arm up to week 24, the lower proportion of 
patients achieving ACR20 in the  Humira maintenance arm 35 (77.8%)  compared to the Switched to CT-P17 
arm at  week 26 must be a chance finding.  It follows that the continued  difference between the  Humira 
maintenance arm and CT-P17 Maintenance arm up to  week 52 is also best explained by chance. The broad 
confidence intervals previously commented on are partly explained by small patient  numbers in treatment 
period II.  
The conclusion that  the difference in response rates may be mainly attributed  to the fact that  more 
responders were assigned to  the Switched to CT-P17 group than to the  Humira group is supported by the fact 
that  no significant difference was seen between ADA incidence or ADA titres between treatment groups.  
Moreover, the difference in efficacy as measured by ACR20 was not  confirmed by any clinically significant 
differences in DAS28. 
Overall, it is concluded by the CHMP that  the small differences in ADA formation between study arms did not 
translate into significant  differences in efficacy. 
2.4.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
The data from Study CT-P17 3.1 showed similarity between CT-P17 and Humira in  both primary and 
secondary efficacy endpoints at  Week 24. Similarity in efficacy was also supported by non-clinical PD data 
and was not significantly affected by antibody formation. Data from the second treatment  period (Week 24 to 
48) showed that  efficacy was sustained up to  week 52 in a comparable manner in all three treatment arms: 
CT-P17 and Humira maintenance groups as well as in patients  who switched to CT-P17 at week 26. From the 
efficacy point of view, the claim for the biosimilarity between Yuflyma and Humira-EU  is supported.  
2.5.  Clinical safety 
In clinical studies with  CT-P17 (Studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2, 1.3  and 3.1),  all analyses of safety were conducted 
on the safety population,  which consists of all subjects who received at least one dose (full or partial) of 
either of the study drug. Safety assessments for the  four clinical studies are as follows: AEs, serious AEs 
(SAEs), AEs of special interest (AESIs), immunogenicity, hypersensitivity monitoring, vital signs, weight 
measurements, electrocardiograms (ECGs), physical examinations, interferon-γ release assays (IGRA), chest 
X-rays, clinical laboratory tests, local site pains using  100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS), signs and 
symptoms of tuberculosis (TB). 
Patient exposure 
The applicant’s biosimilar development programme for CT-P17 included clinical safety data from 1,166 
subjects in 4 clinical studies (488 healthy male and female subjects [up to  Day 71 in studies CT-P17 1.1 and 
1.3],  30 healthy male subjects [up to Day 120  in study CT-P17 1.2] and 648 RA patients [up to  Week 52 in 
study CT-P17 3.1])  who were exposed to at least one dose (full or partial) of CT-P17,  EU-Humira or US-
Humira. Of these, 297 healthy subjects and 324 RA patients  were exposed to CT-P17 (Table 20).  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 72/126 
 
  
  
 
Table 20  Number of subjects who received at least one dose of study drug (CT-P17 or reference products) in 
the studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2, 1.3 and 3.1  (Safety population) 
CT-P17 PFS 
CT-P17 AI 
Subjects 
40 mg/0.4 
ml 
40 mg/0.4 
ml 
EU-Humira 
PFS 
US-Humira 
PFS 
40 mg/0.4 ml 
40 mg/0.4 
ml 
Total 
Study 
Overall Exposure – Number of Subjects 
CT-P17 1.1 Male and 
102 
Female HV 
CT-P17 1.2 Male HV 
CT-P17 1.3 Male and 
15 
87 
Female HV 
CT-P17 3.1 RA Patients  324 
Total 
621 
- 
- 
93 
- 
104 
15 
- 
324 
443 
102 
- 
- 
- 
102 
308 
30 
180 
648 
1166 
To assess biosimilarity between the proposed biosimilar CT-P17 and the reference product Humira, the 
applicant’s clinical development programme included one pivotal Phase III confirmatory efficacy and safety 
study (CT-P17 3.1)  in patients with  RA. For details on the study  population, see section 2.4. Clinical efficacy. 
From the safety point of view, the  objective of this  study was to evaluate overall safety, including 
immunogenicity over 52 weeks. 
In addition to the  pivotal biosimilarity study, safety data is also available from three Phase I single-dose 
studies in healthy volunteers: CT-P17 1.1  (PK study for biosimilarity), CT-P17 1.2 (safety and PK pilot study), 
and CT-P17 1.3 (PK study comparing AI and PFS). The safety results from these studies are considered 
supportive. 
The applicant's development program also included an AI usability study (CT-P17 3.2) in 62  patients with  RA. 
In this study, CT-P17 AI was administered 40 mg every other week for 24 weeks. At 24 weeks, 60 of 62 
patients had successfully received all the CT-P17 doses. Only the usability results up to 4 weeks were 
included in the applicant’s initial  submission. The safety data were submitted  upon CHMP’s request during the 
procedure. 
The dosing of both  CT-P17 and Humira  used in the  presented studies corresponds to the recommended 
dosing stated in the Humira  SmPC. 
Adverse events 
Overview  of Adverse Events in studies CT-P17 1.1, 1.2 and  1.3, and in Treatment Period I of study 
CT-P17 3.1 
The key safety findings related to the TEAEs are summarised in Table 21. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 73/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21  Overview of TEAEs in studies CT-P17 1.1, 1.2  and 1.3,  and in Treatment Period I of study CT-P17 
3.1 (Safety Population)  
Study CT-P17 1.1 
Study CT-P17 1.2  Study CT-P17 1.3  Study CT-P17 3.1 
CT-P17 
EU- 
US- 
CT-P17 
EU- 
CT-P17  AI 
CT-P17 
CT-P17 
EU- 
(N=102) 
Humira 
Humira 
(N=15) 
(N=104) 
(N=102) 
Humira 
(N=15) 
(N=93) 
PFS 
(N=324) 
(N=87) 
Humira 
(N=324) 
Total number of TEAEs 
137 
138 
116 
19 
14 
128 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
56 (54.9)  60 (57.7)  65 (63.7)  10 
8 (53.3)  56 
95 
45 
457 
169 
461 
184 
TEAE 
(66.7) 
(60.2) 
(51.7) 
(52.2) 
(56.8) 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
45 (44.1)  49 (47.1)  49 (48.0)  5 (33.3)  4 (26.7)  47 
38 
88 (27.2)  99 (30.6) 
Related TEAE 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
0 
0 
0 
TEAE leading to death 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
2 (2.0) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
TESAE 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
(50.5) 
(43.7) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (2.2) 
0 
10 (3.1) 
16 (4.9) 
0 
0 
5 (1.5) 
8 (2.5) 
TEAE leading to study drug 
discontinuation 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
1 (1.0) 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
3 (3.2) 
1 (1.1) 
2 (0.6) 
4 (1.2) 
TEAE of hypersensitivity/allergic 
reactions 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
20 (19.6)  19 (18.3)  16 (15.7)  0 
1 (6.7) 
8 (8.6) 
6 (6.9) 
16 (4.9) 
22 (6.8) 
TEAE of injection site reaction 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
10 (9.8) 
13 (12.5)  19 (18.6)  5 (33.3)  2 (13.3)  10 
6 (6.9) 
97 (29.9)  103 
TEAE of infection 
(10.8) 
(31.8) 
Number (%) of subjects with ≥1 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
0 
TEAE of 
malignancy 
Note: At each level of summarisation, subjects  are counted  once if they reported  one or more events.  
Phase  III Study CT-P17 3.1 in patients  with RA 
Summary of Adverse Events 
Treatment Period I 
An overall summary of TEAEs in Treatment Period I is presented for the safety population in  Table 22. 
Overall, 989 TEAEs were reported in 367 (56.6%)  patients,  175 (59.3%)  patients in the CT-P17 treatment 
group and 192 (59.3%)  patients in the  EU-Humira treatment group. The majority of TEAEs were grade 1 or 
grade 2 in  intensity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 74/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22  Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events during Treatment Period I: Safety Population 
(Study CT-P17 3.1) 
Abbreviations: TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse event; TESAE, treatment-emergent serious adverse  event. 
Treatment Period II 
An overall summary of TEAEs in Treatment Period II is presented for the  safety population in  
Table 23.  Overall, 542 TEAEs were reported in  263 (43.3%)  patients and the proportion of patients was 
similar among the three treatment groups (121 [39.9%],  69  [45.4%],  and 73  [48.0%]  patients in the CT-
P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively). The majority of TEAEs 
were grade 1 or grade 2 in intensity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 75/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Table 23  Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events during Treatment Period II: Safety Population 
(Study CT-P17 3.1 Treatment Period II subset) 
Abbreviations: TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse event; TESAE, treatment-emergent serious adverse event. 
Overall Period 
An overall summary of TEAEs in Overall Period of study CT-P17 3.1 as presented per initial and second 
randomisation is summarised for the safety population in Table 24.   
Overall, 1,531  TEAEs were reported in 447 (69.0%)  patients  in the initial  randomisation and 1,418  TEAEs in 
416 patients  in the second randomisation. The proportion of patients  was similar between the CT-P17 and 
Humira treatment groups (218 [67.3%]  and 229  [70.7%] patients,  respectively), and among the CT-P17 
maintenance, Humira maintenance and switched to  CT-P17 groups (204  [67.3%],  105 [69.1%],  and 107 
[70.4%]  patients, respectively). TEAEs considered by the investigator to be related to  the study drug were 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 76/126 
 
  
  
 
 
reported in 238  (36.7%)  patients and the proportion of patients  was similar between the CT-P17 and Humira 
treatment groups (109 [33.6%]  and 129 [39.8%]  patients,  respectively) and among the CT-P17 
maintenance, Humira maintenance and switched to  CT-P17 groups (100  [33.0%],  55 [36.2%],  and 64 
[42.1%]  patients, respectively). 
Table 24  Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1  Overall 
Period) 
Abbreviations: TEAE, treatment-emergent adverse event; TESAE, treatment-emergent serious adverse  event. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 77/126 
 
  
  
 
a One patient in the CT-P17 maintenance group  reported grade 1 TEAE of lung disorder  which of causality was assessed as 
unknown  by the investigator since this event occurred  after EOS visit and  diagnosis was not completed until the time of 
last report. 
Most  frequently reported Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events 
Treatment Period I 
All TEAEs reported for 3% or more of patients in  either treatment  group are summarised by preferred terms 
(PT) for the  safety population in Table 25. The most frequently reported TEAEs for patients in the  CT-P17 
treatment group were upper respiratory tract infection (18 [5.6%]  patients)  followed by nasopharyngitis (17 
[5.2%]  patients). The most frequently reported TEAEs for patients in the  EU-Humira treatment  group were 
injection site reaction (23 [7.1%]  patients) followed by upper respiratory tract infection (22 [6.8%]  patients). 
Table 25  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events reported for ≥3%  of patients in either group during Treatment 
Period I, using Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1) 
Note: The total number of TEAEs  included all patient events. At each level of summarisation, a patient was counted only 
once if they reported 1 or more events. Preferred terms were arranged  by decreasing total percentage  and coded using 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) dictionary, Version 22.0. 
Treatment Period II 
All TEAEs reported for 3% or more of patients in  any treatment group in Treatment Period II are summarised 
by PT for the safety population  – Treatment Period II subset in Table 26. Slightly higher proportion of 
patients was observed in alanine aminotransferase increased and leukopenia in the switched to CT-P17 group 
(7 [4.6%]  patients each) compared to the CT-P17 maintenance and Humira maintenance groups. Among 
these patients, 2 (1.3%)  patients in  alanine aminotransferase increased and 4 (2.6%)  patients in  leukopenia 
have experienced the same event in  Treatment Period I and was not a new occurrence after switching  to CT-
P17. In addition, alanine aminotransferase increased was reported in higher incidence in the Humira 
treatment group in Treatment Period I (11 [3.4%]  patients in the  CT-P17 treatment group and 17  [5.2%] 
patients in  the Humira treatment group) and leukopenia was reported in similar incidence in Treatment 
Period I (10 [3.1%]  patients in the  CT-P17 treatment group and 9  [2.8%] patients  in the Humira treatment 
group). Proportion of patients in  the switched to CT-P17 group with  TEAEs in  the SOCs of both infections and 
infestations and hepatobiliary disorders were also not high  compared to other treatment groups. The 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 78/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
applicant stated that  this slight  numerical difference in alanine aminotransferase increased and leukopenia is 
likely a chance finding  and considered not clinically meaningful. 
Table 26  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events reported for ≥3%  of patients in either group during Treatment 
Period II, using Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 Treatment Period II subset) 
Note: At each level of summarisation, a patient was counted  only once  if they reported 1 or more events. Preferred terms 
were arranged  by decreasing  total percentage  and coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) 
dictionary, Version 22.0. 
Overall Period 
All TEAEs reported for 5% or more of patients in  any treatment group in Overall Period are summarised by PT 
for the safety population in Table 27 27.  Slightly higher proportion of patients was observed in alanine 
aminotransferase increased and leukopenia in the  switched to CT-P17 group (15 [9.9%]  and 10 [6.6%] 
patients, respectively) compared to the CT-P17 maintenance and Humira maintenance groups. Among the 
patients reported with alanine aminotransferase increased, 5 (3.3%)  patients  newly reported the  event in 
Treatment Period II, 8  (5.3%) patients  reported in Treatment Period I, 2 (1.3%)  patients reported in both 
Treatment Period I and II. Among the patients reported with  leukopenia, 3 (2.0%)  patients newly reported 
the event in Treatment Period II, 3  (2.0%) patients  reported in Treatment Period I, and 4 (2.6%) patients 
reported in both  Treatment Period I and II. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 79/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 27  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events reported for ≥5%  of patients in any treatment group using 
Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 Overall Period) 
each  level of summarisation, a patient was counted only once if they reported  1 or more events. Preferred  terms was  arranged  by decreasing  total 
percentage  and coded using Medical  Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA)  dictionary, Version  22.0. 
Source: Table 12-9 in Study CT-P17 3.1 Final CSR 
Note: At 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events Considered by the  Investigator to be Related to  the Study Drug 
Treatment Period I 
An overall summary of the  number of patients with  at least one TEAE considered by the investigator to be 
related to  the study drug reported for ≥3% of patients  in either treatment group by PT is presented for the 
safety population  in Table 28. 
In total, 90  (27.8%) patients  in the CT-P17 treatment groups and 107 (33.0%)  patients and the EU-Humira 
treatment group experienced at least one TEAE considered by the investigator to be related to  the study 
drug. The most frequently reported TEAEs considered by the investigator to be related to the study drug in 
the CT-P17 treatment group were injection site reaction (16  [4.9%] patients)  followed by upper respiratory 
tract infection (12  [3.7%] patients)  and neutropenia (11  [3.4%] patients).  In the EU-Humira  treatment 
group, the most frequently reported TEAEs considered by the investigator to be related to  the study drug 
were injection site reaction (22 [6.8%]  patients)  followed by neutropenia (12  [3.7%] patients)  and latent 
tuberculosis (10 [3.1%]  patients). 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 80/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 28  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events considered by the investigator to be related to  the study drug 
reported for ≥3% of patients in either group during Treatment Period I, using Preferred Term: Safety 
Population (Study CT-P17 3.1) 
Note: At each level of summarisation, a patient was counted  only once  if they reported 1 or more events. Preferred terms 
was arranged  by decreasing  total percentage  and coded using  Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) 
dictionary, Version 22.0. 
Treatment Period II 
For Treatment Period II, an overall summary of the number of patients with  at least 1 TEAE considered by 
the investigator to be related to the  study drug reported for ≥3%  of patients  in any treatment  group by PT is 
summarised for the safety population – Treatment Period II subset in  Table 29.  
In total, 48  [15.8%],  27 [17.8%],  and 36 [23.7%]  patients in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance 
and switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively, experienced at least one TEAE considered by the investigator to 
be related to the  study drug.  
In the CT-P17 maintenance group neutropenia (11 [3.6%]  patients) was the most frequently reported, 
followed by leukopenia and alanine aminotransferase increased (7 [2.3%]  patients each). In the Humira 
maintenance group, the  most reported were injection site reactions and upper respiratory tract infection (4 
[2.6%]  patients each). In the  switched to CT-P17 group, neutropenia (8  [5.3%] patients)  was reported most 
frequently, followed by leukopenia (6 [3.9%]  patients). 
Table 29  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events considered by the investigator to be related to  the study drug 
reported for ≥3% of patients in any treatment group during Treatment Period II, using Preferred Term: 
Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 Treatment Period II subset) 
Note: At each level of summarisation, a patient was counted only once if they reported 1 or more events. Preferred terms were arranged by 
decreasing total percentage and coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) dictionary, Version 22.0. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 81/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall Period 
For the Overall Period, an overall summary of the number of patients  with  at least 1 TEAE considered by the 
investigator to be related to the study  drug reported for ≥5% of patients in  any treatment group by PT is 
summarised for the safety population in Table 30. 
Table 30  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events considered by the investigator to be related to  the study drug 
reported for ≥5% of patients in any treatment group using Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 
3.1 Overall Period) 
Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events by Intensity 
Treatment Period I 
Overall, 46 (7.1%)  patients (16  [4.9%] patients  in the CT-P17 treatment group and 30 [9.3%]  patients in 
the EU-Humira  treatment group) experienced at least one grade 3 TEAE as most severe grade and 18 (2.8%) 
patients (10  [3.1%] patients  in the CT-P17 treatment group and 8 [2.5%]  patients in the EU-Humira 
treatment group) experienced at least one grade 4 TEAE. 
For both grade 3 and grade 4, the most frequently reported TEAE was neutropenia; grade 3 neutropenia as 
most severe grade was reported for 10 (1.5%)  patients (4  [1.2%] patients  in the CT-P17 treatment group 
and 6 [1.9%]  patients in the EU-Humira  treatment group) and grade 4 neutropenia as most severe grade 
was reported for 12 (1.9%) patients  (6 [1.9%]  patients each in  the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment 
groups, respectively). 
Treatment Period II 
Overall, 36 (5.9%)  patients (17  [5.6%], 7  [4.6%], and 12 [7.9%]  patients in  the CT-P17 maintenance, 
Humira maintenance and switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively) experienced at least 1  grade 3 TEAE and 6 
(1.0%)  patients (4 [1.3%],  1 [0.7%],  and 1 [0.7%]  patients in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively) experienced at least 1 grade 4 TEAE. For both 
grade 3 and grade 4,  the most frequently reported TEAE was neutropenia; grade 3 neutropenia was reported 
for 13 (2.1%) patients  (9 [3.0%],  1 [0.7%],  and 3 [2.0%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively) and grade 4 neutropenia was reported for 2 
(0.7%)  patients in the CT-P17 maintenance and none in  the Humira maintenance and switched  to CT-P17 
groups. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 82/126 
 
  
  
 
 
Overall Period 
The majority of TEAEs were Common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) grade 1 or grade 2 in 
intensity.  No grade 5 TEAEs were reported in  any treatment group. Overall, 70 (10.8%)  patients  (29 [9.0%] 
and 41 [12.7%]  patients in the  CT-P17 and Humira  treatment groups, respectively, and 24 [7.9%],  13 
[8.6%],  and 24 [15.8%]  patients in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance and switched to CT-P17 
groups, respectively) experienced at least 1 grade 3 TEAE and 22 (3.4%)  patients (12 [3.7%]  and 10 [3.1%] 
patients in  the CT-P17 and Humira treatment groups, respectively, and 10 [3.3%],  6 [3.9%],  and 3 [2.0%] 
patients in  the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance and switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively) 
experienced at least 1 grade 4 TEAE. 
For both grade 3 and grade 4, the most frequently reported TEAE was neutropenia; grade 3 neutropenia was 
reported for 16 (2.5%)  patients (9 [2.8%]  and 7 [2.2%]  patients in the CT-P17 and Humira treatment 
groups, respectively, and 9 [3.0%],  2 [1.3%],  and 5 [3.3%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively) and grade 4 neutropenia was reported for 12 
(1.9%)  patients (6 [1.9%]  and 6 [1.9%]  patients in the CT-P17 and Humira treatment groups, respectively, 
and 6 [2.0%],  4 [2.6%],  and 2  [1.3%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance and 
switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively). 
Phase  I studies in healthy  subjects 
Study CT-P17 1.1 
A summary of all TEAEs experienced by ≥5% of subjects in any treatment  group in  Study CT-P17 1.1  is 
provided in Table 31. The total number of TEAEs as well as percentage of subjects experiencing with  at least 
one TEAE were comparable in CT-P17 and Humira  groups. The same was true for the  most frequently 
reported TEAEs by PT: Injection site reaction, Nasopharyngitis and Headache. The majority of TEAEs were 
grade 1 or 2 in intensity. 
Table 31  Summary of TEAEs (reported for at least 5% of subjects by PT in any treatment  group) by SOC and 
PT in Study CT-P17 1.1 (Safety Population)  
SOC 
PT 
CT-P17 
(N=102) 
EU-Humira 
(N=104) 
US-Humira 
(N=102) 
Total 
(N=308) 
Total Number of TEAEs 
137 
138 
116 
391 
Number (%) of subjects with at  least 1 
56 (54.9) 
60 (57.7) 
65 (63.7) 
181 (58.8) 
TEAE 
General disorders and administration site 
23 (22.5) 
23 (22.1) 
18 (17.6) 
64 (20.8) 
conditions 
Injection site reaction 
20 (19.6) 
19 (18.3) 
16 (15.7) 
55 (17.9) 
Infections and infestations 
10 (9.8) 
13 (12.5) 
19 (18.6) 
42 (13.6) 
Nasopharyngitis 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
3 (2.9) 
7 (6.9) 
6 (5.9) 
3 (2.9) 
10 (9.6) 
7 (6.7) 
7 (6.9) 
9 (8.8) 
6 (5.9) 
13 (4.2) 
26 (8.4) 
19 (6.2) 
Note: At each level of summarisation, subjects  are counted  once if they reported  one or more events. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 83/126 
 
  
  
 
Study CT-P17 1.2 
In Study CT-P17 1.2, at least one TEAE was reported for 10 [66.7%]  subjects in the CT-P17 treatment group 
and 8 [53.3%]  subjects in  the EU-Humira treatment  group. The most frequently reported TEAE by SOC was 
infections and infestations: 5 [33.3%]  subjects in the CT-P17 treatment group and 2 [13.3%]  subjects in the 
EU-Humira  treatment group. The proportion of subjects with  TEAEs considered by the investigator to  be 
related to  the study drug was comparable between the two  treatment groups. All TEAEs were grade 1 or 2  in 
intensity. 
Study CT-P17 1.3 
In Study CT-P17 1.3 comparing CT-P17 AI and CT-P17 PFS, the  majority of TEAEs were grade 1 or 2 in 
intensity.  A summary of all TEAEs experienced by ≥5% of subjects in either treatment  group is provided in 
Table 32.  A higher percentage of subjects with TEAEs in the  musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
(system organ class (SOC)) was reported in the AI treatment group (15.1%)  compared to the PFS treatment 
group (3.4%). However, all TEAEs in  this SOC were grade 1, except 1 grade 3 TESAE case in the CT-P17 AI 
treatment group reported as rhabdomyolysis. TEAEs within  this SOC that  were reported in more than one 
subject in either treatment group were Musculoskeletal pain (7 subjects in AI group, 1 subject in PFS group), 
Arthralgia (4  vs. 0),  Back pain (4  vs. 1) and Myalgia (2 vs. 0). All subjects recovered without sequelae from 
these TEAEs. The proportion of subjects with  other TEAEs reported for at  least 5%  of subjects was 
comparable in both treatment groups. 
Table 32  Summary of TEAEs (reported for at least 5% of subjects by PT in either treatment group) by SOC 
and PT in Study CT-P17 1.3  (Safety Population)  
SOC 
PT 
CT-P17 AI 
(N=93) 
CT-P17 PFS 
(N=87) 
Total 
(N=180) 
Total Number of TEAEs 
128 
95 
223 
Number (%) of subjects with at  least 1 TEAE 
56 (60.2) 
45 (51.7) 
101 (56.1) 
General disorders and administration site 
10 (10.8) 
9 (10.3) 
19 (10.6) 
conditions 
Injection site reaction 
Investigations 
8 (8.6) 
6 (6.9) 
14 (7.8) 
18 (19.4) 
14 (16.1) 
32 (17.8) 
Blood creatine phosphokinase increased 
C-reactive protein increased 
Metabolism and nutrition  disorders 
Dyslipidaemia 
7 (7.5) 
5 (5.4) 
8 (8.6) 
8 (8.6) 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
14 (15.1) 
4 (4.6) 
5 (5.7) 
6 (6.9) 
5 (5.7) 
3 (3.4) 
1 (1.1) 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Nervous system disorders 
Headache 
7 (7.5) 
12 (12.9) 
10 (11.5) 
11 (11.8) 
8 (9.2) 
11 (6.1) 
10 (5.6) 
14 (7.8) 
13 (7.2) 
17 (9.4) 
8 (4.4) 
22 (12.2) 
19 (10.6) 
Note: At each level of summarisation, subjects  are counted  once if they reported  one or more events. 
AI usability study CT-P17  3.2 in patients  with RA 
An overall summary of AEs is presented for the safety population  in Table 33. Overall, 72  TEAEs were 
reported for 35 (56.5%)  patients in this  study. The majority of TEAEs were grade 1 or grade 2 in severity. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 84/126 
 
  
  
The most frequently reported TEAE was upper respiratory tract infection (13 [21.0 %] patients), followed by 
urinary tract  infection (3 [4.8 %]  patients). Treatment-emergent AEs considered to be related to the  study 
drug by the investigator were reported in 27 (43.5%)  patients.  Of these, the  most frequently reported was 
upper respiratory tract infection, which was reported in 9 (14.5%)  patients.  The other TEAEs considered by 
the investigator to be related to the  study drug reported for ≥  3% of patients were headache, 
hyperbilirubinaemia, influenza like illness, injection site reaction and pharyngitis, each for 2 (3.2%) patients. 
Table 33  Summary of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.2) 
a One patient experienced a lower gastrointestinal haemorrhage  which was reported  as TESAE, TEAE leading to treatment 
discontinuation  and TEAE leading to death. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 85/126 
 
  
  
 
 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Serious adverse  events 
Phase III Study CT-P17 3.1 in  patients with  RA 
Treatment Period I 
All TESAEs during TP I are summarised by SOC and PT in  Table 34.  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 86/126 
 
  
  
 
Table 34  Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events by System Organ Class and Preferred Term: Safety 
Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 Treatment Period I)  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 87/126 
 
  
  
Note: The total number of TESAE includes all patient events in the safety populations. At each level of summarisation, a patient was 
counted only once if they reported one or more events. Only the most severe event was counted. System organ class and preferred terms 
were coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) dictionary, Version 22.0. 
Treatment Period II 
All TESAEs in TP II are summarised by SOC and PT for the safety population –  Treatment Period II subset in 
Table 35.   
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 88/126 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 35  Treatment-Emergent Serious Adverse Events during Treatment Period II by System Organ Class and 
Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 Treatment Period II subset) 
Note: The total number of TESAE includes all patient events in the safety populations. At each level of summarisation, a 
patient was counted only once if they reported  one or more events. Only the most severe event was counted.  System 
organ class and preferred  terms were coded using  Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) dictionary, 
Version 22.0. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 89/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
Overall Period 
In total, 49  TESAEs were reported in 44 (6.8%)  patients (17 [5.2%]  and 27 [8.3%]  patients in the  CT-P17 
and Humira treatment groups, respectively, and 10  [3.3%], 10  [6.6%], and 12  [7.9%] patients  in the CT-
P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively). The proportion of 
patients who experienced at least 1 TESAE considered by the investigator to be related to the  study drug was 
similar among treatment groups (7 [2.2%]  and 8 [2.5%]  patients in the CT-P17 and Humira treatment 
groups, respectively, and 4 [1.3%],  3 [2.0%],  and 3 [2.0%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively). 
In conclusion, no significant differences in frequency or pattern of TESAEs were seen between treatment 
arms in Study CT-P17 3.1.   
Phase I studies in healthy subjects 
No TESAEs were reported in Study CT-P17 1.2.   
In Study CT-P17 1.3, two TESAEs were reported for 2 (2.2%)  subjects in  the CT-P17 AI treatment group 
only. The two  TESAEs were meningitis viral and rhabdomyolysis, which were considered by the investigator 
to be related to  the study drug. Both were grade 3  in intensity.  
•  One subject experienced a TESAE of rhabdomyolysis. On the visit 56  days after administering single 
dose of CT-P17, the subject had several clinically significant laboratory findings  including elevated 
CPK and CK-MB. The subject reported recent strenuous physical activity. The subject was hospitalised 
and recovered in 8 days without  sequelae. Based on the  provided narrative, the causality between 
study drug and rhabdomyolysis is considered unlikely in this case.  
•  One subject experienced a TESAE of viral meningitis.  On Day 20, the subject experienced a mild 
headache that  worsened and was constant  over time with  fevers as high as 39.4°C. While in  the 
emergency room, meningitis encephalitis panel was positive for enterovirus and the subject was 
admitted to  the hospital. The event was recovered after 12 days with  treatment, and the subject 
completed the study. 
Deaths 
No death was reported during the  HV studies CT-P17 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3  and the  RA study CT-P17 3.1.  
In the AI usability Study CT-P17 3.2  in RA patients,  one death was reported. A patient  who had received 4 
doses of CT-P17 AI experienced lower gastrointestinal haemorrhage three days after the last dose and died 
due to the event on the same day. According to the investigator, this  case was considered unrelated to the 
study drug based on medical history that  included pre-existing risk factors of long-term NSAID use without 
gastroprotective agents, as well as heavy smoking. The investigator’s judgement is endorsed based on the 
narrative provided by the applicant. 
Adverse events  of special interests 
Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESIs) in the CT-P17 studies were Hypersensitivity/Allergic reactions, 
Injection site reactions, Infections and Malignancies. According to Humira SmPC 4.5  and EPAR of some 
biosimilar adalimumab medicinal products, demyelinating disease, haematological reactions, heart failure, 
lupus-like syndrome and liver enzyme elevations are also known to be adverse events of special interest for 
adalimumab. Thus, applicant was asked to  provide data about their occurrence in clinical studies with  CT-
P17. The applicant responded that  no events of demyelinating disease or lupus-like syndrome were reported 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 90/126 
 
  
  
in CT-P17 studies. Moreover, in accordance with  Humira SmPC 2020,  subjects with  a history of moderate to 
severe heart failure (NYHA class III or IV) were excluded from the CT-P17 studies. 
Phase  III Study CT-P17 3.1 in patients  with RA 
Hypersensitivity/Allergic reactions 
Treatment Period I 
A total of 2 (0.6%)  patients in the CT-P17 treatment  group and 4 (1.2%)  in the EU-Humira  treatment group 
experienced at least one TEAE classified as hypersensitivity/allergic reaction. The most frequently reported 
sign and symptom of hypersensitivity/allergic reactions was rash (including PTs of rash, rash generalised, 
rash macular, and rash papular) and reported in 1 (0.3%)  and 3 (0.9%) patients  in the CT-P17 and EU-
Humira treatment groups, respectively. 
All patients recovered from the event except for one patient in  the EU-Humira treatment  group. Two patients 
in the EU-Humira  treatment group discontinued study treatment due to the  event and one patient in the  CT-
P17 treatment group delayed the study drug due to the event. All TEAEs classified as hypersensitivity/allergic 
reactions were CTCAE grade 1  or 2 in intensity. 
Treatment Period II 
The number (%)  of patients  who experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as hypersensitivity/allergic reaction 
was reported for 3 (0.5%) patients  (2 [0.7%]  for the CT-P17 maintenance group, 1 [0.7%] for the Humira 
maintenance group, and none in the switched  to CT-P17 group). All TEAEs classified as 
hypersensitivity/allergic reactions were CTCAE grade 2 in intensity.  All patients recovered from the event 
except for two patients.  One patient  in the CT-P17 maintenance group who  experienced grade 2 
hypersensitivity (grade 2 pruritus) 2 days after Week 32 dose received oral antihistamines and was 
recovering at the time of last report. The patient  received the study drug without  interruption  at Week 36 and 
then terminated due to patient’s  withdrawal from the study. The other patient was in the Humira 
maintenance group and experienced grade 2 hypersensitivity (grade 2 rash) 19 days after Week 48. 
Overall Period 
The number (%)  of patients  who experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as hypersensitivity/allergic reaction 
was reported for 8 (1.2%) patients  (3 [0.9%]  and 5  [1.5%] patients  in the CT-P17 and Humira treatment 
groups, respectively, and 3 [1.0%],  2 [1.3%],  and 1 [0.7%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively). 
Injection site reactions 
Treatment Period I 
All TEAEs classified as injection site reactions during Treatment Period I are summarised by relationship and 
intensity for the safety population in Table 36. 
The most frequently reported signs and symptoms of injection  site reactions were injection site erythema (13 
[4.0%]  and 20 [6.2%] patients  in the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups, respectively) followed by 
injection site pruritus (5  [1.5%] and 10 [3.1%]  patients in the  CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups, 
respectively). 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 91/126 
 
  
  
All patients recovered from the event. No action was taken with  study drug for all events except for one 
event in one patient  from the  EU-Humira treatment group. This patient  discontinued the study drug due to a 
grade 1 injection site reaction and recovered after treatment with  oral antihistamine. 
Table 36  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events classified as injection site reactions by relationship and 
intensity during  Treatment Period I: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1) 
Note: The total number of TEAEs  included all patient events classified as injection site reactions. At each level of 
summarisation, a patient was counted only once if they reported  1 or more events. Only the most severe event was 
counted. System organ  class and preferred term were coded using  MedDRA dictionary, Version 22.0. 
a Six patients in the EU-Humira treatment group  each reported more than 6 and up to 10 events of ISRs (mostly injection 
site erythema). 
Treatment Period II 
All TEAEs classified as injection site reactions in Treatment Period II are summarised by relationship and 
intensity for the safety population – Treatment Period II subset in Table 37. In total,  the number (%)  of 
patients who experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as injection site  reaction was reported for 6 (1.0%) 
patients and the proportion of patients was comparable between the 3 treatment groups (1 [0.3%],  4 
[2.6%],  and 1 [0.7%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 
groups, respectively). All TEAEs classified as injection site reactions were grade 1 or 2  in intensity. Sign and 
symptom of injection site reaction was injection site bruising (1 [0.3%]  patient) in  the CT-P17 maintenance 
group and injection site erythema (1 [0.7%]  patient) in the  switched to CTP17 group. The most frequently 
reported sign and symptom of injection  site reactions in the Humira maintenance group was injection site 
erythema (4 [2.6%]  patients).  All patients  recovered from the event. No action was taken with  study drug for 
all events. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 92/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 37  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events classified as injection site reactions by relationship and 
intensity during  Treatment Period II: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 Treatment Period II subset) 
Note: The total number of TEAEs  included all patient events classified as injection site reactions. At each level of 
summarisation, a patient was counted only once if they reported  1 or more events. Only the most severe event was 
counted. System organ  class and preferred term were coded using  MedDRA dictionary, Version 22.0. 
a Two patients in the Humira maintenance group each reported  11 and 12 events of ISRs (mostly injection site erythema). 
Overall Period 
In total, the  number (%)  of patients  who experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as injection site reaction was 
reported for 41 (6.3%)  patients and the proportion of patients was similar between the CT-P17 and Humira 
treatment groups (17 [5.2%]  and 24 [7.4%]  patients, respectively), and among the  CT-P17 maintenance, 
Humira maintenance, and switched to CT-P17 groups (16 [5.3%],  12 [7.9%],  and 11 [7.2%]  patients, 
respectively). All TEAEs classified as injection site reactions were grade 1 or 2 in intensity. 
Infections 
Treatment Period I 
All TEAEs classified as infection during  Treatment Period I are summarised by relationship and intensity for 
the safety population in Table 38. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 93/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 38  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events classified as infections reported for ≥2%  of patients  in either 
group during Treatment Period I, using Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1) 
Note: The total number of TEAEs  included all patient events classified as infection. At each level of summarisation, a 
patient was counted only once if they reported  1 or more events. System organ class and preferred term were coded  using 
MedDRA dictionary, Version 22.0 and preferred  term was arranged  by decreasing  total percentage. 
a Including  PTs of urinary  tract infection and urinary tract infection bacterial. 
In TP I, 101  (31.2%)  patients in CT-P17 and 112 (34.6%)  in EU-Humira  treatment group experienced at 
least one TEAE classified as infections. Of these, the TEAEs in 44 (13.6%)  patients in the  CT-P17 and 48 
(14.8%)  in EU-Humira  treatment groups were considered by the  investigator to be related to the study drug. 
The most frequently reported TEAEs classified as infection for both treatment groups were nasopharyngitis 
and upper respiratory tract infection,  both for 17  (5.2%) and 20  (6.2%) patients  in the CT-P17 and EU-
Humira treatment groups, respectively, followed by urinary tract infection  in 15 (4.6%)  and 14 (4.3%) 
patients in  the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment groups, respectively, and latent  tuberculosis in 12 (3.7%) 
and 15 (4.6%)  patients in the  CT-P17 and EU-  approved Humira treatment groups, respectively. 
The majority of TEAEs classified as infections were grade 1 or 2 in intensity. Thirteen events of grade 3 or 4 
TEAEs classified as infection  were reported for 11 (1.7%)  patients (erysipelas, gastroenteritis rotavirus, otitis 
externa, otitis  media, otitis  media acute, and cellulitis  for 4 [1.2%]  patients in  the CT-P17 treatment group 
and epididymitis, chronic tonsillitis,  pulmonary tuberculosis, tuberculosis, lower respiratory tract infection, 
and pyelonephritis acute for 7 [2.2%] patients  in the EU-approved Humira treatment  group). All events 
except for otitis  externa and otitis media occurred in 1 patient were reported as a TESAE. Most of the events 
were recovered without  sequelae. 
Treatment Period II 
All TEAEs classified as infection in  Treatment Period II are summarised by PT for the safety population – 
Treatment Period II subset in Table 39. In total,  the number (%) of patients who experienced at least 1 TEAE 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 94/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
classified as infections was 123 (20.3%)  patients (54  [17.8%] for the CT-P17 maintenance group, 41 
[27.0%]  for the  Humira maintenance group, and 28 [18.4%]  for the switched to CT-P17 group). The TEAEs 
classified as infection considered by the  investigator to  be related to the study drug were reported for 13 
(4.3%),  13 (8.6%),  and 16 (10.5%)  patients in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched 
to CT-P17 groups, respectively. The most frequently reported TEAEs for patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance 
group were upper respiratory tract infection (10 [3.3%]  patients) followed by urinary tract infection (9 
[3.0%]  patients) and nasopharyngitis (6  [2.0%] patients). 
The most frequently reported TEAEs for patients in the Humira  maintenance group were upper respiratory 
tract infection (11  [7.2%] patients)  followed by urinary tract  infection (5 [3.3%]  patients) and 
nasopharyngitis (5  [3.3%] patients).  The most frequently reported TEAEs for patients in the switched  to CT-
P17 group were upper respiratory tract infection (6 [3.9%]  patients) followed by bronchitis  (4 [2.6%] 
patients).  The majority of TEAEs classified as infections were grade 1  or 2 in intensity. 
Six events of grade 3 TEAEs classified as infection  were reported for 5 (0.8%) patients  (pneumonia and 
bronchitis for 2 [0.7%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance group, upper respiratory tract infection and 
bursitis infective staphylococcal for 2 [1.3%]  patients in  the Humira maintenance group, and breast abscess 
for 1 [0.7%] patient  in the switched to  CT-P17 group). Pneumonia (2 patients)  and breast abscess were 
reported as TESAEs. Most  of the events were recovered without sequelae. No grade 4 TEAEs classified as 
infection were reported. 
Table 39  Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events classified as infections reported for ≥2%  of patients  in any 
treatment group during Treatment Period II, using Preferred Term: Safety Population (Study CT-P17 3.1 
Treatment Period II subset) 
Note: The total number of TEAEs included all patient events classified as infection. At each  level of summarisation, a patient was counted only once if 
they reported  1 or more events. System organ  class and preferred  term were coded  using MedDRA dictionary, Version  22.0 and preferred  term was 
arranged  by decreasing  total percentage. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 95/126 
 
  
  
 
 
Overall Period 
In total, the  number (%)  of patients  who experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as infections was 
285 (44.0%)  patients  (133 [41.0%]  and 152 [46.9%]  patients in  the CT-P17 and Humira treatment groups, 
respectively, and 125  [41.3%],  74 [48.7%],  and 68 [44.7%]  patients in the  CTP17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively). The TEAEs classified as infection  considered by 
the investigator to be related to the  study drug were reported for 118 (18.2%)  patients (53  [16.4%]  and 65 
[20.1%]  patients in the  CT-P17 and Humira treatment  groups, respectively, and 47 [15.5%],  26 [17.1%], 
and 35 [23.0%]  patients in the  CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched to CT-P17 groups, 
respectively). 
Malignancies 
During TP I, one TEAE classified as malignancy (breast cancer) was reported in one patient  in the CT-P17 
treatment group. In this case, lesions were found in  mammography 9 days after the Week 6 dose it  the study 
drug. The patient had family history that  was considered by the investigator to be a risk factor for the event. 
The event was considered unrelated to study drug. This is endorsed. None of the patients in the  EU-Humira 
treatment group reported TEAEs classified as malignancy. 
During TP II, a TEAE classified as malignancy was reported in one patient  in the Humira maintenance group. 
None of the patients in the  CT-P17 maintenance and switched to CT-P17 groups reported TEAEs classified as 
malignancy. 
Haematological reactions 
Treatment Period I 
Prior to Week 26, 22 [6.8%]  patients in the  CT-P17 treatment group and 20  [6.2%] patients  in the EU-
Humira treatment group reported haematological events. The most frequently reported PT was neutropenia 
reported for 14 [4.3%]  patients in the CT-P17 treatment  group and 17 [5.2%]  patients  in the EU-Humira 
treatment group. The event of neutrophil count  decreased was also reported for 3 [0.9%]  patients in the  CT-
P17 treatment group and 2 [0.6%]  patients in the EU-Humira  treatment group. Grade 4 events occurred in 8 
[2.5%]  patients in the CT-P17 treatment  group and 7 [2.2%]  patients in the  EU-Humira treatment  group, 
which were neutropenia reported for 6 (1.9%)  patients in each treatment group and neutrophil count 
decreased reported for 2 (0.6%)  patients in CT-P17 treatment  group and 1 (0.3%)  patient in  EU-Humira 
treatment group. All grade 4 events were recovered without sequelae. 
Overall Period 
Up to Week 52, 30 [9.9%]  patients in the  CT-P17 maintenance group, 13 [8.6%]  patients in the  EU-Humira 
maintenance group, and 15 [9.9%]  patients in  the Switched to CT-P17 group reported haematological 
reactions. The most frequently reported PT was neutropenia reported for 20 [6.6%]  patients in the  CT-P17 
maintenance group, 10  [6.6%] patients  in the EU-Humira  maintenance group, and 14 [9.2%]  patients in the 
Switched to CT-P17 group. The event of neutrophil count  decreased was also reported for 3 [1.0%]  additional 
patients in  the CT-P17 maintenance group, 2 [1.3%]  patients in the  EU-Humira maintenance group, and 1 
[0.7%]  patient in the  Switched to CT-P17 group. Grade 4 events occurred in 8 [2.6%]  patients in the  CT-P17 
maintenance group, 5 [3.3%]  patients  in the EU-Humira maintenance group, and 3 [2.0%] patient  in the 
Switched to CT-P17 group, which were neutropenia reported for 6 (2.0%)  patients in the  CT-P17 
maintenance group, 4 (2.6%)  patients  in the EU-Humira maintenance group, and 2 (1.3%) patients  in the 
Switched to CT-P17 group and neutrophil count decreased reported for 2  (0.7%) patients  in the CT-P17 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 96/126 
 
  
  
maintenance group, 1 (0.7%)  patient  in the EU-Humira  maintenance group, and 1 (0.7%)  patient in the 
Switched to CT-P17 group. All grade 4 events were recovered without sequelae. 
Liver enzyme elevations 
Treatment Period I 
Prior to Week 26, 41 (6.3%)  patients reported liver enzyme elevations (17 [5.2%]  patients in  the CT-P17 
treatment group and 24 [7.4%]  patients in the EU-Humira  treatment group). The most frequently reported 
PT was alanine aminotransferase increased reported for 28 (4.3%)  patients (11  [3.4%] patients  in the CT-
P17 treatment group and 17 [5.2%]  patients in the  EU-Humira treatment group). Most  of the events of liver 
enzyme elevations were grade 1 or 2  in intensity. Grade 3 or higher events occurred in 6 (0.9%)  patients (2 
[0.6%]  patients in the CT-P17 treatment  group and 4 [1.2%]  patients in the  EU-Humira treatment  group) 
including 1  event of grade 4 gammaglutamyltransferase (GGT) increased. One patient in the EU-Humira 
treatment group experienced a grade 3 gamma GGT increased on Week 12 visit, which  was upgraded to 
grade 4 on Week 16  visit. No treatment was reported and the event was considered as not  recovered as the 
patient withdrew  consent after Week 16 visit. 
Overall Period 
Up to Week 52, 51 (8.4%)  patients reported liver enzyme elevations (22 [7.3%]  patients in the  CTP17 
maintenance group, 9 [5.9%]  patients  in the EU-Humira maintenance group, and 20 [13.2%]  patients in the 
Switched to CT-P17 group). In the Switched to CT-P17 group, 40 events were reported in  20 (13.2%) 
patients and among these events, 25 events in 13 (8.6%)  patients were reported during EU-Humira 
administration before switching  to CT-P17. The most frequently reported PT in  all groups was alanine 
aminotransferase increased reported for 36 (5.9%)  patients (15  [5.0%] patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance 
group, 6 [3.9%]  patients in the EU-Humira  maintenance group, and 15 [9.9%]  patients in  the Switched to 
CT-P17 group). Most of the events of liver enzyme elevations were grade 1 or 2 in  intensity. Grade 3 events 
occurred in 7 (1.2%)  patients (3 [1.0%]  patients in  the CT-P17 maintenance group, none in the EU-Humira 
maintenance group, and 4 [2.6%]  patients in  the Switched to CT-P17 group). Among the  5 events of grade 3 
liver enzyme elevations reported in 4 (2.6%)  patients in the Switched to  CT-P17 group, 3  events in 3 (2.0%) 
patients were reported during EU-Humira  administration before switching  to CT-P17. Importantly, 
hepatobiliary disorders system organ class also show similar proportion among the treatment groups (6 
[2.0%]  patients in the CT-P17 maintenance group, 4 [2.6%] patients  in the EU-Humira  maintenance group, 
and 3 [2.0%]  patients in the Switched to  CT-P17 group). Grade 4  events were not  reported during Treatment 
Period II. 
Phase  I studies in healthy  subjects 
The percentages of patients  with  AESIs were comparable between CT-P17 and Humira groups in studies CT-
P17 1.1, and 1.2,  and between CT-P17 AI and PFS groups in Study CT-P17 1.3. No  malignancies were 
reported in these studies. 
Haematological reactions 
In Study CT-P17 1.1, 13 (4.2%)  subjects reported haematological reactions (4 [3.9%] subjects in the CT-P17 
treatment group, 3 [2.9%]  subjects in the EU-Humira treatment  group, and 6  [5.9%] subjects in the US-
Humira treatment group). The most frequently reported preferred term (PT) was neutrophil count decreased. 
All events of haematological reactions were grade 1 or 2 in intensity  except for 1  event of grade 3 neutrophil 
count decreased in the US-Humira treatment group at Day 43.  The concerned subject had not received any 
treatment for the event and the  parameter recovered to normal on Day 57 visit. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 97/126 
 
  
  
In Studies CT-P17 1.2 and 1.3, no events of haematological reactions were reported. 
Liver enzyme elevations 
In Study CT-P17 1.1, 8 (2.6%)  subjects reported liver enzyme elevations (4 [3.9%]  subjects in the CT-P17 
treatment group, 1 [1.0%]  subject in the EU-Humira  treatment group, and 3 [2.9%] subjects in the US-
Humira treatment group). The most frequently reported PT was alanine aminotransferase increased. All 
events of liver enzyme elevations were grade 1 or 2 in intensity  except for 1 event of grade 4 liver function 
test increased in the  EU-Humira treatment group at Day29. The concerned subject had not received any 
treatment for this event and both parameters recovered to normal on Day 43  visit. 
In Study CT-P17 1.2, no events of liver enzymes elevations were reported. 
In Study CT-P17 1.3, 8 (4.4%)  subjects reported liver enzyme elevations (5 [5.4%]  subjects in the CT-P17 
AI treatment  group and 3 [3.4%]  subjects in the CT-P17 PFS treatment group). The most frequently reported 
preferred term was alanine aminotransferase increased. All events of liver enzyme elevations were grade 1 in 
intensity. 
AI usability study CT-P17  3.2 in patients  with RA 
No TEAEs classified as hypersensitivity/allergic reaction or malignancy were reported in  study CT-P17 3.2. 
The number of patients who  experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as injection-site reaction was reported for 
2 (3.2%)  patients. One patient experienced grade 1 TEAE classified as ISR with  the symptom of injection site 
erythema and the other one patient experienced grade 2 TEAE classified as ISR with the  symptom of injection 
site pain. Both events were considered by the  investigator to  be related to the study drug and recovered 
without  any treatment. 
The number of patients who  experienced at least 1 TEAE classified as infections was 20  (32.3%) patients. 
The TEAEs classified as infection considered to be related to the study drug were reported for 14 (22.6%) 
patients. The most frequently reported TEAE classified as infection was upper respiratory tract infection in 13 
(21.0%)  patients, followed by urinary tract infection in 3  (4.8%) patients.  The applicant states that  as this 
study was conducted during fall and winter  season, this could affect the slightly high  incidence of upper 
respiratory tract infection. This is endorsed. 
Most  of TEAEs classified as infections were grade 1 or 2 in severity, with  the exception of two  grade 3 events 
(PTs of herpes zoster and tooth infection)  in 2 (3.2%)  patients. All TEAEs classified as infections were 
recovered without sequelae except for 1 (1.6%)  patient with  a latent TB which occurred at EOS visit. 
Haematological reactions 
Two (3.2%)  patients reported haematological reactions, one patient with  grade 2 neutropenia and the other 
with  grade 2 leukopenia. Both patients  were recovered without receiving any treatment. 
Liver enzyme elevations 
Two (3.2%)  patients reported liver enzyme elevations, one patient  with  grade 1 ALT increased and the other 
with  grade 1 transaminases increased. Both patients  were recovered from the event without  receiving any 
treatment. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 98/126 
 
  
  
 
 
Tuberculosis assessment 
Phase III Study CT-P17 3.1 in  patients with  RA 
Treatment Period I 
All patients had negative IGRA result at baseline, except 1 patient.  One patient  had positive Interferon 
Gamma Release Assay (IGRA) result at screening, but  was randomised in  the EU-Humira treatment  group by 
site’s mistake. The patient  discontinued the study treatment after the first study drug administration due to 
this protocol deviation. 
At Week 12,  23 (3.5%)  patients (10 [3.1%]  patients in the  CT-P17 treatment group and 13  [4.0%] patients 
in the EU-Humira  treatment group) had positive IGRA results. At Week 24, 10 (1.5%)  patients (2 [0.6%] 
patients in  the CT-P17 treatment group and 8 [2.5%] patients  in the EU-Humira  treatment group) had 
positive IGRA results. Twenty nine (4.5%)  patients (12  [3.7%]  patients in the CT-P17 treatment group and 
17 [5.2%]  patient in  the EU-Humira treatment  group) had positive IGRA conversion up to Week 24. Latent 
TBs (defined as a positive result of IGRA with negative examination of chest X-ray) were reported in 27 
(4.2%)  patients (12 [3.7%]  patients in  the CT-P17 treatment group and 15 [4.6%]  patients in the EU-Humira 
treatment group). All the patients  started proper tuberculosis prophylaxis except for 2 patients  (1 patient 
each in  both treatment group) who early terminated the study. 
During Study CT-P17 3.1 up to Week 24,  an abnormal, clinically significant chest x-ray result was reported 
for 1 (0.3%) patient  in the EU-Humira  treatment group at Week 14. This patient  experienced a TESAE of 
pulmonary TB and discontinued study drug administration. 
Active TBs (including PTs of Pulmonary tuberculosis and tuberculosis) were reported in 2 (0.6%)  patients in 
the EU-Humira  treatment group. No active TB was reported in the  CT-P17 treatment  group. Both patients 
were diagnosed with  active TB based on culture for Mycobacterium tuberculosis and further investigations 
including the  clinical signs and symptoms, chest X-ray, and/or computed tomography (CT) scan in 
accordance with the  general guideline on TB and the study protocol. 
For the first patient,  chest X-ray was performed twice after the positive IGRA conversion at Week 12. First 
chest X-ray revealed abnormal results, and pneumonia or TB was suspected. After then, the  patient 
performed a chest X-ray again that  showed abnormalities specifically related to the  symptoms of TB. The 
results of these tests  were obtained via query answers and the descriptions in  serious adverse event (SAE) 
page of eCRF and were not  recorded in unscheduled visit folders of eCRF. 
For the other patient,  chest X-ray and CT scan were performed after the  positive IGRA conversion at Week 
12. A chest X-ray revealed increased parenchymal pulmonary structures and widened left lung cavity. With 
the microbial culture, pulmonary TB was diagnosed and narrative for this  patient is provided. 
Treatment Period II 
At the EOS visit, 2 (0.3%)  patients (1 [0.7%]  patients in  the Humira maintenance group and 1 [0.7%] 
patient in  the switched to CT-P17 group) had positive IGRA results. Only one (0.7 %) patient  in the Humira 
maintenance group had new positive IGRA conversion at the EOS visit.  One patient  in the switched to  CT-P17 
group who reported positive at the EOS visit already had positive IGRA conversion at Week 12. 
Overall Period 
During the evaluation, the applicant was requested to explain the high number of IGRA conversion and latent 
TB cases emerged during study CT-P17 3.1.  The results using  the final study data up to Week 52 were 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 99/126 
 
  
  
discussed in the  applicant’s response. All positive IGRA conversion results during the study were reported as 
TEAE of either latent  or active TB. A total  of 30  (4.6%) patients  (12 [3.7%]  and 18 [5.6%]  patients in the 
CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment  groups, respectively) had positive IGRA conversion up to Week 52. Latent 
TBs (defined as a positive result of IGRA with negative examination of chest X-ray) were reported for 28 
(4.3%)  patients (12 [3.7%]  and 16 [4.9%]  patients in the  CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups, 
respectively) up to Week 52. Active TBs (including  preferred terms of pulmonary tuberculosis and 
tuberculosis) were reported for 2 (0.6%)  patients in the EU-Humira  treatment group and none in the CT-P17 
treatment group up to Week 52.  Only 1  (0.7%) patient  in the EU-Humira  maintenance group was newly 
confirmed as positive IGRA conversion at the  EOS visit, after the second randomisation at Week 26. 
Accordingly, this  patient newly reported a latent TB at the EOS visit. 
Laboratory findings 
Laboratory parameters 
Phase  III Study CT-P17 3.1 in patients  with RA 
Overall Period 
In study CT-P17 3.1, majority of laboratory parameters had no CTCAE grade or were CTCAE grade 1 (mild) or 
grade 2 (moderate) for each laboratory parameter. 
The most frequently reported CTCAE grade 3 or higher laboratory parameter as worst value during the 
overall period was neutrophil count  decreased; grade 3 neutrophil  count decreased was reported for 32 
(4.9%)  patients (18 [5.6%],  14 [4.3%],  17 [5.6%],  5 [3.3%],  and 9 [5.9%]  patients in the CT-P17, Humira, 
CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched to  CT-P17 groups, respectively) and grade 4 
neutrophil count  decreased was reported for 22  (3.4%) patients  (10 [3.1%],  12 [3.7%],  10 [3.3%],  7 
[4.6%],  and 4 [2.6%] patients  in the CT-P17, Humira, CTP17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and 
switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively). 
The second most commonly reported CTCAE grade 3 or higher laboratory parameters was 
hypertriglyceridemia; grade 3 hypertriglyceridemia was reported for 11 (1.7%) patients  (4 [1.2%],  7 [2.2%], 
4 [1.3%],  3 [2.0%],  and 4 [2.6%] patients  in the CT-P17, Humira, CT-P17 maintenance, Humira 
maintenance, and switched  to CT-P17 groups, respectively) and grade 4 hypertriglyceridemia was reported 
for 2 (0.3%) patients  (2 [0.6%]  in the CT-P17 treatment group, 2 [0.7%]  in the CT-P17 maintenance group, 
and none in the Humira, Humira maintenance, and switched to CT-P17 groups). 
Phase  I studies in healthy  subjects 
According to the  CT-P17 1.3 clinical study report, Grade 3  and Grade 4 CPK increased was reported for 1 and 
3 subjects in the CT-P17 AI treatment  group, respectively. All these CPK increases in 4 subjects occurred 14, 
28, 42  and 56  days after administering single dose of CT-P17, respectively, and all were transient. 
Investigator’s interpretation  was that  these laboratory results were not clinically meaningful and there was no 
notable trends related with  study drug. This is endorsed. 
Overall, no notable differences in mean and median values of laboratory parameters between the CT-P17 and 
Humira treatment groups were seen in the main biosimilarity study CT-P17 3.1 or in Studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2 
and 1.3 with  supportive safety data. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 100/126 
 
  
  
 
AI usability study CT-P17  3.2 in patients  with RA 
The majority of laboratory parameters had no CTCAE grade or were CTCAE grade 1 or 2 for each laboratory 
parameter. The only reported CTCAE grade 3 laboratory parameter as the worst value during the  study was 
CPK increased in 1  (1.6%) patient  and one grade 4 hypertryglyceridemia was reported for 1 (1.6%)  patient. 
No action was taken with study drug for those 2 patients. 
Vital  Sign Measurements,  Physical Findings and Other  Observations Related  to Safety 
The results of vital sign measurements, ECG, physical examination and local site pain assessment revealed 
no marked differences between treatment  groups in studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2, 1.3,  3.1 and 3.2. 
Immunological events 
Comparative immunogenicity evaluations were conducted in  three single dose studies in  healthy volunteers 
(Studies CT-P17 1.1, 1.2,  1.3) and in one multiple-dose study in RA patients  (Study CT-P17 3.1).  
The drug tolerance of the assay used was sufficient for detection of clinically relevant amounts of ADA. In HV 
studies at least 10 ng/mL  of ADA was detected adequately. In RA patients (Study CT-P17 3.1) at least 50 
ng/mL of ADA was detected adequately at all time points up to  Week 24. 
In study CT-P17 1.1 (the main comparative study in healthy volunteers), 99/102 (97.1%)  and 99/104 
(95.2%)  subjects in the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment  groups, respectively, showed a post-treatment 
ADA positive response (up to Day 71). Among the subjects who had post-treatment positive ADA results, 
79.8%  and 84.8%  subjects showed NAb positive response in the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups, 
respectively. The rates of ADA conversion and NAb conversion were comparable for CT-P17 and EU-Humira in 
healthy subjects following a single dose. The ADA titre  results also showed comparable distribution among 
the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups in  study CT-P17 1.1. 
The detected ADA frequencies and NAb proportions were similar across all HV studies. 
•  ADA formation in RA patients 
Study CT-P17 3.1 was the confirmatory efficacy and safety study in RA patients; a multiple-dose, randomised 
trial with  a duration of 52  weeks.  
Immunogenicity data from Treatment period I (up to Week 24)  are presented in Table 40. The proportion of 
patients with  ADA positive results up to Week 24 was overall comparable, yet slightly lower in  the CT-P17 
treatment group (Table 40). 
Table 40  Frequency of positive ADA/NAb  in Study CT-P17 3.1 up to Week 24  (Study CT-P17 3.1,  Safety 
Population) 
CT-P17 
(N=324) 
EU-Humira ® 
(N=324) 
n/N (%) 
11/324 (3.4%) 
6/324 (1.9%) 
Visit 
Week 0 (Pre-dose) 
ADA 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 101/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
NAb 
Week 2 
ADA 
NAb 
Week 4 
ADA 
NAb 
Week 8 
ADA 
NAb 
Week 12 
ADA 
NAb 
Week 16 
ADA 
NAb 
Week 20 
ADA 
NAb 
Week 24 
ADA 
NAb 
4/11 (36.4%) 
43/324 (13.3%) 
15/43 (34.9%) 
79/324 (24.4%) 
35/79 (44.3%) 
80/324 (24.7%) 
59/80 (73.8%) 
88/324 (27.2%) 
72/88 (81.8%) 
91/324 (28.1%) 
85/91 (93.4%) 
96/324 (29.6%) 
92/96 (95.8%) 
93/324 (28.7%) 
83/93 (89.2%) 
Post-treatment (up to Week 24) 
ADA 
NAb 
143/324 (44.1%) 
111/143 (77.6%) 
1/6 (16.7%) 
86/324 (26.5%) 
21/86 (24.4%) 
108/324 (33.3%) 
40/108 (37.0%) 
98/324 (30.2%) 
67/98 (68.4%) 
116/324 (35.8%) 
97/116 (83.6%) 
121/324 (37.3%) 
104/121 (86.0%) 
112/324 (34.6%) 
105/112 (93.8%) 
116/324 (35.8%) 
103/116 (88.8%) 
185/324 (57.1%) 
141/185 (76.2%) 
Note: The proportion  of ADA positive patients was calculated using  the number  of patients in the safety population. The 
proportion  of NAb positive patients was re-calculated using ADA positive patients as a denominator. n: number of 
patients with the event, N: number of patients in each treatment group. 
The proportion of patients  with ADA/Nab positive results was overall comparable between treatment  groups 
in treatment period II up to  Week 52. 
The proportion of patients  who had ADA seroconverted was lower in CT- P17 (135  of 310  [43.5%]  and 183  of 
317 [57.7%]  patients  in CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment groups, respectively) for Treatment Period I. The 
proportion ADA and NAb seroconversion were generally maintained up to Week 52  in all treatment groups; 
138 of 292  [47.3%], 88  of 150  [58.7%]  and 93 of 149 [62.4%]  patients for ADA and 115 of 138 [83.3%],  70 
of 88 [79.5%]  and 67 of 93 [72.0%]  patients for NAb in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance and 
Switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively. 
In patients with  negative ADA results before the first study drug administration,  the rate of ADA conversion 
(to ADA+) tended to be slower in CT-P17 treatment group, whereas the rate of NAb conversion (to NAb+) 
was comparable for both treatment  groups in treatment  period I. 
During the maintenance treatment, ADA conversion was less frequent than in Treatment Period I. Of the 
patients who had no ADA positive result before week 26, 28/300  (9.3%)  patients had positive conversion in 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 102/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADA (17/171  [9.9%]  for the CT-P17 maintenance group, 4/66 [6.1%]  for the  Humira maintenance group, 
and 7/63 [11.1%]  for the switched to CT-P17 group) (Table 41). 
Table 41  Summary of Positive Conversion in ADA or NAb 
Abbreviations: ADA, antidrug antibody; NAb, neutralizing antibody. 
Note: For Treatment Period I, the numerator is the number  of patients with at least one ADA or NAb positive result after 
first study drug  administration in Treatment Period I and before the first study drug  administration in Treatment 
Abbreviations: ADA, antidrug antibody; NAb, neutralizing antibody. 
Note: For Treatment Period I, the numerator is the number  of patients with at least one ADA or NAb positive result after 
first study drug  administration in Treatment Period I and before the first study drug  administration in Treatment 
As shown in the Kaplan-Meier Plot of ADA/NAb conversion, switching  from Humira to CT-P17 at week 26 did 
not have any significant effect on ADA conversion (Figure 8). The number (%) of patients who had positive 
ADA results at Week 52 was 86 (28.4%)  patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance group, 41  (27.0%) patients  in 
the Humira maintenance group, and 43 (28.3%)  patients in the switched  to CT-P17 group. 
Figure 8 Kaplan-Meier Plot of ADA Conversion
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 103/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
The ADA titre levels were comparable between the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups up  to week 24 
(Table 42). No data on titre levels by treatment group was provided for treatment  period II. 
Table 42  Subject Distribution  by ADA Titre (Study CT-P17 3.1,  ITT Population) 
• 
Impact of ADA on pharmacokinetics 
In Study CT-P17 3.1, subjects with  ADA had lower adalimumab Ctrough levels compared with  those without 
ADA at any time point. The impact of ADA titre on Ctrough was assessed up to “Week 22” (pre-dose of Week 
24). A scatter plot of “Week 22”  is presented in  
Figure 9 9. The results show that  the Ctrough tends to be lower in the patients  with  higher titre.  The trend was 
similar between the  CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups. 
Figure 9 Scatter plot on ADA Titre vs Ctrough at “Week 22”  in Study CT-P17 3.1 (PK population) 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 104/126 
 
  
  
 
In single-dose studies in healthy volunteers (study  CT-P17 1.1; study CT-P17 1.2; study CT-P17 1.3), 
approximately 95% of subjects developed ADA. Subjects with  ADA were divided into  3 titre groups (low, 
medium and high). As expected, within  each treatment group the total  exposure (AUC) decreased with 
increasing ADA titre,  whereas Cmax levels were not affected by ADA response. Importantly, comparable 
pharmacokinetics following a single dose was demonstrated between CT-P17 and Humira as well as between 
CT-P17 AI and CT-P17 PFS in all ADA titre groups.  
The impact of ADA status  on adverse events is presented in Table 43  and Table 44. During Study CT-P17 3.1, 
the proportion of patients who experienced any treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE), treatment-
emergent serious adverse event (TESAE), TEAE classified as hypersensitivity/allergic reactions and TEAE 
classified as injection site reactions were comparable between the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups 
in both  ADA positive and negative subgroups. The frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events was 
slightly higher among ADA positive than  among ADA negative patients. However, this slight  difference is seen 
in similar magnitude in both treatment  arms. 
Table 43  Summary of Adverse Events by Post-treatment ADA Status  in  Study CT-P17 3.1 up to Week 24 
(Safety Population) 
Adverse events 
ADA status 
Number (%) of patients with 1≥TEAE 
Positive 
Negative 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
CT-P17 
(N=324) 
83/143 (58.0) 
86/178 (48.3) 
EU-Humira ® 
(N=324) 
113/185 (61.1) 
71/138 (51.4) 
Page 105/126 
 
  
  
 
Number (%) of patients with 1≥TESAE 
Positive 
Negative 
6/143 (4.2) 
4/178 (2.2) 
Number (%) of patients with 1≥TEAE classified as hypersensitivity/allergic reactions 
Positive 
Negative 
0 
2/178 (1.1) 
0 
Number (%) of patients with 1≥TEAE classified as injection site reactions 
8/185 (4.3) 
8/138 (5.8) 
4/185 (2.2) 
Positive 
Negative 
8/143 (5.6) 
8/178 (4.5) 
14/185 (7.6) 
8/138 (5.8) 
Source: Section 5.3.5.3 Post-hoc Table 5.11. Note: Percentages are calculated by using the number of patients in each 
ADA subgroup  as denominator. 
There were no meaningful differences between treatment groups in the proportion of patients experiencing 
TEAEs for SOCs Infections and infestations, Investigations and General disorder and administrative site 
conditions within  the ADA-positive patient  subgroups. 
Table 44  Summary of TEAEs by Post-treatment ADA Status in Study CT-P17 3.1 (Safety Population) 
* Total number  of ADA positive subgroup  up to Week 24 was 328  patients in the initial MAA. The total number  increased to 
333  when analysed up to Treatment Period I; 3 patients (one in CT-P17 treatment group, 2 in EU-Humira treatment group) 
with ADA conversion at Week 26 pre-dose and 2 patients (1 in CT-P17 treatment group  and 1 in EU-Humira treatment 
group) who did not enter Treatment Period II but had ADA conversion  after Week 26  were newly included in the ADA 
positive subset  of Treatment Period I in this analysis. 
Note: Percentages are calculated by using  the number of patients in each ADA subgroup  as denominator. For summary of 
Treatment Period I, ADA status obtained during  Treatment Period I is applied. For summary of Overall Period, ADA status 
obtained during  the entire study period is applied. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 106/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
Phase  III Study CT-P17 3.1 in patients  with RA 
Treatment Period I 
TEAEs leading to  discontinuation of study drug were reported for 7 (2.2%)  and 10 (3.1%)  in the CT-P17 and 
EU-Humira  treatment groups, respectively. All TEAEs leading to  study drug discontinuation  were reported for 
one patient in either treatment group except for hypersensitivity reported in  2 (0.6%) patients  in the EU-
Humira treatment group. The TEAEs leading to  study drug discontinuation  considered by the investigator to 
be related to the  study drug were reported for 2 (0.6%) and 5 (1.5%)  patients in  the CT-P17 and EU-Humira 
treatment groups, respectively. 
Treatment Period II 
TEAEs leading to  discontinuation of study drug were reported for 3 (1.0%),  2 (1.3%),  and 5 (3.3%) patients 
in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively. All TEAEs 
leading to study drug discontinuation  were reported for one patient  in all treatment groups. The TEAEs 
leading to study drug discontinuation  considered by the investigator to be related to  the study drug were 
reported for 2 (0.7%),  1 (0.7%),  and 2 (1.3%)  patients  in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira  maintenance, 
and switched to CT-P17 groups, respectively. One event of hepatitis  B virus test positive was reported under 
the switched to  CT-P17 group, but  the event occurred before switching to  CT-P17. 
Overall Period 
Overall, 27 (4.2%)  patients experienced at least 1 TEAE leading to study drug discontinuation.  The proportion 
of patients who experienced at least 1  TEAE leading to study drug discontinuation  was similar between CT-
P17 and Humira treatment groups (10 [3.1%]  and 17 [5.2%],  respectively), and among CT-P17 
maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched to  CT-P17 groups (3 [1.0%],  3 [2.0%],  and 5 [3.3%] 
patients, respectively). 
Phase  I studies in healthy  subjects 
In Study CT-P17 1.1, one subject in  the CT-P17 treatment group discontinued study due to a TEAE reported 
as alopecia areata that occurred 27  days after administration of single dose of study drug. No  subjects 
permanently discontinued from Studies CT-P17 1.2 and 1.3 due to TEAEs. 
For comparison, according to  the EPAR SmPC of Humira, the  proportion of patients who  discontinued 
treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind,  controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9% for 
patients taking Humira and 5.4%  for control treated patients. 
AI usability study CT-P17  3.2 in patients  with RA 
One patient was discontinued from the study CT-P17 3.2 due to TEAE. This case considered the lower 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage that  led to death,  discussed above in section “Serious adverse events and 
deaths” of this AR. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 107/126 
 
  
  
 
2.5.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
A total of 1,166  subjects were treated with  CT-P17 or Humira in the clinical development programme for CT-
P17. Safety findings are reported for 297  healthy subjects and 386  RA patients administered CT-P17 in the 
clinical development program. The size of the safety population is considered sufficient to the CHMP  for 
evaluation of biosimilarity of safety. 
The applicant’s development programme included one pivotal Phase III confirmatory efficacy and safety 
study (CT-P17 3.1)  in patients with  RA. From the  safety point of view, the objective of this study was to 
evaluate overall safety, including  immunogenicity over 52 weeks. At the  time of initial  application’s 
submission, the study was ongoing and data up to week 24 only were submitted.  The missing long-term 
safety data up to  52 weeks were submitted  upon CHMP’s request during the procedure. 
In addition to the  pivotal biosimilarity study, safety data is also available from three Phase I single-dose 
studies in healthy subjects: Study CT-P17 1.1 (PK study for biosimilarity), Study CT-P17 1.2 (safety and PK 
pilot study),  and CT-P17 1.3  (PK study between AI and PFS).  The safety results from these studies are 
considered supportive. 
The applicant's development programme also included an AI usability study (CT-P17 3.2)  in 62 patients  with 
RA. In this  study, CT-P17 AI was administered 40 mg every other week for 24 weeks. At the time  of initial 
application’s submission, the study was still ongoing, and the applicant did not  initially provide safety findings 
for Study CT-P17 3.2  except for the description of a death case occurred in this  study. The safety data was 
submitted  upon CHMP’s request. Since the Study CT-P17 3.2 was not  comparative, the information on overall 
safety of AI does not affect the overall assessment of biosimilarity but  is considered supportive.  
A pooled safety analysis was not  performed, and safety results were reported per study.   
During Treatment Period I up to  24 weeks of the study CT-P17 3.1, 989  TEAEs were reported in 367  (56.6%) 
patients, 175  (59.3%)  patients in the CT-P17 treatment  group and 192  (59.3%) patients  in the EU-Humira 
treatment group. Proportion of patients  reporting TEAEs considered by the investigator to be related to the 
study drug were comparable in CT-P17 (27.8%)  and Humira (33.0%)  treatment groups. In Treatment Period 
II until  end-of-study visit at week 52, a total of 542 TEAEs were reported in 263 (43.3%)  patients. The 
proportion of patients  reporting at least one TEAE was quite similar among the three treatment groups: 
39.9%,  45.4%, and 48.0%  patients in the  CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance, and switched to CT-
P17 groups, respectively. TEAEs considered by the investigator to  be related to the study drug were reported 
in slightly more patients in the switched  to CT-P17 group (23.7%) as compared to the CT-P17 maintenance 
(15.8%)  and Humira maintenance (17.8.%)  groups. During the Overall Period of study CT-P17 3.1, the 
proportion of patients  reporting TEAEs as well as the  proportion with  TEAEs considered by the  investigator to 
be related to the  study drug were similar in  patients that  received either CT-P17 or Humira  throughout the 
study. 
During study CT-P17 3.1, TESAEs were reported slightly more often in Humira maintenance and switched  to 
CT-P17 groups than in CT-P17 maintenance group. The proportion of patients with  TESAEs considered by the 
investigator to be related to the study  drug was similar among treatment  groups. 
Treatment-emergent adverse events leading to study drug discontinuation,  including those considered by the 
investigator to be related to the study  drug, were reported in similar extent in the treatment groups in study 
CT-P17 3.1. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 108/126 
 
  
  
As demyelinating disease, haematological reactions, heart failure, lupus-like syndrome and liver enzyme 
elevations are also known to be adverse events of special interest for adalimumab based on the SmPC of 
Humira SmPC and EPARs of some biosimilar adalimumab products. During the evaluation, the applicant was 
asked to provide data about their occurrence in clinical studies with  CT-P17. The applicant responded that no 
events of demyelinating disease or lupus-like syndrome were reported in CT-P17 studies. Moreover, subjects 
with  a history of moderate to severe heart failure were excluded from the CT-P17 studies. 
Incidence of haematological reactions were similar for CT-P17 and EU-Humira in Study CT-P17 1.1  (3.9% and 
2.9%,  respectively), while somewhat higher incidence was observed in US-Humira group (5.9%).  Incidences 
in study CT-P17 3.1 were similar for the two  treatment arms within  a certain period. In Period II, frequency 
of haematological reactions was the same in Maintenance CT-P17 group and the  Switched to CT-P17 group. 
Interestingly, if PTs within  Haematological reactions group are taken into account, the patient  group switched 
to CT-P17 from EU-Humira at the  2nd randomisation (Week 26) experienced a higher incidence of the given 
haematological AE. This is the case for Neutropenia, Leukopenia and Thrombocytopenia PTs. 
Leukopenia was observed in 7 (4.6%) patients  of the switched to CT-P17 group, in 8 (2.6%)  in the CT-P17 
maintenance group and in none of the patients in Humira  maintenance group during Treatment Period II. Of 
these 7 patients in the  switched to CT-P17 group, 4 (2.6%)  had experienced the same event in Treatment 
Period I. Leukopenia was reported in similar incidence in  CT-P17 and Humira treatment  groups during 
Treatment Period I (10 [3.1%]  patients in the CT-P17 treatment  groups. During the Overall Period, 
leukopenia was reported in 4.0%  and 1.3% of patients in the CT-17  and Humira  maintenance groups, 
respectively. 
Definitely lower frequencies for haematological events as a whole as well as for the AEs within  this group 
were found in  study CT-P17 3.2  (study length:  28 weeks) even if they are compared with  those obtained 
from study  CT-P17 3.1  Treatment Period I (study  period length:  26 weeks). 
Frequencies of liver enzyme elevation-related AEs were slightly  higher in  CT-P17 arms of study CT-P17 1.1 
and study CT-P17 3.1 through  the Treatment Period II. However, in Treatment Period I of study CT-P17 3.1 a 
slightly higher incidence of liver enzyme elevations was found in EU-Humira arm. For patients, switched  from 
EU-Humira  to CT-P17 at Week 26, the  same trend of increased frequency of liver enzyme elevation related 
AEs was observed as it  was for some PTs from haematological reactions AE group. However, in the  case of 
liver enzyme elevation AEs, this  difference in AE frequencies between the two  maintenance arms and the 
switched arm was much more pronounced than in  case of haematological reactions-related AEs. For example, 
neutropenia AE was observed in 6.6% of patients in  both maintenance groups of study 3.1/Period II, and in 
9.2% of switched patients,  and ALT increased AE was observed in 5.0%, 3.9%  and 9.9%  of patients in CT-
P17 Maintenance, EU-Humira  Maintenance and switched to CT-P17 arms of Study 3.1/Period II, respectively. 
ALT increased was observed in 7 (4.6%)  patients of the switched to  CT-P17 group, in  8 (2.6%) in  the CT-P17 
maintenance group and in 1 (0.7%)  patient  in Humira maintenance group during Treatment Period II. Of 
these 7 patients in the  switched to CT-P17 group, 2 (1.3%)  had experienced the same event in Treatment 
Period I. ALT increased was reported in higher incidence in the Humira  treatment group in Treatment Period I 
(3.4%  of patients  in the CT-P17 treatment group and 5.2% of patients in  the Humira treatment group). 
During the Overall Period, proportion of patients reporting ALT increased were similar in patients  that 
received same treatment throughout  the study: 5.0%  in the CT-P17 group and 3.9%  in Humira group. 
Liver enzyme elevations, as a whole occurred with  frequencies of 7.3%,  5.9% and 13.2%  in CT-P17 
Maintenance, EU-Humira  Maintenance and switched to CT-P17 arms, respectively. Same, but  less pronounced 
trends could be found for AST and GGT elevations. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 109/126 
 
  
  
Overall, in studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.3 and also in Treatment Period I of study CT-P 3.1  and in case of 
maintenance arms of study CT-P17 3.1/Treatment Period II, there were no notable differences between CT-
P17 and reference products in TEAEs of haematological reactions and liver enzyme elevations. For patients 
switched from EU-Humira to  CT-P17 at  Week 26 of study CT-P17 3.1, however, there were some trends of 
elevated AE frequencies in haematological reactions and liver enzyme elevations AE-groups. The applicant 
was requested by the CHMP to  discuss this  finding further. The applicant reviewed patients from CT-P17 
switch  subgroup having haematological or liver enzyme (LE)-related AEs on a case-by-case basis. These 
tabulated reviews included haematological or LE-related AEs in Treatment Period I of study CT-P173.1 as well 
as pre-study haematological or LE-related differences from normal laboratory values and other factors, which 
might  predispose these patients for haematological and/or liver enzyme related AEs. For CT-P17 switch 
patients with  haematological alterations, prior steroid use and/or pretreatment neutropenia, lymphopenia, 
leukopenia were revealed in most cases. Furthermore, in a majority of cases, the same haematological AE 
occurred for a given patient also in Treatment Period I. For CT-P17 switch patients with  LE  elevations, prior 
methotrexate use was revealed in all but  one case. In addition,  similar or same LE  disorders were 
experienced for a given patient  before the treatment initiation  and/or in the Treatment Period I. LE elevations 
experienced by patients in CT-P17 switch  subgroup in Treatment Period I generally remained stable or 
improved during Treatment Period II. Taking into account these findings, the  applicant's opinion that these 
alterations in frequencies of haematological AEs and LE-elevations in CT-P17 switch  subgroup are most  likely 
chance findings  and not  clinically meaningful. This is agreed by the CHMP.   
In Study CT-P17 1.1, incidence of most common (≥5%) AEs were generally similar or lower for CT-P17 than 
for EU-Humira or US-Humira with  the exception of injection site reaction AE (CT-P17 - 19.6%,  EU-Humira  - 
18.3%  or US- approved Humira - 15.7%).  TESAEs occurred with  low and comparable frequencies in CT-P17 
and EU-Humira treatment  groups and none of them was considered to be related to the treatment. 
In Study CT-P17 1.2, the overall AE incidence rate and incidence of related AEs as well as AE frequency in 
Infections and Infestations SOC are consistently higher for CT P17 than for EU-Humira.  Of note,  overall 
number of subjects in ITT population was 30 in Study CT-P17 1.2. 
No deaths were reported during Studies CT-P17 1.1, 1.2, 1.3  and 3.1. There was one death case due to lower 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage reported in the AI usability study CT-P17 3.2. In this  case, which was assessed 
as unrelated to the  study treatment, long-term use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) while 
not taking any gastroprotective agents and heavy smoking were the  probable risk factors for such a severe 
GI bleeding. 
The percentages of patients  with  AESIs were comparable between CT-P17 and Humira groups in studies 1.1, 
and 1.2. 
No notable differences in laboratory parameters or marked differences in vital sign measurements, ECG, 
physical examination results or in local site pain assessment between treatment groups were seen in  studies 
CT-P17 1.1, 1.2,  1.3, 3.1  and 3.2. 
In Study CT-P17 1.1, all subjects had a negative IGRA result at  screening. At the end-of-study visit, positive 
IGRA results were reported for 1 (1.0%)  subject in  the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment groups each, and 2 
(2.0%)  subjects in  the US-Humira treatment group, which were comparable results across the 3 treatment 
groups. Abnormal CS chest x-ray results as well as subjects with  active TB were not reported. 
No subjects in Studies CT-P17 1.2 and 1.3 had a positive IGRA result and abnormal chest X-ray results. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 110/126 
 
  
  
During Study CT-P17 3.1 up to Week 52,  positive IGRA results were reported for 12 (3.7%)  patients  in the 
CT-P17 treatment group and 18 (5.6%)  patients in the EU-Humira  treatment group who had negative IGRA 
results at baseline. Upon CHMP’s  request, the applicant explained the number of IGRA conversion and latent 
TB cases emerged during this study. The applicant presented IGRA conversation data from other available 
adalimumab Phase 3 biosimilar studies that  are comparable with  those from CT-P17 Study 3.1. The higher 
incidence of latent  TB AE in Study CT-P17 3.1 might  be attributed to  the difference in the definition of latent 
TB AE in  different adalimumab biosimilar studies, criteria for latent  TB AE seem stricter for Study CT-P17 3.1. 
Furthermore, in Study CT-P17 3.1, most patients  were enrolled in Eastern European countries, particularly 
Poland (231 [71.3%]  patients each in both treatment groups) where the incidence of TB is higher than  the 
average in the EU/EEA countries, and this also could have contributed to the  IGRA conversion. CHMP agreed 
with  the applicant’s conclusion that the  incidences of both IGRA conversion and latent TB in Study CT-P17 3.1 
are consistent with  those reported with  other adalimumab biosimilars. 
Abnormal, CS chest x-ray result was reported for 1 (0.3%)  patient in  the EU-Humira treatment  group at 
Week 14. This patient  experienced a TESAE of pulmonary TB and discontinued study drug administration. 
Although direct comparison of safety data between the AI usability study CT-P17 3.2 and the other CT-P17 
studies is not reliable due to difference study settings,  it is noticed that  the proportion of patients reporting 
TEAEs, TESAEs, AESIs and TEAEs leading to  study drug discontinuation were comparable or lower in study 
CT-P17 3.2 as compared to the studies CT-P17 3.1 and CT-P17 1.3.  Higher incidence of TEAEs of SOC upper 
respiratory tract infection in study CT-P17 3.2  as compared to studies CT-P17 3.1  and 1.3.  The applicant’s 
hypothesis that this  could have been due the study being conducted during fall and winter season is 
reasonable to the CHMP.  The proportion of patients reporting TEAEs in SOC musculoskeletal and connective 
tissue disorders in study CT-P17 3.2 was similar or lower than CT-P17 PFS or Humira PFS groups in studies 
CT-P17 3.1 and CT-P17 1.3.  This observation supports the  conclusion that  the AI presentation of CT-P17 is as 
safe as the PFS presentations with regard to  the musculoskeletal and connective tissue adverse events. 
Overall, the number and pattern of adverse events in the single-dose studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2 and 1.3 as well 
as those in  the AI usability study CT-P17 3.2  appear supportive for the conclusions of the pivotal safety study 
CT-P17 3.1. 
Immunogenicity was assessed in three single dose studies in healthy volunteers (Studies CT-P17 1.1,  1.2, 
1.3) and in one multiple-dose study in RA patients (Study CT-P17 3.1). The sampling schedules were 
adequate. 
In the three HV studies, the proportion of subjects who had post-treatment  ADA positive and NAb positive 
results was similar between the treatment groups. In study CT-P17 1.1 (the  main comparative study in 
healthy volunteers), 97.1%  and 95.2% subjects in the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment groups, 
respectively, showed a post-treatment  ADA positive response. Among the subjects who  had post-treatment 
positive ADA results, 79.8% and 84.8%  subjects showed NAb positive response in the CT-P17 and EU-Humira 
treatment groups, respectively. The ADA titre  results also showed comparable distribution among the CT-P17 
and EU-Humira treatment  groups in study CT-P17 1.1.  The detected ADA frequencies and NAb proportions 
were similar across all HV studies. 
In RA patients,  the proportion of patients  who had post-treatment ADA positive results up to Week 24 was 
overall comparable yet slightly  lower in the  CT-P17 treatment group; 44.1 % and 57.1 % for the CT-P17 and 
EU-Humira  treatment group, respectively. Among ADA positive patients  in study CT-P17 3.1, the  ADA titre 
levels up to week 24 and the proportion of patients  who were NAb positive were similar between treatment 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 111/126 
 
  
  
 
groups. At week 24, 89.2%  and 88.8% of ADA positive subjects in  the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment 
groups, respectively, showed NAb positive response. Overall, the proportion of patients  who had ADA 
seroconverted was lower in CT-P17 (135 of 310 [43.5%]  and 183 of 317  [57.7%] patients  in CT-P17 and EU-
Humira treatment groups, respectively) for Treatment Period I. The proportion ADA and NAb seroconversion 
were generally maintained up to  Week 52 in all treatment groups; 138 of 292 [47.3%],  88  of 150  [58.7%] 
and 93 of 149 [62.4%]  patients for ADA in the CT-P17 maintenance, Humira maintenance and Switched  to 
CT-P17 groups, respectively. 
Low ADA titres  were observed in a few percent of adalimumab-naive RA patients at baseline. The applicant 
provided several possible explanations for the presence of ADA at Baseline. The pre-dose ADA positive rates 
reported in each study are considered comparable to various results previously reported in adalimumab 
biosimilar studies. Based on additional analyses and break down of the data, the overall impact of pre dose 
ADA positivity on PK, efficacy and safety is in  line with that  seen in  patients who had positive ADA result after 
first study drug administration. Hence, the pre-dose ADA positivity  does not impact the  conclusion on 
biosimilarity between CT-P17 and Humira. 
The reported ADA and NAb frequencies were similar to those seen in previous RA studies with  adalimumab. 
Recent products approved by EMA, applying more sensitive immunogenicity testing  methods than those used 
during original MA of Humira, have reported ADA incidences in RA studies at  about 30-56% at  week 24. 
Overall, in the pivotal comparative study in RA patients, the CT-P17 treatment  group showed slightly lower 
immunogenicity compared to the EU-approved Humira  treatment group in Treatment Period I. The proportion 
of patients with  positive ADA results became similar between the treatment groups towards the end of study. 
According to the  EMA Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing monoclonal antibodies, a 
lower immunogenicity for the biosimilar does not preclude biosimilarity. Switching  from Humira to CT-P17 at 
week 26 did  not have any significant effect on ADA conversion. 
The frequency of treatment-emergent adverse events was slightly higher among ADA positive than among 
ADA negative patients  up to week 52.  This slight difference is seen in similar magnitude in both  treatment 
arms and therefore, does not raise concerns regarding biosimilarity. 
2.5.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The safety profiles of CT-P17 and Humira were found similar in short-term and long-term use, up to 52 
weeks. The data also shows sufficient similarity between CT-P17 and EU-Humira in terms of ADA formation, 
ADA titre levels, NAb formation and the impact of ADA formation on clinical parameters up to  week 52.  
From the safety point of view, CT-P17 is therefore considered by the CHMP  similar to Humira. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 112/126 
 
  
  
2.6.  Risk Management Plan 
Safety  concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
Important identified 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
risk - Serious infections 
•  SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3,  4.4, 4.5  and 4.8 
• 
PL section 2 and 4 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Patient reminder card 
Important identified 
risk - Tuberculosis (TB) 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.2, 4.3,  4.4 and 4.8. 
• 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Patient reminder card 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 
• 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Patient reminder card 
Important identified 
risk - Malignancies 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 113/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Safety  concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
Important identified 
risk - Demyelinating 
disorders (including 
multiple sclerosis [MS], 
Guillain Barré 
syndrome [GBS] and 
optic neuritis [ON]) 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8. 
• 
PL sections 2 and 4 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Patient reminder card. 
Important identified 
risk - BCG disease 
following live BCG 
vaccination in infants 
with  in utero exposure 
to Yuflyma 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
• 
• 
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.6 
PL section 2 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Patient reminder card. 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Important potential 
risk - Progressive 
multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy 
(PML) 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Important potential 
risk - Reversible 
posterior 
leukoencephalopathy 
syndrome (RPLS) 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None 
None. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 114/126 
 
  
  
Safety  concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None 
Important potential 
risk - Adenocarcinoma 
of colon in  ulcerative 
colitis (UC) patients 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
None. 
None 
Missing information - 
Patients with  Immune 
Compromised 
conditions 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.4. 
• 
PL section 2. 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Missing information - 
Long-term safety 
information in the 
treatment of children 
aged from 6 years to 
less than  18 years with 
Crohn’s disease (CD) 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection:  
None 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 115/126 
 
  
  
Safety  concern 
Risk minimisation measures 
Pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Missing information - 
Episodic treatment in 
psoriasis (Ps), 
ulcerative colitis (UC), 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
signal detection: 
and juvenile idiopathic 
None 
arthritis (JIA) 
None. 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
Missing information - 
Long-term safety 
information in the 
treatment of children 
with  uveitis 
Routine risk minimisation  measures: 
•  SmPC section 4.2 
Legal status: Prescription only medicine 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and 
signal detection: 
Additional risk minimisation  measures:  
None. 
None 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities: 
None. 
The CHMP and PRAC considered that  the risk management plan version 0.2 is acceptable.  
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance 
Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that  the pharmacovigilance system summary submitted by the applicant fulfils the 
requirements of Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Periodic Safety Update Reports submission requirements 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list  of Union  reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
2.8.  Product information 
2.8.1.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with  target patient  groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that  the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in  the Guideline on the 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 116/126 
 
  
  
 
 
readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
2.8.2.  Additional monitoring 
Pursuant to Article 23(1) of Regulation No (EU)  726/2004,  Yuflyma (adalimumab) is included in the additional 
monitoring list  as it  is a biological product.  
Therefore the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet includes a statement that  this 
medicinal product is subject to  additional monitoring and that this  will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. The statement is preceded by an inverted equilateral black triangle. 
3.  Biosimilarity assessment 
3.1.  Comparability exercise and indications claimed 
Yuflyma was developed as a biosimilar to the reference medicinal product Humira. The route of 
administration (subcutaneous), posology, and indications  are according to the reference product as described 
in the Humira SmPC.  
The applicant applied for the same therapeutic indications  as approved for Humira:  rheumatoid arthritis  (RA), 
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (PJIA), active enthesitis-related arthritis,  axial spondyloarthritis 
(ankylosing spondylitis [AS], and axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic evidence of AS), psoriatic 
arthritis (PsA), adult and paediatric plaque psoriasis (PsO), adult and paediatric Crohn’s disease (CD), 
ulcerative colitis (UC),  adult and adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), adult  and paediatric non-infectious 
uveitis (UV). 
The following strength and pharmaceutical forms are proposed: adalimumab 40  mg solution for injection in 
pre-filled syringe and in pre-filled pen.  
Summary of quality  comparability data 
A comprehensive similarity exercise following the general principles outlined in  the guideline on similar 
biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance; Quality issues 
(EMA/CHMP/BWP/247713/2012)  has been performed. Several batches of CT-P17 and Humira-EU  were 
included in the similarity study. The batches reflected a range of expiration dates and product ages. The 
similarity analyses were performed side-by-side using qualified in-house reference standard. The quality 
range was set by analysis of several batches of Humira-EU for key biological quality attributes.  Qualified state 
of-the-art physicochemical and biological methods were used in the  similarity assessment. Overall strategy 
included, when differences were observed, to evaluate the potential  of these on safety, efficacy, PK/PD and 
immunogenicity. 
Qualified state of-the-art physicochemical and biological methods were used in the similarity assessment. 
Analytical comparability studies included primary, secondary and higher order structures, post translational 
modifications (charge variants and glycan profiles), purity and impurities, quantity,  biological activity of Fab 
and Fc related functions, and comparative stability studies. 
Summary of non-clinical comparability data 
A stepwise risk-based comparative approach has been followed to provide a totality  of evidence for 
demonstrating biosimilarity. The nonclinical studies included in  vitro primary pharmacodynamic studies (same 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 117/126 
 
  
  
functional studies as in quality data) and one in vivo 28-day repeat-dose toxicity study (with  toxicokinetics 
and immunogenicity testing) in  cynomolgus monkeys to compare CT-P17 with Humira-EU. 
Non-clinical studies were carried out with  CT-P17 finished product manufactured from an early pilot scale 
finished product process, which was demonstrated comparable with CT-P17 used for analytical similarity and 
clinical studies. 
The non-clinical development plan was in agreement with  EMA guidelines on development of biosimilar 
products.   
Summary of clinical comparability data 
Clinical efficacy, safety, immunogenicity and PK were assessed in three single dose studies  studies in healthy 
volunteers (HV)  and two  multiple dose studies in RA patients  (Studies CT-P17 1.1, 1.2 and 3.1  for 
biosimilarity; Studies CT-P17 1.3 and 3.2 for device development). 
The pivotal PK study for biosimilarity (Study CT-P17 1.1)  was a phase 1, randomised, double-blind, three-
arm, parallel group, single-dose study in healthy 312 volunteers (CT-P17 PFS: 103, EU-Humira  PFS: 106 and 
US-Humira PFS: 103).  The subjects received a single PFS SC injection of study drug 40  mg/0.4 ml 
(100  mg/mL) and were followed up for 71  days. 
The confirmative efficacy and safety study (CT-P17 3.1) was a randomised, double-blind equivalence study 
comparing CT-P17 and EU-Humira  (40 mg SC every 2 weeks) in combination with  MTX in subjects with 
moderately to severely active RA with  inadequate response to MTX therapy (648  subjects randomised 1:1). 
The treatment duration was 52 weeks. 
The clinical development plan was in  agreement with  EMA guidelines on development of biosimilar products.   
3.2.  Results supporting biosimilarity 
Quality  data 
Similarity between CT-P17 and Humira-EU  has been demonstrated for the following physico-chemical and 
biological properties: 
- Primary structure 
- Higher order structure  
- Content and extractable volume 
- Size heterogeneity  
- Charge variants  
- Glycan profiles  
- Binding to soluble and transmembrane TNFα   
- Neutralisation of TNF  α 
- Reverse signalling activity 
- Binding to Fc-receptors (FcγRIIIa [V, F],  FcγRIIIb, FcγRIIa, FcγRIIb, FcγRI and FcRn) 
- Binding to C1q and CDC activity  
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 118/126 
 
  
  
- ADCC activity  
- Inhibition  of TNFα-induced  apoptosis 
- Inhibition  of IL-8  and VCAM-1 release 
- Induction of regulatory macrophages and subsequent T-cell anti-proliferation. 
- Stability under accelerated and stressed conditions and forced degradation 
Nonclinical data 
In vitro functional studies supporting biosimilarity mentioned under biological properties in quality results are 
the same. 
Clinical data 
Pharmacokinetics 
Results for AUC0-inf, AUC0-last and Cmax in study CT-P17 1.1  demonstrate that  the 90% CI for the  ratio of the 
test and reference products fell within  the conventional acceptance range of 80.00-125.00%  when comparing 
CT-P17 with  the reference product from EU as well as from US. 
In patients with  moderate to severe active RA (study CT-P17 3.1), the mean Ctrough of adalimumab was 9% to 
13% higher in the  CT-P17 treatment  group over the  first 24 weeks of study CT-P17 3.1. From the PK 
perspective, the difference in mean Ctrough levels is not  compelling evidence against biosimilarity between CT-
P17 and Humira. 
Efficacy 
In patients with  moderate to severe active RA (study CT-P17 3.1), 268/324  (82.72%)  patients  in the CT-P17 
40mg SC EOW treatment arm and 268/324  (82.72%)  patients  in the EU-Humira  40mg SC EOW treatment 
arm (ITT population) achieved response according to  ACR20 at week 24. The response rates are comparable 
to those seen in  previous trials with Humira.  The 95%  CI for the estimate of treatment difference in ACR20 
response rates at week 24 was entirely within  the  predefined equivalence margin of -15% to 15%  for both 
ITT and PP populations. The results were unchanged after controlling  for country and disease activity. Hence, 
the primary objective of this  trial was met. 
The treatment arms were highly similar in all secondary efficacy endpoints (ACR50, ACR70, hybrid ACR 
response, DAS28, EULAR response, CDAI, SDAI, quality of life [SF-36]).  In particular, a high degree of 
similarity was also seen on the continuous  DAS28(CRP) disease activity symptom rating scale, which adds to 
the robustness of the  results. 
Data from the second treatment period showed that  efficacy was sustained up to week 52 in a comparable 
manner in  all three treatment arms: CT-P17 and Humira maintenance groups as well as in patients  who 
switched to CT-P17 at  week 26. 
The proportions of patients achieving response according to ACR20 at week 24 was only slightly lower among 
ADA positive than among ADA negative patients in  the EU-Humira arm. The difference between ADA positive 
and ADA negative patients  was smaller in the CT-P17 treatment arm. Among ADA positive subjects 83.2% 
and 80.0% in  the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment group, respectively achieved response according to 
ACR20 at week 24 (ITT population). The corresponding response rates among ADA negative subjects were 
83.7%  and 87%  in the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment group, respectively. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 119/126 
 
  
  
Throughout the whole 52  week study, when not impacted by an immune response, the  efficacy of CT-P17 
was similar to  that of Humira in both  short and long term treatment  and also in patients who  switched from 
Humira to CT-P17. 
Safety 
No major concerns regarding safety aspects of similarity have emerged based on assessment of data from 
the pivotal study CT-P17 3.1. In general, the  number and pattern of TEAEs and proportion of patients 
reporting them were similar in CT-P17 group and EU-Humira group and are in line with  expectations from 
historical data for Humira and its  previously approved biosimilars. No major differences in frequency or 
pattern of TESAEs, TEAEs leading to discontinuation  of study drug or AESIs were seen between treatment 
groups. 
The safety results available from already completed Phase I single-dose studies in healthy subjects are 
considered supportive of the currently available pivotal safety data. 
Immunogenicity 
Data from HV studies 1.1  and 1.2  support similarity between CT-P17 and EU-Humira  in terms of ADA 
formation, ADA titre levels and NAb proportions. Data from HV study 1.3 support similarity between AI and 
PFS presentations in the same parameters. 
The data from RA patients (Study CT-P17 3.1) shows similarity between CT-P17 and EU-Humira  in terms of 
ADA formation, ADA titre levels, NAb formation and the impact of ADA formation on clinical outcome (PK, 
efficacy and safety) up to week 52. The proportion of patients who  had post-treatment  ADA positive results 
up to Week 24  was 44.1 % and 57.1 % for the CT-P17 and EU-Humira  treatment group, respectively. 
Switching  from Humira to CT-P17 at week 26 did not have any significant effect on ADA conversion. 
3.3.  Uncertainties and limitations about biosimilarity 
None 
3.4.    Discussion on biosimilarity 
Quality 
A comprehensive similarity exercise following the general principles outlined in  the guideline on similar 
biological medicinal products containing biotechnology-derived proteins as active substance; Quality issues 
(EMA/CHMP/BWP/247713/2012)  has been performed. The comparability studies have been done by analysing 
several batches of CT-P17 and Humira-EU, side-by-side with qualified state of-the-art physicochemical and 
biological methods. Overall strategy included, when differences were observed, to evaluate the potential  of 
these on safety, efficacy, PK/PD and immunogenicity. 
Similarity has been demonstrated for the studied quality attributes.  The observed differences were small and 
overall unlikely to  have a clinical impact.  Minor differences noted were mainly in charge variants, 
afucosylated species and mannosylation, and were without  implications to Fab and Fc -related functions. 
Charge variants profiles of CT-P17 and Humira-EU  were by large similar with  the same five major peaks 
detected. All variants were biologically active. CT-P17 had a slightly higher level of Basic group 2, but  the 
proportions of Basic group 2 was low i.e. 1.3 -  1.7 % in CT-P17 and 0.9 - 1.1%  in Humira-EU.  Variants in 
Basic group 2 were classified as product-related impurities. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 120/126 
 
  
  
Basic group 2 was found enriched with  a specific variant, that was reported to  exclusively appear in CT-P17, 
but  in small quantities  (34% of the Basic group 2,  i.e. approximately 0.5%).  Upon request, the applicant 
provided further discussion on potential  impact of the variant on functional  properties and safety. According 
to the applicant,  the specific form is considered as product-related impurity, which can be controlled by IEC-
HPLC at in  process as well as DS and DP levels. It  was emphasised, that  the form was a biosynthetic variant, 
which is mostly removed during the downstream purification process, it is not a degradation product,  and 
therefore it can be effectively controlled. Data from long term, accelerated and stress stability  studies did not 
reveal any sizeable increase in % area basic group 2, therefore accumulation of the  form during storage is 
not expected. Furthermore, the low  amount of the  variant (≤ 2% basic group 2)  is unlikely to have impact on 
the functional  properties of the  CT-P17 active substance. This conclusion can be agreed upon. 
Differences were noted in mannosylated and afucosylated glycans. High  mannose species were higher in 
Humira -EU  (5.5 – 7.5 %)  in comparison to CT-P17 (2.8-  4.7%) and afucosylated species were lower in 
Humira-EU  (1.0 - 1.2 %)  than in CT-P17 (3.0  - 4.7 %). Consequently, the total afucosylated glycans 
(mannosylated glycans + afucosylated glycans) were in range of 6.55 – 8.73 % in Humira-EU  and 5.81 – 
8.03 % in CT-P17. The differences observed in the glycans did not  result in a detectable difference in Fc- 
related biological activity. Upon request, the applicant included a new DS specification to control total number 
of afucosylated glycans. In conclusion, some minor differences in glycation profiles between Humira EU and 
CT-P17 are unlikely to be clinically meaningful. 
Qualified analytical methods were used for the biosimilarity analysis to assess the Fab and Fc -related 
biological functions.  CT-P17 is similar to  Humira-EU in Fab-related functions i.e. binding  to soluble and 
transmembrane TNFα,  TNFα  neutralisation, and apoptosis induced by reverse signaling following binding  to 
tmTNFα.  Furthermore, CT-P17 and Humira-EU were similar in  Fc-related functional  activities. 
The ADCC assay used for the comparative studies is a reporter gene based assay. Considering that this  is not 
an endpoint assay, the relevance of the  results is questionable. In order to demonstrate similar ADCC activity 
between CT-P17 and EU-Humira, the applicant  provided a comparative ADCC activity results using PBMC 
from healthy donors. Although the genotype of PBMC was not clarified, this is acceptable considering the 
overall data, especially demonstrating that there were no differences in the FcγRIIIa binding  activity and in 
previous ADCC reporter assay. 
Non-clinical 
The side-by-side in vitro nonclinical data are paramount for demonstration of biosimilarity from the 
nonclinical point of view. No such quality or non-clinical differences were found that would  likely have an 
impact on the efficacy or safety of the CT-P17 in comparison to the Humira-EU.  The applicant provided 
further information on methodologies, the concentration-effect curves, Kd, EC50 or IC50 values. This data 
verifed the data adequacy from which  the conclusions of functional similarity was drawn. Overall, the 
functional in vitro data demonstrated, that CT-P17 and Humira-EU  are similar. 
The finding of adalimumab contamination  in the formulation buffer in the  toxicological (and TK) study in 
cynomolgus monkeys was confirmed, but  the exact cause of the origin of the contamination  was not 
identified. Consequently, this study cannot be considered fully valid. Nevertheless, considering the 
supplemental role of toxicological studies for biosimilars, this  issue was not pursued by the CHMP as it would 
not have an impact for the overall conclusion on the similarity of CT-P17 and EU-Humira. 
Clinical 
Pharmacokinetics 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 121/126 
 
  
  
Results for primary PK parameters AUC0-inf, AUC0-last and Cmax in study CT-P17 1.1  support the conclusion of 
biosimilarity of CT-P17 to  the EU reference product. 
Efficacy 
The efficacy endpoints in the pivotal study 3.1 were validated and in line with  what has been used in previous 
applications for products with  RA indication. The efficacy was similar in both ITT and PP populations from 
week 0 to  week 24 in terms of both primary and secondary efficacy outcomes. Data from the most sensitive 
time points (weeks 8-16) and from the more sensitive population  of analysis (PP) confirmed similarity in 
efficacy according to ACR criteria between CT-P17 and Humira. Similar efficacy was maintained also after 
switching  to CT-P17 at week 26  and up to  week 52. 
Safety 
The safety data up to 52 weeks from the study CT-P17 3.1  indicated similar incidence and pattern of TEAEs, 
TESAEs, AESIs (hypersensitivity/allergic reactions, injection site reactions, infections and malignancies) 
between the CT-P17 and EU-Humira treatment  groups. No  new or unexpected safety findings were evident.  
Safety data from the three Phase I single-dose studies are supporting of the pivotal data as no clear safety 
differences or issues were detected in these studies.  
Immunogenicity 
Similarity between CT-P17 and EU-Humira  in terms of ADA formation, ADA titre  levels, NAb formation and 
the impact of ADA formation on clinical parameters was shown. While ADA conversion was slightly less 
frequent with  CT-P17 than with  Humira, a lower immunogenicity for the biosimilar does not preclude 
biosimilarity according to the EMA  Guideline on similar biological medicinal products containing monoclonal 
antibodies. 
3.5.  Extrapolation of safety and efficacy 
All indications granted for the  originator EU  approved Humira are applied for Yuflyma. These include 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), polyarticular juvenile idiopathic  arthritis (JIA), active enthesitis-related arthritis, 
axial spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis [AS], and axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic evidence 
of AS), psoriatic arthritis (PsA), adult and paediatric plaque psoriasis (Ps), adult  and paediatric Crohn’s 
disease (CD), ulcerative colitis (UC), adult  and adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (HS), adult and paediatric 
non-infectious uveitis (UV). 
As referenced by the applicant, the mechanism of action (MoA) of adalimumab therapy is primarily based on 
both inhibition  of pro-inflammatory effects such as apoptosis, cell proliferation and cytokine secretion, and 
stimulation  of anti-inflammatory effects through reverse signalling. Although the MoA of adalimumab is not 
completely elucidated, it  is well accepted that adalimumab acts as a TNFα  antagonist by binding to and 
neutralising soluble TNFα  (sTNFα) and tmTNFα. 
Neutralisation of sTNFα  is a common mechanism across the non-IBD indications (RA, JIA, AS, PsA, Ps, HS, 
and UV), and the primary mechanism by which adalimumab particularly exerts its  effect. 
In addition to neutralisation of sTNFα,  tmTNFα  binding is considered to  play a key role in treatment of the 
IBD indications (CD and UC). 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 122/126 
 
  
  
Other mechanisms that  could contribute to the biological activity of adalimumab include Fc-mediated binding 
which could induce ADCC, CDC and regulatory macrophage activation although  the balance of evidence 
suggests that  ADCC and CDC do not  play a major role if any. 
Based on a comprehensive comparability exercise where the similarity in potency and drug related effects on 
Fc-receptors and effector cells has been studied in non-clinical  in vitro studies,  CT-P17 was found to  be highly 
similar to EU-Humira across all studied known and suggested modes of action, supporting extrapolation of 
efficacy to all indications. 
Results for primary PK parameters AUC0-inf, AUC0-last and Cmax support the conclusion of biosimilarity of CT-
P17 to EU-Humira. 
To conclude, extrapolation of the results to all indications approved for the originator is supported by the 
similarity shown in structural analysis, functional  assays and the  clinical similarity of PK, efficacy, safety and 
immunogenicity. 
3.6.  Additional considerations  
Not  applicable 
3.7.  Conclusions on biosimilarity and benefit risk balance 
Based on the review of the submitted  data, Yuflyma is considered biosimilar to  Humira. Therefore, a 
benefit/risk balance comparable to the reference product can be concluded. 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP  review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus that  the 
benefit-risk balance of Yuflyma is favourable in the following indication: 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Yuflyma in  combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to  severe, active rheumatoid arthritis  in adult patients when  the response 
to disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in  adults not previously treated 
with  methotrexate. 
Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to  methotrexate or when continued treatment 
with  methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to 
improve physical function,  when given in combination with  methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic  arthritis 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 123/126 
 
  
  
 
Yuflyma in  combination with methotrexate is indicated for the  treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis,  in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to  methotrexate or when continued treatment with  methotrexate is inappropriate (for the  efficacy 
in monotherapy see section 5.1).  Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged less than  2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis  in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who  have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see section 
5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with  severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an 
inadequate response to  conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic evidence of AS 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with  severe axial spondyloarthritis without  radiographic 
evidence of AS but with  objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, who have had an 
inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis  in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-
ray in patients  with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1)  and to  improve 
physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult  patients who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the  treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from 4 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical therapy and 
phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with  an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy (see sections 5.1  and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 124/126 
 
  
  
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult  patients who 
have not  responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with  a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric patients 
(from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including  primary 
nutrition  therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients  who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine (6-
MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who  are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in  patients in need of corticosteroid- 
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in  patients from 2 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant  to conventional therapy, or in whom 
conventional therapy is inappropriate.  
The CHMP therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following 
conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Other conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
Periodic Safety  Update  Reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out in 
the list  of Union  reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7)  of Directive 2001/83/EC  and 
any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product 
Risk Management  Plan  (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in  the agreed RMP 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 125/126 
 
  
  
 
presented in Module  1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Yulfyma in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH)  must agree about 
the content  and format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution 
modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with  the National  Competent Authority. The educational 
program consists of a Patient  Reminder Card. 
The patient reminder card contains important safety information that  a patient needs to be aware of before 
and during the treatment with  Yuflyma. This reminder card is aimed at highlighting  the risk of serious 
infections, tuberculosis (TB), malignancies, demyelinating disorders (including multiple  sclerosis [MS], 
Guillain Barré syndrome [GBS] and optic neuritis [ON])  and BCG disease following live BCG vaccination in 
infants with  in utero exposure to Yuflyma. 
The MAH shall ensure that  in each Member State where Yuflyma is marketed, all healthcare professionals 
who are expected to  prescribe adalimumab and all patients who are expected to use adalimumab have access 
to/are provided with the  following educational materials: 
The Patient  Reminder Cards (adult and paediatric)  contain the following key elements 
▪ That treatment with  Yuflyma may increase the risk of infections, including  tuberculosis, cancer and nervous 
system problems; 
▪ Signs or symptoms of these safety concerns and when to seek attention  from a healthcare professional;  
▪ Importance of not receiving live vaccines and informing the health  professional that the patient  is receiving 
treatment in case of pregnancy;  
▪ Instructions to record the  brand name and batch number of the medication to ensure traceability;  
▪ Contact details of the adalimumab prescriber. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the 
medicinal product to be implemented by the Member States 
Not  applicable. 
Assessment report  
EMA/47907/2021 
Page 126/126 
 
  
  
 
 
 
