ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See section 
4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each 0.4 ml single dose pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Each 0.4 ml single dose pre-filled pen contains 40 mg of adalimumab. 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Yuflyma in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the response to 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously treated 
with methotrexate. 
Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment 
with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to 
improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Yuflyma in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate (for the efficacy 
in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see section 
5.1). 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe active ankylosing spondylitis who have had an 
inadequate response to conventional therapy. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of adults with severe axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of AS but with objective signs of inflammation by elevated CRP and/or MRI, who have had an 
inadequate response to, or are intolerant to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active and progressive psoriatic arthritis in adults when the 
response to previous disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy has been inadequate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage as measured by X-
ray in patients with polyarticular symmetrical subtypes of the disease (see section 5.1) and to improve 
physical function. 
Psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from 4 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical therapy and 
phototherapies. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who 
have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric patients 
(from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including primary 
nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine (6-
MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have 
medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of corticosteroid- 
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients from 2 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, or in whom 
conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Yuflyma treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of conditions for which Yuflyma is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to consult with an 
appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Yuflyma (see section 4.4). Patients treated with 
Yuflyma should be given the Patient Reminder Card. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Yuflyma if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary. 
During treatment with Yuflyma, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. Methotrexate should be 
continued during treatment with Yuflyma. 
Glucocorticoids, salicylates, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, (NSAIDs), or analgesics can be 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
continued during treatment with Yuflyma.  Regarding combination with disease modifying anti-rheumatic 
drugs other than methotrexate see sections 4.4 and 5.1. 
In monotherapy, some patients who experience a decrease in their response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other 
week may benefit from an increase in dosage to 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Dose interruption 
There may be a need for dose interruption, for instance before surgery or if a serious infection occurs. 
Available data suggest that re-introduction of adalimumab after discontinuation for 70 days or longer 
resulted in the same magnitudes of clinical response and similar safety profile as before dose interruption. 
Ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS and psoriatic arthritis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with ankylosing spondylitis, axial spondyloarthritis without 
radiographic evidence of AS and for patients with psoriatic arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab administered 
every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for adult patients is an initial dose of 80 mg administered 
subcutaneously, followed by 40 mg subcutaneously given every other week starting one week after the 
initial dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this 
time period. 
Beyond 16 weeks, patients with inadequate response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week may benefit from 
an increase in dosage to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. The benefits and risks of continued 
40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with an 
inadequate response after the increase in dosage (see section 5.1).  If adequate response is achieved with 
40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, the dosage may subsequently be reduced to 40 mg every other 
week. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The recommended Yuflyma dose regimen for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 160 mg 
initially at day 1 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later at day 15 (given as two 40 mg injections in one day). 
Two weeks later (day 29) continue with a dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week (given as 
two 40 mg injections in one day). Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Yuflyma if necessary. 
It is recommended that the patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis 
during treatment with Yuflyma. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no improvement 
within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Yuflyma 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be re- 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
introduced (see section 5.1). 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see section 5.1).  
Crohn’s disease 
The recommended Yuflyma induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg at week 2. In case there is a need for a more rapid 
response to therapy, the regimen 160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 
40 mg injections per day for two consecutive days), followed by 80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day), can be used with the awareness that the risk for adverse events is higher during 
induction. 
After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
Alternatively, if a patient has stopped Yuflyma and signs and symptoms of disease recur, Yuflyma may be 
re-administered. There is little experience from re-administration after more than 8 weeks since the previous 
dose. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dosage to 40 mg Yuflyma every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Some patients who have not responded by week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy through 
week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time 
period. 
Ulcerative colitis 
The recommended Yuflyma induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderate to severe ulcerative 
colitis is 160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg injections in one day or as two 40 mg injections per day for 
two consecutive days) and 80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg injections in one day). After induction 
treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dosage to 40 mg Yuflyma every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 2-8 weeks of treatment.  Yuflyma 
therapy should not be continued in patients failing to respond within this time period. 
Uveitis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for adult patients with uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. There is limited experience in the 
initiation of treatment with adalimumab alone. Treatment with Yuflyma can be initiated in combination with 
corticosteroids and/or with other non-biologic immunomodulatory agents. Concomitant corticosteroids may 
be tapered in accordance with clinical practice starting two weeks after initiating treatment with Yuflyma. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a yearly 
basis (see section 5.1). 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required.  
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be made.  
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years 
of age is based on body weight (Table 1). Yuflyma is administered every other week via subcutaneous 
injection. 
Table 1. Yuflyma dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Patient weight 
10 kg to < 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
≥ 30 kg 
40 mg every other week 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued 
therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 2).  Yuflyma is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 2. Yuflyma dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week  
40 mg every other week 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years. 
Psoriatic arthritis and axial spondyloarthritis including ankylosing spondylitis 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in the paediatric population for the indications of ankylosing 
spondylitis and psoriatic arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis  
The recommended Yuflyma dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based on 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
body weight (Table 3). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 3. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
Initial dose of 20 mg, 
followed by 20 mg given 
every other week starting one 
week after the initial dose 
Initial dose of 40 mg, 
followed by 40 mg given 
every other week starting one 
week after the initial dose 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding within this 
time period. 
If retreatment with adalimumab is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration should be 
followed. 
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a mean of 13 
months. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg) 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS.  The posology of adalimumab 
in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation (see section 5.2). 
The recommended Yuflyma dose is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at week 1 
via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week, an increase in dosage 
to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered. 
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Yuflyma if necessary.  It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Yuflyma. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no improvement 
within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Yuflyma may be re-introduced as appropriate. 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data in 
section 5.1) 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 4). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Adalimumab dose for paediatric patients with crohn’s disease 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
Induction dose 
• 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2  
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with 
the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with 
use of the higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
• 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
• 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy 
with the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be 
higher with use of the higher induction dose, the following 
dose may be used: 
• 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4 
20 mg every other 
week  
40 mg every 
other week 
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dosage: 
• 
• 
< 40 kg: 20 mg every week 
≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by week 12. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years for this indication. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis  
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is based on 
body weight (Table 5). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection.  
Table 5. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis  
Patient weight 
Induction dose 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4* 
< 40 kg 
•  80 mg at week 0 (given as two 40 mg 
•  40 mg every other week 
injections in one day) and 
•  40 mg at week 2 (given as one 40 mg 
injection) 
≥ 40 kg 
•  160 mg at week 0 (given as four 40 mg 
•  80 mg every other week 
injections in one day or two 40 mg injections 
per day for two consecutive days) and 
•  80 mg at week 2 (given as two 40 mg 
injections in one day) 
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Yuflyma should continue their prescribed 
maintenance dose. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of response 
within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years in this indication. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based on body 
weight (Table 6). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant treatment 
with methotrexate. 
Table 6. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with uveitis 
Patient weight 
< 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week in 
combination with 
methotrexate  
40 mg every other week in 
combination with 
methotrexate 
When Yuflyma therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for patients ≥ 30 
kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No clinical data are available on 
the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age (see section 5.2). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 2 years in this indication. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a yearly 
basis (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by subcutaneous injection. 
Full instructions for use are provided in the package leaflet. 
Yuflyma is available in other strengths and presentations. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections (see section 4.4).  
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function may 
increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for infections, 
including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Yuflyma.  Because the elimination of 
adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout this period. 
Treatment with Yuflyma should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis and 
patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Yuflyma should be considered 
prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections). 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Yuflyma should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Yuflyma should be discontinued if 
a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or antifungal therapy 
should be initiated until the infection is controlled.  Physicians should exercise caution when considering the 
use of Yuflyma in patients with a history of recurring infection or with underlying conditions which may 
predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant immunosuppressive medications. 
Serious infections 
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or other 
opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in patients 
receiving adalimumab. 
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported. 
Tuberculosis 
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients receiving 
adalimumab.  Reports included cases of pulmonary and extra-pulmonary (i.e. disseminated) tuberculosis. 
Before initiation of therapy with Yuflyma, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection.  This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of patient 
history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and previous and/or 
current immunosuppressive therapy.  Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray) 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply).  It is recommended that the conduct 
and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card.  Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Yuflyma therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully considered.  
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis 
treatment before the initiation of Yuflyma, and in accordance with local recommendations. 
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of Yuflyma in 
patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for tuberculosis and in 
patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be confirmed. 
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in patients 
treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active tuberculosis have 
redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis infection 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or after therapy with 
Yuflyma. 
Other opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients receiving 
adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking TNF-antagonists and 
this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in fatal outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, cough, 
dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without concomitant shock 
an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Yuflyma should be promptly 
discontinued.  Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in these patients should be made 
in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of patients with invasive fungal infections. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including adalimumab, who 
are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive).  Some cases have had a fatal outcome. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Yuflyma. For patients who test 
positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B 
is recommended. 
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Yuflyma should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms 
of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination of therapy. 
Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. In patients who develop HBV 
reactivation, Yuflyma should be stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive 
treatment should be initiated. 
Neurological events 
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system demyelinating 
disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating disease, including 
Guillain- Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use of Yuflyma in patients 
with pre- existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system demyelinating disorders; 
discontinuation of Yuflyma should be considered if any of these disorders develop. There is a known 
association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating disorders. Neurologic evaluation should 
be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate uveitis prior to the initiation of Yuflyma therapy 
and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-existing or developing central demyelinating disorders. 
Allergic reactions 
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious allergic 
reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of serious allergic 
reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab administration. If an anaphylactic 
reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of Yuflyma should be discontinued 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immediately and appropriate therapy initiated. 
Immunosuppression 
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no evidence 
of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. 
However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of  leukaemia have been reported in 
patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and  leukaemia 
in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, which complicates 
the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, 
leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 22 years 
of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including adalimumab in the 
post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases represented a variety 
of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated with immunosuppression. A risk 
for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be 
excluded. 
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated with 
adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. 
Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in young adult patients on 
concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for inflammatory bowel disease. The 
potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and Yuflyma should be carefully 
considered. A risk for the development of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Yuflyma 
cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom treatment 
with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy.  Thus, additional caution should be 
exercised in considering Yuflyma treatment of these patients (see section 4.8). 
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy or 
psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non- melanoma 
skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Yuflyma.  Melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have also 
been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab (see section 4.8). 
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients with 
moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly in the lung 
or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control patients. All patients 
had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using any TNF-antagonist in 
COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to heavy smoking. 
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia or 
colon cancer.  All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon carcinoma 
(for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing cholangitis), or who had a 
prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for dysplasia at regular intervals before 
therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation should include colonoscopy and biopsies per 
local recommendations. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. Adverse 
events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. thrombocytopenia, 
leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to seek immediate medical 
attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias (e.g. persistent fever, bruising, 
bleeding, pallor) while on Yuflyma. Discontinuation of Yuflyma therapy should be considered in patients 
with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Vaccinations 
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza trivalent virus 
vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were treated with 
adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Yuflyma therapy. 
Patients on Yuflyma may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration of live 
vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 5 months 
following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Congestive heart failure 
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased mortality 
due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart failure have also 
been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Yuflyma should be used with caution in patients with mild 
heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Yuflyma is contraindicated in moderate to severe heart failure (see section 
4.3). Treatment with Yuflyma must be discontinued in patients who develop new or worsening symptoms of 
congestive heart failure. 
Autoimmune processes 
Treatment with Yuflyma may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-term 
treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient develops 
symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Yuflyma and is positive for 
antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Yuflyma should not be given (see section 
4.8). 
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists 
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another TNF-antagonist, 
etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of the nature of the adverse 
events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar toxicities may also result from 
the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the combination of adalimumab and 
anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and abatacept) or 
other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for infections, including 
serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions (see section 4.5). 
Surgery 
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The long half-
life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned.  A patient who 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
requires surgery while on Yuflyma should be closely monitored for infections, and appropriate actions 
should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing arthroplasty while receiving 
adalimumab. 
Small bowel obstruction 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic stricture that 
may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not worsen or cause strictures. 
Elderly 
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab-treated subjects over 65 years of age (3.7%) was 
higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5%). Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular attention 
regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
See Vaccinations above. 
Sodium contents 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and psoriatic 
arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant methotrexate.  Antibody 
formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate in comparison with use as 
monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted in increased formation of 
antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see section 5.1). 
The combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
The combination of adalimumab and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy 
and continue its use for at least five months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
Pregnancy 
A large number (approximately 2,100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to adalimumab 
resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1,500 exposed during the first trimester, 
does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn. 
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) treated 
with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated with 
adalimumab were enrolled.  The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth defects. The rate 
of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect was 6/69 (8.7%) in the 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8%) in the untreated women with RA (unadjusted OR 
1.31, 95% CI 0.38-4.52) and 16/152 (10.5%) in the adalimumab-treated women with CD and 3/32 (9.4%) in 
the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 95% CI 0.31-4.16). The adjusted OR (accounting for 
baseline differences) was 1.10 (95% CI 0.45-2.73) with RA and CD combined. There were no distinct 
differences between adalimumab-treated and untreated women for the secondary endpoints spontaneous 
abortions, minor birth defects, preterm delivery, birth size and serious or opportunistic infections and no 
stillbirths or malignancies were reported. The interpretation of data may be impacted due to methodological 
limitations of the study, including small sample size and non-randomised design. 
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available (see 
section 5.3). 
Due to its inhibition of TNF, adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal immune 
responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with adalimumab 
during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. Administration of live 
vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 5 months 
following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk at 
very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1% to 1% of 
the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal proteolysis and have 
poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. Consequently, Yuflyma 
can be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Yuflyma may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Yuflyma (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open label trials for up to 60 months or 
more.  These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long standing disease, juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis) as well as axial 
spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS), 
psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa and uveitis patients. 
The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving 
placebo or active comparator during the controlled period. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9% for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4% for control treated 
patients. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), 
headache and musculoskeletal pain. 
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defence against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV reactivation 
and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been reported with use of 
adalimumab. 
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These include rare 
reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events and reports of lupus, 
lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Paediatric population 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen in adult 
patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on postmarketing 
experience and are displayed by system organ class and frequency in Table 7 below: very common ( 1/10); 
common ( 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon ( 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare ( 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects 
are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The highest frequency seen among the various indications 
has been included. An asterisk (*) appears in the SOC column if further information is found elsewhere in 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
Table 7  
Undesirable effects 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Infections and 
infestations* 
Very common 
Common 
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and 
upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and 
pneumonia herpes viral) 
Systemic infections (including sepsis, candidiasis 
and influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis 
viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including 
paronychia, cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising 
fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral 
herpes and tooth infections),  
reproductive tract infections (including 
vulvovaginal mycotic infection),  
urinary tract infections (including 
pyelonephritis), 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Uncommon 
fungal infections, 
joint infections 
Neurological infections (including viral 
meningitis), 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis 
(including coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis 
and mycobacterium avium complex infection),  
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, 
diverticulitis1)  
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and unspecified 
(including cysts and 
polyps)* 
Common 
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma), 
benign neoplasm 
Uncommon 
Lymphoma**,  
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, 
lung neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm),  
melanoma** 
Rare 
Leukaemia1) 
Not known 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine 
carcinoma of the skin)1), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Blood and the lymphatic 
system disorders* 
Very common 
Leukopenia (including neutropenia and 
agranulocytosis),  
anaemia 
Common 
Leucocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia 
Uncommon 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Rare 
Pancytopenia 
Immune system disorders*  Common 
Hypersensitivity, 
allergies (including seasonal allergy) 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Uncommon 
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis 
Rare 
Anaphylaxis1) 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Very common 
Lipids increased 
Common 
Hypokalaemia,  
uric acid increased,  
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphatemia, 
dehydration 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Mood alterations (including depression),  
anxiety, 
insomnia 
Nervous system disorders*  Very common 
Headache 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Paraesthesias (including hypoesthesia), 
migraine, 
nerve root compression 
Cerebrovascular accident1), 
tremor, 
neuropathy 
Multiple sclerosis, 
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome) 1) 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Visual impairment, 
conjunctivitis, 
blepharitis, 
eye swelling 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Uncommon 
Diplopia 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders  
Common 
Vertigo 
Uncommon 
Deafness,  
tinnitus 
Cardiac disorders*  
Common 
Tachycardia 
Uncommon 
Myocardial infarction1), 
arrhythmia, 
congestive heart failure 
Rare 
Cardiac arrest 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Hypertension,  
flushing,  
haematoma 
Uncommon 
Aortic aneurysm, 
vascular arterial occlusion, 
thrombophlebitis  
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders* 
Common 
Asthma, 
dyspnoea, 
cough 
Uncommon 
Pulmonary embolism1), 
interstitial lung disease,  
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion1) 
Rare 
Pulmonary fibrosis1) 
Gastrointestinal disorders  Very common 
Abdominal pain,  
nausea and vomiting 
Common 
GI haemorrhage,  
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
dyspepsia,  
gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
sicca syndrome 
Uncommon 
Pancreatitis,  
dysphagia, 
face oedema 
Rare 
Intestinal perforation1) 
Hepato-biliary disorders*  Very Common 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, 
hepatic steatosis, 
bilirubin increased 
Hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B1)  
autoimmune hepatitis1) 
Not known 
Liver failure1) 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Very Common 
Rash (including exfoliative rash) 
Common 
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including 
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1), 
urticaria, 
bruising (including purpura),  
dermatitis (including eczema), 
onychoclasis,  
hyperhidrosis, 
alopecia1), 
pruritus  
Uncommon 
Night sweats, 
scar 
Rare 
Erythema multiforme1), 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1), 
angioedema1), 
cutaneous vasculitis1) 
lichenoid skin reaction1) 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Not known 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1) 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Common 
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased) 
Uncommon 
Rhabdomyolysis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Rare 
Lupus-like syndrome1) 
Renal and urinary 
disorders  
Common 
Renal impairment, 
haematuria 
Uncommon 
Nocturia 
Uncommon 
Erectile dysfunction 
Very Common 
Injection site reaction (including injection site 
erythema) 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions* 
Common 
Chest pain,  
oedema, 
pyrexia1) 
Uncommon 
Inflammation 
Investigations* 
Common 
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including 
activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged),  
autoantibody test positive (including double 
stranded DNA antibody),  
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Not known 
Common 
Weight increased2) 
Impaired healing 
* further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
** including open label extension studies 
1) including spontaneous reporting data 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across adult 
indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 months. 
Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean exposures of 
approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative 
colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated with the anti-inflammatory 
effect of adalimumab. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the known 
safety profile of adalimumab. 
Uveitis 
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent with 
the known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9% of patients treated with adalimumab developed 
injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared to 7.2% of 
patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not necessitate 
discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
Infections 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in the 
adalimumab-treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated patients. The 
infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and sinusitis. Most 
patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved. 
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab-treated patients and 0.03 per 
patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients. 
In controlled and open label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections (including fatal 
infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of tuberculosis (including 
miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections (e.g. disseminated or 
extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis 
and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred within the first eight months after initiation of 
therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years during 
adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 192 paediatric patients with an 
exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease. No 
malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients with an exposure of 80.0 patient years during an 
adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. No malignancies were observed in 93 
paediatric patients with an exposure of 65.3 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients 
with ulcerative colitis. No malignancies were observed in 60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 
patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with uveitis. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration in 
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS,  psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-
melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5)  per 1,000 
patient-years among 5,291 adalimumab-treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 patient-
years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for adalimumab and 3.8 
months for control-treated patients). The rate (95% confidence interval) of non-melanoma skin cancers was 
8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 
patient-years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell carcinomas occurred at rates 
(95% confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 
0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. The rate (95% confidence interval) of 
lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) 
per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. 
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open label extension studies 
with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 26,439 patient-years of 
therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-melanoma skin cancers is 
approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-melanoma skin cancers is 
approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of lymphomas is approximately 1.3 per 
1,000 patient years. 
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient treatment 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 
1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with 
adalimumab (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis studies I 
− V. In these trials, 11.9% of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1% of placebo and active control − 
treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported positive titres at week 24. 
Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis studies 
developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like syndrome. The patients improved following 
discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. 
Hepato-biliary events 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis with a 
control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 3.7% of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6% of control-treated patients. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who 
were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 6.1% of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3% of control-treated patients. Most ALT elevations 
occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of 
adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who were 2 to < 4 years. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis with a 
control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.9% of adalimumab-
treated patients and 0.9% of controlled-treated patients. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated efficacy and 
safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight adjusted induction 
therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.6%  (5/192) of patients of 
whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis with a control period duration 
ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 1.8% of adalimumab-treated patients 
and 1.8% of control-treated patients. 
No ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients with 
plaque psoriasis. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2, followed by 
40 mg every week starting at week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control period 
duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.3% of adalimumab-treated 
patients and 0.6% of control-treated patients. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week 
starting at week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 166.5 days and 
105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 2.4% of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4% of control-treated patients. 
In the controlled Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) which 
evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
(N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (n=32), following body 
weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, 
placebo at week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 (N=30), ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN 
occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of patients. 
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment.  However, there have also been post- 
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, such as 
hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab. 
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine 
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse events 
were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared with 
adalimumab alone. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product.  Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has been 
multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended dose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors. ATC 
code: L04AB04 
Yuflyma is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including changes 
in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 
with an IC50 of 0.1-0.2 nM). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation 
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab usually 
experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation. 
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with adalimumab. In patients 
with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing inflammatory markers in the colon 
including a significant reduction of expression of TNFα was seen. Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa 
have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab-treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The efficacy and 
safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-controlled studies. Some 
patients were treated for up to 120 months duration. Injection site pain of adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml was 
assessed in two randomised, active control, single-blind, two-period crossover studies. 
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
 18 years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti rheumatic drug and had 
insufficient efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) every 
week and whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20, 40 or 
80 mg of adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
 18 years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs.  Doses of 20 
or 40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo on alternative 
weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same duration.  No other disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed. 
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have been 
intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study.  The first received 
placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab every week for 52 
weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with placebo injections on alternate 
weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in 
which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other week up to 10 years. 
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were  18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic 
drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy was stable for a 
minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine 
and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 
weeks. 
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every other 
week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate of 
progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the first 104 weeks, 
497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab was administered 
every other week up to 10 years. 
RA studies VI and VII each evaluated 60 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis 
who were ≥ 18 years old. Enrolled patients were either current users of adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml and rated 
their average injection site pain as at least 3 cm (on a 0-10 cm VAS) or were biologic-naïve subjects who 
were starting adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml. Patients were randomised to receive a single dose of adalimumab 
40 mg/0.8 ml or adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml, followed by a single injection of the opposite treatment at their 
next dose. 
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at week 52. RA studies III and V 
had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by X-ray 
results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. The primary endpoint in RA 
studies VI and VII was injection site pain immediately after injection as measured by a 0-10 cm VAS. 
ACR response 
The percentage of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in Table 8. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 8 
ACR responses in placebo-controlled trials  
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
RA Study Ia** 
RA Study IIa** 
RA Study IIIa** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
n=60 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
n=63 
Placebo 
n=110 
Adalimumabb 
n=113 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
n=200 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
n=207 
6.7% 
NA 
29.5% 
24.0% 
65.1% 
NA 
13.3% 
NA 
46.0% 
NA 
19.1% 
NA 
ACR 20 
  6 months 
  12 months 
ACR 50 
  6 months 
  12 months 
ACR 70 
  6 months 
  12 months 
a  RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks 
b 40 mg adalimumab administered every other week 
c MTX = methotrexate 
**p < 0.01, adalimumab versus placebo 
22.1% 
NA 
52.4% 
NA 
23.8% 
NA 
12.4% 
NA 
8.2% 
NA 
9.5% 
9.5% 
2.5% 
4.5% 
1.8% 
NA 
3.3% 
NA 
63.3% 
58.9% 
39.1% 
41.5% 
20.8% 
23.2% 
In RA studies I-IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and swollen 
joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index (HAQ) scores and CRP 
(mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA study III, these improvements were 
maintained throughout 52 weeks. 
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained response 
when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other 
week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. Among those, 86 patients 
(75.4%) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2%) had ACR 50 responses; and 41 patients (36%) had 
ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 
years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0%) had ACR 20 responses; 56 patients (69.1%) had ACR 50 
responses; and 43 patients (53.1%) had ACR 70 responses. 
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care was 
statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care (p < 0.001). 
In RA studies I-IV, adalimumab-treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 responses 
compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment. 
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination therapy 
with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than methotrexate 
monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52 and responses were sustained at week 104 (see 
Table 9). 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9 
ACR responses in RA Study V 
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
MTX 
n=257 
Adalimumab 
n=274 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
n=268 
p-valuea 
p-valueb 
p-valuec 
54.4% 
49.3% 
62.6% 
56.0% 
72.8% 
69.4% 
ACR 20 
  Week 52 
  Week 104 
ACR 50 
  Week 52 
  Week 104 
ACR 70 
25.9% 
  Week 52 
28.1% 
  Week 104 
a.  p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
61.6% 
59.0% 
45.9% 
42.8% 
41.2% 
36.9% 
45.5% 
46.6% 
27.2% 
28.4% 
0.013 
0.002 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.043 
0.140 
0.317 
0.162 
0.656 
0.864 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
b.  p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab 
/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
c.   p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed for up to 
10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 170 patients 
continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 patients (90.6%) had 
ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7%) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 patients (60.0%) had ACR 70 
responses. 
At week 52, 42.9% of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy achieved 
clinical remission (DAS28 (CRP) < 2.6) compared to 20.6% of patients receiving methotrexate monotherapy 
and 23.4% of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. Adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy 
was clinically and statistically superior to methotrexate (p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (p < 
0.001) in achieving a low disease state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate to severe rheumatoid 
arthritis. The response for the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447).  Of 342 subjects originally 
randomised to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy who entered the 
open- label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 
subjects (63.7%) were reported to be in remission at 10 years. 
Radiographic response 
In RA study III, where adalimumab-treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score. 
Adalimumab/methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic progression than patients 
receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 10). 
In the open-label extension of RA Study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage is 
maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally treated with 
40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 patients showed no 
progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. At 10 years, 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated 
radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change 
from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. 
Table 10 
Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA Study III 
Placebo/ 
MTXa 
Adalimumab/MTX 
40 mg every other 
week 
Total Sharp Score 
Erosion score 
JSNd score 
2.7 
1.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
Placebo/MTX-
adalimumab/MTX 
(95% confidence 
intervalb) 
2.6 (1.4, 3.8)  
1.6 (0.9, 2.2) 
0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 
p-value 
< 0.001c 
< 0.001 
  0.002 
amethotrexate 
b95% confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and adalimumab.  
cBased on rank analysis  
dJoint Space Narrowing 
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified 
Total Sharp Score (see Table 11). 
Table 11 
Radiographic mean changes at week 52 in RA Study V 
MTX 
n=257 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab 
n=274 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
5.7 (4.2-7.3) 
3.0 (1.7-4.3) 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
n=268 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
< 0.001 
0.0020 
< 0.001 
Total Sharp 
Score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
0.8 (0.4-1.2) 
0.5 (0-1.0) 
3.7 (2.7-4.7) 
2.0 (1.2-2.8) 
1.7 (1.0-2.4) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
0.0082 
0.0037 
< 0.001 
0.151 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab 
/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test  
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression (change 
from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score  0.5) was significantly higher with adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy (63.8% and 61.2% respectively) compared to methotrexate monotherapy (37.4% and 
33.5% respectively, p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (50.7%, p < 0.002 and 44.5%, p < 0.001 
respectively). 
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified Total 
Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate monotherapy, 
adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, respectively. The 
corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 31.3%, 23.7% and 36.7% 
respectively. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the Health 
Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, which was a pre-
specified primary endpoint at week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of adalimumab in all four studies 
showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability index of the HAQ from 
baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was seen at week 52. Results from 
the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of adalimumab in all four studies support 
these findings, with statistically significant physical component summary (PCS) scores, as well as 
statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 40 mg every other week dose. A statistically 
significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) 
scores was seen in all three studies in which it was assessed (RA studies I, III, IV). 
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued treatment 
maintained improvement through week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. Improvement in quality 
of life was measured up to week 156 (36 months) and improvement was maintained through that time. 
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p < 0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52, which was maintained through week 
104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in physical 
function were maintained through 10 years of treatment. 
Injection site pain 
For the pooled crossover RA studies VI and VII, a statistically significant difference for injection site pain 
immediately after dosing was observed between adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml and adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml 
(mean VAS of 3.7 cm versus 1.2 cm, scale of 0-10 cm, P < 0.001).  This represented an 84% median 
reduction in injection site pain. 
Axial spondyloarthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) 
Adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 393 patients in two randomised, 24 week double − 
blind, placebo − controlled studies in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (mean baseline score of 
disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] was 6.3 in all groups) who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy. Seventy-nine (20.1%) patients were treated 
concomitantly with disease modifying anti − rheumatic drugs, and 37 (9.4%) patients with glucocorticoids. 
The blinded period was followed by an open − label period during which patients received adalimumab 
40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 28 weeks. Subjects (n=215, 54.7%) who 
failed to achieve ASAS 20 at weeks 12, or 16 or 20 received early escape open-label adalimumab 40 mg 
every other week subcutaneously and were subsequently treated as non-responders in the double-blind 
statistical analyses. 
In the larger AS study I with 315 patients, results showed statistically significant improvement of the signs 
and symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis in patients treated with adalimumab compared to placebo. 
Significant response was first observed at week 2 and maintained through 24 weeks (Table 12). 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
 Efficacy responses in placebo-controlled AS Study – Study I 
reduction of signs and symptoms 
Response 
ASASa 20 
             Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
ASAS 50 
             Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
ASAS 70 
             Week 2 
Week 12 
Week 24 
BASDAIb 50  
             Week 2 
Week 12  
Week 24  
Placebo 
N=107 
Adalimumab 
N=208 
16% 
21% 
19% 
3% 
10% 
11% 
0% 
5% 
8% 
4% 
16% 
15% 
42%*** 
58%*** 
51%*** 
16%*** 
38%*** 
35%*** 
7%** 
23%*** 
24%*** 
20%*** 
45%*** 
42%*** 
***,** Statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01 for all comparisons between adalimumab and 
placebo at Weeks 2, 12 and 24 
a Assessments in Ankylosing Spondylitis 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
Adalimumab-treated patients had significantly greater improvement at week 12 which was maintained 
through week 24 in both the SF36 and Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life Questionnaire (ASQoL). 
Similar trends (not all statistically significant) were seen in the smaller randomised, double − blind, placebo 
controlled AS study II of 82 adult patients with active ankylosing spondylitis. 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in two randomised, double-blind placebo controlled 
studies in patients with non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis (nr-axSpA). Study nr-axSpA I evaluated 
patients with active nr-axSpA. Study nr-axSpA II was a treatment withdrawal study in active nr-axSpA 
patients who achieved remission during open-label treatment with adalimumab. 
Study nr-axSpA I 
In Study nr-axSpA I, adalimumab 40 mg every other week was assessed in 185 patients in a randomised, 12 
week double - blind, placebo - controlled study in patients with active nr-axSpA (mean baseline score of 
disease activity [Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI)] was 6.4 for patients 
treated with adalimumab and 6.5 for those on placebo) who have had an inadequate response to or 
intolerance to  1 NSAIDs, or a contraindication for NSAIDs. 
Thirty-three (18%)  patients were treated concomitantly with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, and 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
146 (79%) patients with NSAIDs at baseline. The double-blind period was followed by an open-label period 
during which patients receive adalimumab 40 mg every other week subcutaneously for up to an additional 
144 weeks. Week 12 results showed statistically significant improvement of the signs and symptoms of 
active nr-axSpA in patients treated with adalimumab compared to placebo (Table 13). 
Table 13 
Efficacy response in placebo-controlled Study nr-axSpA I 
Placebo 
N=94 
Adalimumab 
N=91 
15% 
31% 
6% 
5% 
15% 
-0.3 
4% 
-0.3 
-0.6 
-0.2 
Double-blind 
response at week 12 
ASASa 40 
ASAS 20 
ASAS 5/6 
ASAS Partial Remission 
BASDAIb 50 
ASDASc,d,e 
ASDAS Inactive Disease 
hs-CRPd,f,g 
SPARCCh MRI Sacroiliac Jointsd,i 
SPARCC MRI Spined,j 
a Assessment of SpondyloArthritis international Society 
b Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index 
c Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score 
d mean change from baseline 
e n=91 placebo and n=87 adalimumab 
f high sensitivity C-Reactive Protein (mg/L) 
g n=73 placebo and n=70 adalimumab 
h Spondyloarthritis Research Consortium of Canada 
i n=84 placebo and adalimumab 
j n=82 placebo and n=85 adalimumab 
***, **, * Statistically significant at p < 0.001, < 0.01, and < 0.05, respectively, for all comparisons between 
adalimumab and placebo. 
36%*** 
52%** 
31%*** 
16%* 
 35%** 
-1.0*** 
24%*** 
-4.7*** 
-3.2** 
-1.8** 
In the open-label extension, improvement in the signs and symptoms was maintained with adalimumab 
therapy through week 156. 
Inhibition of inflammation 
Significant improvement of signs of inflammation as measured by hs-CRP and MRI of both Sacroiliac Joints 
and the Spine was maintained in adalimumab-treated patients through week 156 and week 104, respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the HAQ-S and the SF-36 
questionnaires. Adalimumab showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the HAQ-S total 
score and the SF-36 Physical Component Score (PCS) from baseline to week 12 compared to placebo. 
Improvement in health-related quality of life and physical function was maintained during the open-label 
extension through week 156. 
Study nr-axSpA II 
673 patients with active nr-axSpA (mean baseline disease activity [BASDAI] was 7.0) who had an 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
inadequate response to  2 NSAIDs, or an intolerance to or a contraindication for NSAIDs enrolled into the 
open-label period of Study nr-axSpA II during which they received adalimumab 40 mg eow for 28 weeks. 
These patients also had objective evidence of inflammation in the sacroiliac joints or spine on MRI or 
elevated hs-CRP. Patients who achieved sustained remission for at least 12 weeks (N=305) (ASDAS < 1.3 at 
weeks 16, 20, 24, and 28) during the open-label period were then randomised to receive either continued 
treatment with adalimumab 40 mg eow (N=152) or placebo (N=153) for an additional 40 weeks in a double-
blind, placebo-controlled period (total study duration 68 weeks). Subjects who flared during the double-blind 
period were allowed adalimumab 40 mg eow rescue therapy for at least 12 weeks. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the proportion of patients with no flare by week 68 of the study. Flare 
was defined as ASDAS ≥ 2.1 at two consecutive visits four weeks apart. A greater proportion of patients on 
adalimumab had no disease flare during the double-blind period, when compared with those on placebo 
(70.4% vs. 47.1%, p<0.001) (Figure 1). 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Curves Summarizing Time to Flare in 
Study nr-axSpA II 
E
R
A
L
F
O
N
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
                                  Treatment       
 Placebo     
 Adalimumab     ∆ Censored 
TIME (WEEKS) 
Note: P = Placebo (Number at Risk (flared)); A = Adalimumab (Number at Risk (flared)). 
Among the 68 patients who flared in the group allocated to treatment withdrawal, 65 completed 12 weeks of 
rescue therapy with adalimumab, out of which 37 (56.9%) had regained remission (ASDAS < 1.3) after 
12 weeks of restarting the open-label treatment. 
By week 68, patients receiving continuous adalimumab treatment showed statistically significant greater 
improvement of the signs and symptoms of active nr-axSpA as compared to patients allocated to treatment 
withdrawal during the double-blind period of the study (Table 14). 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 14 
Efficacy response in placebo-controlled period for Study nr-axSpA II 
Adalimumab 
N=152 
Placebo 
N=153 
Double-blind 
response at week 68 
ASASa,b 20 
ASASa,b 40 
ASASa Partial Remission 
ASDASc Inactive Disease 
Partial Flared 
a Assessment of SpondyloArthritis international Society 
b Baseline is defined as open label baseline when patients have active disease. 
c Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Score 
d Partial flare is defined as ASDAS ≥ 1.3 but < 2.1 at 2 consecutive visits. 
***, ** Statistically significant at p < 0.001 and < 0.01, respectively, for all comparisons between 
adalimumab and placebo. 
47.1% 
45.8% 
26.8% 
33.3% 
64.1% 
70.4%*** 
65.8%*** 
42.1%** 
57.2%*** 
40.8%*** 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Adalimumab, 40 mg every other week, was studied in patients with moderately to severely active psoriatic 
arthritis in two placebo-controlled studies, PsA studies I and II.  PsA study I with 24 week duration, treated 
313 adult patients who had an inadequate response to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug therapy and of 
these, approximately 50% were taking methotrexate. PsA study II with 12-week duration, treated 100 
patients who had an inadequate response to DMARD therapy. Upon completion of both studies, 383 patients 
enrolled in an open-label extension study, in which 40 mg adalimumab was administered every other week 
(eow). 
There is insufficient evidence of the efficacy of adalimumab in patients with ankylosing spondylitis-like 
psoriatic arthropathy due to the small number of patients studied. 
Table 15 
ACR response in placebo-controlled psoriatic arthritis studies 
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
ACR 20  
Week 12 
Week 24 
ACR 50  
Week 12 
Week 24 
ACR 70  
Week 12 
Week 24 
PsA Study I 
PsA Study II 
Placebo 
N=162 
Adalimumab 
N=151 
Placebo  
N=49 
Adalimumab 
N=51 
14% 
15% 
4% 
6% 
1% 
1% 
58%*** 
57%*** 
36%*** 
39%*** 
20%*** 
23%*** 
16% 
N/A 
2% 
N/A 
0% 
N/A 
39%* 
N/A 
25%*** 
N/A 
14% * 
N/A 
***  p < 0.001 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
* 
N/A   not applicable 
p < 0.05 for all comparisons between adalimumab and placebo 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACR responses in PsA study I were similar with and without concomitant methotrexate therapy. ACR 
responses were maintained in the open-label extension study for up to 136 weeks. 
Radiographic changes were assessed in the psoriatic arthritis studies. Radiographs of hands, wrists, and feet 
were obtained at baseline and week 24 during the double-blind period when patients were on adalimumab or 
placebo and at week 48 when all patients were on open-label adalimumab. A modified Total Sharp Score 
(mTSS), which included distal interphalangeal joints (i.e. not identical to the TSS used for rheumatoid 
arthritis), was used. 
Adalimumab treatment reduced the rate of progression of peripheral joint damage compared with placebo 
treatment as measured by change from baseline in mTSS  (mean ± SD) 0.8 ± 2.5 in the placebo group (at 
week 24) compared with 0.0 ± 1.9; (p < 0.001) in the adalimumab group (at week 48). 
In subjects treated with adalimumab with no radiographic progression from baseline to week 48 (n=102), 
84% continued to show no radiographic progression through 144 weeks of treatment. 
Adalimumab-treated patients demonstrated statistically significant improvement in physical function as 
assessed by HAQ and Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) compared to placebo at week 24. Improved 
physical function continued during the open label extension up to week 136. 
Psoriasis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis ( 10% 
BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI)  12 or  10) who were candidates for 
systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73% of patients enrolled in Psoriasis 
Studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy.  The safety and efficacy of adalimumab 
were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis with concomitant hand 
and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a randomised double- blind study 
(Psoriasis Study III). 
Psoriasis Study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods.  In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one 
week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least a PASI 75 response 
(PASI score improvement of at least 75% relative to baseline), entered period B and received open-label 
40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained PASI 75 response at week 33 and were 
originally randomised to active therapy in Period A, were re-randomised in period C to receive 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean 
baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from 
“moderate” (53% of subjects included) to “severe” (41%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Psoriasis Study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus methotrexate and 
placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg and thereafter dose 
increases up to week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed 
by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 16 weeks. There are no data 
available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. Patients receiving MTX who 
achieved a PASI 50 response at week 8 and/or 12 did not receive further dose increases. Across all 
treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the baseline PGA score ranged from “mild” (< 
1%) to “moderate” (48%) to “severe” (46%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open-label 
extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks. 
In Psoriasis Studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a PASI 75 
response from baseline at week 16 (see Tables 16 and 17). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16 
Ps Study I (REVEAL) - efficacy results at 16 weeks 
Placebo 
N=398 
n (%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=814 
n (%) 
     PASI 75a 
    PASI 100 
    PGA: Clear/minimal 
a Percent of patients achieving PASI75 response was calculated as centre-adjusted rate 
b p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
17 (4.3) 
578 (70.9)b 
163 (20.0)b 
506 (62.2)b 
Table 17 
 Ps Study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks 
Placebo 
N=53 
n (%) 
10 (18.9) 
1 (1.9) 
6 (11.3) 
MTX 
N=110 
n (%) 
39 (35.5) 
8 (7.3) 
33 (30.0) 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=108 
n (%) 
86 (79.6) a, b 
18 (16.7) c, d 
79 (73.1) a, b 
     PASI 75 
    PASI 100 
    PGA: Clear/minimal 
a p < 0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo 
b p < 0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
c p < 0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo 
d p < 0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
In Psoriasis Study I, 28% of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to placebo at 
week 33 compared to 5% continuing on adalimumab, p < 0.001, experienced “loss of adequate response” 
(PASI score after week 33 and on or before week 52 that resulted in a < PASI 50 response relative to 
baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to week 33). Of the patients who lost 
adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled into the open-label extension trial, 
38% (25/66) and 55% (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 12 and 24 weeks of re-treatment, 
respectively. 
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at week 16 and week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy for 
52 weeks in Psoriasis Study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial.  PASI 75 and 
PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7% and 59.0%, respectively, after an 
additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all patients who 
dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, were considered non-
responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 69.6% and 55.7%, 
respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). 
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open-label 
extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a median time 
to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of these patients 
experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5% (218/285) of patients who entered the 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 weeks of retreatment, irrespective 
of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1%[123/178] and 88.8% [95/107] for patients who relapsed 
and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, respectively).  A similar safety profile was observed 
during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (Studies I and II) and MTX (Study 
II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In Study I, improvements in the 
physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also significant compared to placebo. 
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 40 mg 
weekly due to a PASI response below 50%, 26.4% (92/349) and 37.8% (132/349) of patients achieved PASI 
75 response at week 12 and 24, respectively. 
Psoriasis Study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 72 patients 
with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients received an initial 
dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or 
placebo for 16 weeks. At week 16, a statistically significantly greater proportion of patients who received 
adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the hands and/or feet compared to patients who 
received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3%, respectively [P = 0.014]). 
Psoriasis Study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients with 
moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg 
every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks followed by open-label 
adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments included the Modified Nail 
Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and 
the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 18). Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in 
nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin involvement (BSA ≥ 10% (60% of patients) and BSA< 
10% and ≥ 5% (40% of patients)). 
Endpoint 
Table 18 
Ps Study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks 
Week 26 
Placebo-Controlled 
Week 16 
Placebo-Controlled 
Placebo 
N=108 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow  
N=109 
Placebo 
N=108 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow  
N=109 
Week 52 
Open-label 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow  
N=80 
2.9 
2.9 
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%) 
PGA-F clear/minimal and 
≥ 2-grade improvement 
(%) 
Percentage Change in 
Total 
Fingernail NAPSI (%) 
a p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
-7.8 
26.0a
29.7a
3.4 
6.9 
-44.2 a
-11.5 
46.6a
48.9a
-56.2a
65.0 
61.3 
-72.2 
Adalimumab-treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at week 26 compared with 
placebo in the DLQI. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa 
(HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 3-month trial of 
systemic antibiotic therapy.  The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or III disease with at least 3 
abscesses or inflammatory nodules. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods.  In Period A, patients received 
placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2, and 40 mg every week 
starting at week 4 to week 11.  Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the study.  After 12 weeks 
of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 
treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from 
week 12 to week 35).  Patients who had been randomised to placebo in Period A were assigned to receive 
adalimumab 40 mg every week in Period B. 
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods.  In Period A, patients received 
placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg every week 
starting at week 4 to week 11.  19.3% of patients had continued baseline oral antibiotic therapy during the 
study.  After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-randomised in 
Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
or placebo from week 12 to week 35).  Patients who had been randomised to placebo in Period A were 
assigned to receive placebo in Period B. 
Patients participating in Studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension study in 
which adalimumab 40mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab population was 
762 days.  Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily. 
Clinical Response 
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas was 
assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50% reduction in total abscess 
and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count 
relative to Baseline).  Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a Numeric Rating Scale in 
patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater on a 11 point scale. 
At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo achieved 
HiSCR. At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in Study HS-II experienced a clinically 
relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see Table 19).  Patients treated with adalimumab had significantly 
reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of treatment. 
Table 19 
Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS Studies I and II 
Hidradenitis Suppurativa 
Clinical Response (HiSCR)a  
≥ 30% Reduction in Skin 
Painb 
HS Study I 
HS Study II 
Placebo 
N = 154 
40 (26.0%) 
N = 109 
27 (24.8%) 
Adalimumab  
40 mg Weekly 
N = 153 
64 (41.8%) * 
Placebo 
N=163 
45 (27.6%) 
Adalimumab  
40 mg Weekly 
N=163 
96 (58.9%) *** 
N = 122 
34 (27.9%) 
N=111 
23 (20.7%) 
N=105 
48 (45.7%) *** 
* P < 0.05, ***P < 0.001, adalimumab versus placebo  
a  Among all randomised patients. 
b  Among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric Rating 
Scale 0 – 10; 0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine. 
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of abscesses and 
draining fistulas.  Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group in the first 12 weeks 
of Studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group experienced worsening of 
abscesses (23.0% vs 11.4%, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0% vs 13.9%, respectively). 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Greater improvements at week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin-specific 
health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; Studies HS-I and 
HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medication treatment as measured by the Treatment Satisfaction 
Questionnaire - medication (TSQM; Studies HS-I and HS-II), and physical health as measured by the 
physical component summary score of the SF-36 (Study HS-I). 
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at week 12, the HiSCR rate at week 
36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in whom dosing frequency was 
reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn (see Table 20). 
Table 20 
Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at weeks 24 and 36 after treatment reassignment from 
weekly adalimumab at week 12 
Placebo 
(treatment withdrawal) 
N = 73 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
every other week 
N = 70 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
weekly 
N = 70 
Week 24 
24 (32.9%) 
36 (51.4%) 
40 (57.1%) 
Week 36 
a  Patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after 12 weeks of treatment. 
b  Patients meeting protocol-specified criteria for loss of response or no improvement were required to 
39 (55.7%) 
22 (30.1%) 
28 (40.0%) 
discontinue from the studies and were counted as nonresponders. 
Among patients who were at least partial responders at week 12, and who received continuous weekly 
adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at week 48 was 68.3% and at week 96 was 65.1%. Longer term 
treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at week 12 in Studies HS-I and HS-II, the 
HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly returned to levels similar to that 
observed before withdrawal (56.0 %). 
Crohn’s disease 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1500 patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI)  220 and  450) in randomised, double-
blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, and/or 
immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80% of patients continued to receive at least one of these 
medications. 
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI < 150) was evaluated in two studies, CD Study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD Study II (GAIN). In CD Study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised 
to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 
2, 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2, and 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2. In CD Study II, 325 
patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were randomised to receive either 160 mg 
adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 or placebo at weeks 0 and 2. The primary non-responders were 
excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were not further evaluated. 
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM).  In CD Study III, 854 patients 
received open-label 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2.  At week 4 patients were randomised to 40 mg 
every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 56 weeks. Patients in clinical 
response (decrease in CDAI ≥ 70) at week 4 were stratified and analysed separately from those not in 
clinical response at week 4.  Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 8. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 21. 
Table 21 
Induction of clinical remission and response 
(percentage of patients) 
CD Study I:  
infliximab naive patients 
CD Study II:  
infliximab experienced 
patients 
Placebo 
N=74 
Adalimumab 
80/40 mg 
N = 75 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=76 
Placebo 
N=166 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=159 
12% 
24% 
24% 
37% 
36%* 
49%** 
7% 
25% 
21%* 
38%** 
Week 4 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
(CR-100) 
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo 
* 
p < 0.001 
**  p < 0.01 
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by week 8 and 
adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group. 
In CD Study III, at week 4, 58% (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in the 
primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at week 4, 48% had been previously exposed to other TNF- 
antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 22.  Clinical remission 
results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist exposure. 
Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with adalimumab 
compared with placebo at week 56. 
Table 22 
Maintenance of clinical remission and response 
(percentage of patients) 
Week 26 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100) 
Patients in steroid-free remission  
for >=90 daysa 
Week 56 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100) 
Patients in steroid-free remission  
for >= 90 daysa 
Placebo 
N=170 
17% 
27% 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every other week 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every week 
N=172 
40%* 
52%* 
N=157 
47%* 
52%* 
3% (2/66) 
19% (11/58)** 
15% (11/74)** 
N=170 
12% 
17% 
N=172 
36%* 
41%* 
N=157 
41%* 
48%* 
5% (3/66) 
29% (17/58)* 
20% (15/74)** 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*  p < 0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
**  p < 0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
a  Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Among patients who were not in response at week 4, 43% of adalimumab maintenance patients responded 
by week 12 compared to 30% of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that some patients who 
have not responded by week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy through week 12.  Therapy 
continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses (see section 4.2). 
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed through at 
least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy.  88 and 189 patients, respectively, continued to be in 
clinical remission.  Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 233 patients, respectively. 
Quality of life 
In CD Study I and CD Study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific inflammatory 
bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at week 4 in patients randomised to 
adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at weeks 26 and 56 in CD Study 
III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo group. 
Ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of multiple doses of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with moderately to 
severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3) in randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. 
In study UC-I, 390 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised to receive either placebo at weeks 0 and 
2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 followed by 80 mg at week 2, or 80 mg adalimumab at week 0 followed by 
40 mg at week 2.  After week 2, patients in both adalimumab arms received 40 mg eow.  Clinical remission 
(defined as Mayo score ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1) was assessed at week 8. 
In study UC-II, 248 patients received 160 mg of adalimumab at week 0, 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg eow 
thereafter, and 246 patients received placebo. Clinical results were assessed for induction of remission at 
week 8 and for maintenance of remission at week 52. 
Patients induced with 160/80 mg adalimumab achieved clinical remission versus placebo at week 8 in 
statistically significantly greater percentages in study UC-I (18% vs. 9% respectively, p=0.031) and study 
UC-II (17% vs. 9% respectively, p=0.019). In study UC-II, among those treated with adalimumab who were 
in remission at week 8, 21/41 (51%) were in remission at week 52. 
Results from the overall UC-II study population are shown in Table 23. 
Table 23 
Response, remission and mucosal healing in Study UC-II 
(percentage of patients) 
Week 52 
clinical response 
clinical remission 
mucosal healing 
Placebo 
N=246 
18 % 
9 % 
15 % 
42 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=248 
30 %* 
17 %* 
25 %* 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 daysa 
Week 8 and 52 
sustained response 
sustained remission 
sustained mucosal healing 
6 % 
(N = 140) 
12 % 
4 % 
11 % 
13 %* 
(N = 150) 
24 %** 
8 %* 
19 %* 
Clinical remission is Mayo score  ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1; 
Clinical response is decrease from baseline in Mayo score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% plus a decrease in 
the rectal bleeding subscore [RBS] ≥ 1 or an absolute RBS of 0 or 1; 
*p < 0.05 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
**p < 0.001 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
a Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Of those patients who had a response at week 8, 47% were in response, 29% were in remission, 41% had 
mucosal healing, and 20% were in steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 days at week 52. 
Approximately 40% of patients in study UC-II had failed prior anti-TNF treatment with infliximab. The 
efficacy of adalimumab in those patients was reduced compared to that in anti-TNF naïve patients. Among 
patients who had failed prior anti-TNF treatment, week 52 remission was achieved by 3% on placebo and 
10% on adalimumab. 
Patients from studies UC-I and UC-II had the option to roll over into an open-label long-term extension 
study (UC III). Following 3 years of adalimumab therapy, 75% (301/402) continued to be in clinical 
remission per partial Mayo score. 
Hospitalisation rates 
During 52 weeks of studies UC-I and UC-II, lower rates of all-cause hospitalisations and UC-related 
hospitalisations were observed for the adalimumab-treated arm compared to the placebo arm. The number of 
all cause hospitalisations in the adalimumab treatment group was 0.18 per patient year vs. 0.26 per patient 
year in the placebo group and the corresponding figures for UC-related hospitalisations were 0.12 per patient 
year vs. 0.22 per patient year. 
Quality of life 
In study UC-II, treatment with adalimumab resulted in improvements in the Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Questionnaire (IBDQ) score. 
Uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious intermediate, 
posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two randomised, double- 
masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose 
of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after the initial dose. Concomitant stable 
doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted. 
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral prednisone 
at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of prednisone 60 mg/day at 
study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 
15. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment (oral 
prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently underwent a 
mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 19. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ‘time to treatment failure’. Treatment failure was defined 
by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory retinal vascular 
lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best corrected visual acuity 
(BCVA). 
Patients who completed Studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue on study 
medication beyond week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
Clinical Response 
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment failure in 
patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (see Table 24). Both studies 
demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus placebo (see 
Figure 2). 
Table 24 
Time to treatment failure in Studies UV I and UV II 
Analysis 
treatment 
N 
Failure N (%) 
Median 
time to 
failure 
(months) 
HRa 
CI 95% 
for HRa 
P Valueb 
time to treatment failure at or after week 6 in study UV I  
primary analysis (ITT)  
placebo 
adalimumab 
107  
110  
84 (78.5)  
60 (54.5)  
3.0  
5.6  
--  
--  
--  
0.50  
0.36, 0.70   < 0.001  
time to treatment failure at or after week 2 in study UV II 
primary analysis (ITT) 
placebo  
111  
61 (55.0)  
115  
45 (39.1)  
adalimumab  
0.004  
Note: Treatment failure at or after Week 6 (Study UV I), or at or after Week 2 (Study UV II), was counted 
as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of dropping out. 
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor. 
b 2-sided P value from log rank test. 
c NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event 
0.39, 0.84  
0.57  
8.3  
NEc  
--  
--  
--  
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier Curves Summarizing Time to Treatment Failure on or after Week 6 (Study 
UV I) or Week 2 (Study UV II) 
)
%
(
E
T
A
R
E
R
U
L
I
A
F
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
)
%
(
E
T
A
R
E
R
U
L
I
A
F
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
Study UV I                        Treatment 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
TIME (MONTHS) 
Study UV II                       Treatment 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of 
Events/Number at Risk). 
TIME (MONTHS) 
In Study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were observed for 
each component of treatment failure.  In Study UV II, statistically significant differences were observed for 
visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of adalimumab. 
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of Studies UV I and UV II, 60 subjects 
were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to diabetic retinopathy, 
due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 
remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74%) reached 78 weeks of open-label adalimumab treatment. 
Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3%) were in quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC 
cell grade  ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2%) 
were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 
88.6% of the eyes at week 78. Data beyond week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
number of enrolled subjects declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 
18% discontinued due to adverse events, and 8% due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment. 
Quality of Life 
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical studies, using 
the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores with statistically 
significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental health, and total score in 
Study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in Study UV II. Vision related effects were not 
numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in Study UVI and for colour vision, peripheral vision 
and near vision in Study UV II. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment. Formation of anti-adalimumab 
antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab. 
There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies and the occurrence of 
adverse events. 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with active 
polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA onset types (most 
frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis). 
pJIA I 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel − 
group study in 171 children (4-17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in phase (OL LI) 
patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX-treated. Patients who 
were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from MTX at least two weeks 
prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of NSAIDs and or prednisone ( 0.2 
mg/kg/day or 10 mg/day maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients received 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 
40 mg adalimumab every other week for 16 weeks.  The distribution of patients by age and minimum, 
median and maximum dose received during the OL LI phase is presented in Table 25. 
Table 25 
Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI phase 
Age group 
4 to 7 years 
8 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
Number of patients at baseline 
n (%) 
31 (18.1) 
71 (41.5) 
69 (40.4) 
Minimum, median and 
maximum 
dose 
10, 20 and 25 mg 
20, 25 and 40 mg 
25, 40 and 40 mg 
Patients demonstrating a Paediatric ACR 30 response at week 16 were eligible to be randomised into the 
double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg, or placebo 
every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare criteria were defined as a 
worsening of  30% from baseline in  3 of 6 Paediatric ACR core criteria,  2 active joints, and 
improvement of  30% in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 32 weeks or at disease flare, patients were 
eligible to enrol into the open label extension phase. 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 26 
Ped ACR 30 responses in the JIA study 
MTX 
Without MTX 
94.1% (80/85) 
74.4% (64/86) 
Stratum 
Phase 
OL-LI 16 weeks 
Ped ACR 30 
response (n/N) 
                                                           Efficacy Outcomes 
Double blind 32 weeks 
Adalimumab/MTX 
(N = 38) 
36.8% (14/38) 
Placebo/MTX 
(N = 37) 
64.9% (24/37)b 
Adalimumab 
(N = 30) 
43.3% (13/30) 
Placebo 
(N = 28) 
71.4% 
(20/28)c 
> 32 weeks 
20 weeks 
> 32 weeks 
14 weeks 
Disease flares at 
the end of 
32 weeksa (n/N) 
Median time to 
disease flare 
a Ped ACR 30/50/70 responses Week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo treated patients  
b p = 0.015 
c p = 0.031 
Amongst those who responded at week 16 (n=144), the paediatric ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 
maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout the study. 
Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 12 and 8 of the baseline age group 13 to 17 
years were treated 6 years or longer. 
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with the 
combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, Yuflyma is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as monotherapy in 
patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2). 
pJIA II 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children (2 - < 
4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg) with moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA. The 
patients received 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 20 mg every other 
week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During the study, most subjects used 
concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or NSAIDs. 
At week 12 and week 24, PedACR30 response was 93.5% and 90.0%, respectively, using the observed data 
approach. The proportions of subjects with PedACR50/70/90 at week 12 and week 24 were 
90.3%/61.3%/38.7% and 83.3%/73.3%/36.7%, respectively. Amongst those who responded (Paediatric ACR 
30) at week 24 (n=27 out of 30 patients), the Paediatric ACR 30 responses were maintained for up to 60 
weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout this time period. Overall, 20 
subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study in 46 
paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were randomised to 
receive either 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 40 mg, or placebo 
every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-label (OL) period during 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which patients received 24 mg/m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 40 mg every other week 
subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was the percentage change from 
Baseline to week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not due to deformity or joints with 
loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with mean percentage decrease of - 62.6% 
(median percentage change -88.9%) in patients in the adalimumab group compared to -11.6% (median 
percentage change -50.0%) in patients in the placebo group. Improvement in number of active joints with 
arthritis was maintained during the OL period through week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84%) patients in the 
adalimumab group who remained in the study. Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients 
demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint 
count (TJC), swollen joint count (SJC), Paediatric ACR 50 response, and Paediatric ACR 70 response. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 114 paediatric 
patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a PGA ≥ 4 or > 20% BSA 
involvement or > 10% BSA involvement with very thick lesions or PASI ≥ 20 or ≥ 10 with clinically 
relevant facial, genital, or hand/ foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled with topical therapy 
and heliotherapy or phototherapy. 
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg/kg eow (up to 20 mg), or methotrexate 
0.1- 0.4 mg/kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At week 16, more patients randomised to adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg had 
positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those randomised to 0.4 mg/kg eow or MTX. 
Table 27 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks 
MTXa
N=37 
12 (32.4%) 
15 (40.5%) 
PASI 75b
PGA: Clear/minimalc
a MTX = methotrexate 
b P=0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
c P=0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
Adalimumab 0.8 
mg/kg eow  
N=38 
2
2 
2
(
3 
5
(
7
6
.
0
9
.
%
5
) 
%
) 
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 36 
weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades).  Patients 
were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow for an additional 16 weeks and response rates 
observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period:  PASI 75 response of 78.9% 
(15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6% (10 of 19 subjects). 
In the open label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were maintained for up 
to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS.  Efficacy of adalimumab for the 
treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and exposure- 
response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, pathophysiology, and 
drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure levels. Safety of the 
recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on cross-indication safety profile 
of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more frequent doses (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body weight (< 40 kg 
or ≥ 40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, with moderate to 
severe Crohn´s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index (PCDAI) score > 30. 
Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator) 
for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been intolerant to infliximab. 
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 160 mg at 
week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 for subjects ≥ 40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for subjects < 40 kg. 
At week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low Dose or 
Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 28. 
Table 28  
Maintenance regimen 
Patient Weight 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
Low dose 
10 mg eow 
20 mg eow 
Standard dose 
20 mg eow 
40 mg eow 
Efficacy results 
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at week 26, defined as PCDAI score  10. 
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points from 
Baseline) rates are presented in Table 29. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators 
are presented in Table 30. 
Table 29 
Paediatric CD Study 
PCDAI clinical remission and response 
Low Dose 
20/10 mg eow  
N = 95 
Standard Dose 
40/20 mg eow  
N = 93 
Week 26 
   Clinical remission 
   Clinical response  
Week 52 
   Clinical remission 
   Clinical response 
* p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison. 
33.3% 
41.9% 
23.2% 
28.4% 
38.7% 
59.1% 
28.4% 
48.4% 
P value* 
0.075 
0.073 
0.100 
0.038 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 30 
Paediatric CD Study 
discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission 
P value1 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg eow  
N= 33 
Discontinued corticosteroids 
84.8% 
Week 26 
69.7% 
Week 52 
Discontinuation of immunomodulators2 
N=60 
30.0% 
Week 52 
Fistula remission3 
N=15 
46.7% 
Week 26 
Week 52 
40.0% 
1 p value for Standard dose versus Low dose comparison. 
2 Immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after week 26 at the 
investigator's discretion if the subject met the clinical response criterion  
3 defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at baseline for at least 2 consecutive 
post-baseline visits 
Low dose 
20/10 mg eow  
N=38 
65.8% 
60.5% 
N=57 
29.8% 
N=21 
38.1% 
23.8% 
0.983 
0.608 
0.303 
0.066 
0.420 
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to week 26 and 52 in Body Mass Index and 
height velocity were observed for both treatment groups. 
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both treatment 
groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III). 
One hundred patients (n=100) from the Paediatric CD Study continued in an open-label long-term extension 
study.  After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0% (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in the study 
continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0% (46/50) of patients continued to be in clinical response per 
PCDAI. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, trial in 93 
paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 
with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who had an inadequate 
response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in the study had failed prior 
anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were allowed to taper their 
corticosteroid therapy after week 4. 
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomized 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment 
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, 
placebo at week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2. Both groups received 0.6 mg/kg 
(maximum of 40 mg) at week 4 and week 6. following an amendment to the study design, the remaining 16 
patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with adalimumab at the 
induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 
mg) at week 2.  
At week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a 
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomized equally to receive double-blind 
maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (ew), or a 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to an amendment to the 
study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS were randomized to 
receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy. 
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at week 
8), at least 2 points (for patients with pms of 3 to 4 at week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients with pms of 5 
to 6 at week 8).  
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after week 12 were randomized to receive a re-induction dose 
of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and continued to receive 
their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards.  
Efficacy Results 
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no 
individual subscore > 1) at week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a Mayo 
Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response per PMS at 
week 8. 
Clinical remission rates per PMS at week 8 for patients in each of the adalimumab double-blind induction 
groups are presented in Table 31.  
Table 31: Clinical remission per PMS at 8 weeks  
13/30 (43.3%) 
Adalimumaba  
maximum of 160 mg at week 
0 / placebo at week 1  
N=30 
Adalimumabb, c  
maximum of 160 mg at week 
0 and week 1  
N=47 
28/47 (59.6%) 
Clinical remission 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, placebo at week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at 
week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at week 4 and week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoint  
At week 52, clinical remission per FMS in week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as a 
decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in week 8 responders, mucosal healing per 
FMS (defined as an Mayo endoscopy score ≤ 1) in week 8 responders, clinical remission per FMS in Week 
8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free remission per FMS in Week 8 responders 
were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the double-blind maximum 40 mg eow (0.6 mg/kg) 
and maximum 40 mg ew (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance doses (Table 32). 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 32: Efficacy results at 52 weeks  
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 40 mg eow  
N=31 
Adalimumabb 
maximum of 40 mg ew  
N=31 
9/31 (29.0%)  
14/31 (45.2%) 
21/31 (67.7%)  
12/31 (38.7%)  
19/31 (61.3%)  
Clinical remission in week 8 PMS 
responders  
Clinical response in week 8 PMS 
responders  
Mucosal healing in week 8 PMS 
responders  
Clinical remission in week 8 PMS 
remitters  
Corticosteroid-free remission in week 8 
PMS respondersc  
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week  
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week  
c In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline  
Note: Patients with missing values at week 52 or who were randomized to receive re-induction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for week 52 endpoints  
10/22 (45.5%)  
16/31 (51.6%)  
4/13 (30.8%)  
9/21 (42.9%)  
5/16 (31.3%)  
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis 
Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and clinical remission 
per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at week 8 and week 52 (Table 33).  
Table 33: Exploratory endpoints results per PUCAI 
Week 8 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at 
week 0 / placebo at week 1 
N=30 
10/30 (33.3%) 
15/30 (50.0%) 
Adalimumabb,c 
maximum of 160 mg at week 
0 and week 1 
N=47 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Week 52 
Adalimumabd 
maximum of 40 mg eow 
N=31 
14/31 (45.2%) 
Adalimumabe 
maximum of 40 mg ew 
N=31 
18/31 (58.1%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
in week 8 PMS responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
in week 8 PMS responders 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, placebo at week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2  
c Not including open-label induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at 
week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 
16/31 (51.6%) 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
d Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
e Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at week 4 and week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at week 52 or who were randomized to receive re-induction 
or maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for week 52 endpoints 
Of the adalimumab-treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance period, 2/6 
(33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at week 52. 
Quality of life 
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver Work 
Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab.  
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for the 
groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in Body 
Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 40 mg (0.6 mg/kg) ew. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-masked, controlled study of 90 
paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated noninfectious anterior uveitis who 
were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment.  Patients received either placebo or 20 mg 
adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week in combination with their 
baseline dose of methotrexate. 
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with development of 
sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted use of concomitant 
medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time. 
Clinical response 
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (see Figure 3, P < 
0.0001 from log rank test). The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for subjects treated with 
placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for subjects treated with 
adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment failure.  Adalimumab 
significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75% relative to placebo, as shown by the hazard ratio 
(HR = 0.25 [95% CI:  0.12, 0.49]). 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure in the paediatric uveitis study 
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
G
N
I
L
I
A
F
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
Treatment 
Note: P = Placebo (Number at Risk); A = Adalimumab (Number at Risk). 
TIME (WEEKS) 
  Placebo 
      Adalimumab 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution 
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab was 
slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The average absolute 
bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg subcutaneous dose was 
64%. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, concentrations were dose proportional. 
After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) 
ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase half-life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab 
concentrations in the synovial fluid from several rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96% of those 
in serum. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 g/ml (without 
concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 g/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively.  The serum 
adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose following 20, 40 and 
80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to patients 
with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough steady-state 
(values measured from week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 5.6 ± 5.6 µg/ml (102% CV) for 
adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 10.9 ± 5.2 µg/ml (47.7% CV) with concomitant 
methotrexate. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to < 4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg dosed 
with adalimumab 24 mg/m2, the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations was 6.0 ±  6.1 
µg/ml (101% CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 7.9 ± 5.6 µg/ml (71.2% CV) with 
concomitant methotrexate. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values measured at 
week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg/ml for adalimumab without concomitant 
methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg/ml with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult non- 
radiographic axial spondyloarthritis patients, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state concentration at week 68 
was 8.0 ± 4.6 g/ml. 
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 g/ml during adalimumab 
40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment. 
Following the administration of 0.8 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 µg/ml (79% CV). 
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
on week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg/ml at week 2 and 
week 4.  The mean steady-state trough concentration at week 12 through week 36 were approximately 8 to 
10 μg/ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment. 
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic modelling 
and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients (paediatric psoriasis, 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related arthritis). The recommended 
adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since exposure to adalimumab can be affected by 
body size, adolescents with higher body weight and inadequate response may benefit from receiving the 
recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 5.5 g/ml 
during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 g/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 g/ml were observed in 
Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was 
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg.  At 
week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg eow) or Low Dose (20/10 mg 
eow) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. The mean (±SD) serum adalimumab trough 
concentrations achieved at week 4 were 15.7 ± 6.6 g/ml for patients ≥ 40 kg (160/80 mg) and 10.6 ± 6.1 
g/ml for patients < 40 kg (80/40 mg). 
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (±SD) adalimumab trough concentrations at 
week 52 were 9.5 ± 5.6 g/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5 ± 2.2 g/ml for the Low Dose group. 
The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to receive adalimumab 
treatment eow for 52 weeks. For patients who dose escalated from eow to weekly regimen, the mean (±SD) 
serum concentrations of adalimumab at week 52 were 15.3 ± 11.4 μg/ml (40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7 ± 3.5 
μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly). 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In patients with ulcerative colitis, a loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 g/ml 
during the induction period.  Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 8 g/ml were observed in 
ulcerative colitis patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) 
every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state serum 
adalimumab concentration was 5.01 ± 3.28 µg/ml at week 52. For patients who received 0.6 mg/kg 
(maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentration was 
15.7 ± 5.60 μg/ml at week 52.  
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week starting at week 1, resulted in mean steady-state concentrations of 
approximately 8 to 10 g/ml. 
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients (paediatric 
psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related arthritis). No clinical 
exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. The predicted exposures 
indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an initial increase in systemic 
exposure. 
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation predicted 
comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other week when 
compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, patients with 
adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC). 
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population 
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response relationship 
was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent adalimumab plasma 
concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml 
(95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml). 
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients with 
severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, respectively. PASI 
75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab concentrations, both with a similar 
apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/ml (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 1.9-10.5, respectively). 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward higher 
apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight differences, 
gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance.  The serum levels of free 
adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be lower in patients with 
measurable AAA. 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, repeated dose 
toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in cynomolgus 
monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg/kg (9-17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment of fertility and 
postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate models for an antibody 
with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Glycine 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single Yuflyma pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25°C for a period of up to 31 days. The pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen must be protected from light, and 
discarded if not used within the 31-day period. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a 
needle with a needle shield (thermoplastic elastomer). 
Packs of: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.4 ml sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
2 pre-filled syringes (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
4 pre-filled syringes (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
6 pre-filled syringes (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
The syringe is made from type I glass with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a needle with a needle 
shield (thermoplastic elastomer). 
57 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Packs of: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard (0.4 ml sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
2 pre-filled syringes with needle guard (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
4 pre-filled syringes with needle guard (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
6 pre-filled syringes with needle guard (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled pen for patient use containing a pre-filled syringe. The syringe inside the 
pen is made from type 1 glass with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a needle with a needle shield 
(thermoplastic elastomer). 
Packs of: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
1 pre-filled pen (0.4 ml sterile solution), with 2 alcohol pads. 
2 pre-filled pens (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
4 pre-filled pens (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
6 pre-filled pens (0.4 ml sterile solution), each with 1 alcohol pad. 
Not all presentations or pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/20/1513/001 
EU/1/20/1513/002 
EU/1/20/1513/003 
EU/1/20/1513/004 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
EU/1/20/1513/005 
EU/1/20/1513/006 
EU/1/20/1513/007 
EU/1/20/1513/008 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
58 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/20/1513/009 
EU/1/20/1513/010 
EU/1/20/1513/011 
EU/1/20/1513/012 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 February 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
59 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See section 
4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each 0.8 ml single dose pre-filled syringe contains 80 mg of adalimumab. 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Each 0.8 ml single dose pre-filled pen contains 80 mg of adalimumab. 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Yuflyma in combination with methotrexate, is indicated for: 
• 
• 
the treatment of moderate to severe, active rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients when the response to 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs including methotrexate has been inadequate. 
the treatment of severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis in adults not previously treated 
with methotrexate. 
Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment 
with methotrexate is inappropriate. 
Adalimumab has been shown to reduce the rate of progression of joint damage as measured by X-ray and to 
improve physical function, when given in combination with methotrexate. 
Psoriasis 
60 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adult patients who 
are candidates for systemic therapy. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa (acne inversa) in 
adults and adolescents from 12 years of age with an inadequate response to conventional systemic HS 
therapy (see sections 5.1 and 5.2). 
Crohn’s disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease, in adult patients who 
have not responded despite a full and adequate course of therapy with a corticosteroid and/or an 
immunosuppressant; or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric patients 
(from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including primary 
nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adult patients who 
have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including corticosteroids and 6-mercaptopurine (6-
MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in paediatric 
patients (from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including 
corticosteroids and/or 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP) or azathioprine (AZA), or who are intolerant to or have 
medical contraindications for such therapies. 
Uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of non-infectious intermediate, posterior and panuveitis in adult 
patients who have had an inadequate response to corticosteroids, in patients in need of corticosteroid- 
sparing, or in whom corticosteroid treatment is inappropriate. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients from 2 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, or in whom 
conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Yuflyma treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of conditions for which Yuflyma is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to consult with an 
appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Yuflyma (see section 4.4). Patients treated with 
Yuflyma should be given the Patient Reminder Card. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Yuflyma if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary. 
61 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During treatment with Yuflyma, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised. 
Posology 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for adult patients with rheumatoid arthritis is 40 mg adalimumab 
administered every other week as a single dose via subcutaneous injection. Methotrexate should be 
continued during treatment with Yuflyma. 
Glucocorticoids, salicylates, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or analgesics can be continued during 
treatment with Yuflyma.  Regarding combination with disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs other than 
methotrexate see sections 4.4 and 5.1. 
In monotherapy, some patients who experience a decrease in their response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other 
week may benefit from an increase in dosage to 40 mg adalimumab every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Available data suggest that the clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. 
Continued therapy should be reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
Psoriasis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for adult patients is an initial dose of 80 mg administered 
subcutaneously, followed by 40 mg subcutaneously given every other week starting one week after the 
initial dose. Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe and/or pre-filled pen is available for 
the maintenance dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this 
time period. 
Beyond 16 weeks, patients with inadequate response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week may benefit from 
an increase in dosage to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. The benefits and risks of continued 
40 mg weekly or 80 mg every other week therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with an 
inadequate response after the increase in dosage (see section 5.1).  If adequate response is achieved with 
40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week, the dosage may subsequently be reduced to 40 mg every other 
week. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The recommended Yuflyma dose regimen for adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is 160 mg 
initially at day 1 (given as two 80 mg injections in one day or as one 80 mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 80 mg two weeks later at day 15. Two weeks later (day 29) continue with a 
dose of 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week. Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with 
Yuflyma if necessary. It is recommended that the patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS 
lesions on a daily basis during treatment with Yuflyma. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no improvement 
within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Yuflyma 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be re- 
introduced (see section 5.1). 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see section 5.1).  
62 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease 
The recommended Yuflyma induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderately to severely active 
Crohn’s disease is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg at week 2. In case there is a need for a more rapid 
response to therapy, the regimen 160 mg at week 0 (given as two 80 mg injections in one day or as one 
80 mg injection per day for two consecutive days), 80 mg at week 2, can be used with the awareness that the 
risk for adverse events is higher during induction. 
After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
Alternatively, if a patient has stopped Yuflyma and signs and symptoms of disease recur, Yuflyma may be 
re-administered. There is little experience from re-administration after more than 8 weeks since the previous 
dose. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dosage to 40 mg Yuflyma every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Some patients who have not responded by week 4 may benefit from continued maintenance therapy through 
week 12. Continued therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time 
period. 
Ulcerative colitis 
The recommended Yuflyma induction dose regimen for adult patients with moderate to severe ulcerative 
colitis is 160 mg at week 0 (given as two 80 mg injections in one day or as one 80 mg injection per day for 
two consecutive days) and 80 mg at week 2. After induction treatment, the recommended dose is 40 mg 
every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
During maintenance treatment, corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice 
guidelines. 
Some patients who experience decrease in their response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week may benefit 
from an increase in dosage to 40 mg Yuflyma every week or 80 mg every other week. 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 2-8 weeks of treatment.  Yuflyma 
therapy should not be continued in patients failing to respond within this time period. 
Uveitis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for adult patients with uveitis is an initial dose of 80 mg, followed by 
40 mg given every other week starting one week after the initial dose. Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection 
in pre-filled syringe and/or pre-filled pen is available for the maintenance dose. There is limited experience 
in the initiation of treatment with adalimumab alone. Treatment with Yuflyma can be initiated in 
combination with corticosteroids and/or with other non-biologic immunomodulatory agents. Concomitant 
corticosteroids may be tapered in accordance with clinical practice starting two weeks after initiating 
treatment with Yuflyma. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a yearly 
basis (see section 5.1). 
Special populations 
63 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Elderly 
No dose adjustment is required.  
Renal and/or hepatic impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be made.  
Paediatric population 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis  
The safety and efficacy of Yuflyma in children aged 4-17 years have been established for plaque psoriasis. 
The recommended Yuflyma dose is up to a maximum of 40 mg per dose. 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa (from 12 years of age, weighing at least 30 kg) 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS.  The posology of adalimumab 
in these patients has been determined from pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation (see section 5.2). 
The recommended Yuflyma dose is 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week starting at week 1 
via subcutaneous injection. 
In adolescent patients with inadequate response to Yuflyma 40 mg every other week, an increase in dosage 
to 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week may be considered. 
Antibiotics may be continued during treatment with Yuflyma if necessary.  It is recommended that the 
patient should use a topical antiseptic wash on their HS lesions on a daily basis during treatment with 
Yuflyma. 
Continued therapy beyond 12 weeks should be carefully reconsidered in a patient with no improvement 
within this time period. 
Should treatment be interrupted, Yuflyma may be re-introduced as appropriate. 
The benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be periodically evaluated (see adult data in 
section 5.1) 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 12 years in this indication. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 1). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
64 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Adalimumab dose for paediatric patients with crohn’s disease 
Patient 
weight 
Induction dose 
< 40 kg 
• 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of 
the higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
• 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
• 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
≥ 40 kg 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy with the 
awareness that the risk for adverse events may be higher with use of 
the higher induction dose, the following dose may be used: 
• 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 
Maintenance 
dose starting at 
week 4 
20 mg every 
other week 
40 mg every 
other week 
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dosage: 
• 
• 
< 40 kg: 20 mg every week 
≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by week 12. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years for this indication. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis  
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients from 6 to 17 years of age with ulcerative colitis is based on 
body weight (Table 2). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection.  
Table 2. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis  
Patient weight 
Induction dose 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4* 
< 40 kg 
•  80 mg at week 0 (given as one 80 mg 
•  40 mg every other 
injection in one day) and 
week 
•  40 mg at week 2 (given as one 40 mg 
injection) 
≥ 40 kg 
•  160 mg at week 0 (given as two 80 mg 
•  80 mg every other 
injections in one day or one 80 mg injection 
per day for two consecutive days) and 
•  80 mg at week 2 (given as one 80 mg 
week 
injection in one day) 
* Paediatric patients who turn 18 years of age while on Yuflyma should continue their prescribed 
maintenance dose. 
Continued therapy beyond 8 weeks should be carefully considered in patients not showing signs of response 
within this time period. 
65 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years in this indication. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based on body 
weight (Table 3). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant treatment 
with methotrexate. 
Table 3. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with uveitis 
Patient weight 
Dosing regimen 
< 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
When Yuflyma therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for patients ≥ 30 
kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No clinical data are available on 
the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age (see section 5.2). 
There is no relevant use of Yuflyma in children aged less than 2 years in this indication. 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a yearly 
basis (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by subcutaneous injection. 
Full instructions for use are provided in the package leaflet. 
Yuflyma is available in other strengths and presentations. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections (see section 4.4).  
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
66 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function may 
increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for infections, 
including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Yuflyma.  Because the elimination of 
adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout this period. 
Treatment with Yuflyma should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis and 
patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Yuflyma should be considered 
prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections). 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Yuflyma should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Yuflyma should be discontinued if 
a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or antifungal therapy 
should be initiated until the infection is controlled.  Physicians should exercise caution when considering the 
use of Yuflyma in patients with a history of recurring infection or with underlying conditions which may 
predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant immunosuppressive medications. 
Serious infections 
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or other 
opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in patients 
receiving adalimumab. 
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported. 
Tuberculosis 
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients receiving 
adalimumab.  Reports included cases of pulmonary and extra-pulmonary (i.e. disseminated) tuberculosis. 
Before initiation of therapy with Yuflyma, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection.  This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of patient 
history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and previous and/or 
current immunosuppressive therapy.  Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray) 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply).  It is recommended that the conduct 
and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card.  Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Yuflyma therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully considered.  
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis 
treatment before the initiation of Yuflyma, and in accordance with local recommendations. 
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of Yuflyma in 
patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for tuberculosis and in 
patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot 
be confirmed. 
67 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in patients 
treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active tuberculosis have 
redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis infection 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or after therapy with 
Yuflyma. 
Other opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients receiving 
adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking TNF-antagonists and 
this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in fatal outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, cough, 
dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without concomitant shock 
an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Yuflyma should be promptly 
discontinued.  Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in these patients should be made 
in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of patients with invasive fungal infections. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including adalimumab, who 
are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive).  Some cases have had a fatal outcome. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Yuflyma. For patients who test 
positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B 
is recommended. 
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Yuflyma should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms 
of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination of therapy. 
Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. In patients who develop HBV 
reactivation, Yuflyma should be stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive 
treatment should be initiated. 
Neurological events 
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system demyelinating 
disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating disease, including 
Guillain- Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use of Yuflyma in patients 
with pre- existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system demyelinating disorders; 
discontinuation of Yuflyma should be considered if any of these disorders develop. There is a known 
association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating disorders. Neurologic evaluation should 
be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate uveitis prior to the initiation of Yuflyma therapy 
and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-existing or developing central demyelinating disorders. 
Allergic reactions 
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious allergic 
reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of serious allergic 
reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab administration. If an anaphylactic 
reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of Yuflyma should be discontinued 
immediately and appropriate therapy initiated. 
68 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immunosuppression 
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no evidence 
of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. 
However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of  leukaemia have been reported in 
patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and  leukaemia 
in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, which complicates 
the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, 
leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 22 years 
of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including adalimumab in the 
post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases represented a variety 
of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated with immunosuppression. A risk 
for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be 
excluded. 
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated with 
adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. 
Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in young adult patients on 
concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for inflammatory bowel disease. The 
potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and Yuflyma should be carefully 
considered. A risk for the development of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Yuflyma 
cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom treatment 
with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy.  Thus additional caution should be 
exercised in considering Yuflyma treatment of these patients (see section 4.8). 
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy or 
psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non- melanoma 
skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Yuflyma.  Melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have also 
been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab (see section 4.8). 
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients with 
moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly in the lung 
or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control patients. All patients 
had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using any TNF-antagonist in 
COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to heavy smoking. 
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia or 
colon cancer.  All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon carcinoma 
(for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing cholangitis), or who had a 
prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for dysplasia at regular intervals before 
therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation should include colonoscopy and biopsies per 
local recommendations. 
Haematologic reactions 
69 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. Adverse 
events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. thrombocytopenia, 
leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to seek immediate medical 
attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias (e.g. persistent fever, bruising, 
bleeding, pallor) while on Yuflyma. Discontinuation of Yuflyma therapy should be considered in patients 
with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Vaccinations 
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza trivalent virus 
vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were treated with 
adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Yuflyma therapy. 
Patients on Yuflyma may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration of live 
vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 5 months 
following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Congestive heart failure 
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased mortality 
due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart failure have also 
been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Yuflyma should be used with caution in patients with mild 
heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Yuflyma is contraindicated in moderate to severe heart failure (see section 
4.3). Treatment with Yuflyma must be discontinued in patients who develop new or worsening symptoms of 
congestive heart failure. 
Autoimmune processes 
Treatment with Yuflyma may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-term 
treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient develops 
symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Yuflyma and is positive for 
antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Yuflyma should not be given (see section 
4.8). 
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists 
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another 
TNF-antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of the 
nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar toxicities 
may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the combination of 
adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and abatacept) or 
other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for infections, including 
serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions (see section 4.5). 
Surgery 
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The long half-
life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned.  A patient who 
requires surgery while on Yuflyma should be closely monitored for infections, and appropriate actions 
70 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing arthroplasty while receiving 
adalimumab. 
Small bowel obstruction 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic stricture that 
may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not worsen or cause strictures. 
Elderly 
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab-treated subjects over 65 years of age (3.7%) was 
higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5%). Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular attention 
regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
See Vaccinations above. 
Sodium contents 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and psoriatic 
arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant methotrexate.  Antibody 
formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate in comparison with use as 
monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted in increased formation of 
antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see section 5.1). 
The combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
The combination of adalimumab and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy 
and continue its use for at least five months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
Pregnancy 
A large number (approximately 2,100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to adalimumab 
resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1,500 exposed during the first trimester, 
does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn. 
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) treated 
with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated with 
adalimumab were enrolled.  The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth defects. The rate 
of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect was 6/69 (8.7%) in the 
adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8%) in the untreated women with RA (unadjusted OR 
71 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.31, 95% CI 0.38-4.52) and 16/152 (10.5%) in the adalimumab-treated women with CD and 3/32 (9.4%) in 
the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 95% CI 0.31-4.16). The adjusted OR (accounting for 
baseline differences) was 1.10 (95% CI 0.45-2.73) with RA and CD combined. There were no distinct 
differences between adalimumab-treated and untreated women for the secondary endpoints spontaneous 
abortions, minor birth defects, preterm delivery, birth size and serious or opportunistic infections and no 
stillbirths or malignancies were reported. The interpretation of data may be impacted due to methodological 
limitations of the study, including small sample size and non-randomised design. 
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available (see 
section 5.3). 
Due to its inhibition of TNF, adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal immune 
responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with adalimumab 
during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. Administration of live 
vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 5 months 
following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk at 
very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1% to 1% of 
the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal proteolysis and have 
poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. Consequently, Yuflyma 
can be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Yuflyma may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Yuflyma (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open label trials for up to 60 months or 
more.  These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long standing disease, juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis) as well as axial 
spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS), 
psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa and uveitis patients. 
The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving 
placebo or active comparator during the controlled period. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9% for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4% for control treated 
patients. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory 
tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), 
72 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
headache and musculoskeletal pain. 
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defence against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV reactivation 
and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been reported with use of 
adalimumab. 
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These include rare 
reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events and reports of lupus, 
lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Paediatric population 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen in adult 
patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on postmarketing 
experience and are displayed by system organ class and frequency in Table 4 below: very common ( 1/10); 
common ( 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon ( 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare ( 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects 
are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The highest frequency seen among the various indications 
has been included. An asterisk (*) appears in the SOC column if further information is found elsewhere in 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
Table 4 Undesirable effects 
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reaction 
Infections and 
infestations* 
Very common 
Common 
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and 
upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and 
pneumonia herpes viral) 
Systemic infections (including sepsis, 
candidiasis and influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis 
viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including 
paronychia, cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising 
fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral 
herpes and tooth infections), 
reproductive tract infections (including 
vulvovaginal mycotic infection), urinary tract 
infections (including pyelonephritis), 
fungal infections,  
joint infections 
73 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon 
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified (including 
cysts and polyps)* 
Common 
Uncommon 
Neurological infections (including viral 
meningitis), 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis 
(including coccidioidomycosis, 
histoplasmosis and mycobacterium avium 
complex infection),  
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, diverticulitis1) 
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma), 
benign neoplasm 
Lymphoma**, 
solid organ neoplasm (including breast 
cancer, lung neoplasm and thyroid 
neoplasm), 
melanoma** 
Rare 
Leukaemia1) 
Not known 
Blood and the lymphatic 
system disorders* 
Very common 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1)  
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine 
carcinoma of the skin)1)  
Kaposi’s sarcoma  
Leukopenia (including neutropenia and 
agranulocytosis), 
anaemia 
Immune system 
disorders* 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Common 
Leucocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia 
Uncommon 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Rare 
Common 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity, 
allergies (including seasonal allergy) 
Uncommon 
Sarcoidosis1), vasculitis 
Rare 
Anaphylaxis1) 
Very common 
Lipids increased 
Common 
Hypokalaemia, 
uric acid increased, 
blood sodium 
abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphatemia, 
dehydration 
74 
 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Mood alterations (including depression), 
anxiety, 
insomnia 
Nervous system 
disorders* 
Very common 
Headache 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Paraesthesias (including hypoesthesia), 
migraine, 
nerve root compression 
Cerebrovascular accident1), 
tremor, 
neuropathy 
Multiple sclerosis, 
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome) 1) 
Visual impairment, 
conjunctivitis, 
blepharitis, 
eye swelling 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders 
Uncommon 
Diplopia 
Common 
Vertigo 
Uncommon 
Deafness, 
tinnitus 
Cardiac disorders* 
Common 
Tachycardia 
Uncommon 
Myocardial infarction1), 
arrhythmia, 
congestive heart failure 
Rare 
Cardiac arrest 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Hypertension, 
flushing, 
haematoma 
Uncommon 
Aortic aneurysm, 
vascular arterial occlusion, 
thrombophlebitis 
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders* 
Common 
Asthma, 
dyspnoea, 
cough 
Uncommon 
Pulmonary embolism1), 
interstitial lung disease, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion1) 
Rare 
Pulmonary fibrosis1) 
75 
 
Gastrointestinal disorders  Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Abdominal pain, 
nausea and vomiting 
GI haemorrhage, 
dyspepsia, 
gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
sicca syndrome 
Pancreatitis, 
dysphagia,  
face oedema 
Rare 
Intestinal perforation1) 
Hepato-biliary disorders*  Very common 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, 
hepatic steatosis, 
bilirubin increased 
Hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B1) 
autoimmune hepatitis1) 
Not known 
Liver failure1) 
Very common 
Rash (including exfoliative rash) 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis(including 
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1), 
urticaria, 
bruising (including purpura), 
dermatitis (including eczema), 
onychoclasis, 
hyperhidrosis, 
alopecia1), 
pruritus 
Night sweats, 
scar 
Erythema multiforme1), Stevens-
Johnson syndrome1), angioedema1), 
cutaneous vasculitis1) 
lichenoid skin reaction1) 
Not known 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1) 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Common 
Uncommon 
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased) 
Rhabdomyolysis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Rare 
Lupus-like syndrome1) 
76 
 
Renal and urinary 
disorders 
Common 
Renal impairment, 
haematuria 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions* 
Uncommon 
Nocturia 
Uncommon 
Erectile dysfunction 
Very common 
Common 
Injection site reaction (including injection site 
erythema) 
Chest pain, 
oedema, 
pyrexia1) 
Uncommon 
Inflammation 
Investigations* 
Common 
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including 
activated partial thromboplastin time 
prolonged), 
autoantibody test positive (including double 
stranded DNA antibody), 
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Not known 
Weight increased2) 
Common 
Impaired healing 
* further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
** including open label extension studies 
1) including spontaneous reporting data 
2) The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across adult 
indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 months. 
Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean exposures of 
approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative 
colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated with the anti-inflammatory 
effect of adalimumab. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety profile for patients with HS treated with adalimumab weekly was consistent with the known 
safety profile of adalimumab. 
Uveitis 
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent with 
the known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9% of patients treated with adalimumab developed 
injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared to 7.2% of 
patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not necessitate 
discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
77 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Infections 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in the 
adalimumab-treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated patients. The 
infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and sinusitis. Most 
patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved. 
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab-treated patients and 0.03 per 
patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients. 
In controlled and open label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections (including fatal 
infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of tuberculosis (including 
miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections (e.g. disseminated or 
extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis 
and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred within the first eight months after initiation of 
therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years during 
adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 192 paediatric patients with an 
exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease. No 
malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients with an exposure of 80.0 patient years during an 
adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. No malignancies were observed in 93 
paediatric patients with an exposure of 65.3 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients 
with ulcerative colitis. No malignancies were observed in 60 paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 
patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with uveitis. 
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration in 
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS,  psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-
melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5)  per 1,000 
patient-years among 5,291 adalimumab-treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 patient-
years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for adalimumab and 3.8 
months for control-treated patients). The rate (95% confidence interval) of non-melanoma skin cancers was 
8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 
patient-years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell carcinomas occurred at rates 
(95% confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 
0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. The rate (95% confidence interval) of 
lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) 
per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. 
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open label extension studies 
with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 26,439 patient-years of 
therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-melanoma skin cancers is 
approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-melanoma skin cancers is 
approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of lymphomas is approximately 1.3 per 
1,000 patient years. 
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient treatment 
78 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 
1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with 
adalimumab (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis studies I 
− V. In these trials, 11.9% of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1% of placebo and active control − 
treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported positive titres at week 24. 
Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis studies 
developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like syndrome. The patients improved following 
discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. 
Hepato-biliary events 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis with a 
control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 3.7% of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6% of control-treated patients. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who 
were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 6.1% of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3% of control-treated patients. Most ALT elevations 
occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of 
adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who were 2 to < 4 years. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis with a 
control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.9% of adalimumab-
treated patients and 0.9% of controlled-treated patients. 
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated efficacy and 
safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight adjusted induction 
therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.6%  (5/192) of patients of 
whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis with a control period duration 
ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 1.8% of adalimumab-treated patients 
and 1.8% of control-treated patients. 
No ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients with 
plaque psoriasis. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2, followed by 
40 mg every week starting at week 4), in patients with hidradenitis suppurativa with a control period 
duration ranging from 12 to 16 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.3% of adalimumab-treated 
patients and 0.6% of control-treated patients. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week 
starting at week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 166.5 days and 
105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 2.4% of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4% of control-treated patients. 
In the controlled Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric ulcerative colitis (N=93) which 
79 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluated efficacy and safety of a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
(N=31) and a maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (n=32), following body 
weight adjusted induction dosing of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg 
(maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 (N=63), or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, 
placebo at week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 (N=30), ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN 
occurred in 1.1% (1/93) of patients. 
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment.  However, there have also been post- 
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, such as 
hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab. 
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine 
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse events 
were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared with 
adalimumab alone. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product.  Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has been 
multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended dose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors. ATC 
code: L04AB04 
Yuflyma is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including changes 
in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 
with an IC50 of 0.1-0.2 nM). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation (C-
reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was observed, 
compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix metalloproteinases 
(MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage destruction were also 
decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab usually experienced 
80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation. 
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with adalimumab. In patients 
with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing inflammatory markers in the colon 
including a significant reduction of expression of TNFα was seen. Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa 
have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab-treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The efficacy and 
safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-controlled studies. Some 
patients were treated for up to 120 months duration. Injection site pain of adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml was 
assessed in two randomised, active control, single-blind, two-period crossover studies. 
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were  18 
years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti rheumatic drug and had insufficient 
efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) every week and 
whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. 
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were  18 
years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs.  Doses of 20 or 
40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo on alternative 
weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same duration.  No other disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed. 
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were  18 
years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have been 
intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study.  The first received 
placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab every week for 52 
weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with placebo injections on alternate 
weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in 
which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other week up to 10 years. 
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were  18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic 
drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy was stable for a 
minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine 
and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 
weeks. 
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every other 
week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate of 
progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the first 104 weeks, 
497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab was administered 
every other week up to 10 years. 
RA studies VI and VII each evaluated 60 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis 
who were ≥ 18 years old. Enrolled patients were either current users of adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml and rated 
81 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
their average injection site pain as at least 3 cm (on a 0-10 cm VAS) or were biologic-naïve subjects who 
were starting adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml. Patients were randomised to receive a single dose of adalimumab 
40 mg/0.8 ml or adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml, followed by a single injection of the opposite treatment at their 
next dose. 
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at week 52. RA studies III and V 
had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by X-ray 
results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. The primary endpoint in RA 
studies VI and VII was injection site pain immediately after injection as measured by a 0-10 cm VAS. 
ACR response 
The percentage of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in Table 5. 
Table 5 
ACR responses in placebo-controlled trials  
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
RA study Ia** 
RA study Iia** 
RA study IIIa** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
n=60 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc
n=63 
Placebo 
n=110 
Adalimuma
bb
n=113 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
n=200 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc
n=207 
ACR 20 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 50 
6 months 
12 months 
ACR 70 
6 months 
12 months 
13.3% 
NA 
6.7% 
NA 
3.3% 
NA 
65.1% 
NA 
52.4% 
NA 
23.8% 
NA 
19.1% 
NA 
8.2% 
NA 
1.8% 
NA 
46.0% 
NA 
22.1% 
NA 
12.4% 
NA 
29.5% 
24.0% 
9.5% 
9.5% 
2.5% 
4.5% 
63.3% 
58.9% 
39.1% 
41.5% 
20.8% 
23.2% 
a RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks 
b 40 mg adalimumab administered every other week 
c MTX = methotrexate 
**p < 0.01, adalimumab versus placebo 
In RA studies I-IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and swollen 
joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index (HAQ) scores and CRP 
(mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA study III, these improvements were 
maintained throughout 52 weeks. 
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained response 
when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other 
week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. Among those, 86 patients 
(75.4%) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2%) had ACR 50 responses; and 41 patients (36%) had 
ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 
years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0%) had ACR 20 responses; 56 patients (69.1%) had ACR 50 
responses; and 43 patients (53.1%) had ACR 70 responses. 
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care was 
statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care (p < 0.001). 
82 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In RA studies I-IV, adalimumab-treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 responses 
compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment. 
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination therapy 
with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than methotrexate 
monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52 and responses were sustained at week 104 (see 
Table 6). 
Table 6 
ACR responses in RA Study V 
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
MTX 
n=257 
Adalimuma
b n=274 
     Adalimumab/MTX 
n=268 
p-
valuea
p-valueb
p-valuec
ACR 20 
Week 52 
62.6% 
54.4% 
Week 104 
56.0% 
49.3% 
72.8% 
69.4% 
0.013 
< 0.001 
0.043 
0.002 
< 0.001 
0.140 
ACR 50 
Week 52 
45.9% 
41.2% 
61.6% 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.317 
Week 104 
42.8% 
36.9% 
59.0% 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.162 
ACR 70 
Week 52 
27.2% 
25.9% 
45.5% 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.656 
Week 104 
28.4% 
28.1% 
46.6% 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.864 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
B p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
C p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy using 
the Mann-Whitney U test. 
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed for up to 
10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 170 patients 
continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 patients (90.6%) had 
ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7%) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 patients (60.0%) had ACR 70 
responses. 
At week 52, 42.9% of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy achieved 
clinical remission (DAS28 (CRP) < 2.6) compared to 20.6% of patients receiving methotrexate monotherapy 
and 23.4% of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. Adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy 
was clinically and statistically superior to methotrexate (p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (p < 
0.001) in achieving a low disease state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate to severe rheumatoid 
arthritis. The response for the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447).  Of 342 subjects originally 
randomised to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy who entered the 
open- label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 
subjects (63.7%) were reported to be in remission at 10 years. 
83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radiographic response 
In RA study III, where adalimumab-treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score. 
Adalimumab/methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic progression than patients 
receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 7). 
In the open-label extension of RA Study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage is 
maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally treated with 
40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 patients showed no 
progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. At 10 years, 
79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated 
radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change 
from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. 
Table 7 
Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA Study III 
Placebo/ 
MTXa
Adalimumab/MTX 
40 mg every other 
week 
Total Sharp Score 
Erosion score 
JSNd score 
2.7 
1.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
Placebo/MTX- 
adalimumab/MTX 
(95% Confidence 
Intervalb) 
2.6 (1.4, 3.8) 
1.6 (0.9, 2.2) 
0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 
p-value 
< 0.001c
< 0.001 
0.002 
a methotrexate 
b 95% confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and adalimumab. 
C Based on rank analysis 
d Joint Space Narrowing 
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified 
Total Sharp Score (see Table 8). 
Table 8 
Radiographic mean changes at week 52 in RA Study V 
MTX 
n=257 (95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab 
n=274 (95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab/
MTX 
n=268 (95% 
confidence 
interval) 
p-valuea
p-valueb
p-valuec
Total Sharp 
Score 
5.7 (4.2-7.3) 
3.0 (1.7-4.3) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
< 0.001 
0.0020 
< 0.001 
Erosion score  3.7 (2.7-4.7) 
2.0 (1.2-2.8) 
JSN score 
1.7 (1.0-2.4) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
0.8 (0.4-1.2) 
0.5 (0-1.0) 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.0082 
0.0037 
< 0.001 
0.151 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
B p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy using 
the Mann-Whitney U test 
84 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression (change 
from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score  0.5) was significantly higher with adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy (63.8% and 61.2% respectively) compared to methotrexate monotherapy (37.4% and 
33.5% respectively, p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (50.7%, p < 0.002 and 44.5%, p < 0.001 
respectively). 
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified Total 
Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate monotherapy, 
adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, respectively. The 
corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 31.3%, 23.7% and 36.7% 
respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the Health 
Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, which was a pre-
specified primary endpoint at week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of adalimumab in all four studies 
showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability index of the HAQ from 
baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was seen at week 52. Results from 
the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of adalimumab in all four studies support 
these findings, with statistically significant physical component summary (PCS) scores, as well as 
statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 40 mg every other week dose. A statistically 
significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) 
scores was seen in all three studies in which it was assessed (RA studies I, III, IV). 
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued treatment 
maintained improvement through week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. Improvement in quality 
of life was measured up to week 156 (36 months) and improvement was maintained through that time. 
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p < 0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52, which was maintained through week 
104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in physical 
function were maintained through 10 years of treatment. 
Injection site pain 
For the pooled crossover RA studies VI and VII, a statistically significant difference for injection site pain 
immediately after dosing was observed between adalimumab 40 mg/0.8 ml and adalimumab 40 mg/0.4 ml 
(mean VAS of 3.7 cm versus 1.2 cm, scale of 0-10 cm, P < 0.001).  This represented an 84% median 
reduction in injection site pain. 
Psoriasis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis ( 10% 
BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI)  12 or  10) who were candidates for 
systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73% of patients enrolled in Psoriasis 
Studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy.  The safety and efficacy of adalimumab 
were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis with concomitant hand 
and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a randomised double- blind study 
(Psoriasis Study III). 
Psoriasis Study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods.  In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one 
85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least a PASI 75 response 
(PASI score improvement of at least 75% relative to baseline), entered period B and received open-label 
40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained PASI 75 response at week 33 and were 
originally randomised to active therapy in Period A, were re-randomised in period C to receive 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean 
baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from 
“moderate” (53% of subjects included) to “severe” (41%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Psoriasis Study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus methotrexate and 
placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg and thereafter dose 
increases up to week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed 
by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 16 weeks. There are no data 
available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. Patients receiving MTX who 
achieved a PASI 50 response at week 8 and/or 12 did not receive further dose increases. Across all 
treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the baseline PGA score ranged from “mild” 
(<1%) to “moderate” (48%) to “severe” (46%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open-label 
extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks. 
In Psoriasis Studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a PASI 75 
response from baseline at week 16 (see Tables 9 and 10). 
Table 9 
Ps Study I (REVEAL) – efficacy results at 16 weeks 
 PASI 75a
PASI 100 
PGA: Clear/minimal 
Placebo N=398 
n (%) 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
17 (4.3) 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=814 
n (%) 
578 (70.9)b
163 (20.0)b
506 (62.2)b
a Percentage of patients achieving PASI75 response was calculated as centre- 
adjusted rate 
b p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
Table 10 
Ps Study II (CHAMPION) – efficacy results at 16 weeks 
Placebo 
N=53 
n (%) 
10 (18.9) 
1 (1.9) 
6 (11.3) 
 PASI 75 
PASI 100 
PGA: Clear/minimal 
a p < 0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo 
b p < 0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
c p < 0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo 
d p < 0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
MTX 
N=110 
n (%) 
39 (35.5) 
8 (7.3) 
33 (30.0) 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=108 
n (%) 
86 (79.6) a, b 
18 (16.7) c, d 
79 (73.1) a, b 
In Psoriasis Study I, 28% of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to placebo at 
week 33 compared to 5% continuing on adalimumab, p < 0.001, experienced “loss of adequate response” 
86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(PASI score after week 33 and on or before week 52 that resulted in a <PASI 50 response relative to baseline 
with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to week 33). Of the patients who lost adequate 
response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled into the open-label extension trial, 38% 
(25/66) and 55% (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 12 and 24 weeks of re-treatment, respectively. 
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at week 16 and week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy for 
52 weeks in Psoriasis Study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial.  PASI 75 and 
PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7% and 59.0%, respectively, after an 
additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all patients who 
dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, were considered non-
responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 69.6% and 55.7%, 
respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). 
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open-label 
extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a median time 
to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of these patients 
experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5% (218/285) of patients who entered the 
retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 weeks of retreatment, irrespective 
of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1%[123/178] and 88.8% [95/107] for patients who relapsed 
and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, respectively).  A similar safety profile was observed 
during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (Studies I and II) and MTX (Study 
II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In Study I, improvements in the 
physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also significant compared to placebo. 
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 40 mg 
weekly due to a PASI response below 50%, 26.4% (92/349) and 37.8% (132/349) of patients achieved PASI 
75 response at week 12 and 24, respectively. 
Psoriasis Study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 72 patients 
with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients received an initial 
dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or 
placebo for 16 weeks. At week 16, a statistically significantly greater proportion of patients who received 
adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the hands and/or feet compared to patients who 
received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3%, respectively [P = 0.014]). 
Psoriasis Study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients with 
moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg 
every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks followed by open-label 
adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments included the Modified Nail 
Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and 
the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 11). Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in 
nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin involvement (BSA≥10% (60% of patients) and 
BSA<10% and ≥5% (40% of patients)). 
Endpoint 
Table 11 
Ps Study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks 
Week 16 
Placebo-Controlled 
Week 26 
Placebo-Controlled 
Week 52 
Open-label 
Placebo 
N=108 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow 
N=109 
87 
Placebo 
N=108 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow 
N=109 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow N=80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%) 
PGA-F clear/minimal 
and ≥2-grade 
improvement (%) 
Percentage Change in 
Total Fingernail NAPSI 
(%) 
2.9 
2.9 
-7.8 
26.0a
29.7a
3.4 
6.9 
46.6a
48.9a
-44.2 a
-11.5 
-56.2a
65.0 
61.3 
-72.2 
a p<0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
Adalimumab-treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at week 26 compared with 
placebo in the DLQI. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies and an open-label extension study in adult patients with moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa 
(HS) who were intolerant, had a contraindication or an inadequate response to at least a 3-month trial of 
systemic antibiotic therapy.  The patients in HS-I and HS-II had Hurley Stage II or III disease with at least 3 
abscesses or inflammatory nodules. 
Study HS-I (PIONEER I) evaluated 307 patients with 2 treatment periods.  In Period A, patients received 
placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0, 80 mg at week 2, and 40 mg every week 
starting at week 4 to week 11.  Concomitant antibiotic use was not allowed during the study.  After 12 weeks 
of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-randomised in Period B to 1 of 3 
treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, or placebo from 
week 12 to week 35).  Patients who had been randomised to placebo in Period A were assigned to receive 
adalimumab 40 mg every week in Period B. 
Study HS-II (PIONEER II) evaluated 326 patients with 2 treatment periods.  In Period A, patients received 
placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg every week 
starting at week 4 to week 11.  19.3% of patients had continued baseline oral antibiotic therapy during the 
study.  After 12 weeks of therapy, patients who had received adalimumab in Period A were re-randomised in 
Period B to 1 of 3 treatment groups (adalimumab 40 mg every week, adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 
or placebo from week 12 to week 35).  Patients who had been randomised to placebo in Period A were 
assigned to receive placebo in Period B. 
Patients participating in Studies HS-I and HS-II were eligible to enrol into an open-label extension study in 
which adalimumab 40mg was administered every week. Mean exposure in all adalimumab population was 
762 days.  Throughout all 3 studies patients used topical antiseptic wash daily. 
Clinical Response 
Reduction of inflammatory lesions and prevention of worsening of abscesses and draining fistulas was 
assessed using Hidradenitis Suppurativa Clinical Response (HiSCR; at least a 50% reduction in total abscess 
and inflammatory nodule count with no increase in abscess count and no increase in draining fistula count 
relative to Baseline).  Reduction in HS-related skin pain was assessed using a Numeric Rating Scale in 
patients who entered the study with an initial baseline score of 3 or greater on a 11 point scale. 
At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients treated with adalimumab versus placebo achieved 
HiSCR. At week 12, a significantly higher proportion of patients in Study HS-II experienced a clinically 
relevant decrease in HS-related skin pain (see Table 12).  Patients treated with adalimumab had significantly 
reduced risk of disease flare during the initial 12 weeks of treatment. 
88 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12 
Efficacy results at 12 weeks, HS Studies I and II 
HS 
Study I 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
40 mg 
Weekly 
N = 153 
64 (41.8%) *
HS Study II 
Placebo 
N=163 
45 (27.6%) 
Adalimumab 
40 mg 
Weekly 
N=163 
96 (58.9%) ***
Hidradenitis Suppurativa 
Clinical Response (HiSCR)a
N = 154 
40 (26.0%) 
≥30% Reduction in Skin 
Painb
N = 109 
27 (24.8%) 
N = 122 
34 (27.9%) 
N=111 
23 (20.7%) 
N=105 
48 (45.7%) ***
* P < 0.05, ***P < 0.001, adalimumab versus placebo 
a  Among all randomised patients. 
b  Among patients with baseline HS-related skin pain assessment ≥ 3, based on Numeric 
Rating Scale 0 – 10; 0 = no skin pain, 10 = skin pain as bad as you can imagine. 
Treatment with adalimumab 40 mg every week significantly reduced the risk of worsening of abscesses and 
draining fistulas.  Approximately twice the proportion of patients in the placebo group in the first 12 weeks 
of Studies HS-I and HS-II, compared with those in the adalimumab group experienced worsening of 
abscesses (23.0% vs 11.4%, respectively) and draining fistulas (30.0% vs 13.9%, respectively). 
Greater improvements at week 12 from baseline compared to placebo were demonstrated in skin-specific 
health-related quality of life, as measured by the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI; Studies HS-I and 
HS-II), patient global satisfaction with medication treatment as measured by the Treatment Satisfaction 
Questionnaire - medication (TSQM; Studies HS-I and HS-II), and physical health as measured by the 
physical component summary score of the SF-36 (Study HS-I). 
In patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly at week 12, the HiSCR rate at week 
36 was higher in patients who continued weekly adalimumab than in patients in whom dosing frequency was 
reduced to every other week, or in whom treatment was withdrawn (see Table 13). 
Table 13 
Proportion of patientsa achieving HiSCRb at weeks 24 and 36 after treatment reassignment from 
weekly adalimumab at week 12 
Placebo 
(treatment 
withdrawal)  
N = 73 
24 (32.9%) 
Adalimumab 
40 mg every other 
week  
N = 70 
36 (51.4%) 
Adalimumab 40 mg 
weekly 
N = 70 
40 (57.1%) 
Week 24 
Week 36 
39 (55.7%) 
a  Patients with at least a partial response to adalimumab 40 mg weekly after 
22 (30.1%) 
28 (40.0%) 
12 weeks of treatment. 
b  Patients  meeting  protocol-specified  criteria  for  loss  of  response  or  no 
improvement  were  required  to  discontinue  from  the  studies  and  were 
counted as nonresponders. 
Among patients who were at least partial responders at week 12, and who received continuous weekly 
adalimumab therapy, the HiSCR rate at week 48 was 68.3% and at week 96 was 65.1%. Longer term 
treatment with adalimumab 40 mg weekly for 96 weeks identified no new safety findings. 
89 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Among patients whose adalimumab treatment was withdrawn at week 12 in Studies HS-I and HS-II, the 
HiSCR rate 12 weeks after re-introduction of adalimumab 40 mg weekly returned to levels similar to that 
observed before withdrawal (56.0 %). 
Crohn’s disease 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1500 patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI)  220 and  450) in randomised, double-
blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, and/or 
immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80% of patients continued to receive at least one of these 
medications. 
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI < 150) was evaluated in two studies, CD Study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD Study II (GAIN). In CD Study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised 
to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 
2, 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2, and 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2. In CD Study II, 325 
patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were randomised to receive either 160 mg 
adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 or placebo at weeks 0 and 2. The primary non-responders were 
excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were not further evaluated. 
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM).  In CD Study III, 854 patients 
received open-label 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2.  At week 4 patients were randomised to 40 mg 
every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 56 weeks. Patients in clinical 
response (decrease in CDAI ≥ 70) at week 4 were stratified and analysed separately from those not in 
clinical response at week 4.  Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 8. 
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 14. 
Table 14 
Induction of clinical remission and response (percentage of patients) 
CD Study I: Infliximab Naïve Patients 
CD Study II: Infliximab 
Experienced Patients 
Placebo 
N=74 
Adalimumab 
80/40 mg  
N = 75 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=76 
Placebo 
N=166 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg N=159 
12% 
24% 
24% 
37% 
36%*
49%**
7% 
25% 
21%*
38%**
Week 4 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
(CR- 100) 
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo 
*p < 0.001 
**p < 0.01 
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by week 8 and 
adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group. 
In CD Study III, at week 4, 58% (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in the 
primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at week 4, 48% had been previously exposed to other TNF- 
antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 15.  Clinical remission 
results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist exposure. 
90 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with adalimumab 
compared with placebo at week 56. 
Table 15 
Maintenance of clinical remission and response (percentage of patients) 
Week 26 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100) 
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for >=90 daysa
Week 56 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100) 
Patients in steroid-free 
remission for > = 90 daysa
Placebo 
N=170 
17% 
27% 
40 mg 
adalimumab every 
other week 
40 mg adalimumab 
every week 
N=172 
40%* 
52%* 
N=157 
47%* 
52%* 
3% (2/66) 
19% (11/58)** 
15% (11/74)** 
N=170 
12% 
17% 
N=172 
36%* 
41%* 
N=157 
41%* 
48%* 
5% (3/66) 
29% (17/58)* 
20% (15/74)** 
*p < 0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
**p < 0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
a Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Among patients who were not in response at week 4, 43% of adalimumab maintenance patients responded 
by week 12 compared to 30% of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that some patients who 
have not responded by week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy through week 12.  Therapy 
continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses (see section 4.2). 
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed through at 
least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy.  88 and 189 patients, respectively, continued to be in 
clinical remission.  Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 233 patients, respectively. 
Quality of life 
In CD Study I and CD Study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific inflammatory 
bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at week 4 in patients randomised to 
adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at weeks 26 and 56 in CD Study 
III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo group. 
Ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of multiple doses of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with moderately to 
severely active ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3) in randomised, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled studies. 
In study UC-I, 390 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised to receive either placebo at weeks 0 and 
2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 followed by 80 mg at week 2, or 80 mg adalimumab at week 0 followed by 
40 mg at week 2.  After week 2, patients in both adalimumab arms received 40 mg eow.  Clinical remission 
(defined as Mayo score ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1) was assessed at week 8. 
In study UC-II, 248 patients received 160 mg of adalimumab at week 0, 80 mg at week 2 and 40 mg eow 
91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
thereafter, and 246 patients received placebo. Clinical results were assessed for induction of remission at 
week 8 and for maintenance of remission at week 52. 
Patients induced with 160/80 mg adalimumab achieved clinical remission versus placebo at week 8 in 
statistically significantly greater percentages in study UC-I (18% vs. 9% respectively, p=0.031) and study 
UC-II (17% vs. 9% respectively, p=0.019). In study UC-II, among those treated with adalimumab who were 
in remission at week 8, 21/41 (51%) were in remission at week 52. 
Results from the overall UC-II study population are shown in Table 16. 
Table 16 
Response, remission and mucosal healing in Study UC-II 
(percentage of patients) 
Week 52 
clinical response 
clinical remission 
mucosal healing 
steroid-free remission for ≥ 
90 daysa 
week 8 and 52 
sustained response 
sustained remission 
sustained mucosal healing 
Placebo 
N=246 
18 % 
9 % 
15 % 
6 % 
(N = 140) 
12 % 
4 % 
11 % 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=248 
30 %* 
17 %* 
25 %* 
13 %* 
(N = 150) 
24 %** 
8 %* 
19 %* 
Clinical remission is Mayo score  ≤ 2 with no subscore > 1; 
Clinical response is decrease from baseline in Mayo score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% plus a decrease in the rectal 
bleeding subscore [RBS] ≥ 1 or an absolute RBS of 0 or 1; 
*p < 0.05 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
**p < 0.001 for adalimumab vs. placebo pairwise comparison of proportions 
a Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Of those patients who had a response at week 8, 47% were in response, 29% were in remission, 41% had 
mucosal healing, and 20% were in steroid-free remission for ≥ 90 days at week 52. 
Approximately 40% of patients in study UC-II had failed prior anti-TNF treatment with infliximab. The 
efficacy of adalimumab in those patients was reduced compared to that in anti-TNF naïve patients. Among 
patients who had failed prior anti-TNF treatment, week 52 remission was achieved by 3% on placebo and 
10% on adalimumab. 
Patients from studies UC-I and UC-II had the option to roll over into an open-label long-term extension 
study (UC III). Following 3 years of adalimumab therapy, 75% (301/402) continued to be in clinical 
remission per partial Mayo score. 
Hospitalisation rates 
During 52 weeks of studies UC-I and UC-II, lower rates of all-cause hospitalisations and UC-related 
hospitalisations were observed for the adalimumab-treated arm compared to the placebo arm. The number of 
all cause hospitalisations in the adalimumab treatment group was 0.18 per patient year vs. 0.26 per patient 
92 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
year in the placebo group and the corresponding figures for UC-related hospitalisations were 0.12 per patient 
year vs. 0.22 per patient year. 
Quality of life 
In study UC-II, treatment with adalimumab resulted in improvements in the Inflammatory Bowel Disease 
Questionnaire (IBDQ) score. 
Uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious intermediate, 
posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two randomised, double- 
masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose 
of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after the initial dose. Concomitant stable 
doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted. 
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral prednisone 
at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of prednisone 60 mg/day at 
study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 
15. 
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment (oral 
prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently underwent a 
mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 19. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ‘time to treatment failure’. Treatment failure was defined 
by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory retinal vascular 
lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best corrected visual acuity 
(BCVA). 
Patients who completed Studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue on study 
medication beyond week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
Clinical Response 
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment failure in 
patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (see Table 17). Both studies 
demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus placebo (see 
Figure 1). 
Table 17 
Time to treatment failure in Studies UV I and UV II 
Analysis 
treatment 
N 
Failure N (%) 
Median 
time to 
failure 
(months) 
Hra 
CI 95% 
for Hra 
p Valueb 
time to treatment failure at or after week 6 in study UV I  
primary analysis (ITT)  
placebo 
adalimumab 
107  
110  
84 (78.5)  
60 (54.5)  
3.0  
5.6  
--  
--  
--  
0.50  
0.36, 0.70   < 0.001  
93 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
time to treatment failure at or after week 2 in study UV II 
primary analysis (ITT) 
placebo  
adalimumab  
111  
115  
61 (55.0)  
45 (39.1)  
8.3  
Nec  
--  
--  
--  
0.57  
0.39, 0.84  
0.004  
Note:  Treatment failure at or after week 6 (Study UV I), or at or after week 2 (Study UV II), was counted as 
event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of dropping out. 
HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor. 
2-sided P value from log rank test. 
NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event. 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Curves Summarizing Time to Treatment Failure on or after Week 6 (Study 
UV I) or Week 2 (Study UV II) 
)
%
(
)
E
T
A
R
E
R
U
%
L
I
(
A
E
F
T
T
A
N
R
E
E
M
R
T
U
A
L
E
I
A
R
F
T
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
Study UV I 
   Treatment 
Placebo  
Adalimumab 
a  TIME (MONTHS) 
TIME (MONTHS) 
Study UV II 
   Treatment 
    Placebo 
  Adalimumab 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of Events/Number at 
Risk). 
In Study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were observed for 
each component of treatment failure.  In Study UV II, statistically significant differences were observed for 
visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of adalimumab. 
94 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of Studies UV I and UV II, 60 subjects 
were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to diabetic retinopathy, 
due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 
remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74%) reached 78 weeks of open-label adalimumab treatment. 
Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3%) were in quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC 
cell grade  ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2%) 
were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 
88.6% of the eyes at week 78. Data beyond week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the 
number of enrolled subjects declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 
18% discontinued due to adverse events, and 8% due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment. 
Quality of Life 
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical studies, using 
the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores with statistically 
significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental health, and total score in 
Study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in Study UV II. Vision related effects were not 
numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in Study UVI and for colour vision, peripheral vision 
and near vision in Study UV II. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment. Formation of anti-adalimumab 
antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab. 
There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies and the occurrence of 
adverse events. 
Paediatric population 
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa 
There are no clinical trials with adalimumab in adolescent patients with HS.  Efficacy of adalimumab for the 
treatment of adolescent patients with HS is predicted based on the demonstrated efficacy and exposure- 
response relationship in adult HS patients and the likelihood that the disease course, pathophysiology, and 
drug effects are substantially similar to that of adults at the same exposure levels. Safety of the 
recommended adalimumab dose in the adolescent HS population is based on cross-indication safety profile 
of adalimumab in both adults and paediatric patients at similar or more frequent doses (see section 5.2). 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body weight (< 40 kg 
or ≥ 40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, with moderate to 
severe Crohn´s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index (PCDAI) score > 30. 
Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator) 
for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been intolerant to infliximab. 
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 160 mg at 
week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 for subjects ≥ 40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for subjects < 40 kg. 
At week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low Dose or 
Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 18. 
95 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 Maintenance regimen 
Patient Weight 
Low dose 
Standard dose 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
10 mg eow 
20 mg eow 
20 mg eow 
40 mg eow 
Efficacy results 
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at week 26, defined as PCDAI score  10. 
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points from 
Baseline) rates are presented in Table 19. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators 
are presented in Table 20. 
Table 19 
Paediatric CD Study 
PCDAI clinical remission and response 
Low Dose 
20/10 mg eow 
N = 95 
Standard Dose 
40/20 mg eow 
N = 93 
38.7% 
59.1% 
33.3% 
41.9% 
28.4% 
48.4% 
23.2% 
28.4% 
P value* 
0.075 
0.073 
0.100 
0.038 
Week 26 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
Week 52 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
* p value for standard dose versus low dose comparison. 
Table 20 
Paediatric CD Study 
Discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission 
P 
value1
Discontinued corticosteroids 
Week 26 
Week 52 
Discontinuation of Immunomodulators2
Week 52 
Fistula remission3
Week 26 
Week 52 
1 p value for standard dose versus low dose comparison. 
2 Immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after week 26 at the investigator’s 
0.608 
0.303 
0.066 
0.420 
0.983 
Standard 
dose 
40/20 mg 
N= 33 
eow 
84.8% 
69.7% 
N=60 
30.0% 
N=15 
46.7% 
40.0% 
Low 
dose 
20/10 mg 
N=38 
eow 
65.8% 
60.5% 
N=57 
29.8% 
N=21 
38.1% 
23.8% 
discretion if the subject met the clinical response criterion 
3 defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at Baseline for at least 2 consecutive post-
Baseline visits 
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to week 26 and 52 in Body Mass Index and 
height velocity were observed for both treatment groups. 
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both treatment 
groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III). 
96 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One hundred patients (n=100) from the Paediatric CD Study continued in an open-label long-term extension 
study.  After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0% (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in the study 
continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0% (46/50) of patients continued to be in clinical response per 
PCDAI. 
Paediatric ulcerative colitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, trial in 93 
paediatric patients from 5 to 17 years of age with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis (Mayo score 6 to 12 
with endoscopy subscore of 2 to 3 points, confirmed by centrally read endoscopy) who had an inadequate 
response or intolerance to conventional therapy. Approximately 16% of patients in the study had failed prior 
anti-TNF treatment. Patients who received corticosteroids at enrollment were allowed to taper their 
corticosteroid therapy after week 4. 
In the induction period of the study, 77 patients were randomized 3:2 to receive double-blind treatment 
with adalimumab at an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2; or an induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, 
placebo at week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2. Both groups received 0.6 mg/kg 
(maximum of 40 mg) at week 4 and week 6. Following an amendment to the study design, the remaining 16 
patients who enrolled in the induction period received open-label treatment with adalimumab at the 
induction dose of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 
mg) at week 2.  
At week 8, 62 patients who demonstrated clinical response per Partial Mayo Score (PMS; defined as a 
decrease in PMS ≥ 2 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) were randomized equally to receive double-blind 
maintenance treatment with adalimumab at a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week (ew), or a 
maintenance dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week (eow). Prior to an amendment to the 
study design, 12 additional patients who demonstrated clinical response per PMS were randomized to 
receive placebo but were not included in the confirmatory analysis of efficacy. 
Disease flare was defined as an increase in PMS of at least 3 points (for patients with PMS of 0 to 2 at week 
8), at least 2 points (for patients with pms of 3 to 4 at week 8), or at least 1 point (for patients with pms of 5 
to 6 at week 8).  
Patients who met criteria for disease flare at or after week 12 were randomized to receive a re-induction dose 
of 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) or a dose of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) and continued to receive 
their respective maintenance dose regimen afterwards.  
Efficacy Results 
The co-primary endpoints of the study were clinical remission per PMS (defined as PMS ≤ 2 and no 
individual subscore > 1) at week 8, and clinical remission per FMS (Full Mayo Score) (defined as a Mayo 
Score ≤ 2 and no individual subscore > 1) at week 52 in patients who achieved clinical response per PMS at 
week 8. 
Clinical remission rates per PMS at week 8 for patients in each of the adalimumab double-blind induction 
groups are presented in Table 21.  
97 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 21: Clinical remission per PMS at 8 weeks  
Adalimumaba  
maximum of 160 mg at week 
0 / placebo at week 1  
N=30 
Adalimumabb, c  
maximum of 160 mg at week 
0 and week 1  
N=47 
28/47 (59.6%) 
13/30 (43.3%) 
Clinical remission 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, placebo at week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2  
b Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum 
of 80 mg) at week 2  
c Not including open-label Induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at 
week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at week 4 and week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoint  
At week 52, clinical remission per FMS in week 8 responders, clinical response per FMS (defined as a 
decrease in Mayo Score ≥ 3 points and ≥ 30% from Baseline) in week 8 responders, mucosal healing per 
FMS (defined as an Mayo endoscopy score ≤ 1) in week 8 responders, clinical remission per FMS in Week 
8 remitters, and the proportion of subjects in corticosteroid-free remission per FMS in Week 8 responders 
were assessed in patients who received adalimumab at the double-blind maximum 40 mg eow (0.6 mg/kg) 
and maximum 40 mg ew (0.6 mg/kg) maintenance doses (Table 22). 
Table 22: Efficacy results at 52 weeks  
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 40 mg eow  
N=31 
Adalimumabb  
maximum of 40 mg ew  
N=31 
9/31 (29.0%)  
14/31 (45.2%) 
21/31 (67.7%)  
12/31 (38.7%)  
19/31 (61.3%)  
Clinical remission in week 8 PMS 
responders  
Clinical response in week 8 PMS 
responders  
Mucosal healing in week 8 PMS 
responders  
Clinical remission in week 8 PMS 
remitters  
Corticosteroid-free remission in week 8 
PMS respondersc  
a Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week  
b Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week  
c In patients receiving concomitant corticosteroids at baseline  
Note: Patients with missing values at week 52 or who were randomized to receive re-induction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for week 52 endpoints  
16/31 (51.6%)  
10/22 (45.5%)  
9/21 (42.9%)  
4/13 (30.8%)  
5/16 (31.3%)  
Additional exploratory efficacy endpoints included clinical response per the Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis 
Activity Index (PUCAI) (defined as a decrease in PUCAI ≥ 20 points from Baseline) and clinical remission 
per PUCAI (defined as PUCAI < 10) at week 8 and week 52 (Table 23).  
98 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 23: Exploratory endpoints results per PUCAI 
Week 8 
Clinical remission per PUCAI 
Clinical response per PUCAI 
Adalimumaba 
maximum of 160 mg at 
week 0 / placebo at week 1 
N=30 
10/30 (33.3%) 
15/30 (50.0%) 
Adalimumabb,c 
maximum of 160 mg at 
week 0 and week 1 
N=47 
22/47 (46.8%) 
32/47 (68.1%) 
Week 52 
Adalimumabd 
maximum of 40 mg eow 
N=31 
14/31 (45.2%) 
Adalimumabe 
maximum of 40 mg ew 
N=31 
18/31 (58.1%) 
16/31 (51.6%) 
18/31 (58.1%) 
Clinical remission per PUCAI in week 8 
PMS responders 
Clinical response per PUCAI in week 8 
PMS responders 
a Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0, placebo at week 1, and 1.2 
mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2  
b  Adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 
mg) at week 2  
c Not including open-label induction dose of adalimumab 2.4 mg/kg (maximum of 160 mg) at week 0 
and week 1, and 1.2 mg/kg (maximum of 80 mg) at week 2 
d Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every other week 
e Adalimumab 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) every week 
Note 1: Both induction groups received 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) at week 4 and week 6  
Note 2: Patients with missing values at week 8 were considered as not having met the endpoints  
Note 3: Patients with missing values at week 52 or who were randomized to receive re-induction or 
maintenance treatment were considered non-responders for week 52 endpoints 
Of the adalimumab-treated patients who received re-induction treatment during the maintenance period, 2/6 
(33%) achieved clinical response per FMS at week 52. 
Quality of life 
Clinically meaningful improvements from Baseline were observed in IMPACT III and the caregiver Work 
Productivity and Activity Impairment (WPAI) scores for the groups treated with adalimumab.  
Clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in height velocity were observed for the 
groups treated with adalimumab, and clinically meaningful increases (improvement) from Baseline in Body 
Mass Index were observed for subjects on the high maintenance dose of maximum 40 mg (0.6 mg/kg) ew. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-masked, controlled study of 90 
paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated noninfectious anterior uveitis who 
were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment.  Patients received either placebo or 20 mg 
adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week in combination with their 
baseline dose of methotrexate. 
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
99 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with development of 
sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted use of concomitant 
medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time. 
Clinical response 
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (see Figure 2, P < 
0.0001 from log rank test). The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for subjects treated with 
placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for subjects treated with 
adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment failure.  Adalimumab 
significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75% relative to placebo, as shown by the hazard ratio 
(HR = 0.25 [95% CI:  0.12, 0.49]). 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure in the paediatric uveitis study 
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
G
N
I
L
I
A
F
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
Treatment 
Note: P = Placebo (Number at Risk); A = Adalimumab (Number at Risk). 
  Placebo 
      Adalimumab 
TIME (WEEKS) 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution 
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab was 
slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The average absolute 
bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg subcutaneous dose was 
64%. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, concentrations were dose proportional. 
After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) 
ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase half-life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab 
concentrations in the synovial fluid from several rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96% of those 
in serum. 
100 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 g/ml (without 
concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 g/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively.  The serum 
adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose following 20, 40 and 
80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week. 
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 g/ml during adalimumab 
40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment. 
In adult patients with hidradenitis suppurativa, a dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
on week 2 achieved serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 7 to 8 μg/ml at week 2 and 
week 4.  The mean steady-state trough concentration at week 12 through week 36 were approximately 8 to 
10 μg/ml during adalimumab 40 mg every week treatment. 
Adalimumab exposure in adolescent HS patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic modelling 
and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients (paediatric psoriasis, 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related arthritis). The recommended 
adolescent HS dosing schedule is 40 mg every other week. Since exposure to adalimumab can be affected by 
body size, adolescents with higher body weight and inadequate response may benefit from receiving the 
recommended adult dose of 40 mg every week. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 5.5 g/ml 
during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 g/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 g/ml were observed in 
Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was 
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg.  At 
week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg eow) or Low Dose (20/10 mg 
eow) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. The mean (±SD) serum adalimumab trough 
concentrations achieved at week 4 were 15.7 ± 6.6 g/ml for patients ≥ 40 kg (160/80 mg) and 10.6 ± 6.1 
g/ml for patients < 40 kg (80/40 mg). 
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (±SD) adalimumab trough concentrations at 
week 52 were 9.5 ± 5.6 g/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5 ± 2.2 g/ml for the Low Dose group. 
The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to receive adalimumab 
treatment eow for 52 weeks. For patients who dose escalated from eow to weekly regimen, the mean (±SD) 
serum concentrations of adalimumab at week 52 were 15.3 ± 11.4 μg/ml (40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7 ± 3.5 
μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly). 
In patients with ulcerative colitis, a loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 g/ml 
during the induction period.  Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 8 g/ml were observed in 
ulcerative colitis patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
Following the subcutaneous administration of body weight-based dosing of 0.6 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) 
every other week to paediatric patients with ulcerative colitis, the mean trough steady-state serum 
adalimumab concentration was 5.01 ± 3.28 µg/ml at week 52. For patients who received 0.6 mg/kg 
(maximum of 40 mg) every week, the mean (±SD) trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentration was 
15.7 ± 5.60 μg/ml at week 52. 
101 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week starting at week 1, resulted in mean steady-state concentrations of 
approximately 8 to 10 g/mL. 
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients (paediatric 
psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related arthritis). No clinical 
exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. The predicted exposures 
indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an initial increase in systemic 
exposure. 
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation predicted 
comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other week when 
compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, patients with 
adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC). 
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population 
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response relationship 
was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent adalimumab plasma 
concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml 
(95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml). 
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients with 
severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, respectively. PASI 
75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab concentrations, both with a similar 
apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/mL (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 1.9-10.5, respectively). 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward higher 
apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight differences, 
gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance.  The serum levels of free 
adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be lower in patients with 
measurable AAA. 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, repeated dose 
toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in cynomolgus 
monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg/kg (9-17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment of fertility and 
postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate models for an antibody 
with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
102 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Acetic acid 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Glycine 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single Yuflyma pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 
25°C for a period of up to 31 days. The pre-filled syringe or pre-filled pen must be protected from light, and 
discarded if not used within the 31-day period. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a 
needle with a needle shield (thermoplastic elastomer). 
Packs of: 
• 
1 pre-filled syringe (0.8 ml sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
The syringe is made from type I glass with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a needle with a needle 
shield (thermoplastic elastomer). 
Packs of: 
• 
1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard (0.8 ml sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled pen for patient use containing a pre-filled syringe. The syringe inside the 
pen is made from type 1 glass with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a needle with a needle shield 
(thermoplastic elastomer). 
Packs of: 
• 
• 
1 pre-filled pen (0.8 ml sterile solution), with 2 alcohol pads. 
3 pre-filled pens (0.8 ml sterile solution), with 4 alcohol pads. 
Not all presentations or pack sizes may be marketed. 
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/20/1513/013 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
EU/1/20/1513/014 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
EU/1/20/1513/015 
EU/1/20/1513/016 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 February 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. See 
section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Each 0.2 ml single dose pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg of adalimumab. 
Adalimumab is a recombinant human monoclonal antibody produced in Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Solution for injection (injection) 
Clear to slightly opalescent, colourless to pale brown solution. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Yuflyma in combination with methotrexate is indicated for the treatment of active polyarticular juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis, in patients from the age of 2 years who have had an inadequate response to one or more 
disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Yuflyma can be given as monotherapy in case of 
intolerance to methotrexate or when continued treatment with methotrexate is inappropriate (for the efficacy 
in monotherapy see section 5.1). Adalimumab has not been studied in patients aged less than 2 years. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of active enthesitis-related arthritis in patients, 6 years of age and 
older, who have had an inadequate response to, or who are intolerant of, conventional therapy (see section 
5.1). 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents from 4 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are inappropriate candidates for topical therapy and 
phototherapies. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of moderately to severely active Crohn's disease in paediatric patients 
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(from 6 years of age) who have had an inadequate response to conventional therapy including primary 
nutrition therapy and a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator, or who are intolerant to or have 
contraindications for such therapies. 
Paediatric uveitis 
Yuflyma is indicated for the treatment of paediatric chronic non-infectious anterior uveitis in patients from 2 
years of age who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant to conventional therapy, or in whom 
conventional therapy is inappropriate. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Yuflyma treatment should be initiated and supervised by specialist physicians experienced in the diagnosis 
and treatment of conditions for which Yuflyma is indicated. Ophthalmologists are advised to consult with an 
appropriate specialist before initiation of treatment with Yuflyma (see section 4.4). Patients treated with 
Yuflyma should be given the Patient Reminder Card. 
After proper training in injection technique, patients may self-inject with Yuflyma if their physician 
determines that it is appropriate and with medical follow-up as necessary. 
During treatment with Yuflyma, other concomitant therapies (e.g., corticosteroids and/or 
immunomodulatory agents) should be optimised. 
Posology 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years of age 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis from 2 years 
of age is based on body weight (Table 1). Yuflyma is administered every other week via subcutaneous 
injection. 
Table 1. Yuflyma dose for patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Patient weight 
10 kg to < 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week  
≥ 30 kg 
40 mg every other week 
Available data suggest that clinical response is usually achieved within 12 weeks of treatment. Continued 
therapy should be carefully reconsidered in a patient not responding within this time period. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in patients aged less than 2 years for this indication. 
Yuflyma may be available in other presentations depending on the individual treatment needs. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis from 6 years of age is based 
on body weight (Table 2).  Yuflyma is administered every other week via subcutaneous injection. 
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2. Yuflyma dose for patients with enthesitis-related arthritis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week 
40 mg every other week 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with enthesitis-related arthritis aged less than 6 years. 
Yuflyma may be available in other presentations depending on the individual treatment needs. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis  
The recommended Yuflyma dose for patients with plaque psoriasis from 4 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 3). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
Table 3. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis 
Patient weight 
15 kg to < 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
Initial dose of 20 mg, followed 
by 20 mg given every other 
week starting one week after the 
initial dose 
Initial dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 40 mg given every other 
week starting one week after the 
initial dose 
Continued therapy beyond 16 weeks should be carefully considered in a patient not responding within this 
time period. 
If retreatment with adalimumab is indicated, the above guidance on dose and treatment duration should be 
followed. 
The safety of adalimumab in paediatric patients with plaque psoriasis has been assessed for a mean of 13 
months. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 4 years for this indication. 
Yuflyma may be available in other presentations depending on the individual treatment needs. 
Paediatric Crohn's disease 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for patients with Crohn’s disease from 6 to 17 years of age is based on 
body weight (Table 4). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
107 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4. Adalimumab dose for paediatric patients with crohn’s disease 
Patient 
weight 
< 40 kg 
Induction dose 
• 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2  
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to therapy 
with the awareness that the risk for adverse events may be 
higher with use of the higher induction dose, the following 
dose may be used: 
• 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
≥ 40 kg 
• 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2 
Maintenance dose 
starting at week 4 
20 mg every other 
week 
40 mg every 
other week 
In case there is a need for a more rapid response to 
therapy with the awareness that the risk for adverse 
events may be higher with use of the higher induction 
dose, the following dose may be used: 
• 160 mg at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 
Patients who experience insufficient response may benefit from an increase in dosage: 
• 
• 
< 40 kg: 20 mg every week 
≥ 40 kg: 40 mg every week or 80 mg every other week 
Continued therapy should be carefully considered in a subject not responding by week 12. 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 6 years for this indication. 
Yuflyma may be available in other presentations depending on the individual treatment needs. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The recommended dose of Yuflyma for paediatric patients with uveitis from 2 years of age is based on body 
weight (Table 5). Yuflyma is administered via subcutaneous injection. 
In paediatric uveitis, there is no experience in the treatment with adalimumab without concomitant treatment 
with methotrexate. 
Table 5. Yuflyma dose for paediatric patients with uveitis 
Patient weight 
< 30 kg 
≥ 30 kg 
Dosing regimen 
20 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
40 mg every other week in 
combination with methotrexate 
When Yuflyma therapy is initiated, a loading dose of 40 mg for patients < 30 kg or 80 mg for patients ≥ 30 
kg may be administered one week prior to the start of maintenance therapy. No clinical data are available on 
the use of an adalimumab loading dose in children < 6 years of age (see section 5.2). 
There is no relevant use of adalimumab in children aged less than 2 years in this indication. 
108 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is recommended that the benefit and risk of continued long-term treatment should be evaluated on a yearly 
basis (see section 5.1). 
Yuflyma may be available in other presentations depending on the individual treatment needs. 
Renal and/or hepatic impairment  
Adalimumab has not been studied in these patient populations. No dose recommendations can be made. 
Method of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by subcutaneous injection. Full instructions for use are provided in the package 
leaflet. 
Yuflyma is available in other strengths and presentations. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Active tuberculosis or other severe infections such as sepsis, and opportunistic infections (see section 4.4).  
Moderate to severe heart failure (NYHA class III/IV) (see section 4.4). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Traceability 
In order to improve traceability of biological medicinal products, the name and the batch number of the 
administered product should be clearly recorded. 
Infections 
Patients taking TNF-antagonists are more susceptible to serious infections. Impaired lung function may 
increase the risk for developing infections. Patients must therefore be monitored closely for infections, 
including tuberculosis, before, during and after treatment with Yuflyma.  Because the elimination of 
adalimumab may take up to four months, monitoring should be continued throughout this period. 
Treatment with Yuflyma should not be initiated in patients with active infections including chronic or 
localised infections until infections are controlled. In patients who have been exposed to tuberculosis and 
patients who have travelled in areas of high risk of tuberculosis or endemic mycoses, such as histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis, or blastomycosis, the risk and benefits of treatment with Yuflyma should be considered 
prior to initiating therapy (see Other opportunistic infections). 
Patients who develop a new infection while undergoing treatment with Yuflyma should be monitored 
closely and undergo a complete diagnostic evaluation. Administration of Yuflyma should be discontinued if 
a patient develops a new serious infection or sepsis, and appropriate antimicrobial or antifungal therapy 
should be initiated until the infection is controlled.  Physicians should exercise caution when considering the 
use of Yuflyma in patients with a history of recurring infection or with underlying conditions which may 
predispose patients to infections, including the use of concomitant immunosuppressive medications. 
Serious infections 
Serious infections, including sepsis, due to bacterial, mycobacterial, invasive fungal, parasitic, viral, or other 
opportunistic infections such as listeriosis, legionellosis and pneumocystis have been reported in patients 
receiving adalimumab. 
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other serious infections seen in clinical trials include pneumonia, pyelonephritis, septic arthritis and 
septicaemia. Hospitalisation or fatal outcomes associated with infections have been reported. 
Tuberculosis 
Tuberculosis, including reactivation and new onset of tuberculosis, has been reported in patients receiving 
adalimumab.  Reports included cases of pulmonary and extra-pulmonary (i.e. disseminated) tuberculosis. 
Before initiation of therapy with Yuflyma, all patients must be evaluated for both active or inactive 
(“latent”) tuberculosis infection.  This evaluation should include a detailed medical assessment of patient 
history of tuberculosis or possible previous exposure to people with active tuberculosis and previous and/or 
current immunosuppressive therapy.  Appropriate screening tests (i.e. tuberculin skin test and chest X-ray) 
should be performed in all patients (local recommendations may apply).  It is recommended that the conduct 
and results of these tests are recorded in the Patient Reminder Card.  Prescribers are reminded of the risk of 
false negative tuberculin skin test results, especially in patients who are severely ill or immunocompromised. 
If active tuberculosis is diagnosed, Yuflyma therapy must not be initiated (see section 4.3). 
In all situations described below, the benefit/risk balance of therapy should be very carefully considered.  
If latent tuberculosis is suspected, a physician with expertise in the treatment of tuberculosis should be 
consulted. 
If latent tuberculosis is diagnosed, appropriate treatment must be started with anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis 
treatment before the initiation of Yuflyma, and in accordance with local recommendations. 
Use of anti-tuberculosis prophylaxis treatment should also be considered before the initiation of Yuflyma in 
patients with several or significant risk factors for tuberculosis despite a negative test for tuberculosis and in 
patients with a past history of latent or active tuberculosis in whom an adequate course of treatment cannot 
be confirmed. 
Despite prophylactic treatment for tuberculosis, cases of reactivated tuberculosis have occurred in patients 
treated with adalimumab. Some patients who have been successfully treated for active tuberculosis have 
redeveloped tuberculosis while being treated with adalimumab. 
Patients should be instructed to seek medical advice if signs/symptoms suggestive of a tuberculosis infection 
(e.g., persistent cough, wasting/weight loss, low grade fever, listlessness) occur during or after therapy with 
Yuflyma. 
Other opportunistic infections 
Opportunistic infections, including invasive fungal infections have been observed in patients receiving 
adalimumab. These infections have not consistently been recognised in patients taking TNF-antagonists and 
this has resulted in delays in appropriate treatment, sometimes resulting in fatal outcomes. 
For patients who develop the signs and symptoms such as fever, malaise, weight loss, sweats, cough, 
dyspnoea, and/or pulmonary infiltrates or other serious systemic illness with or without concomitant shock 
an invasive fungal infection should be suspected and administration of Yuflyma should be promptly 
discontinued.  Diagnosis and administration of empiric antifungal therapy in these patients should be made 
in consultation with a physician with expertise in the care of patients with invasive fungal infections. 
Hepatitis B reactivation 
Reactivation of hepatitis B has occurred in patients receiving a TNF-antagonist including adalimumab, who 
110 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are chronic carriers of this virus (i.e. surface antigen positive).  Some cases have had a fatal outcome. 
Patients should be tested for HBV infection before initiating treatment with Yuflyma. For patients who test 
positive for hepatitis B infection, consultation with a physician with expertise in the treatment of hepatitis B 
is recommended. 
Carriers of HBV who require treatment with Yuflyma should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms 
of active HBV infection throughout therapy and for several months following termination of therapy. 
Adequate data from treating patients who are carriers of HBV with anti-viral therapy in conjunction with 
TNF-antagonist therapy to prevent HBV reactivation are not available. In patients who develop HBV 
reactivation, Yuflyma should be stopped and effective anti-viral therapy with appropriate supportive 
treatment should be initiated. 
Neurological events 
TNF-antagonists including adalimumab have been associated in rare instances with new onset or 
exacerbation of clinical symptoms and/or radiographic evidence of central nervous system demyelinating 
disease including multiple sclerosis and optic neuritis, and peripheral demyelinating disease, including 
Guillain- Barré syndrome. Prescribers should exercise caution in considering the use of Yuflyma in patients 
with pre- existing or recent-onset central or peripheral nervous system demyelinating disorders; 
discontinuation of Yuflyma should be considered if any of these disorders develop. There is a known 
association between intermediate uveitis and central demyelinating disorders. Neurologic evaluation should 
be performed in patients with non-infectious intermediate uveitis prior to the initiation of Yuflyma therapy 
and regularly during treatment to assess for pre-existing or developing central demyelinating disorders. 
Allergic reactions 
Serious allergic reactions associated with adalimumab were rare during clinical trials. Non-serious allergic 
reactions associated with adalimumab were uncommon during clinical trials. Reports of serious allergic 
reactions including anaphylaxis have been received following adalimumab administration. If an anaphylactic 
reaction or other serious allergic reaction occurs, administration of Yuflyma should be discontinued 
immediately and appropriate therapy initiated. 
Immunosuppression 
In a study of 64 patients with rheumatoid arthritis that were treated with adalimumab, there was no evidence 
of depression of delayed-type hypersensitivity, depression of immunoglobulin levels, or change in 
enumeration of effector T-, B-, NK-cells, monocyte/macrophages, and neutrophils. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
In the controlled portions of clinical trials of TNF-antagonists, more cases of malignancies including 
lymphoma have been observed among patients receiving a TNF-antagonist compared with control patients. 
However, the occurrence was rare. In the post marketing setting, cases of  leukaemia have been reported in 
patients treated with a TNF-antagonist. There is an increased background risk for lymphoma and  leukaemia 
in rheumatoid arthritis patients with long-standing, highly active, inflammatory disease, which complicates 
the risk estimation. With the current knowledge, a possible risk for the development of lymphomas, 
leukaemia, and other malignancies in patients treated with a TNF-antagonist cannot be excluded. 
Malignancies, some fatal, have been reported among children, adolescents and young adults (up to 22 years 
of age) treated with TNF-antagonists (initiation of therapy ≤ 18 years of age), including adalimumab in the 
post marketing setting. Approximately half the cases were lymphomas. The other cases represented a variety 
of different malignancies and included rare malignancies usually associated with immunosuppression. A risk 
for the development of malignancies in children and adolescents treated with TNF-antagonists cannot be 
excluded. 
111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare postmarketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been identified in patients treated with 
adalimumab. This rare type of T-cell lymphoma has a very aggressive disease course and is usually fatal. 
Some of these hepatosplenic T-cell lymphomas with adalimumab have occurred in young adult patients on 
concomitant treatment with azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine used for inflammatory bowel disease. The 
potential risk with the combination of azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine and Yuflyma should be carefully 
considered. A risk for the development of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma in patients treated with Yuflyma 
cannot be excluded (see section 4.8). 
No studies have been conducted that include patients with a history of malignancy or in whom treatment 
with adalimumab is continued following development of malignancy.  Thus, additional caution should be 
exercised in considering Yuflyma treatment of these patients (see section 4.8). 
All patients, and in particular patients with a medical history of extensive immunosuppressant therapy or 
psoriasis patients with a history of PUVA treatment should be examined for the presence of non- melanoma 
skin cancer prior to and during treatment with Yuflyma.  Melanoma and Merkel cell carcinoma have also 
been reported in patients treated with TNF-antagonists including adalimumab (see section 4.8). 
In an exploratory clinical trial evaluating the use of another TNF-antagonist, infliximab, in patients with 
moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), more malignancies, mostly in the lung 
or head and neck, were reported in infliximab-treated patients compared with control patients. All patients 
had a history of heavy smoking. Therefore, caution should be exercised when using any TNF-antagonist in 
COPD patients, as well as in patients with increased risk for malignancy due to heavy smoking. 
With current data it is not known if adalimumab treatment influences the risk for developing dysplasia or 
colon cancer.  All patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk for dysplasia or colon carcinoma 
(for example, patients with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary sclerosing cholangitis), or who had a 
prior history of dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for dysplasia at regular intervals before 
therapy and throughout their disease course. This evaluation should include colonoscopy and biopsies per 
local recommendations. 
Haematologic reactions 
Rare reports of pancytopenia including aplastic anaemia have been reported with TNF-antagonists. Adverse 
events of the haematologic system, including medically significant cytopenia (e.g. thrombocytopenia, 
leukopenia) have been reported with adalimumab. All patients should be advised to seek immediate medical 
attention if they develop signs and symptoms suggestive of blood dyscrasias (e.g. persistent fever, bruising, 
bleeding, pallor) while on Yuflyma. Discontinuation of Yuflyma therapy should be considered in patients 
with confirmed significant haematologic abnormalities. 
Vaccinations 
Similar antibody responses to the standard 23-valent pneumococcal vaccine and the influenza trivalent virus 
vaccination were observed in a study in 226 adult subjects with rheumatoid arthritis who were treated with 
adalimumab or placebo. No data are available on the secondary transmission of infection by live vaccines in 
patients receiving adalimumab. 
It is recommended that paediatric patients, if possible, be brought up to date with all immunisations in 
agreement with current immunisation guidelines prior to initiating Yuflyma therapy. 
Patients on Yuflyma may receive concurrent vaccinations, except for live vaccines. Administration of live 
vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 5 months 
following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Congestive heart failure 
112 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In a clinical trial with another TNF-antagonist worsening congestive heart failure and increased mortality 
due to congestive heart failure have been observed. Cases of worsening congestive heart failure have also 
been reported in patients receiving adalimumab. Yuflyma should be used with caution in patients with mild 
heart failure (NYHA class I/II). Yuflyma is contraindicated in moderate to severe heart failure (see section 
4.3). Treatment with Yuflyma must be discontinued in patients who develop new or worsening symptoms of 
congestive heart failure. 
Autoimmune processes 
Treatment with Yuflyma may result in the formation of autoimmune antibodies. The impact of long-term 
treatment with adalimumab on the development of autoimmune diseases is unknown. If a patient develops 
symptoms suggestive of a lupus-like syndrome following treatment with Yuflyma and is positive for 
antibodies against double-stranded DNA, further treatment with Yuflyma should not be given (see section 
4.8). 
Concurrent administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists 
Serious infections were seen in clinical studies with concurrent use of anakinra and another 
TNF-antagonist, etanercept, with no added clinical benefit compared to etanercept alone. Because of the 
nature of the adverse events seen with the combination of etanercept and anakinra therapy, similar toxicities 
may also result from the combination of anakinra and other TNF-antagonists. Therefore, the combination of 
adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant administration of adalimumab with other biologic DMARDs (e.g, anakinra and abatacept) or 
other TNF-antagonists is not recommended based upon the possible increased risk for infections, including 
serious infections and other potential pharmacological interactions (see section 4.5). 
Surgery 
There is limited safety experience of surgical procedures in patients treated with adalimumab. The long half-
life of adalimumab should be taken into consideration if a surgical procedure is planned.  A patient who 
requires surgery while on Yuflyma should be closely monitored for infections, and appropriate actions 
should be taken. There is limited safety experience in patients undergoing arthroplasty while receiving 
adalimumab. 
Small bowel obstruction 
Failure to respond to treatment for Crohn’s disease may indicate the presence of fixed fibrotic stricture that 
may require surgical treatment. Available data suggest that adalimumab does not worsen or cause strictures. 
Elderly 
The frequency of serious infections among adalimumab-treated subjects over 65 years of age (3.7%) was 
higher than for those under 65 years of age (1.5%). Some of those had a fatal outcome. Particular attention 
regarding the risk for infection should be paid when treating the elderly. 
Paediatric population 
See Vaccinations above. 
Sodium contents 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.2 ml dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
113 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adalimumab has been studied in rheumatoid arthritis, polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and psoriatic 
arthritis patients taking adalimumab as monotherapy and those taking concomitant methotrexate.  Antibody 
formation was lower when adalimumab was given together with methotrexate in comparison with use as 
monotherapy. Administration of adalimumab without methotrexate resulted in increased formation of 
antibodies, increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab (see section 5.1). 
The combination of adalimumab and anakinra is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
The combination of adalimumab and abatacept is not recommended (see section 4.4 “Concurrent 
administration of biologic DMARDs or TNF-antagonists”). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy 
and continue its use for at least five months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
Pregnancy 
A large number (approximately 2,100) of prospectively collected pregnancies exposed to adalimumab 
resulting in live birth with known outcomes, including more than 1,500 exposed during the first trimester, 
does not indicate an increase in the rate of malformation in the newborn. 
In a prospective cohort registry, 257 women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) or Crohn’s disease (CD) treated 
with adalimumab at least during the first trimester and 120 women with RA or CD not treated with 
adalimumab were enrolled.  The primary endpoint was the birth prevalence of major birth defects. The rate 
of pregnancies ending with at least one live born infant with a major birth defect was 6/69 (8.7%) in the 
adalimumab-treated women with RA and 5/74 (6.8%) in the untreated women with RA (unadjusted OR 
1.31, 95% CI 0.38-4.52) and 16/152 (10.5%) in the adalimumab-treated women with CD and 3/32 (9.4%) in 
the untreated women with CD (unadjusted OR 1.14, 95% CI 0.31-4.16). The adjusted OR (accounting for 
baseline differences) was 1.10 (95% CI 0.45-2.73) with RA and CD combined. There were no distinct 
differences between adalimumab-treated and untreated women for the secondary endpoints spontaneous 
abortions, minor birth defects, preterm delivery, birth size and serious or opportunistic infections and no 
stillbirths or malignancies were reported. The interpretation of data may be impacted due to methodological 
limitations of the study, including small sample size and non-randomised design. 
In a developmental toxicity study conducted in monkeys, there was no indication of maternal toxicity, 
embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. Preclinical data on postnatal toxicity of adalimumab are not available (see 
section 5.3). 
Due to its inhibition of TNF, adalimumab administered during pregnancy could affect normal immune 
responses in the newborn. Adalimumab should only be used during pregnancy if clearly needed. 
Adalimumab may cross the placenta into the serum of infants born to women treated with adalimumab 
during pregnancy. Consequently, these infants may be at increased risk for infection. Administration of live 
vaccines (e.g., BCG vaccine) to infants exposed to adalimumab in utero is not recommended for 5 months 
following the mother’s last adalimumab injection during pregnancy. 
Breast-feeding 
Limited information from the published literature indicates that adalimumab is excreted in breast milk at 
very low concentrations with the presence of adalimumab in human milk at concentrations of 0.1% to 1% of 
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the maternal serum level. Given orally, immunoglobulin G proteins undergo intestinal proteolysis and have 
poor bioavailability. No effects on the breastfed newborns/infants are anticipated. Consequently, Yuflyma 
can be used during breastfeeding. 
Fertility 
Preclinical data on fertility effects of adalimumab are not available. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Yuflyma may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Vertigo and visual 
impairment may occur following administration of Yuflyma (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Adalimumab was studied in 9,506 patients in pivotal controlled and open label trials for up to 60 months or 
more.  These trials included rheumatoid arthritis patients with short term and long standing disease, juvenile 
idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and enthesitis-related arthritis) as well as axial 
spondyloarthritis (ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS), 
psoriatic arthritis, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriasis, hidradenitis suppurativa and uveitis patients. 
The pivotal controlled studies involved 6,089 patients receiving adalimumab and 3,801 patients receiving 
placebo or active comparator during the controlled period. 
The proportion of patients who discontinued treatment due to adverse events during the double-blind, 
controlled portion of pivotal studies was 5.9% for patients taking adalimumab and 5.4% for control treated 
patients. 
The most commonly reported adverse reactions are infections (such as nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory 
tract infection and sinusitis), injection site reactions (erythema, itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), 
headache and musculoskeletal pain. 
Serious adverse reactions have been reported for adalimumab. TNF-antagonists, such as adalimumab affect 
the immune system and their use may affect the body’s defence against infection and cancer. 
Fatal and life-threatening infections (including sepsis, opportunistic infections and TB), HBV reactivation 
and various malignancies (including leukaemia, lymphoma and HSTCL) have also been reported with use of 
adalimumab. 
Serious haematological, neurological and autoimmune reactions have also been reported. These include rare 
reports of pancytopenia, aplastic anaemia, central and peripheral demyelinating events and reports of lupus, 
lupus-related conditions and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Paediatric population 
In general, the adverse events in paediatric patients were similar in frequency and type to those seen in adult 
patients. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following list of adverse reactions is based on experience from clinical trials and on postmarketing 
experience and are displayed by system organ class and frequency in Table 6 below: very common ( 1/10); 
common ( 1/100 to < 1/10); uncommon ( 1/1,000 to < 1/100); rare ( 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000); and not 
known (cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, undesirable effects 
are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. The highest frequency seen among the various indications 
115 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
has been included. An asterisk (*) appears in the SOC column if further information is found elsewhere in 
sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
Table 6  
Undesirable effects 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Infections and 
infestations* 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Respiratory tract infections (including lower and 
upper respiratory tract infection, pneumonia, 
sinusitis, pharyngitis, nasopharyngitis and 
pneumonia herpes viral) 
Systemic infections (including sepsis, candidiasis 
and influenza), 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis 
viral), 
skin and soft tissue infections (including 
paronychia, cellulitis, impetigo, necrotising 
fasciitis and herpes zoster), 
ear infections, 
oral infections (including herpes simplex, oral 
herpes and tooth infections),  
reproductive tract infections (including 
vulvovaginal mycotic infection),  
urinary tract infections (including 
pyelonephritis), 
fungal infections, 
joint infections 
Neurological infections (including viral 
meningitis), 
opportunistic infections and tuberculosis 
(including coccidioidomycosis, histoplasmosis 
and mycobacterium avium complex infection),  
bacterial infections, 
eye infections, 
diverticulitis1)  
Neoplasms benign, 
malignant and unspecified 
(including cysts and 
polyps)* 
Common 
Skin cancer excluding melanoma (including 
basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell 
carcinoma), 
benign neoplasm 
Uncommon 
Lymphoma**,  
solid organ neoplasm (including breast cancer, 
lung neoplasm and thyroid neoplasm),  
melanoma** 
116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Rare 
Leukaemia1) 
Not known 
Hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma1) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (neuroendocrine 
carcinoma of the skin)1), 
Kaposi’s sarcoma 
Blood and the lymphatic 
system disorders* 
Very common 
Leukopenia (including neutropenia and 
agranulocytosis),  
anaemia 
Common 
Leucocytosis, 
thrombocytopenia 
Uncommon 
Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura 
Rare 
Pancytopenia 
Immune system disorders*  Common 
Hypersensitivity, 
allergies (including seasonal allergy) 
Uncommon 
Sarcoidosis1), 
vasculitis 
Rare 
Anaphylaxis1) 
Metabolism and nutrition 
disorders 
Very common 
Lipids increased 
Common 
Hypokalaemia,  
uric acid increased,  
blood sodium abnormal, 
hypocalcaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, 
hypophosphatemia, 
dehydration 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Mood alterations (including depression),  
anxiety, 
117 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Nervous system disorders*  Very common 
Headache 
insomnia 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Paraesthesias (including hypoesthesia), 
migraine, 
nerve root compression 
Cerebrovascular accident1), 
tremor, 
neuropathy 
Multiple sclerosis, 
demyelinating disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, 
Guillain-Barré syndrome) 1) 
Eye disorders 
Common 
Visual impairment, 
conjunctivitis, 
blepharitis, 
eye swelling 
Uncommon 
Diplopia 
Ear and labyrinth 
disorders  
Common 
Vertigo 
Uncommon 
Deafness,  
tinnitus 
Cardiac disorders*  
Common 
Tachycardia 
Uncommon 
Myocardial infarction1), 
arrhythmia, 
congestive heart failure 
Rare 
Cardiac arrest 
Vascular disorders 
Common 
Hypertension,  
flushing,  
haematoma 
118 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Uncommon 
Aortic aneurysm, 
vascular arterial occlusion, 
thrombophlebitis  
Respiratory, thoracic and 
mediastinal disorders* 
Common 
Asthma, 
dyspnoea, 
cough 
Uncommon 
Pulmonary embolism1), 
interstitial lung disease,  
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
pneumonitis, 
pleural effusion1) 
Rare 
Pulmonary fibrosis1) 
Gastrointestinal disorders  Very common 
Abdominal pain,  
nausea and vomiting 
Common 
GI haemorrhage,  
dyspepsia,  
gastroesophageal reflux disease, 
sicca syndrome 
Uncommon 
Pancreatitis,  
dysphagia, 
face oedema 
Rare 
Intestinal perforation1) 
Hepato-biliary disorders*  Very Common 
Elevated liver enzymes 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Cholecystitis and cholelithiasis, 
hepatic steatosis, 
bilirubin increased 
Hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B1)  
autoimmune hepatitis1) 
Not known 
Liver failure1) 
119 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Very Common 
Rash (including exfoliative rash) 
Common 
Worsening or new onset of psoriasis (including 
palmoplantar pustular psoriasis)1), 
urticaria, 
bruising (including purpura),  
dermatitis (including eczema), 
onychoclasis,  
hyperhidrosis, 
alopecia1), 
pruritus  
Uncommon 
Night sweats, 
scar 
Rare 
Erythema multiforme1), 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome1), 
angioedema1), 
cutaneous vasculitis1) 
lichenoid skin reaction1) 
Not known 
Worsening of symptoms of dermatomyositis1) 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue disorders 
Very common 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Common 
Muscle spasms (including blood creatine 
phosphokinase increased) 
Uncommon 
Rhabdomyolysis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus 
Rare 
Lupus-like syndrome1) 
Renal and urinary 
disorders  
Common 
Renal impairment, 
haematuria 
Uncommon 
Nocturia 
Reproductive system and 
breast disorders 
Uncommon 
Erectile dysfunction 
General disorders and 
Very Common 
Injection site reaction (including injection site 
120 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ Class 
Frequency 
Adverse Reaction 
administration site 
conditions* 
Common 
erythema) 
Chest pain,  
oedema, 
pyrexia1) 
Uncommon 
Inflammation 
Investigations* 
Common 
Coagulation and bleeding disorders (including 
activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged),  
autoantibody test positive (including double 
stranded DNA antibody),  
blood lactate dehydrogenase increased 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural complications 
Not known 
Common 
Weight increased2) 
Impaired healing 
* further information is found elsewhere in sections 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8 
** including open label extension studies 
1) including spontaneous reporting data 
2) The mean weight change from baseline for adalimumab ranged from 0.3 kg to 1.0 kg across adult 
indications compared to (minus) -0.4 kg to 0.4 kg for placebo over a treatment period of 4-6 months. 
Weight increase of 5-6 kg has also been observed in long-term extension studies with mean exposures of 
approximately 1-2 years without control group, particularly in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative 
colitis. The mechanism behind this effect is unclear but could be associated with the anti-inflammatory 
effect of adalimumab. 
Uveitis 
The safety profile for patients with uveitis treated with adalimumab every other week was consistent with 
the known safety profile of adalimumab. 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Injection site reactions 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, 12.9% of patients treated with adalimumab developed 
injection site reactions (erythema and/or itching, haemorrhage, pain or swelling), compared to 7.2% of 
patients receiving placebo or active control. Injection site reactions generally did not necessitate 
discontinuation of the medicinal product. 
Infections 
In the pivotal controlled trials in adults and children, the rate of infection was 1.51 per patient year in the 
adalimumab-treated patients and 1.46 per patient year in the placebo and active control-treated patients. The 
infections consisted primarily of nasopharyngitis, upper respiratory tract infection, and sinusitis. Most 
patients continued on adalimumab after the infection resolved. 
121 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The incidence of serious infections was 0.04 per patient year in adalimumab-treated patients and 0.03 per 
patient year in placebo and active control-treated patients. 
In controlled and open label adult and paediatric studies with adalimumab, serious infections (including fatal 
infections, which occurred rarely) have been reported, which include reports of tuberculosis (including 
miliary and extra-pulmonary locations) and invasive opportunistic infections (e.g. disseminated or 
extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, pneumocystis, candidiasis, aspergillosis 
and listeriosis). Most of the cases of tuberculosis occurred within the first eight months after initiation of 
therapy and may reflect recrudescence of latent disease. 
Malignancies and lymphoproliferative disorders 
No malignancies were observed in 249 paediatric patients with an exposure of 655.6 patient years during 
adalimumab trials in patients with juvenile idiopathic arthritis (polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis and 
enthesitis-related arthritis). In addition, no malignancies were observed in 192 paediatric patients with an 
exposure of 498.1 patient years during adalimumab trials in paediatric patients with Crohn’s disease. No 
malignancies were observed in 77 paediatric patients with an exposure of 80.0 patient years during an 
adalimumab trial in paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis. No malignancies were observed in 60 
paediatric patients with an exposure of 58.4 patient years during an adalimumab trial in paediatric patients 
with uveitis. 
During the controlled portions of pivotal adalimumab trials in adults of at least 12 weeks in duration in 
patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, axial 
spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of AS,  psoriatic arthritis, psoriasis, hidradenitis 
suppurativa, Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and uveitis, malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-
melanoma skin cancer, were observed at a rate (95% confidence interval) of 6.8 (4.4, 10.5)  per 1,000 
patient-years among 5,291 adalimumab-treated patients versus a rate of 6.3 (3.4, 11.8) per 1,000 patient-
years among 3,444 control patients (median duration of treatment was 4.0 months for adalimumab and 3.8 
months for control-treated patients). The rate (95% confidence interval) of non-melanoma skin cancers was 
8.8 (6.0, 13.0) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 3.2 (1.3, 7.6) per 1,000 
patient-years among control patients. Of these skin cancers, squamous cell carcinomas occurred at rates 
(95% confidence interval) of 2.7 (1.4, 5.4) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 
0.6 (0.1, 4.5) per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. The rate (95% confidence interval) of 
lymphomas was 0.7 (0.2, 2.7) per 1,000 patient-years among adalimumab-treated patients and 0.6 (0.1, 4.5) 
per 1,000 patient-years among control patients. 
When combining controlled portions of these trials and ongoing and completed open label extension studies 
with a median duration of approximately 3.3 years including 6,427 patients and over 26,439 patient-years of 
therapy, the observed rate of malignancies, other than lymphoma and non-melanoma skin cancers is 
approximately 8.5 per 1,000 patient years. The observed rate of non-melanoma skin cancers is 
approximately 9.6 per 1,000 patient years, and the observed rate of lymphomas is approximately 1.3 per 
1,000 patient years. 
In post-marketing experience from January 2003 to December 2010, predominantly in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis, the reported rate of malignancies is approximately 2.7 per 1,000 patient treatment 
years. The reported rates for non-melanoma skin cancers and lymphomas are approximately 0.2 and 0.3 per 
1,000 patient treatment years, respectively (see section 4.4). 
Rare post-marketing cases of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma have been reported in patients treated with 
adalimumab (see section 4.4). 
Autoantibodies 
Patients had serum samples tested for autoantibodies at multiple time points in rheumatoid arthritis studies I 
122 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
− V. In these trials, 11.9% of patients treated with adalimumab and 8.1% of placebo and active control − 
treated patients that had negative baseline anti-nuclear antibody titres reported positive titres at week 24. 
Two patients out of 3,441 treated with adalimumab in all rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis studies 
developed clinical signs suggestive of new-onset lupus-like syndrome. The patients improved following 
discontinuation of therapy. No patients developed lupus nephritis or central nervous system symptoms. 
Hepato-biliary events 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis with a 
control period duration ranging from 4 to 104 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 3.7% of 
adalimumab-treated patients and 1.6% of control-treated patients. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who 
were 4 to 17 years and enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 6.1% of adalimumab-treated patients and 1.3% of control-treated patients. Most ALT elevations 
occurred with concomitant methotrexate use. No ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of 
adalimumab in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis who were 2 to < 4 years. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis with a 
control period ranging from 4 to 52 weeks. ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 0.9% of adalimumab-
treated patients and 0.9% of controlled-treated patients. 
In the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in patients with paediatric Crohn’s disease which evaluated efficacy and 
safety of two body weight adjusted maintenance dose regimens following body weight adjusted induction 
therapy up to 52 weeks of treatment, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 2.6%  (5/192) of patients of 
whom 4 were receiving concomitant immunosuppressants at baseline. 
In controlled Phase 3 trials of adalimumab in patients with plaque psoriasis with a control period duration 
ranging from 12 to 24 weeks, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN occurred in 1.8% of adalimumab-treated patients 
and 1.8% of control-treated patients. 
No ALT elevations ≥ 3 X ULN occurred in the Phase 3 trial of adalimumab in paediatric patients with 
plaque psoriasis. 
In controlled trials of adalimumab (initial doses of 80 mg at week 0 followed by 40 mg every other week 
starting at week 1) in adult patients with uveitis up to 80 weeks with a median exposure of 166.5 days and 
105.0 days in adalimumab-treated and control-treated patients, respectively, ALT elevations ≥ 3 x ULN 
occurred in 2.4% of adalimumab-treated patients and 2.4% of control-treated patients. 
Across all indications in clinical trials patients with raised ALT were asymptomatic and in most cases 
elevations were transient and resolved on continued treatment.  However, there have also been post- 
marketing reports of liver failure as well as less severe liver disorders that may precede liver failure, such as 
hepatitis including autoimmune hepatitis in patients receiving adalimumab. 
Concurrent treatment with azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine 
In adult Crohn’s disease studies, higher incidences of malignant and serious infection-related adverse events 
were seen with the combination of adalimumab and azathioprine/6-mercaptopurine compared with 
adalimumab alone. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important.  It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product.  Healthcare professionals are 
123 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
No dose-limiting toxicity was observed during clinical trials. The highest dose level evaluated has been 
multiple intravenous doses of 10 mg/kg, which is approximately 15 times the recommended dose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Immunosuppressants, Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-α) inhibitors. ATC 
code: L04AB04 
Yuflyma is a biosimilar medicinal product. Detailed information is available on the website of the European 
Medicines Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
Mechanism of action 
Adalimumab binds specifically to TNF and neutralises the biological function of TNF by blocking its 
interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. 
Adalimumab also modulates biological responses that are induced or regulated by TNF, including changes 
in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 
with an IC50 of 0.1-0.2 nM). 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
After treatment with adalimumab, a rapid decrease in levels of acute phase reactants of inflammation 
(C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was 
observed, compared to baseline in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. Serum levels of matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that produce tissue remodelling responsible for cartilage 
destruction were also decreased after adalimumab administration. Patients treated with adalimumab usually 
experienced improvement in haematological signs of chronic inflammation. 
A rapid decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, 
Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis and hidradenitis suppurativa after treatment with adalimumab. In patients 
with Crohn’s disease, a reduction of the number of cells expressing inflammatory markers in the colon 
including a significant reduction of expression of TNFα was seen. Endoscopic studies in intestinal mucosa 
have shown evidence of mucosal healing in adalimumab-treated patients. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Adults with Rheumatoid arthritis 
Adalimumab was evaluated in over 3,000 patients in all rheumatoid arthritis clinical trials. The efficacy and 
safety of adalimumab were assessed in five randomised, double-blind and well-controlled studies. Some 
patients were treated for up to 120 months duration. 
RA study I evaluated 271 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were  18 
years old, had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti rheumatic drug and had insufficient 
efficacy with methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg (10 mg if methotrexate-intolerant) every week and 
whose methotrexate dose remained constant at 10 to 25 mg every week. Doses of 20, 40 or 80 mg of 
adalimumab or placebo were given every other week for 24 weeks. 
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RA study II evaluated 544 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were  18 
years old and had failed therapy with at least one disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic drugs.  Doses of 20 or 
40 mg of adalimumab were given by subcutaneous injection every other week with placebo on alternative 
weeks or every week for 26 weeks; placebo was given every week for the same duration.  No other disease-
modifying anti-rheumatic drugs were allowed. 
RA study III evaluated 619 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who were  18 
years old, and who had an ineffective response to methotrexate at doses of 12.5 to 25 mg or have been 
intolerant to 10 mg of methotrexate every week. There were three groups in this study.  The first received 
placebo injections every week for 52 weeks. The second received 20 mg of adalimumab every week for 52 
weeks. The third group received 40 mg of adalimumab every other week with placebo injections on alternate 
weeks. Upon completion of the first 52 weeks, 457 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in 
which 40 mg of adalimumab/MTX was administered every other week up to 10 years. 
RA study IV primarily assessed safety in 636 patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid 
arthritis who were  18 years old. Patients were permitted to be either disease-modifying, anti-rheumatic 
drug-naïve or to remain on their pre-existing rheumatologic therapy provided that therapy was stable for a 
minimum of 28 days. These therapies include methotrexate, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine, sulfasalazine 
and/or gold salts. Patients were randomised to 40 mg of adalimumab or placebo every other week for 24 
weeks. 
RA study V evaluated 799 methotrexate-naïve, adult patients with moderate to severely active early 
rheumatoid arthritis (mean disease duration less than 9 months). This study evaluated the efficacy of 
adalimumab 40 mg every other week/methotrexate combination therapy, adalimumab 40 mg every other 
week monotherapy and methotrexate monotherapy in reducing the signs and symptoms and rate of 
progression of joint damage in rheumatoid arthritis for 104 weeks. Upon completion of the first 104 weeks, 
497 patients enrolled in an open-label extension phase in which 40 mg of adalimumab was administered 
every other week up to 10 years. 
The primary end point in RA studies I, II and III and the secondary endpoint in RA study IV was the 
percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 20 response at week 24 or 26. The primary endpoint in RA 
study V was the percentage of patients who achieved an ACR 50 response at week 52. RA studies III and V 
had an additional primary endpoint at 52 weeks of retardation of disease progression (as detected by X-ray 
results). RA study III also had a primary endpoint of changes in quality of life. 
ACR response 
The percentage of adalimumab-treated patients achieving ACR 20, 50 and 70 responses was consistent 
across RA studies I, II and III. The results for the 40 mg every other week dose are summarised in Table 7. 
Table 7 
ACR responses in placebo-controlled trials  
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
RA Study Ia** 
RA Study IIa** 
RA Study IIIa** 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
n=60 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
n=63 
Placebo 
n=110 
Adalimumabb 
n=113 
Placebo/ 
MTXc 
n=200 
Adalimumabb/ 
MTXc 
n=207 
ACR 20 
  6 months 
  12 months 
13.3% 
NA 
65.1% 
NA 
19.1% 
NA 
125 
46.0% 
NA 
29.5% 
24.0% 
63.3% 
58.9% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.7% 
NA 
8.2% 
NA 
52.4% 
NA 
ACR 50 
  6 months 
  12 months 
ACR 70 
  6 months 
  12 months 
a  RA study I at 24 weeks, RA study II at 26 weeks, and RA study III at 24 and 52 weeks 
b 40 mg adalimumab administered every other week 
c MTX = methotrexate 
**p < 0.01, adalimumab versus placebo 
12.4% 
NA 
23.8% 
NA 
22.1% 
NA 
2.5% 
4.5% 
1.8% 
NA 
3.3% 
NA 
9.5% 
9.5% 
39.1% 
41.5% 
20.8% 
23.2% 
In RA studies I-IV, all individual components of the ACR response criteria (number of tender and swollen 
joints, physician and patient assessment of disease activity and pain, disability index (HAQ) scores and CRP 
(mg/dl) values) improved at 24 or 26 weeks compared to placebo. In RA study III, these improvements were 
maintained throughout 52 weeks. 
In the open-label extension for RA study III, most patients who were ACR responders maintained response 
when followed for up to 10 years. Of 207 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other 
week, 114 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 5 years. Among those, 86 patients 
(75.4%) had ACR 20 responses; 72 patients (63.2%) had ACR 50 responses; and 41 patients (36%) had 
ACR 70 responses. Of 207 patients, 81 patients continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 
years. Among those, 64 patients (79.0%) had ACR 20 responses; 56 patients (69.1%) had ACR 50 
responses; and 43 patients (53.1%) had ACR 70 responses. 
In RA study IV, the ACR 20 response of patients treated with adalimumab plus standard of care was 
statistically significantly better than patients treated with placebo plus standard of care (p < 0.001). 
In RA studies I-IV, adalimumab-treated patients achieved statistically significant ACR 20 and 50 responses 
compared to placebo as early as one to two weeks after initiation of treatment. 
In RA study V with early rheumatoid arthritis patients who were methotrexate naïve, combination therapy 
with adalimumab and methotrexate led to faster and significantly greater ACR responses than methotrexate 
monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52 and responses were sustained at week 104 (see 
Table 8). 
Table 8 
ACR responses in RA Study V 
(percentage of patients) 
Response 
ACR 20 
  Week 52 
  Week 104 
ACR 50 
  Week 52 
  Week 104 
ACR 70 
  Week 52 
MTX 
n=257 
Adalimumab 
n=274 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
n=268 
p-valuea 
p-valueb 
p-valuec 
62.6% 
56.0% 
45.9% 
42.8% 
54.4% 
49.3% 
41.2% 
36.9% 
72.8% 
69.4% 
61.6% 
59.0% 
0.013 
0.002 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.043 
0.140 
0.317 
0.162 
27.2% 
25.9% 
45.5% 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
0.656 
126 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Week 104 
28.1% 
a.  p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
< 0.001 
46.6% 
28.4% 
< 0.001 
0.864 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
b.  p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab 
/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
c.   p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
In the open-label extension for RA study V, ACR response rates were maintained when followed for up to 
10 years. Of 542 patients who were randomised to adalimumab 40 mg every other week, 170 patients 
continued on adalimumab 40 mg every other week for 10 years. Among those, 154 patients (90.6%) had 
ACR 20 responses; 127 patients (74.7%) had ACR 50 responses; and 102 patients (60.0%) had ACR 70 
responses. 
At week 52, 42.9% of patients who received adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy achieved 
clinical remission (DAS28 (CRP) < 2.6) compared to 20.6% of patients receiving methotrexate monotherapy 
and 23.4% of patients receiving adalimumab monotherapy. Adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy 
was clinically and statistically superior to methotrexate (p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (p < 
0.001) in achieving a low disease state in patients with recently diagnosed moderate to severe rheumatoid 
arthritis. The response for the two monotherapy arms was similar (p = 0.447).  Of 342 subjects originally 
randomised to adalimumab monotherapy or adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy who entered the 
open- label extension study, 171 subjects completed 10 years of adalimumab treatment. Among those, 109 
subjects (63.7%) were reported to be in remission at 10 years. 
Radiographic response 
In RA study III, where adalimumab-treated patients had a mean duration of rheumatoid arthritis of 
approximately 11 years, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in 
modified Total Sharp Score (TSS) and its components, the erosion score and joint space narrowing score. 
Adalimumab/methotrexate patients demonstrated significantly less radiographic progression than patients 
receiving methotrexate alone at 6 and 12 months (see Table 9). 
In the open-label extension of RA Study III, the reduction in rate of progression of structural damage is 
maintained for 8 and 10 years in a subset of patients. At 8 years, 81 of 207 patients originally treated with 
40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated radiographically. Among those, 48 patients showed no 
progression of structural damage defined by a change from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. At 10 years, 
79 of 207 patients originally treated with 40 mg adalimumab every other week were evaluated 
radiographically. Among those, 40 patients showed no progression of structural damage defined by a change 
from baseline in the mTSS of 0.5 or less. 
Table 9 
Radiographic mean changes over 12 months in RA Study III 
Placebo/ 
MTXa 
Adalimumab/MTX 
40 mg every other 
week 
Total Sharp Score 
Erosion score 
JSNd score 
2.7 
1.6 
1.0 
0.1 
0.0 
0.1 
Placebo/MTX-
adalimumab/MTX 
(95% confidence 
intervalb) 
2.6 (1.4, 3.8)  
1.6 (0.9, 2.2) 
0.9 (0.3, 1.4) 
p-value 
< 0.001c 
< 0.001 
  0.002 
amethotrexate 
b95% confidence intervals for the differences in change scores between methotrexate and adalimumab.  
127 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
cBased on rank analysis  
dJoint Space Narrowing 
In RA study V, structural joint damage was assessed radiographically and expressed as change in modified 
Total Sharp Score (see Table 10). 
Table 10 
Radiographic mean changes at week 52 in RA Study V 
MTX 
n=257 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
Adalimumab 
n=274 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
5.7 (4.2-7.3) 
3.0 (1.7-4.3) 
Adalimumab 
/MTX 
n=268 
(95% 
confidence 
interval) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
p-valuea  p-valueb  p-valuec 
< 0.001 
0.0020 
< 0.001 
Total Sharp 
Score 
Erosion score 
JSN score 
< 0.001 
< 0.001 
a p-value is from the pairwise comparison of methotrexate monotherapy and 
0.8 (0.4-1.2) 
0.5 (0-1.0) 
3.7 (2.7-4.7) 
2.0 (1.2-2.8) 
1.7 (1.0-2.4) 
1.3 (0.5-2.1) 
0.0082 
0.0037 
< 0.001 
0.151 
adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test. 
b p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab 
/methotrexate combination therapy using the Mann-Whitney U test  
c p-value is from the pairwise comparison of adalimumab monotherapy and methotrexate 
monotherapy using the Mann-Whitney U test 
Following 52 weeks and 104 weeks of treatment, the percentage of patients without progression (change 
from baseline in modified Total Sharp Score  0.5) was significantly higher with adalimumab/methotrexate 
combination therapy (63.8% and 61.2% respectively) compared to methotrexate monotherapy (37.4% and 
33.5% respectively, p < 0.001) and adalimumab monotherapy (50.7%, p < 0.002 and 44.5%, p < 0.001 
respectively). 
In the open-label extension of RA study V, the mean change from baseline at Year 10 in the modified Total 
Sharp Score was 10.8, 9.2 and 3.9 in patients originally randomised to methotrexate monotherapy, 
adalimumab monotherapy and adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy, respectively. The 
corresponding proportions of patients with no radiographic progression were 31.3%, 23.7% and 36.7% 
respectively. 
Quality of life and physical function 
Health-related quality of life and physical function were assessed using the disability index of the Health 
Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in the four original adequate and well-controlled trials, which was a pre-
specified primary endpoint at week 52 in RA study III. All doses/schedules of adalimumab in all four studies 
showed statistically significantly greater improvement in the disability index of the HAQ from 
baseline to Month 6 compared to placebo and in RA study III the same was seen at week 52. Results from 
the Short Form Health Survey (SF 36) for all doses/schedules of adalimumab in all four studies support 
these findings, with statistically significant physical component summary (PCS) scores, as well as 
statistically significant pain and vitality domain scores for the 40 mg every other week dose. A statistically 
significant decrease in fatigue as measured by functional assessment of chronic illness therapy (FACIT) 
scores was seen in all three studies in which it was assessed (RA studies I, III, IV). 
In RA study III, most subjects who achieved improvement in physical function and continued treatment 
128 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maintained improvement through week 520 (120 months) of open-label treatment. Improvement in quality 
of life was measured up to week 156 (36 months) and improvement was maintained through that time. 
In RA study V, the improvement in the HAQ disability index and the physical component of the SF 36 
showed greater improvement (p < 0.001) for adalimumab/methotrexate combination therapy versus 
methotrexate monotherapy and adalimumab monotherapy at week 52, which was maintained through week 
104. Among the 250 subjects who completed the open-label extension study, improvements in physical 
function were maintained through 10 years of treatment. 
Adult plaque psoriasis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were studied in adult patients with chronic plaque psoriasis ( 10% 
BSA involvement and Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI)  12 or  10) who were candidates for 
systemic therapy or phototherapy in randomised, double-blind studies. 73% of patients enrolled in Psoriasis 
Studies I and II had received prior systemic therapy or phototherapy.  The safety and efficacy of adalimumab 
were also studied in adult patients with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis with concomitant hand 
and/or foot psoriasis who were candidates for systemic therapy in a randomised double- blind study 
(Psoriasis Study III). 
Psoriasis Study I (REVEAL) evaluated 1,212 patients within three treatment periods.  In period A, patients 
received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one 
week after the initial dose. After 16 weeks of therapy, patients who achieved at least a PASI 75 response 
(PASI score improvement of at least 75% relative to baseline), entered period B and received open-label 
40 mg adalimumab every other week. Patients who maintained PASI 75 response at week 33 and were 
originally randomised to active therapy in Period A, were re-randomised in period C to receive 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week or placebo for an additional 19 weeks. Across all treatment groups, the mean 
baseline PASI score was 18.9 and the baseline Physician’s Global Assessment (PGA) score ranged from 
“moderate” (53% of subjects included) to “severe” (41%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Psoriasis Study II (CHAMPION) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus methotrexate and 
placebo in 271 patients. Patients received placebo, an initial dose of MTX 7.5 mg and thereafter dose 
increases up to week 12, with a maximum dose of 25 mg or an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed 
by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) for 16 weeks. There are no data 
available comparing adalimumab and MTX beyond 16 weeks of therapy. Patients receiving MTX who 
achieved a PASI 50 response at week 8 and/or 12 did not receive further dose increases. Across all 
treatment groups, the mean baseline PASI score was 19.7 and the baseline PGA score ranged from “mild” (< 
1%) to “moderate” (48%) to “severe” (46%) to “very severe” (6%). 
Patients participating in all Phase 2 and Phase 3 psoriasis studies were eligible to enrol into an open-label 
extension trial, where adalimumab was given for at least an additional 108 weeks. 
In Psoriasis Studies I and II, a primary endpoint was the proportion of patients who achieved a PASI 75 
response from baseline at week 16 (see Tables 11 and 12). 
Table 11 
Ps Study I (REVEAL) - efficacy results at 16 weeks 
     PASI 75a 
    PASI 100 
Placebo 
N=398 
n (%) 
26 (6.5) 
3 (0.8) 
129 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=814 
n (%) 
578 (70.9)b 
163 (20.0)b 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    PGA: Clear/minimal 
a Percent of patients achieving PASI75 response was calculated as centre-adjusted rate 
b p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
17 (4.3) 
506 (62.2)b 
Table 12 
 Ps Study II (CHAMPION) efficacy results at 16 weeks 
MTX 
N=110 
n (%) 
39 (35.5) 
8 (7.3) 
33 (30.0) 
Adalimumab 40 mg eow 
N=108 
n (%) 
86 (79.6) a, b 
18 (16.7) c, d 
79 (73.1) a, b 
Placebo 
N=53 
n (%) 
10 (18.9) 
1 (1.9) 
6 (11.3) 
     PASI 75 
    PASI 100 
    PGA: 
Clear/minimal 
a p < 0.001 adalimumab vs. placebo 
b p < 0.001 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
c p < 0.01 adalimumab vs. placebo 
d p < 0.05 adalimumab vs. methotrexate 
In Psoriasis Study I, 28% of patients who were PASI 75 responders and were re-randomised to placebo at 
week 33 compared to 5% continuing on adalimumab, p < 0.001, experienced “loss of adequate response” 
(PASI score after week 33 and on or before week 52 that resulted in a < PASI 50 response relative to 
baseline with a minimum of a 6-point increase in PASI score relative to week 33). Of the patients who lost 
adequate response after re-randomisation to placebo who then enrolled into the open-label extension trial, 
38% (25/66) and 55% (36/66) regained PASI 75 response after 12 and 24 weeks of re-treatment, 
respectively. 
A total of 233 PASI 75 responders at week 16 and week 33 received continuous adalimumab therapy for 
52 weeks in Psoriasis Study I, and continued adalimumab in the open-label extension trial.  PASI 75 and 
PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 74.7% and 59.0%, respectively, after an 
additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). In an analysis in which all patients who 
dropped out of the study for adverse events or lack of efficacy, or who dose-escalated, were considered non-
responders, PASI 75 and PGA of clear or minimal response rates in these patients were 69.6% and 55.7%, 
respectively, after an additional 108 weeks of open-label therapy (total of 160 weeks). 
A total of 347 stable responders participated in a withdrawal and retreatment evaluation in an open-label 
extension study. During the withdrawal period, symptoms of psoriasis returned over time with a median time 
to relapse (decline to PGA “moderate” or worse) of approximately 5 months. None of these patients 
experienced rebound during the withdrawal period. A total of 76.5% (218/285) of patients who entered the 
retreatment period had a response of PGA “clear” or “minimal” after 16 weeks of retreatment, irrespective 
of whether they relapsed during withdrawal (69.1%[123/178] and 88.8% [95/107] for patients who relapsed 
and who did not relapse during the withdrawal period, respectively).  A similar safety profile was observed 
during retreatment as before withdrawal. 
Significant improvements at week 16 from baseline compared to placebo (Studies I and II) and MTX (Study 
II) were demonstrated in the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index). In Study I, improvements in the 
physical and mental component summary scores of the SF-36 were also significant compared to placebo. 
In an open-label extension study, for patients who dose escalated from 40 mg every other week to 40 mg 
weekly due to a PASI response below 50%, 26.4% (92/349) and 37.8% (132/349) of patients achieved PASI 
75 response at week 12 and 24, respectively. 
130 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Psoriasis Study III (REACH) compared the efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 72 patients 
with moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis and hand and/or foot psoriasis. Patients received an initial 
dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or 
placebo for 16 weeks. At week 16, a statistically significantly greater proportion of patients who received 
adalimumab achieved PGA of 'clear' or 'almost clear' for the hands and/or feet compared to patients who 
received placebo (30.6% versus 4.3%, respectively [P = 0.014]). 
Psoriasis Study IV compared efficacy and safety of adalimumab versus placebo in 217 adult patients with 
moderate to severe nail psoriasis. Patients received an initial dose of 80 mg adalimumab followed by 40 mg 
every other week (starting one week after the initial dose) or placebo for 26 weeks followed by open-label 
adalimumab treatment for an additional 26 weeks. Nail psoriasis assessments included the Modified Nail 
Psoriasis Severity Index (mNAPSI), the Physician’s Global Assessment of Fingernail Psoriasis (PGA-F) and 
the Nail Psoriasis Severity Index (NAPSI) (see Table 13). Adalimumab demonstrated a treatment benefit in 
nail psoriasis patients with different extents of skin involvement (BSA ≥ 10% (60% of patients) and BSA< 
10% and ≥ 5% (40% of patients)). 
Table 13 
Ps Study IV efficacy results at 16, 26 and 52 weeks 
Endpoint 
Week 16 
Placebo-Controlled 
Week 26 
Placebo-Controlled 
Week 52 
Open-label 
Placebo 
N=108 
2.9 
2.9 
≥ mNAPSI 75 (%) 
PGA-F clear/minimal 
and ≥ 2-grade 
improvement (%) 
Percentage Change in 
Total 
Fingernail NAPSI (%) 
a p < 0.001, adalimumab vs. placebo 
-7.8 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow  
N=109 
26.0a
29.7a
Placebo 
N=108 
3.4 
6.9 
adalimumab 
40 mg eow  
N=109 
46.6a
48.9a
adalimumab 
40 mg eow  
N=80 
65.0 
61.3 
-44.2 a
-11.5 
-56.2a
-72.2 
Adalimumab-treated patients showed statistically significant improvements at week 26 compared with 
placebo in the DLQI. 
Adult Crohn’s disease 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in over 1500 patients with moderately to severely 
active Crohn’s disease (Crohn’s Disease Activity Index (CDAI)  220 and  450) in randomised, double-
blind, placebo-controlled studies. Concomitant stable doses of aminosalicylates, corticosteroids, and/or 
immunomodulatory agents were permitted and 80% of patients continued to receive at least one of these 
medications. 
Induction of clinical remission (defined as CDAI < 150) was evaluated in two studies, CD Study I 
(CLASSIC I) and CD Study II (GAIN). In CD Study I, 299 TNF-antagonist naïve patients were randomised 
to one of four treatment groups; placebo at weeks 0 and 2, 160 mg adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 
2, 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2, and 40 mg at week 0 and 20 mg at week 2. In CD Study II, 325 
patients who had lost response or were intolerant to infliximab were randomised to receive either 160 mg 
adalimumab at week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 or placebo at weeks 0 and 2. The primary non-responders were 
excluded from the studies and therefore these patients were not further evaluated. 
Maintenance of clinical remission was evaluated in CD study III (CHARM).  In CD Study III, 854 patients 
received open-label 80 mg at week 0 and 40 mg at week 2.  At week 4 patients were randomised to 40 mg 
131 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
every other week, 40 mg every week, or placebo with a total study duration of 56 weeks. Patients in clinical 
response (decrease in CDAI ≥ 70) at week 4 were stratified and analysed separately from those not in 
clinical response at week 4.  Corticosteroid taper was permitted after week 8. 
CD study I and CD study II induction of remission and response rates are presented in Table 14. 
Table 14 
Induction of clinical remission and response 
(percentage of patients) 
CD Study I:  
infliximab naive patients 
CD Study II:  
infliximab experienced 
patients 
Placebo 
N=74 
Adalimumab 
80/40 mg 
N = 75 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=76 
Placebo 
N=166 
Adalimumab 
160/80 mg 
N=159 
12% 
24% 
24% 
37% 
36%* 
49%** 
7% 
25% 
21%* 
38%** 
Week 4 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response 
(CR-100) 
All p-values are pairwise comparisons of proportions for adalimumab versus placebo 
* 
p < 0.001 
**  p < 0.01 
Similar remission rates were observed for the 160/80 mg and 80/40 mg induction regimens by week 8 and 
adverse events were more frequently noted in the 160/80 mg group. 
In CD Study III, at week 4, 58% (499/854) of patients were in clinical response and were assessed in the 
primary analysis. Of those in clinical response at week 4, 48% had been previously exposed to other TNF- 
antagonists. Maintenance of remission and response rates are presented in Table 15.  Clinical remission 
results remained relatively constant irrespective of previous TNF-antagonist exposure. 
Disease-related hospitalisations and surgeries were statistically significantly reduced with adalimumab 
compared with placebo at week 56. 
Table 15 
Maintenance of clinical remission and response 
(percentage of patients) 
Week 26 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100) 
Patients in steroid-free remission  
for >=90 daysa 
Week 56 
Clinical remission 
Clinical response (CR-100) 
Placebo 
N=170 
17% 
27% 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every other week 
40 mg 
Adalimumab 
every week 
N=172 
40%* 
52%* 
N=157 
47%* 
52%* 
3% (2/66) 
19% (11/58)** 
15% (11/74)** 
N=170 
12% 
17% 
N=172 
36%* 
41%* 
N=157 
41%* 
48%* 
Patients in steroid-free remission  
5% (3/66) 
29% (17/58)* 
20% (15/74)** 
132 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for >= 90 daysa 
*  p < 0.001 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
**  p < 0.02 for adalimumab versus placebo pairwise comparisons of proportions 
a  Of those receiving corticosteroids at baseline 
Among patients who were not in response at week 4, 43% of adalimumab maintenance patients responded 
by week 12 compared to 30% of placebo maintenance patients. These results suggest that some patients who 
have not responded by week 4 benefit from continued maintenance therapy through week 12.  Therapy 
continued beyond 12 weeks did not result in significantly more responses (see section 4.2). 
117/276 patients from CD study I and 272/777 patients from CD studies II and III were followed through at 
least 3 years of open-label adalimumab therapy.  88 and 189 patients, respectively, continued to be in 
clinical remission.  Clinical response (CR-100) was maintained in 102 and 233 patients, respectively. 
Quality of life 
In CD Study I and CD Study II, statistically significant improvement in the disease-specific inflammatory 
bowel disease questionnaire (IBDQ) total score was achieved at week 4 in patients randomised to 
adalimumab 80/40 mg and 160/80 mg compared to placebo and was seen at weeks 26 and 56 in CD Study 
III as well among the adalimumab treatment groups compared to the placebo group. 
Adult Uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in adult patients with non-infectious intermediate, 
posterior, and panuveitis, excluding patients with isolated anterior uveitis, in two randomised, double- 
masked, placebo-controlled studies (UV I and II). Patients received placebo or adalimumab at an initial dose 
of 80 mg followed by 40 mg every other week starting one week after the initial dose. Concomitant stable 
doses of one non-biologic immunosuppressant were permitted. 
Study UV I evaluated 217 patients with active uveitis despite treatment with corticosteroids (oral prednisone 
at a dose of 10 to 60 mg/day). All patients received a 2-week standardised dose of prednisone 60 mg/day at 
study entry followed by a mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 
15. 
Study UV II evaluated 226 patients with inactive uveitis requiring chronic corticosteroid treatment (oral 
prednisone 10 to 35 mg/day) at baseline to control their disease. Patients subsequently underwent a 
mandatory taper schedule, with complete corticosteroid discontinuation by week 19. 
The primary efficacy endpoint in both studies was ‘time to treatment failure’. Treatment failure was defined 
by a multi-component outcome based on inflammatory chorioretinal and/or inflammatory retinal vascular 
lesions, anterior chamber (AC) cell grade, vitreous haze (VH) grade and best corrected visual acuity 
(BCVA). 
Patients who completed Studies UV I and UV II were eligible to enroll in an uncontrolled long-term 
extension study with an originally planned duration of 78 weeks. Patients were allowed to continue on study 
medication beyond week 78 until they had access to adalimumab. 
Clinical Response 
Results from both studies demonstrated statistically significant reduction of the risk of treatment failure in 
patients treated with adalimumab versus patients receiving placebo (see Table 16). Both studies 
demonstrated an early and sustained effect of adalimumab on the treatment failure rate versus placebo (see 
Figure 1). 
133 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 16 
Time to treatment failure in Studies UV I and UV II 
Analysis 
treatment 
N 
Failure N (%) 
Median 
time to 
failure 
(months) 
HRa 
CI 95% 
for HRa 
P Valueb 
time to treatment failure at or after week 6 in study UV I  
primary analysis (ITT)  
placebo 
adalimumab 
107  
110  
84 (78.5)  
60 (54.5)  
3.0  
5.6  
--  
--  
--  
0.50  
0.36, 0.70   < 0.001  
time to treatment failure at or after week 2 in study UV II 
primary analysis (ITT) 
placebo  
111  
61 (55.0)  
115  
45 (39.1)  
adalimumab  
0.004  
Note: Treatment failure at or after Week 6 (Study UV I), or at or after Week 2 (Study UV II), was counted 
as event. Drop outs due to reasons other than treatment failure were censored at the time of dropping out. 
a HR of adalimumab vs placebo from proportional hazards regression with treatment as factor. 
b 2-sided P value from log rank test. 
c NE = not estimable. Fewer than half of at-risk subjects had an event 
0.39, 0.84  
0.57  
8.3  
NEc  
--  
--  
--  
134 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Kaplan-Meier Curves Summarizing Time to Treatment Failure on or after Week 6 (Study 
UV I) or Week 2 (Study UV II) 
)
%
(
E
T
A
R
E
R
U
L
I
A
F
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
)
%
(
E
T
A
R
E
R
U
L
I
A
F
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
Study UV I                        Treatment 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
TIME (MONTHS) 
Study UV II                       Treatment 
Placebo 
Adalimumab 
Note: P# = Placebo (Number of Events/Number at Risk); A# = Adalimumab (Number of 
Events/Number at Risk). 
TIME (MONTHS) 
In Study UV I statistically significant differences in favour of adalimumab versus placebo were observed for 
each component of treatment failure.  In Study UV II, statistically significant differences were observed for 
visual acuity only, but the other components were numerically in favour of adalimumab. 
Of the 424 subjects included in the uncontrolled long-term extension of Studies UV I and UV II, 60 subjects 
were regarded ineligible (e.g. due to deviations or due to complications secondary to diabetic retinopathy, 
due to cataract surgery or vitrectomy) and were excluded from the primary analysis of efficacy. Of the 364 
remaining patients, 269 evaluable patients (74%) reached 78 weeks of open-label adalimumab treatment. 
Based on the observed data approach, 216 (80.3%) were in quiescence (no active inflammatory lesions, AC 
cell grade  ≤ 0.5+, VH grade ≤ 0.5+) with a concomitant steroid dose ≤ 7.5 mg per day, and 178 (66.2%) 
were in steroid-free quiescence. BCVA was either improved or maintained (< 5 letters deterioration) in 
88.6% of the eyes at week 78. Data beyond week 78 were generally consistent with these results but the 
number of enrolled subjects declined after this time. Overall, among the patients who discontinued the study, 
18% discontinued due to adverse events, and 8% due to insufficient response to adalimumab treatment. 
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Quality of Life 
Patient reported outcomes regarding vision-related functioning were measured in both clinical studies, using 
the NEI VFQ-25. Adalimumab was numerically favoured for the majority of subscores with statistically 
significant mean differences for general vision, ocular pain, near vision, mental health, and total score in 
Study UV I, and for general vision and mental health in Study UV II. Vision related effects were not 
numerically in favour of adalimumab for colour vision in Study UVI and for colour vision, peripheral vision 
and near vision in Study UV II. 
Immunogenicity 
Anti-adalimumab antibodies may develop during adalimumab treatment. Formation of anti-adalimumab 
antibodies is associated with increased clearance and reduced efficacy of adalimumab. 
There is no apparent correlation between the presence of anti-adalimumab antibodies and the occurrence of 
adverse events. 
Paediatric population 
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (pJIA) 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in two studies (pJIA I and II) in children with active 
polyarticular or polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis, who had a variety of JIA onset types (most 
frequently rheumatoid-factor negative or positive polyarthritis and extended oligoarthritis). 
pJIA I 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, parallel − 
group study in 171 children (4-17 years old) with polyarticular JIA. In the open-label lead in phase (OL LI) 
patients were stratified into two groups, MTX (methotrexate)-treated or non-MTX-treated. Patients who 
were in the non-MTX stratum were either naïve to or had been withdrawn from MTX at least two weeks 
prior to study drug administration. Patients remained on stable doses of NSAIDs and or prednisone ( 0.2 
mg/kg/day or 10 mg/day maximum). In the OL LI phase all patients received 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 
40 mg adalimumab every other week for 16 weeks.  The distribution of patients by age and minimum, 
median and maximum dose received during the OL LI phase is presented in Table 17. 
Table 17 
Distribution of patients by age and adalimumab dose received during the OL LI phase 
Age group 
4 to 7 years 
8 to 12 years 
13 to 17 years 
Number of patients at baseline 
n (%) 
31 (18.1) 
71 (41.5) 
69 (40.4) 
Minimum, median and 
maximum 
dose 
10, 20 and 25 mg 
20, 25 and 40 mg 
25, 40 and 40 mg 
Patients demonstrating a Paediatric ACR 30 response at week 16 were eligible to be randomised into the 
double blind (DB) phase and received either adalimumab 24 mg/m2 up to a maximum of 40 mg, or placebo 
every other week for an additional 32 weeks or until disease flare. Disease flare criteria were defined as a 
worsening of  30% from baseline in  3 of 6 Paediatric ACR core criteria,  2 active joints, and 
improvement of  30% in no more than 1 of the 6 criteria. After 32 weeks or at disease flare, patients were 
eligible to enrol into the open label extension phase. 
136 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18 
Ped ACR 30 responses in the JIA study 
MTX 
Without MTX 
94.1% (80/85) 
74.4% (64/86) 
Stratum 
Phase 
OL-LI 16 weeks 
Ped ACR 30 
response (n/N) 
                                                           Efficacy Outcomes 
Double blind 32 weeks 
Adalimumab/MTX 
(N = 38) 
36.8% (14/38) 
Placebo/MTX 
(N = 37) 
64.9% (24/37)b 
Adalimumab 
(N = 30) 
43.3% (13/30) 
Placebo 
(N = 28) 
71.4% 
(20/28)c 
> 32 weeks 
20 weeks 
> 32 weeks 
14 weeks 
Disease flares at 
the end of 
32 weeksa (n/N) 
Median time to 
disease flare 
a Ped ACR 30/50/70 responses Week 48 significantly greater than those of placebo treated patients  
b p = 0.015 
c p = 0.031 
Amongst those who responded at week 16 (n=144), the paediatric ACR 30/50/70/90 responses were 
maintained for up to six years in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout the study. 
Over all 19 subjects, of which 11 of the baseline age group 4 to 12 and 8 of the baseline age group 13 to 17 
years were treated 6 years or longer. 
Overall responses were generally better and, fewer patients developed antibodies when treated with the 
combination of adalimumab and MTX compared to adalimumab alone. Taking these results into 
consideration, Yuflyma is recommended for use in combination with MTX and for use as monotherapy in 
patients for whom MTX use is not appropriate (see section 4.2). 
pJIA II 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in an open-label, multicentre study in 32 children (2 - < 
4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg) with moderately to severely active polyarticular JIA. The 
patients received 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 20 mg every other 
week as a single dose via SC injection for at least 24 weeks. During the study, most subjects used 
concomitant MTX, with fewer reporting use of corticosteroids or NSAIDs. 
At week 12 and week 24, PedACR30 response was 93.5% and 90.0%, respectively, using the observed data 
approach. The proportions of subjects with PedACR50/70/90 at week 12 and week 24 were 
90.3%/61.3%/38.7% and 83.3%/73.3%/36.7%, respectively. Amongst those who responded (Paediatric ACR 
30) at week 24 (n=27 out of 30 patients), the Paediatric ACR 30 responses were maintained for up to 60 
weeks in the OLE phase in patients who received adalimumab throughout this time period. Overall, 20 
subjects were treated for 60 weeks or longer. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab were assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind study in 46 
paediatric patients (6 to 17 years old) with moderate enthesitis-related arthritis. Patients were randomised to 
receive either 24 mg/m2 body surface area (BSA) of adalimumab up to a maximum of 40 mg, or placebo 
every other week for 12 weeks. The double-blind period is followed by an open-label (OL) period during 
137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which patients received 24 mg/m2 BSA of adalimumab up to a maximum of 40 mg every other week 
subcutaneously for up to an additional 192 weeks. The primary endpoint was the percentage change from 
Baseline to week 12 in the number of active joints with arthritis (swelling not due to deformity or joints with 
loss of motion plus pain and/or tenderness), which was achieved with mean percentage decrease of - 62.6% 
(median percentage change -88.9%) in patients in the adalimumab group compared to -11.6% (median 
percentage change -50.0%) in patients in the placebo group. Improvement in number of active joints with 
arthritis was maintained during the OL period through week 156 for the 26 of 31 (84%) patients in the 
adalimumab group who remained in the study. Although not statistically significant, the majority of patients 
demonstrated clinical improvement in secondary endpoints such as number of sites of enthesitis, tender joint 
count (TJC), swollen joint count (SJC), Paediatric ACR 50 response, and Paediatric ACR 70 response. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
The efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-blind, controlled study of 114 paediatric 
patients from 4 years of age with severe chronic plaque psoriasis (as defined by a PGA ≥ 4 or > 20% BSA 
involvement or > 10% BSA involvement with very thick lesions or PASI ≥ 20 or ≥ 10 with clinically 
relevant facial, genital, or hand/ foot involvement) who were inadequately controlled with topical therapy 
and heliotherapy or phototherapy. 
Patients received adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow (up to 40 mg), 0.4 mg/kg eow (up to 20 mg), or methotrexate 
0.1- 0.4 mg/kg weekly (up to 25 mg). At week 16, more patients randomised to adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg had 
positive efficacy responses (e.g., PASI 75) than those randomised to 0.4 mg/kg eow or MTX. 
Table 19 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis efficacy results at 16 weeks 
MTXa
N=37 
12 (32.4%) 
15 (40.5%) 
Adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow 
N=38 
22 
(57.9%) 
23 
(60.5%) 
PASI 75b
PGA: Clear/minimalc
a MTX = methotrexate 
b P=0.027, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
c P=0.083, adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg versus MTX 
Patients who achieved PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal were withdrawn from treatment for up to 
36 weeks and monitored for loss of disease control (i.e. a worsening of PGA by at least 2 grades).  Patients 
were then re-treated with adalimumab 0.8 mg/kg eow for an additional 16 weeks and response rates 
observed during retreatment were similar to the previous double-blind period:  PASI 75 response of 78.9% 
(15 of 19 subjects) and PGA clear or minimal of 52.6% (10 of 19 subjects). 
In the open label period of the study, PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal responses were maintained for up 
to an additional 52 weeks with no new safety findings. 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Adalimumab was assessed in a multicentre, randomised, double-blind clinical trial designed to evaluate the 
efficacy and safety of induction and maintenance treatment with doses dependent on body weight (< 40 kg 
or ≥ 40 kg) in 192 paediatric subjects between the ages of 6 and 17 (inclusive) years, with moderate to 
severe Crohn´s disease (CD) defined as Paediatric Crohn's Disease Activity Index (PCDAI) score > 30. 
Subjects had to have failed conventional therapy (including a corticosteroid and/or an immunomodulator) 
for CD. Subjects may also have previously lost response or been intolerant to infliximab. 
All subjects received open-label induction therapy at a dose based on their Baseline body weight: 160 mg at 
week 0 and 80 mg at week 2 for subjects ≥ 40 kg, and 80 mg and 40 mg, respectively, for subjects < 40 kg. 
138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At week 4, subjects were randomised 1:1 based on their body weight at the time to either the Low Dose or 
Standard Dose maintenance regimens as shown in Table 20. 
Table 20  
Maintenance regimen 
Patient Weight 
< 40 kg 
≥ 40 kg 
Low dose 
10 mg eow 
20 mg eow 
Standard dose 
20 mg eow 
40 mg eow 
Efficacy results 
The primary endpoint of the study was clinical remission at week 26, defined as PCDAI score  10. 
Clinical remission and clinical response (defined as reduction in PCDAI score of at least 15 points from 
Baseline) rates are presented in Table 21. Rates of discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators 
are presented in Table 22. 
Table 21 
Paediatric CD Study 
PCDAI clinical remission and response 
Standard Dose 
40/20 mg eow  
N = 93 
Low Dose 
20/10 mg eow  
N = 95 
P value* 
Week 26 
   Clinical remission 
   Clinical response  
Week 52 
33.3% 
   Clinical remission 
   Clinical response 
41.9% 
* p value for Standard Dose versus Low Dose comparison. 
38.7% 
59.1% 
28.4% 
48.4% 
23.2% 
28.4% 
0.075 
0.073 
0.100 
0.038 
Table 22 
Paediatric CD Study 
discontinuation of corticosteroids or immunomodulators and fistula remission 
Standard dose 
40/20 mg eow  
N= 33 
Discontinued corticosteroids 
84.8% 
Week 26 
69.7% 
Week 52 
Discontinuation of immunomodulators2 
N=60 
30.0% 
Week 52 
Fistula remission3 
N=15 
46.7% 
Week 26 
Week 52 
40.0% 
1 p value for Standard dose versus Low dose comparison. 
2 Immunosuppressant therapy could only be discontinued at or after week 26 at the 
Low dose 
20/10 mg eow  
N=38 
65.8% 
60.5% 
N=57 
29.8% 
N=21 
38.1% 
23.8% 
P value1 
0.066 
0.420 
0.983 
0.608 
0.303 
139 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investigator's discretion if the subject met the clinical response criterion  
3 defined as a closure of all fistulas that were draining at baseline for at least 2 consecutive 
post-baseline visits 
Statistically significant increases (improvement) from Baseline to week 26 and 52 in Body Mass Index and 
height velocity were observed for both treatment groups. 
Statistically and clinically significant improvements from Baseline were also observed in both treatment 
groups for quality of life parameters (including IMPACT III). 
One hundred patients (n=100) from the Paediatric CD Study continued in an open-label long-term extension 
study.  After 5 years of adalimumab therapy, 74.0% (37/50) of the 50 patients remaining in the study 
continued to be in clinical remission, and 92.0% (46/50) of patients continued to be in clinical response per 
PCDAI. 
Paediatric uveitis 
The safety and efficacy of adalimumab was assessed in a randomised, double-masked, controlled study of 90 
paediatric patients from 2 to < 18 years of age with active JIA-associated noninfectious anterior uveitis who 
were refractory to at least 12 weeks of methotrexate treatment.  Patients received either placebo or 20 mg 
adalimumab (if < 30 kg) or 40 mg adalimumab (if ≥ 30 kg) every other week in combination with their 
baseline dose of methotrexate. 
The primary endpoint was ‘time to treatment failure’. The criteria determining treatment failure were 
worsening or sustained non-improvement in ocular inflammation, partial improvement with development of 
sustained ocular co-morbidities or worsening of ocular co-morbidities, non-permitted use of concomitant 
medications, and suspension of treatment for an extended period of time. 
Clinical response 
Adalimumab significantly delayed the time to treatment failure, as compared to placebo (see Figure 2, P < 
0.0001 from log rank test). The median time to treatment failure was 24.1 weeks for subjects treated with 
placebo, whereas the median time to treatment failure was not estimable for subjects treated with 
adalimumab because less than one-half of these subjects experienced treatment failure.  Adalimumab 
significantly decreased the risk of treatment failure by 75% relative to placebo, as shown by the hazard ratio 
(HR = 0.25 [95% CI:  0.12, 0.49]). 
140 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Kaplan-Meier curves summarizing time to treatment failure in the paediatric uveitis study 
T
N
E
M
T
A
E
R
T
G
N
I
L
I
A
F
F
O
Y
T
I
L
I
B
A
B
O
R
P
Treatment 
Note: P = Placebo (Number at Risk); A = Adalimumab (Number at Risk). 
TIME (WEEKS) 
  Placebo 
      Adalimumab 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption and distribution 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to patients 
with polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) who were 4 to 17 years the mean trough steady-state 
(values measured from week 20 to 48) serum adalimumab concentration was 5.6 ± 5.6 µg/ml (102% CV) for 
adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 10.9 ± 5.2 µg/ml (47.7% CV) with concomitant 
methotrexate. 
In patients with polyarticular JIA who were 2 to < 4 years old or aged 4 and above weighing < 15 kg dosed 
with adalimumab 24 mg/m2, the mean trough steady-state serum adalimumab concentrations was 6.0 ±  6.1 
µg/ml (101% CV) for adalimumab without concomitant methotrexate and 7.9 ± 5.6 µg/ml (71.2% CV) with 
concomitant methotrexate. 
Following the administration of 24 mg/m2 (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to patients 
with enthesitis-related arthritis who were 6 to 17 years, the mean trough steady-state (values measured at 
week 24) serum adalimumab concentrations were 8.8 ± 6.6 μg/ml for adalimumab without concomitant 
methotrexate and 11.8 ± 4.3 μg/ml with concomitant methotrexate. 
Following the administration of 0.8 mg/kg (maximum of 40 mg) subcutaneously every other week to 
paediatric patients with chronic plaque psoriasis, the mean ± SD steady-state adalimumab trough 
concentration was approximately 7.4 ± 5.8 µg/ml (79% CV). 
In paediatric patients with moderate to severe CD, the open-label adalimumab induction dose was 
160/80 mg or 80/40 mg at weeks 0 and 2, respectively, dependent on a body weight cut-off of 40 kg.  At 
141 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
week 4, patients were randomised 1:1 to either the Standard Dose (40/20 mg eow) or Low Dose (20/10 mg 
eow) maintenance treatment groups based on their body weight. The mean (±SD) serum adalimumab trough 
concentrations achieved at week 4 were 15.7 ± 6.6 g/ml for patients ≥ 40 kg (160/80 mg) and 10.6 ± 6.1 
g/ml for patients < 40 kg (80/40 mg). 
For patients who stayed on their randomised therapy, the mean (±SD) adalimumab trough concentrations at 
week 52 were 9.5 ± 5.6 g/ml for the Standard Dose group and 3.5 ± 2.2 g/ml for the Low Dose group. 
The mean trough concentrations were maintained in patients who continued to receive adalimumab 
treatment eow for 52 weeks. For patients who dose escalated from eow to weekly regimen, the mean (±SD) 
serum concentrations of adalimumab at week 52 were 15.3 ± 11.4 μg/ml (40/20 mg, weekly) and 6.7 ± 3.5 
μg/ml (20/10 mg, weekly). 
Adalimumab exposure in paediatric uveitis patients was predicted using population pharmacokinetic 
modelling and simulation based on cross-indication pharmacokinetics in other paediatric patients (paediatric 
psoriasis, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, paediatric Crohn’s disease, and enthesitis-related arthritis). No clinical 
exposure data are available on the use of a loading dose in children < 6 years. The predicted exposures 
indicate that in the absence of methotrexate, a loading dose may lead to an initial increase in systemic 
exposure. 
Exposure-response relationship in paediatric population 
On the basis of clinical trial data in patients with JIA (pJIA and ERA), an exposure-response relationship 
was established between plasma concentrations and PedACR 50 response. The apparent adalimumab plasma 
concentration that produces half the maximum probability of PedACR 50 response (EC50) was 3 μg/ml 
(95% CI: 1-6 μg/ml). 
Exposure-response relationships between adalimumab concentration and efficacy in paediatric patients with 
severe chronic plaque psoriasis were established for PASI 75 and PGA clear or minimal, respectively. PASI 
75 and PGA clear or minimal increased with increasing adalimumab concentrations, both with a similar 
apparent EC50 of approximately 4.5 μg/ml (95% CI 0.4-47.6 and 1.9-10.5, respectively). 
Adults 
After subcutaneous administration of a single 40 mg dose, absorption and distribution of adalimumab was 
slow, with peak serum concentrations being reached about 5 days after administration. The average absolute 
bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three studies following a single 40 mg subcutaneous dose was 
64%. After single intravenous doses ranging from 0.25 to 10 mg/kg, concentrations were dose proportional. 
After doses of 0.5 mg/kg (~40 mg), clearances ranged from 11 to 15 ml/hour, the distribution volume (Vss) 
ranged from 5 to 6 litres and the mean terminal phase half-life was approximately two weeks. Adalimumab 
concentrations in the synovial fluid from several rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96% of those 
in serum. 
Following subcutaneous administration of 40 mg of adalimumab every other week in adult rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) patients the mean steady-state trough concentrations were approximately 5 g/ml (without 
concomitant methotrexate) and 8 to 9 g/ml (with concomitant methotrexate), respectively.  The serum 
adalimumab trough levels at steady-state increased roughly proportionally with dose following 20, 40 and 
80 mg subcutaneous dosing every other week and every week. 
In adult patients with psoriasis, the mean steady-state trough concentration was 5 g/ml during adalimumab 
40 mg every other week monotherapy treatment. 
In patients with Crohn’s disease, the loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 5.5 g/ml 
during the induction period. A loading dose of 160 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 80 mg 
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
adalimumab on week 2 achieves serum adalimumab trough concentrations of approximately 12 g/ml 
during the induction period. Mean steady-state trough levels of approximately 7 g/ml were observed in 
Crohn’s disease patients who received a maintenance dose of 40 mg adalimumab every other week. 
In adult patients with uveitis, a loading dose of 80 mg adalimumab on week 0 followed by 40 mg 
adalimumab every other week starting at week 1, resulted in mean steady-state concentrations of 
approximately 8 to 10 g/ml. 
Population pharmacokinetic and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling and simulation predicted 
comparable adalimumab exposure and efficacy in patients treated with 80 mg every other week when 
compared with 40 mg every week (including adult patients with RA, HS, UC, CD or Ps, patients with 
adolescent HS, and paediatric patients ≥ 40 kg with CD and UC). 
Elimination 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses with data from over 1,300 RA patients revealed a trend toward higher 
apparent clearance of adalimumab with increasing body weight. After adjustment for weight differences, 
gender and age appeared to have a minimal effect on adalimumab clearance.  The serum levels of free 
adalimumab (not bound to anti-adalimumab antibodies, AAA) were observed to be lower in patients with 
measurable AAA. 
Hepatic or renal impairment 
Adalimumab has not been studied in patients with hepatic or renal impairment. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on studies of single dose toxicity, repeated dose 
toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
An embryo-foetal developmental toxicity/perinatal developmental study has been performed in cynomolgus 
monkeys at 0, 30 and 100 mg/kg (9-17 monkeys/group) and has revealed no evidence of harm to the 
foetuses due to adalimumab. Neither carcinogenicity studies, nor a standard assessment of fertility and 
postnatal toxicity, were performed with adalimumab due to the lack of appropriate models for an antibody 
with limited cross-reactivity to rodent TNF and to the development of neutralising antibodies in rodents. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Acetic acid 
Sodium acetate trihydrate 
Glycine 
Polysorbate 80 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
In the absence of compatibility studies, this medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal 
products. 
6.3  Shelf life 
18 months 
143 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2C – 8C). Do not freeze.  
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
A single Yuflyma pre-filled syringe may be stored at temperatures up to a maximum of 25°C for a period of 
up to 31 days. The pre-filled syringe must be protected from light, and discarded if not used within the 31-
day period. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
Solution for injection in a pre-filled syringe (type I glass) with a plunger stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and a 
needle with a needle shield (thermoplastic elastomer). 
Packs of: 
• 
2 pre-filled syringe (0.2 ml sterile solution) with 2 alcohol pads. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements.  
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/20/1513/017 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 11 February 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
144 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE 
SUBSTANCE AND MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR 
BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE 
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
145 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS OF THE BIOLOGICAL ACTIVE SUBSTANCE AND 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) of the biological active substance 
CELLTRION INC. 
20 Academy-ro 51 beon-gil 
Yeonsu-gu 
22014 Incheon 
Republic of Korea 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland  
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstrasse 13,  
89231 Neu-Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstr. 49,  
55218 Ingelheim, 
Germany 
KYMOS S.L.  
Ronda Can Fatjó, 7B.  
08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona,  
Spain 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the manufacturer 
responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
•  Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
146 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any subsequent 
updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE 
OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorization holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information being 
received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
Prior to launch of Yuflyma in each Member State the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) must agree 
about the content and format of the educational programme, including communication media, distribution 
modalities, and any other aspects of the programme, with the National Competent Authority. The 
educational program consists of a Patient Reminder Card. 
The patient reminder card contains important safety information that a patient needs to be aware of before 
and during the treatment with Yuflyma. This reminder card is aimed at highlighting the risk of serious 
infections, tuberculosis (TB), malignancies, demyelinating disorders (including multiple sclerosis [MS], 
Guillain Barré syndrome [GBS] and optic neuritis [ON]) and BCG disease following live BCG vaccination 
in infants with in utero exposure to Yuflyma. 
The MAH shall ensure that in each Member State where Yuflyma is marketed, all healthcare professionals 
who are expected to prescribe adalimumab and all patients who are expected to use adalimumab have access 
to/are provided with the following educational materials: 
The Patient Reminder Cards (adult and paediatric) contain the following key elements 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
That treatment with Yuflyma may increase the risk of infections, including tuberculosis, cancer and 
nervous system problems; 
Signs or symptoms of these safety concerns and when to seek attention from a healthcare 
professional;  
Importance of not receiving live vaccines and informing the health professional that the patient is 
receiving treatment in case of pregnancy;  
Instructions to record the brand name and batch number of the medication to ensure traceability;  
Contact details of the adalimumab prescriber. 
147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
148 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  LABELLING 
149 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One 0.4 ml pre-filled syringe contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, water for injections.  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled syringes 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled syringes 
6 alcohol pads 
1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled syringes with needle guard 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled syringes with needle guard 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled syringes with needle guard 
6 alcohol pads 
150 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL  WARNING  THAT  THE  MEDICINAL  PRODUCT  MUST  BE  STORED  OUT  OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Keep the pre-filled syringes in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS  OR 
WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS, 
IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
151 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EU/1/20/1513/001 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/20/1513/002 2 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/20/1513/003 4 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/20/1513/004 6 pre-filled syringes 
EU/1/20/1513/005 1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
EU/1/20/1513/006 2 pre-filled syringes with needle guard 
EU/1/20/1513/007 4 pre-filled syringes with needle guard 
EU/1/20/1513/008 6 pre-filled syringes with needle guard 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Yuflyma 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
152 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Yuflyma 40 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.4 ml 
6.  OTHER 
153 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One 0.4 ml pre-filled pen contains 40 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See leaflet 
for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen 
2 alcohol pads 
2 pre-filled pens 
2 alcohol pads 
4 pre-filled pens 
4 alcohol pads 
6 pre-filled pens 
6 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL  WARNING  THAT  THE  MEDICINAL  PRODUCT  MUST  BE  STORED  OUT  OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
154 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS  OR 
WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS, 
IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1513/009 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/20/1513/010 2 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/20/1513/011 4 pre-filled pens 
EU/1/20/1513/012 6 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
155 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Yuflyma 40 mg 
17.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
156 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Yuflyma 40 mg injection 
adalimumab 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
40 mg/0.4 ml 
6.  OTHER 
157 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One 0.8 ml pre-filled syringe contains 80 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, water for injections.  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled syringe 
2 alcohol pads 
1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
2 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL  WARNING  THAT  THE  MEDICINAL  PRODUCT  MUST  BE  STORED  OUT  OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
158 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS  OR 
IF 
WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS, 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1513/013 1 pre-filled syringe 
EU/1/20/1513/014 1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
159 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Yuflyma 80 mg 
17.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
160 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Yuflyma 80 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
80 mg/0.8 ml 
6.  OTHER 
161 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One 0.8 ml pre-filled pen contains 80 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, water for injections. See leaflet 
for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
1 pre-filled pen 
2 alcohol pads 
3 pre-filled pens 
4 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL  WARNING  THAT  THE  MEDICINAL  PRODUCT  MUST  BE  STORED  OUT  OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
162 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Keep the pre-filled pens in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS  OR 
WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS, 
IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1513/015 1 pre-filled pen 
EU/1/20/1513/016 3 pre-filled pens 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
163 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Yuflyma 80 mg 
17.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN 
164 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED PEN 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Yuflyma 80 mg injection 
adalimumab 
Subcutaneous use 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
80 mg/0.8 ml 
6.  OTHER 
165 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
One 0.2 ml pre-filled syringe contains 20 mg adalimumab. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, water for injections.  
See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Solution for injection 
2 pre-filled syringes 
2 alcohol pads 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Subcutaneous use 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For single use only. 
For paediatric use 
6. 
SPECIAL  WARNING  THAT  THE  MEDICINAL  PRODUCT  MUST  BE  STORED  OUT  OF 
THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING, IF NECESSARY 
166 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Refer to package leaflet for alternative storage details. 
10.  SPECIAL  PRECAUTIONS  FOR  DISPOSAL  OF  UNUSED  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS  OR 
WASTE  MATERIALS  DERIVED  FROM  SUCH  MEDICINAL  PRODUCTS, 
IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/20/1513/017  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot  
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
167 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Yuflyma 20 mg 
17.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE INDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
LABEL FOR PRE-FILLED SYRINGE  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Yuflyma 20 mg injection 
adalimumab 
SC  
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mg/0.2 ml 
6.  OTHER 
169 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B.  PACKAGE LEAFLET 
170 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you begin using Yuflyma and during treatment with 
Yuflyma. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your last injection of Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Yuflyma 
How to use Yuflyma 
Possible side effects 
How to store Yuflyma 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
Yuflyma contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune (defence) 
system. 
Yuflyma is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Plaque psoriasis 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis 
Non-infectious uveitis 
The active ingredient in Yuflyma, adalimumab, is a human monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is involved in the 
171 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immune (defence) system and is present at increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By 
attaching to TNFα, Yuflyma decreases the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults. You may first be given other 
disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, 
you will be given Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Yuflyma can slow down the damage to the joints caused by the inflammatory disease and can help them 
move more freely. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Yuflyma is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients from 2 years of age. You may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough 
to these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Enthesitis-related arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints and the places where tendons join the 
bone. 
Yuflyma is used to treat enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from 6 years of age. You may first be given 
other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough to these 
medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
are inflammatory diseases of the spine. 
Yuflyma is used to treat severe ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of ankylosing spondylitis in adults. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond 
well enough to these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints that is usually associated with psoriasis. 
Yuflyma is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Yuflyma can slow down the damage to the joints caused 
by the disease and can help them move more freely. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not 
172 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respond well enough to these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is a skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales. 
Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, become thickened and lift away from the 
nail bed which can be painful. 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adults and 
severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for whom topical 
therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a chronic and often painful inflammatory skin 
disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that may leak pus. It most 
commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner thighs, groin and 
buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years. 
Yuflyma can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses caused by the disease and the pain that is often 
associated with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to 
these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the digestive tract.  
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Yuflyma is used to treat  
• 
• 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and  
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years.  
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye.  
173 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
children with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye. 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or 
wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Yuflyma works by reducing this inflammation. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Yuflyma  
Do not use Yuflyma: 
• 
• 
• 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you have active tuberculosis or other severe infections (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, for example, fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems. 
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Yuflyma. 
Allergic reactions 
• 
If you get allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, swelling or 
rash do not inject more Yuflyma and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare cases, these 
reactions can be life threatening. 
Infections 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term infection or an infection in one part of the body (for 
example, leg ulcer) consult your doctor before starting Yuflyma. If you are unsure, contact your 
doctor. 
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Yuflyma treatment. This risk may 
increase if you have problems with your lungs. These infections may be serious and include: 
• 
• 
• 
tuberculosis 
infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria 
severe infection in the blood (sepsis) 
In rare cases, these infections can be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you get 
symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may tell you to stop 
using Yuflyma for some time. 
• 
Tell your doctor if you live or travel in regions where fungal infections (for example, histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis) are very common. 
174 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you have had infections which keep coming back or other conditions that increase 
the risk of infections. 
If you are over 65 years you may be more likely to get infections while taking Yuflyma. You and 
your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated with 
Yuflyma. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, wounds, 
feeling tired or dental problems. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had tuberculosis, or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. If you have active tuberculosis, do not use 
Yuflyma. 
•  As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Yuflyma, your doctor will 
check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Yuflyma. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and appropriate screening tests (for 
example, chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be 
recorded on your Patient Reminder Card. 
•  Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have received treatment for the prevention 
• 
of tuberculosis. 
If symptoms of tuberculosis (for example, cough that does not go away, weight loss, lack of 
energy, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor 
immediately. 
Hepatitis B 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV or if you 
think you might be at risk of getting HBV. 
•  Your doctor should test you for HBV. In people who carry HBV, Yuflyma can cause the virus to 
• 
become active again. 
In some rare cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV can be life-threatening. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures, please inform your doctor that you are taking 
Yuflyma. Your doctor may recommend temporary discontinuation of Yuflyma. 
Demyelinating disease 
• 
If you have or develop a demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around the 
nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue to 
receive Yuflyma. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccinations 
• 
Certain vaccines may cause infections and should not be given while receiving Yuflyma. 
•  Check with your doctor before you receive any vaccines. 
• 
It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the scheduled vaccinations for their age 
before they start treatment with Yuflyma. 
If you received Yuflyma while you were pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting 
such an infection for up to approximately five months after the last Yuflyma dose you received 
• 
175 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
during pregnancy. It is important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care 
professionals about your Yuflyma use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby 
should receive any vaccine. 
Heart failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and are being treated with Yuflyma, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious 
heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. shortness of breath, 
or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor will decide if you 
should receive Yuflyma. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. Your doctor may decide to stop treatment. If you develop a fever that does 
not go away, develop light bruises or bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. 
Cancer 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adult patients taking 
Yuflyma or other TNF blockers. 
•  People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis that have had the disease for a long time may have 
a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects the lymph system) and 
leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). 
If you take Yuflyma the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On 
rare occasions, an uncommon and severe type of lymphoma, has been seen in patients taking 
Yuflyma. Some of those patients were also treated with azathioprine or 6- mercaptopurine. 
• 
•  Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine with Yuflyma. 
•  Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Yuflyma. 
• 
If new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, tell 
your doctor. 
• 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) treated with another TNF blocker. If 
you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor whether treatment with 
a TNF blocker is appropriate for you. 
Autoimmune disease 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Yuflyma could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your doctor 
if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
• 
Vaccinations: if possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Yuflyma. 
Other medicines and Yuflyma 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. You 
should not take Yuflyma with medicines containing the following active substances due to increased 
risk of serious infection: 
176 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
anakinra 
abatacept. 
Yuflyma can be taken together with: 
• 
• 
methotrexate 
certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents (for example, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, 
leflunomide and injectable gold preparations) 
steroids or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
• 
If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its use for 
at least 5 months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice about taking this medicine. 
Yuflyma should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received Yuflyma during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did not 
receive Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you receive Yuflyma during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Yuflyma use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine. For more information on 
vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section. 
Driving and using machines 
Yuflyma may have a small effect on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning sensation 
and vision disturbances may occur after taking Yuflyma. 
YUFLYMA contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 mL dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Yuflyma 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Yuflyma in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. Your 
doctor may prescribe another strength of Yuflyma if you need a different dose. 
177 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Age or body weight 
Notes 
Adults 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Yuflyma. If your 
doctor decides that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Yuflyma can be given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Yuflyma therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
Yuflyma 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
Notes 
Not applicable 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Age or body weight 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents 
from 2 years of age 
weighing 10 kg to less than 
30 kg 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents 
from 6 years of age 
weighing 15 kg to less than 
30 kg 
Plaque psoriasis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
20 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
Notes 
Not applicable 
20 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the first 
dose. 
Notes 
If you have an inadequate 
response, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week. 
178 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
from 4 to 17  years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents 
from 4 to 17  years of age 
weighing 15 kg to less than 
30 kg 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 17 
years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more 
First dose of 40 mg, followed by 
40 mg one week later. 
Not applicable 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week. 
First dose of 20 mg, followed by 
20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 20 
mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 
40 mg injections per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by an 
80 mg dose (two 40 mg injections 
in one day) two weeks later. After 
two further weeks, continue with a 
dose of 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor. 
First dose of 80 mg (two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week later. 
Not applicable 
Notes 
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas. 
If you have an inadequate 
response to Yuflyma 40 mg 
every other week, your 
doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
It  is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily 
on the affected areas. 
Crohn’s disease 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 40 kg or more 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed 
by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
If a faster response is required, the 
doctor may prescribe a first dose 
of 160 mg (four 40 mg injections 
in one day or two 40 mg 
injections per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (two 40 mg injections in 
one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 mg 
every other week. 
179 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
from 6 to 17 years of age 
weighing less than 40 kg 
First dose of 40 mg, followed by 
20 mg two weeks later. 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 20 mg every week. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
If a faster response is required, the 
doctor may prescribe a first dose 
of 80 mg (two 40 mg injections in 
one day) followed by 40 mg two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (four 40 
mg injections in one day or two 
40 mg injections per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (two 40 mg injections in 
one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week. 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents 
from 6 years of age 
weighing less than 40 kg 
First dose of 80 mg (two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed 
by 40 mg (one 40 mg injection) 
two weeks later. 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Children and adolescents 
from 6 years of age 
weighing 40 kg or more 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week 
First dose of 160 mg (four 40 mg 
injections in one day or two 40 
mg injections per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (two 40 mg injections in 
one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 80 
mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (two 40 mg 
injections in one day), followed 
by 40 mg every other week 
starting one week after the first 
dose. 
180 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Notes 
Corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using 
Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be given 
alone. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents 
from 2 years of age 
weighing less than 30 kg 
20 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents 
from 2 years of age 
weighing at least 30 kg 
40 mg every other week 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 40 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
20 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for 
use in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 80 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
40 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for 
use in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Method and route of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Yuflyma are provided in section 7 ‘Instructions for use’. 
If you use more Yuflyma than you should 
If you accidentally inject Yuflyma more frequently than told to by your doctor or pharmacist, call your 
doctor or pharmacist and tell them that you have taken more. Always take the outer carton of the medicine 
with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Yuflyma 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Yuflyma as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Yuflyma 
The decision to stop using Yuflyma should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return if you 
stop using Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.  Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side effects 
are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may occur at least 
up to 4 months after the last Yuflyma injection. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction 
swollen face, hands, feet 
trouble breathing, swallowing 
181 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination 
feeling weak or tired 
coughing 
tingling 
numbness 
double vision 
arm or leg weakness 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been observed with 
Yuflyma. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia) 
headache 
abdominal pain 
nausea and vomiting 
rash 
musculoskeletal pain 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza) 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis) 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles) 
ear infections 
oral infections (including tooth infections and cold sores) 
reproductive tract infections 
urinary tract infection 
fungal infections 
joint infections 
benign tumours 
skin cancer 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy) 
dehydration 
mood swings (including depression) 
anxiety 
difficulty sleeping 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness 
migraine 
nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain) 
vision disturbances 
eye inflammation 
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling 
182 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
vertigo (feeling of dizziness or spinning) 
sensation of heart beating rapidly 
high blood pressure 
flushing 
haematoma (collection of blood outside of blood vessels) 
cough 
asthma 
shortness of breath 
gastrointestinal bleeding 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn) 
acid reflux disease 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth) 
itching 
itchy rash 
bruising 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema) 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails 
increased sweating 
hair loss 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis 
muscle spasms 
blood in urine 
kidney problems 
chest pain 
oedema (swelling) 
fever 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising 
impaired healing 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered) 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis) 
eye infections 
bacterial infections 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine) 
cancer 
cancer that affects the lymph system 
melanoma 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly presenting as 
sarcoidosis) 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels) 
tremor (shaking) 
neuropathy (disorder of the nerves) 
stroke 
hearing loss, buzzing 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling 
heart attack 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein, blockage of a blood vessel 
183 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation) 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung) 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space) 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back 
difficulty in swallowing 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones 
fatty liver 
night sweats 
scar 
abnormal muscle breakdown 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other organ 
systems) 
sleep interruptions 
impotence 
inflammations 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow) 
severe allergic reaction with shock 
multiple sclerosis 
nerve disorders (such as eye nerve inflammation and Guillain-Barré syndrome that may cause muscle 
weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the arms and upper body) 
heart stops pumping 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung) 
intestinal perforation (hole in the intestine) 
hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system) 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash) 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) associated with allergic reactions 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash) 
lupus-like syndrome 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin) 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma 
most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small) 
Some side effects observed with Yuflyma may not have symptoms and may only be discovered through 
blood tests. These include: 
184 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for red blood cells 
increased lipids in the blood 
elevated liver enzymes 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for platelets 
increased uric acid in the blood 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium 
low blood measurements for calcium 
low blood measurements for phosphate 
high blood sugar 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase 
autoantibodies present in the blood 
low blood potassium 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
elevated bilirubin measurement (liver blood test) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.  How to store Yuflyma 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label/carton after EXP. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe with needle guard in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage: 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Yuflyma pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
may be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31 days – be sure to protect it 
from light. Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the syringe must be used 
within 31 days or discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the syringe is first removed from refrigerator and the date after which it 
185 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
What Yuflyma contains 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, and water for 
injections. 
What the Yuflyma pre-filled syringe with needle guard looks like and contents of the pack 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with needle guard is supplied as a sterile solution 
of 40 mg adalimumab dissolved in 0.4 ml solution. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled syringe is a glass syringe containing a solution of adalimumab. The 1 pre-filled 
syringe pack comes with 2 alcohol pads (1 spare). For the 2, 4 and 6 pre-filled syringe packs, each pre-filled 
syringe comes with 1 alcohol pad. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled syringe is a glass syringe with needle guard containing a solution of adalimumab. 
The 1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard pack comes with 2 alcohol pads (1 spare). For the 2, 4 and 6 pre-
filled syringes with needle guard packs, each pre-filled syringe with needle guard comes with 1 alcohol pad. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Yuflyma may be available as a pre-filled syringe and/or a pre-filled pen. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstrasse 13,  
89231 Neu-Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
186 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstr. 49,  
55218 Ingelheim, 
Germany 
KYMOS S.L.  
Ronda Can Fatjó, 7B.  
08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona,  
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: +36 1 231 0493 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tél.: +49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 2525 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél.: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Ö sterreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
187 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Sími: +36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 0247927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741741 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 1 519 29 22 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy.  
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tālr.: +36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026  
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following instructions explain how to give yourself a subcutaneous injection of Yuflyma using 
the pre-filled syringe. First read all the instructions carefully and then follow them step by step. 
You will be instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist on the technique of self-injection. 
Do not attempt to self-inject until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the 
injection. 
After proper training, the injection can be given by yourself or given by another person, for example, 
a family member or friend. 
Only use each pre-filled syringe for one injection. 
188 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Syringe 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed.  
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure A 
Do not remove the needle cover until just before injection. Keep Yuflyma out of the sight and reach of 
children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
   a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
   b. Remove 1 pre-filled syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
• Hold the pre-filled syringe body when removing it from the carton. Do not touch the plunger. 
   c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled syringe 
- Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
189 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Inspect the pre-filled syringe 
       a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and 
dosage.  
       b. Look at the pre-filled syringe and make sure it is not 
cracked or damaged.  
       c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled 
syringe.  
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed. 
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure B 
3. 
Inspect the medicine 
     a. Look at the medicine and confirm that the liquid is  
         clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
• 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is 
discoloured (yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
• 
You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
Figure C 
190 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Wait 15 to 30 minutes  
      a. Leave the Pre-filled Syringe at room temperature for 15          
to 30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
• 
Do not warm the pre-filled syringe using heat sources  
such as hot water or a microwave. 
Figure D 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
     a. You may inject into: 
           - the front of your thighs.  
           - your abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around the belly 
             button (navel).  
           - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a 
caregiver)  
• Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your belly  
         button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged, bruised, or 
         scarred.  
• If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any raised,  
        thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your skin.  
• Do not inject through your clothes. 
     b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. 
Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in) away from            
the injection site you used before. 
Figure E 
191 
 
 
 
 
 
              
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Wash your hands 
      a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them  
          thoroughly.  
Figure F 
Figure G 
7.  Clean the injection site 
     a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using a 
         circular motion. 
     b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
• Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before 
giving the injection. 
192 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Remove the cap 
    a. Remove the cap by holding the pre-  
        filled syringe body with one hand. Gently pull the 
cap straight off with the other hand.  
•  Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject  
•  Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a 
needle stick injury.  
•  Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. Dispose the cap 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
• 
the needle. 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of 
Figure H 
Insert the pre-filled syringe into the injection 
9. 
site 
     a. Gently pinch a fold of skin at the injection site  
         with one hand. 
     b. Holding the pre-filled syringe by its body, insert the 
          needle completely into the fold of the skin at a 45- 
          degree angle using a quick and “dart-like” motion. 
Figure I 
193 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  Give the injection 
     a. After the needle is inserted, let go of the pinched 
         skin. 
     b. Slowly push the plunger all the way down until  
         all of the liquid is injected and the syringe is empty. 
• Do not change the position of the pre-filled syringe after 
the injection has started. 
Figure J 
11.  Remove the pre-filled syringe from the injection 
site and care for the injection site 
    a. After the pre-filled syringe is empty, remove 
        the pre-filled syringe from your skin at the same 
angle it was inserted. 
    b. Treat the injection site by gently pressing, not 
         rubbing, a cotton ball or gauze to the site and 
         apply an adhesive bandage, if necessary. Some 
         bleeding may occur. 
• Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
• Do not touch or recap the needle.  
• Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure K 
194 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
Dispose of the pre-filled syringe 
Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. 
12. 
• 
a. Throw away the used pre-filled syringe in a special sharps  
disposal container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or   
pharmacist. 
b. The alcohol pad and packaging may be put in your 
     household waste. 
•   Always keep the pre-filled syringe and the special sharps 
     disposal container out of the sight and reach of children. 
Figure L 
195 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Syringe with needle guard 
Figure A 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed.  
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Do not remove the needle cover until just before injection. Keep Yuflyma out of the sight and reach of 
children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
    a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
    b. Remove 1 pre-filled syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
• Hold the pre-filled syringe body when removing it from the carton. Do not touch the plunger. 
    c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled Syringe 
- Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
196 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Inspect the pre-filled syringe 
      a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and  
          dosage.  
      b. Look at the pre-filled syringe and make sure it is not  
          cracked or damaged.  
    c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled  
          syringe.  
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
• 
the expiration date has passed.  
• 
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
3. 
Inspect the medicine 
      a. Look at the medicine and confirm that the liquid is  
           clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
. 
• 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is   
discoloured (yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
• 
You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
Figure B 
Figure C 
197 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Wait 15 to 30 minutes  
      a. Leave the pre-filled syringe at room temperature for   
          15 to 30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
• 
Do not warm the pre-filled syringe using heat sources  
such as hot water or a microwave. 
Figure D 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
       a. You may inject into: 
          - the front of your thighs.  
          - your abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around the    
             belly button (navel).  
          - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a  
             caregiver).  
• 
• 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your   
belly button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged,  
bruised, or scarred.  
If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any  
raised, thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your   
            skin.  
• 
Do not inject through your clothes. 
       b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection.  
            Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in)  
            away from the injection site you used before. 
Figure E 
198 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Wash your hands 
      a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry  
          them thoroughly.  
Figure F 
7. 
Clean the injection site 
      a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using  
          a circular motion. 
      b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
• Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving 
the injection. 
Figure G 
199 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Remove the cap 
a. Remove the cap by holding the pre-filled syringe body with  
one hand. Gently pull the cap straight off with the other hand. 
• 
Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject  
Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a needle 
• 
stick injury.  
Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. Dispose the cap 
• 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
• 
needle. 
Figure H 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the 
Insert the pre-filled syringe into the injection  
8. 
site 
      a. Gently pinch a fold of skin at the injection site   
          with one hand. 
      b. Holding the pre-filled syringe by its body, insert  
the  needle completely into the fold of the skin 
at a 45-degree angle using a quick and “dart- 
like” motion..  
Figure I 
200 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9.  Give the injection 
        a. After the needle is inserted, let go of 
            the pinched skin. 
        b. Slowly push the plunger all the way down until all of 
the liquid is injected and the syringe is empty. 
• Do not change the position of the pre-filled syringe after 
the injection has started. 
Figure J 
10. 
injection site and care for the injection site 
Remove the pre-filled syringe from the 
        a. After the pre-filled syringe is empty,  
            slowly lift your thumb from the  
            plunger until needle is completely  
            covered by the needle guard. 
        b. Treat the injection site by gently    
             pressing, not rubbing, a cotton ball or   
             gauze to the site and apply an adhesive   
             bandage, if necessary. Some bleeding   
             may occur. 
• Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
• Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure K 
201 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
11.  Dispose of the pre-filled syringe 
        a. Throw away the used pre-filled syringe   
             in a special sharps disposal container  
             as instructed by your doctor, nurse or    
             pharmacist.  
        b. alcohol pad and packaging may be put  
in your household waste. 
Always keep the pre-filled syringe and   
• 
       the special sharps disposal container out of   
       the sight and reach of children 
Figure L 
202 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you begin using Yuflyma and during treatment with 
Yuflyma. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your last injection of Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Yuflyma 
How to use Yuflyma 
Possible side effects 
How to store Yuflyma 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
Yuflyma contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune (defence) 
system. 
Yuflyma is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Ankylosing spondylitis 
Axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Plaque psoriasis 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis 
Non-infectious uveitis 
The active ingredient in Yuflyma, adalimumab, is a human monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is involved in the 
203 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
immune (defence) system and is present at increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By 
attaching to TNFα, Yuflyma decreases the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults. You may first be given other 
disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, 
you will be given Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Yuflyma can slow down the damage to the joints caused by the inflammatory disease and can help them 
move more freely. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Yuflyma is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients from 2 years of age. You may 
first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough 
to these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Enthesitis-related arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints and the places where tendons join the 
bone. 
Yuflyma is used to treat enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from 6 years of age. You may first be given 
other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough to these 
medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing 
spondylitis 
Ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
are inflammatory diseases of the spine. 
Yuflyma is used to treat severe ankylosing spondylitis and axial spondyloarthritis without radiographic 
evidence of ankylosing spondylitis in adults. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond 
well enough to these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Psoriatic arthritis 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints that is usually associated with psoriasis. 
Yuflyma is used to treat psoriatic arthritis in adults. Yuflyma can slow down the damage to the joints caused 
by the disease and can help them move more freely. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not 
204 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
respond well enough to these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is a skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales. 
Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, become thickened and lift away from the 
nail bed which can be painful. 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adults and 
severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for whom topical 
therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a chronic and often painful inflammatory skin 
disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that may leak pus. It most 
commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner thighs, groin and 
buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years. 
Yuflyma can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses caused by the disease and the pain that is often 
associated with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to 
these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the digestive tract. Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Yuflyma is used to treat  
• 
• 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
children with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye. 
205 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or 
wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Yuflyma works by reducing this inflammation. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Yuflyma  
Do not use Yuflyma: 
• 
• 
• 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you have active tuberculosis or other severe infections (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, for example, fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems. 
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Yuflyma. 
Allergic reactions 
• 
If you get allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, swelling or 
rash do not inject more Yuflyma and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare cases, these 
reactions can be life threatening. 
Infections 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term infection or an infection in one part of the body (for 
example, leg ulcer) consult your doctor before starting Yuflyma. If you are unsure, contact your 
doctor. 
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Yuflyma treatment. This risk may 
increase if you have problems with your lungs. These infections may be serious and include: 
• 
• 
• 
tuberculosis 
infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria 
severe infection in the blood (sepsis) 
In rare cases, these infections can be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you get 
symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may tell you to stop 
using Yuflyma for some time. 
Tell your doctor if you live or travel in regions where fungal infections (for example, histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis) are very common. 
Tell your doctor if you have had infections which keep coming back or other conditions that increase 
the risk of infections. 
206 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
If you are over 65 years you may be more likely to get infections while taking Yuflyma. You and 
your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated with 
Yuflyma. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, wounds, 
feeling tired or dental problems. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had tuberculosis, or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. If you have active tuberculosis, do not use 
Yuflyma. 
•  As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Yuflyma, your doctor will 
check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Yuflyma. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and appropriate screening tests (for 
example, chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be 
recorded on your Patient Reminder Card. 
•  Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have received treatment for the prevention 
• 
of tuberculosis. 
If symptoms of tuberculosis (for example, cough that does not go away, weight loss, lack of 
energy, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor 
immediately. 
Hepatitis B 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV or if you 
think you might be at risk of getting HBV. 
•  Your doctor should test you for HBV. In people who carry HBV, Yuflyma can cause the virus to 
• 
become active again. 
In some rare cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune system, 
reactivation of HBV can be life-threatening. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures. please inform your doctor that you are taking 
Yuflyma. Your doctor may recommend temporary discontinuation of Yuflyma. 
Demyelinating disease 
• 
If you have or develop a demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around the 
nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue to 
receive Yuflyma. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccinations 
• 
Certain vaccines may cause infections and should not be given while receiving Yuflyma. 
• 
•  Check with your doctor before you receive any vaccines. 
• 
It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the scheduled vaccinations for their age 
before they start treatment with Yuflyma. 
If you received Yuflyma while you were pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for getting 
such an infection for up to approximately five months after the last Yuflyma dose you received 
during pregnancy. It is important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care 
professionals about your Yuflyma use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby 
should receive any vaccine. 
207 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heart failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and are being treated with Yuflyma, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious 
heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. shortness of breath, 
or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor will decide if you 
should receive Yuflyma. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. Your doctor may decide to stop treatment. If you develop a fever that does 
not go away, develop light bruises or bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. 
Cancer 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adult patients taking 
Yuflyma or other TNF blockers. 
•  People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis that have had the disease for a long time may have 
a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects the lymph system) and 
leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). 
If you take Yuflyma the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may increase. On 
rare occasions, an uncommon and severe type of lymphoma, has been seen in patients taking 
Yuflyma. Some of those patients were also treated with azathioprine or 6- mercaptopurine. 
• 
•  Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine with Yuflyma. 
•  Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Yuflyma. 
• 
If new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, tell 
your doctor. 
• 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) treated with another TNF blocker. If 
you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor whether treatment with 
a TNF blocker is appropriate for you. 
Autoimmune disease 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Yuflyma could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your doctor 
if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
• 
Vaccinations: if possible, children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Yuflyma. 
Other medicines and Yuflyma 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. You 
should not take Yuflyma with medicines containing the following active substances due to increased 
risk of serious infection: 
• 
• 
anakinra 
abatacept. 
208 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma can be taken together with: 
• 
• 
methotrexate 
certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents (for example, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, 
leflunomide and injectable gold preparations) 
steroids or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
• 
If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its use for 
at least 5 months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice about taking this medicine. 
Yuflyma should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received Yuflyma during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did not 
receive Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you receive Yuflyma during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Yuflyma use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine. For more information on 
vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section. 
Driving and using machines 
Yuflyma may have a small effect on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning sensation 
and vision disturbances may occur after taking Yuflyma. 
YUFLYMA contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.4 mL dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Yuflyma 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Yuflyma in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. Your 
doctor may prescribe another strength of Yuflyma if you need a different dose. 
Rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis or axial spondyloarthritis 
without radiographic evidence of ankylosing spondylitis 
Age or body weight 
Notes 
How much and how often to 
take? 
209 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adults 
40 mg every other week 
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued 
while using Yuflyma. If your 
doctor decides that 
methotrexate is inappropriate, 
Yuflyma can be given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid 
arthritis and you do not 
receive methotrexate with 
your Yuflyma therapy, your 
doctor may decide to give 
Yuflyma 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
Notes 
Not applicable 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Age or body weight 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
Children, adolescents and adults 
from 2 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and adults 
from 6 years of age weighing 
30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg 
Plaque psoriasis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17  years of age weighing 
30 kg or more 
20 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
Notes 
Not applicable 
20 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after 
the first dose. 
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 40 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week. 
Notes 
If you have an inadequate 
response, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week. 
Not applicable 
210 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17  years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg 
First dose of 20 mg, followed 
by 20 mg one week later. 
Not applicable 
Notes 
It is recommended that you 
use an antiseptic wash daily on 
the affected areas. 
If you have an inadequate 
response to Yuflyma 40 mg 
every other week, your doctor 
may increase the dosage to 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
It  is  recommended  that  you 
use  an  antiseptic  wash  daily 
on the affected areas. 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 17 
years of age weighing 30 kg or 
more 
Crohn’s disease 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and adults 
from 6 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (four 40 
mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by an 80 mg dose 
(two 40 mg injections in one 
day) two weeks later. After 
two further weeks, continue 
with a dose of 40 mg every 
week or 80 mg every other 
week, as prescribed by your 
doctor. 
First dose of 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week later. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later. 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 160 mg (four 
40 mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week. 
211 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg 
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg two weeks later. 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 20 mg every week. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
followed by 40 mg two weeks 
later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (four 40 
mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day) 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week. 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week 
or 80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg 
First dose of 80 mg (two 40 
mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg (one 40 mg 
injection) two weeks later. 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 40 kg 
or more 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week 
First dose of 160 mg (four 40 
mg injections in one day or 
two 40 mg injections per day 
for two consecutive days), 
followed by 80 mg (two 40 mg 
injections in one day) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 80 
mg every other week. 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Age or body weight 
How much and how often to 
take? 
Notes 
212 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adults 
First dose of 80 mg (two 
40 mg injections in one day), 
followed by 40 mg every other 
week starting one week after 
the first dose. 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg 
20 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing at least 
30 kg 
40 mg every other week 
Corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using 
Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be given 
alone. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 40 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
20 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for 
use in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 80 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
40 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for 
use in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Method and route of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Yuflyma are provided in section 7 ‘Instructions for use’. 
If you use more Yuflyma than you should 
If you accidentally inject Yuflyma more frequently than told to by your doctor or pharmacist, call your 
doctor or pharmacist and tell them that you have taken more. Always take the outer carton of the medicine 
with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Yuflyma 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Yuflyma as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Yuflyma 
The decision to stop using Yuflyma should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return if you 
stop using Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.  Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side effects 
213 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may occur at least 
up to 4 months after the last Yuflyma injection. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction 
swollen face, hands, feet 
trouble breathing, swallowing 
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination 
feeling weak or tired 
coughing 
tingling 
numbness 
double vision 
arm or leg weakness 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been observed with 
Yuflyma. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia) 
headache 
abdominal pain 
nausea and vomiting 
rash 
musculoskeletal pain 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza) 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis) 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles) 
ear infections 
oral infections (including tooth infections and cold sores) 
reproductive tract infections 
urinary tract infection 
fungal infections 
joint infections 
benign tumours 
skin cancer 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy) 
dehydration 
mood swings (including depression) 
214 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
anxiety 
difficulty sleeping 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness 
migraine 
nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain) 
vision disturbances 
eye inflammation 
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling 
vertigo (feeling of dizziness or spinning) 
sensation of heart beating rapidly 
high blood pressure 
flushing 
haematoma (collection of blood outside of blood vessels) 
cough 
asthma 
shortness of breath 
gastrointestinal bleeding 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn) 
acid reflux disease 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth) 
itching 
itchy rash 
bruising 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema) 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails 
increased sweating 
hair loss 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis 
muscle spasms 
blood in urine 
kidney problems 
chest pain 
oedema (swelling) 
fever 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising 
impaired healing 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered) 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis) 
eye infections 
bacterial infections 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine) 
cancer 
cancer that affects the lymph system 
melanoma 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly presenting as 
sarcoidosis) 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels) 
215 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
tremor (shaking) 
neuropathy (disorder of the nerves) 
stroke 
hearing loss, buzzing 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling 
heart attack 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein, blockage of a blood vessel 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation) 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung) 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space) 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back 
difficulty in swallowing 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones 
fatty liver 
night sweats 
scar 
abnormal muscle breakdown 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other organ 
systems) 
sleep interruptions 
impotence 
inflammations 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow) 
severe allergic reaction with shock 
multiple sclerosis 
nerve disorders (such as eye nerve inflammation and Guillain-Barré syndrome that may cause muscle 
weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the arms and upper body) 
heart stops pumping 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung) 
intestinal perforation (hole in the intestine) 
hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system) 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash) 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) associated with allergic reactions 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash) 
lupus-like syndrome 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin) 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma 
most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
216 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
liver failure 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small) 
Some side effects observed with Yuflyma may not have symptoms and may only be discovered through 
blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for red blood cells 
increased lipids in the blood 
elevated liver enzymes 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for platelets 
increased uric acid in the blood 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium 
low blood measurements for calcium 
low blood measurements for phosphate 
high blood sugar 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase 
autoantibodies present in the blood 
low blood potassium 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
elevated bilirubin measurement (liver blood test) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.  How to store Yuflyma 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label/carton after EXP. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage: 
217 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Yuflyma pre-filled pen may be stored at room 
temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed 
from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the pen must be used within 31 days or discarded, 
even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the pen is first removed from refrigerator and the date after which it should 
be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
What Yuflyma contains 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, and water for 
injections. 
What the Yuflyma pre-filled pen looks like and contents of the pack 
Yuflyma 40 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen is supplied as a sterile solution of 40 mg adalimumab 
dissolved in 0.4 ml solution. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled pen is a single-use disposable needle-based injection system with automated 
functions. There is a window on each side of the pen through which you can see the Yuflyma solution inside 
the pen. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled pen is available in packs containing 1, 2, 4 and 6 pre-filled pens. The 1 pre-filled pen 
pack comes with 2 alcohol pads (1 spare). For the 2, 4 and 6 pre-filled pen packs, each pre-filled pen comes 
with 1 alcohol pad. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Yuflyma may be available as a pre-filled syringe and/or a pre-filled pen. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstrasse 13,  
218 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
89231 Neu-Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstr. 49,  
55218 Ingelheim, 
Germany 
KYMOS S.L.  
Ronda Can Fatjó, 7B.  
08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona,  
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: +36 1 231 0493 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tél.: +49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel:. +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 2525 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 
Ö sterreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
219 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél.: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Sími: +36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 0247927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741741 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 1 519 29 22 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy.  
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tālr.: +36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7.  Instructions for use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following instructions explain how to give yourself a subcutaneous injection of Yuflyma using 
the pre-filled pen. First read all the instructions carefully and then follow them step by step. 
You will be instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist on the technique of self-injection. 
Do not attempt to self-inject until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the 
injection. 
After proper training, the injection can be given by yourself or given by another person, for example, 
a family member or friend. 
Only use each pre-filled pen for one injection. 
220 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Pen 
Figure A 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged 
the expiration date has passed. 
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject. Keep the Yuflyma out of the reach of children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
    a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
    b. Remove 1 pre-filled pen from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
    c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled Pen 
- 1 Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
221 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Inspect the Pre-filled Pen 
     a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and  
         dosage.  
     b. Look at the pre-filled pen and make sure it is not cracked 
 damaged.  
     c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled pen. 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if: 
• it is cracked or damaged.  
• the expiration date has passed.  
• it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
3. 
Inspect the Medicine. 
     a. Look through the window and make sure that the liquid  
         is clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
• 
• 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if the liquid is   
discoloured (yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
Figure B 
Figure C 
222 
 
 
 
          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Wait 15 to 30 minutes 
    a. Leave the pre-filled pen at room temperature for 15 to   
        30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
• 
Do not warm the pre-filled pen using heat sources such  
as hot water or a microwave.  
Figure D 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
a. You may inject into: 
      - the front of your thighs.  
      - your abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around the belly 
button (navel).  
       - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a 
caregiver).  
• 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your 
belly button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged, bruised, or 
scarred.  
• 
raised, thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your skin.  
• 
If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any 
Do not inject through your clothes. 
     b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. 
Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in) away 
from the injection site you used before.  
Figure E 
223 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Wash your hands 
     a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them  
          thoroughly.  
7.  Clean the injection site 
     a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using a  
          circular motion 
     b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
• Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before 
giving the injection. 
Figure F 
Figure G 
224 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Remove the cap 
     a. Hold the pre-filled pen by the injector body with the    
          cap on top using one hand. Gently pull the cap  
          straight off with the other hand.   
Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject.  
Do not touch the needle or needle cover. Doing so   
may result in a needle stick injury. 
Do not recap the pre-filled pen. Dispose the cap 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the 
• 
• 
• 
• 
needle. 
Figure H 
9.  Place the pre-filled pen on the injection site. 
     a. Hold the pre-filled pen so that you can see the   
          window. 
     b. Without pinching or stretching the skin, place the pre- 
          filled pen over the injection site at a 90-degree angle. 
Figure I 
225 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
Give the injection 
       a. Press the pre-filled pen firmly against the skin. 
            When the injection starts you will hear the 1st loud “click”  
            and the blue plunger rod will begin to fill the  
            window. 
       b. Keep holding the pre-filled pen firmly against the skin  
           and listen for the 2nd loud “click.”  
       c. After you hear the 2nd loud “click,” continue to hold the     
           pre-filled pen firmly against the skin and count slowly  
           to 5 to make sure you inject the full dose.  
• Do not change the position of the pre-filled pen after the 
injection has started. 
Figure J 
226 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Remove the Pre-filled Pen from the injection site and 
11. 
care   
for the injection site 
         a. Look at the pre-filled pen and make sure that the blue   
             plunger rod with the grey top is filling the window  
completely. 
         b. Remove the pre-filled pen from your skin. 
• After you remove the pre-filled pen from the injection site, the 
needle will be automatically covered. Do not recap the pen. 
Figure K 
• If the window has not turned completely blue or if the medicine 
is still injecting, this means you have not received a full dose. 
Call your healthcare provider immediately. 
         c. Treat the injection site by gently pressing, not rubbing, a   
             cotton ball or gauze to the site and apply an adhesive    
             bandage, if necessary. Some bleeding may occur. 
• Do not reuse the pre-filled pen. 
• Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure L 
12.  Dispose of the Pre-filled Pen 
       a. Throw away the used pre-filled pen in a special  
            sharps disposal container as instructed by your doctor,   
            nurse or pharmacist.  
       b. The alcohol pad and packaging may be put in your  
household waste. 
•  Always keep the pre-filled pen and the special sharps   
         disposal container out of the sight and reach of children. 
Figure M 
227 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before you begin using Yuflyma and during treatment with 
Yuflyma. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after 
your last injection of Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Yuflyma 
How to use Yuflyma 
Possible side effects 
How to store Yuflyma 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
Yuflyma contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune (defence) 
system. 
Yuflyma is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Plaque psoriasis 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis 
Non-infectious uveitis 
The active ingredient in Yuflyma, adalimumab, is a human monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is involved in the 
immune (defence) system and is present at increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By 
attaching to TNFα, Yuflyma decreases the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
228 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults. You may first be given other 
disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, 
you will be given Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Yuflyma can slow down the damage to the joints caused by the inflammatory disease and can help them 
move more freely. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is a skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales. 
Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, become thickened and lift away from the 
nail bed which can be painful. 
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adults.  
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a chronic and often painful inflammatory skin 
disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that may leak pus. It most 
commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner thighs, groin and 
buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years. 
Yuflyma can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses caused by the disease and the pain that is often 
associated with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to 
these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the digestive tract. Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Yuflyma is used to treat  
• 
• 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
229 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
children with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or 
wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Yuflyma works by reducing this inflammation. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Yuflyma  
Do not use Yuflyma: 
• 
• 
• 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you have active tuberculosis or other severe infections (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, for example, fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems. 
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Yuflyma. 
Allergic reactions 
• 
If you get allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, swelling or 
rash do not inject more Yuflyma and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare cases, these 
reactions can be life threatening. 
Infections 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term infection or an infection in one part of the body (for 
example, leg ulcer) consult your doctor before starting Yuflyma. If you are unsure, contact your 
doctor. 
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Yuflyma treatment. This risk may 
increase if you have problems with your lungs. These infections may be serious and include: 
• 
• 
• 
tuberculosis 
infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria 
severe infection in the blood (sepsis) 
In rare cases, these infections can be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you get 
230 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may tell you to stop 
using Yuflyma for some time. 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you live or travel in regions where fungal infections (for example, histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis) are very common. 
Tell your doctor if you have had infections which keep coming back or other conditions that increase 
the risk of infections. 
If you are over 65 years you may be more likely to get infections while taking Yuflyma. You and 
your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated with 
Yuflyma. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, wounds, 
feeling tired or dental problems. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had tuberculosis, or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. If you have active tuberculosis, do not use 
Yuflyma. 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Yuflyma, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Yuflyma. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and appropriate screening tests (for 
example, chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded 
on your Patient Reminder Card. 
• 
prevention of tuberculosis. 
• 
energy, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor 
immediately. 
If symptoms of tuberculosis (for example, cough that does not go away, weight loss, lack of 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have received treatment for the 
Hepatitis B 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV or if you 
think you might be at risk of getting HBV. 
• 
virus to become active again. 
• 
system, reactivation of HBV can be life-threatening. 
In some rare cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune 
Your doctor should test you for HBV. In people who carry HBV, Yuflyma can cause the 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures please inform your doctor that you are taking 
Yuflyma. Your doctor may recommend temporary discontinuation of Yuflyma. 
Demyelinating disease 
• 
If you have or develop a demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around the 
nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue to 
receive Yuflyma. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccinations 
• 
Certain vaccines may cause infections and should not be given while receiving Yuflyma. 
231 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check with your doctor before you receive any vaccines. 
It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the scheduled vaccinations for their 
• 
• 
age before they start treatment with Yuflyma. 
• 
getting such an infection for up to approximately five months after the last Yuflyma dose you 
received during pregnancy. It is important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care 
professionals about your Yuflyma use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby 
should receive any vaccine. 
If you received Yuflyma while you were pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for 
Heart failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and are being treated with Yuflyma, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious 
heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. shortness of breath, 
or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor will decide if you 
should receive Yuflyma. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. Your doctor may decide to stop treatment. If you develop a fever that does 
not go away, develop light bruises or bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. 
Cancer 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adult patients taking 
Yuflyma or other TNF blockers. 
People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis that have had the disease for a long time may 
• 
have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects the lymph system) and 
leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). 
• 
If you take Yuflyma the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may 
increase. On rare occasions, an uncommon and severe type of lymphoma, has been seen in patients 
taking Yuflyma. Some of those patients were also treated with azathioprine or 6- mercaptopurine. 
• 
• 
• 
tell your doctor. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine with Yuflyma. 
Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Yuflyma. 
If new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, 
• 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) treated with another TNF blocker. If 
you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor whether treatment with 
a TNF blocker is appropriate for you. 
Autoimmune disease 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Yuflyma could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your doctor 
if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
• 
Vaccinations: if possible children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Yuflyma. 
Other medicines and Yuflyma 
232 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. You 
should not take Yuflyma with medicines containing the following active substances due to increased risk of 
serious infection: 
• 
• 
anakinra 
abatacept. 
Yuflyma can be taken together with: 
• 
• 
methotrexate 
certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents (for example, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, 
leflunomide and injectable gold preparations) 
steroids or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
• 
If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its use for 
at least 5 months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice about taking this medicine. 
Yuflyma should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received Yuflyma during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did not 
receive Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you receive Yuflyma during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Yuflyma use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine. For more information on 
vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section. 
Driving and using machines 
Yuflyma may have a small effect on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning sensation 
and vision disturbances may occur after taking Yuflyma. 
YUFLYMA contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 mL dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Yuflyma 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Yuflyma in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. Your 
doctor may prescribe another strength of Yuflyma if you need a different dose. 
233 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
Notes 
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued while 
using Yuflyma. If your doctor 
decides that methotrexate is 
inappropriate, Yuflyma can be 
given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid arthritis 
and you do not receive 
methotrexate with your 
Yuflyma therapy, your doctor 
may decide to give Yuflyma 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 17 years 
of age weighing 30 kg or more 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week after the first dose. 
Notes 
If you have an inadequate 
response, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
an 80 mg dose (one 80 mg 
injection) two weeks later. After 
two further weeks, continue with 
a dose of 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor. 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week later. 
Notes 
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas. 
If you have an inadequate 
response to Yuflyma 40 mg 
every other week, your doctor 
may increase the dosage to 40 
mg every week or 80 mg every 
other week. 
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas. 
234 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and adults 
from 6 years of age weighing 40 
kg or more 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a first 
dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (one 80 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg 
First dose of 40 mg, followed by 
20 mg two weeks later. 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 20 mg every week. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Children and adolescents from 6 
years of age weighing less than 
40 kg 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a first 
dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (one 80 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week. 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection in one day), followed 
by 40 mg (one 40 mg injection) 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week 
235 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week. 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents from 6 
years of age weighing 40 kg or 
more 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
First dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (one 80 mg injection in 
one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 80 
mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week after the first dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 
years of age weighing less than 
30 kg 
20 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 2 
years of age weighing at least 30 
kg 
40 mg every other week 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Notes 
Corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be given alone. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 40 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
20 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for use 
in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 80 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
40 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for use 
in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Method and route of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Yuflyma are provided in section 7 ‘Instructions for use’. 
If you use more Yuflyma than you should 
If you accidentally inject Yuflyma more frequently than told to by your doctor or pharmacist, call your 
doctor or pharmacist and tell them that you have taken more. Always take the outer carton of the medicine 
with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Yuflyma 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Yuflyma as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
236 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop using Yuflyma 
The decision to stop using Yuflyma should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return if you 
stop using Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.  Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side effects 
are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may occur at least 
up to 4 months after the last Yuflyma injection. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction 
swollen face, hands, feet 
trouble breathing, swallowing 
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination 
feeling weak or tired 
coughing 
tingling 
numbness 
double vision 
arm or leg weakness 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been observed with 
Yuflyma. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia) 
headache 
abdominal pain 
nausea and vomiting 
rash 
musculoskeletal pain 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza) 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis) 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles) 
ear infections 
oral infections (including tooth infections and cold sores) 
237 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
reproductive tract infections 
urinary tract infection 
fungal infections 
joint infections 
benign tumours 
skin cancer 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy) 
dehydration 
mood swings (including depression) 
anxiety 
difficulty sleeping 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness 
migraine 
nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain) 
vision disturbances 
eye inflammation 
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling 
vertigo (feeling of dizziness or spinning) 
sensation of heart beating rapidly 
high blood pressure 
flushing 
haematoma (collection of blood outside of blood vessels) 
cough 
asthma 
shortness of breath 
gastrointestinal bleeding 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn) 
acid reflux disease 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth) 
itching 
itchy rash 
bruising 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema) 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails 
increased sweating 
hair loss 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis 
muscle spasms 
blood in urine 
kidney problems 
chest pain 
oedema (swelling) 
fever 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising 
impaired healing 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered) 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis) 
238 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
eye infections 
bacterial infections 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine) 
cancer 
cancer that affects the lymph system 
melanoma 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly presenting as 
sarcoidosis) 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels) 
tremor (shaking) 
neuropathy (disorder of the nerves) 
stroke 
hearing loss, buzzing 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling 
heart attack 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein, blockage of a blood vessel 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation) 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung) 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space) 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back 
difficulty in swallowing 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones 
fatty liver 
night sweats 
scar 
abnormal muscle breakdown 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other organ 
systems) 
sleep interruptions 
impotence 
inflammations 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow) 
severe allergic reaction with shock 
multiple sclerosis 
nerve disorders (such as eye nerve inflammation and Guillain-Barré syndrome that may cause muscle 
weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the arms and upper body) 
heart stops pumping 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung) 
intestinal perforation (hole in the intestine) 
hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system) 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash) 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) associated with allergic reactions 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash) 
239 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
lupus-like syndrome 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin) 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma 
most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small) 
Some side effects observed with Yuflyma may not have symptoms and may only be discovered through 
blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for red blood cells 
increased lipids in the blood 
elevated liver enzymes 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for platelets 
increased uric acid in the blood 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium 
low blood measurements for calcium 
low blood measurements for phosphate 
high blood sugar 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase 
autoantibodies present in the blood 
low blood potassium 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
elevated bilirubin measurement (liver blood test) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
240 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  How to store Yuflyma 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label/carton after EXP. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe with needle guard in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage: 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Yuflyma pre-filled syringe with needle guard 
may be stored at room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31 days – be sure to protect it 
from light. Once removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the syringe must be used 
within 31 days or discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the syringe is first removed from refrigerator and the date after which it 
should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
What Yuflyma contains 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, and water for 
injections. 
What the Yuflyma pre-filled syringe with needle guard looks like and contents of the pack 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe with needle guard is supplied as a sterile solution 
of 80 mg adalimumab dissolved in 0.8 ml solution. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled syringe is a glass syringe containing a solution of adalimumab. The 1 pre-filled 
syringe pack comes with 2 alcohol pads (1 spare). 
The Yuflyma pre-filled syringe is a glass syringe with needle guard containing a solution of adalimumab. 
The 1 pre-filled syringe with needle guard pack comes with 2 alcohol pads (1 spare). 
Yuflyma may be available as a pre-filled syringe and/or a pre-filled pen. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
241 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstrasse 13,  
89231 Neu-Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstr. 49,  
55218 Ingelheim, 
Germany 
KYMOS S.L.  
Ronda Can Fatjó, 7B.  
08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona,  
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: +36 1 231 0493 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.Tel: +36 1 231 
0493 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tél.: +49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
242 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 2525 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél.: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Sími: +36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 0247927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741741 
Ö sterreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 1 519 29 22 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy.  
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tālr.: +36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
The following instructions explain how to give yourself a subcutaneous injection of Yuflyma using the pre-
filled syringe. First read all the instructions carefully and then follow them step by step. 
You will be instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist on the technique of self-injection. 
243 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not attempt to self-inject until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. 
After proper training, the injection can be given by yourself or given by another person, for example, a 
family member or friend. 
Only use each pre-filled syringe for one injection. 
244 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Syringe 
Figure A 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed.  
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Do not remove the needle cover until just before injection. Keep Yuflyma out of the sight and reach of 
children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
   a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
   b. Remove 1 pre-filled syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
• Hold the pre-filled syringe body when removing it from the carton. Do not touch the plunger. 
   c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled syringe 
- Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
245 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Inspect the pre-filled syringe 
       a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and dosage.  
       b. Look at the pre-filled syringe and make sure it is not cracked      
            or damaged.  
       c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled 
syringe.  
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
•  it is cracked or damaged.  
•  the expiration date has passed.  
•  it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure B 
Figure C 
3. Inspect the medicine 
     a. Look at the medicine and confirm that the liquid is  
         clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
•  Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is   
discoloured (yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
•  You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
4. Wait 15 to 30 minutes  
      a. Leave the Pre-filled Syringe at room temperature for 15  
          to 30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
•  Do not warm the pre-filled syringe using heat sources  
such as hot water or a microwave. 
Figure D 
246 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
     a. You may inject into: 
           - the front of your thighs.  
           - your abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around the belly        
             button (navel).  
           - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a   
             caregiver).  
• 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your 
belly button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged, bruised, or          
scarred.  
• 
raised, thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your skin.  
• 
If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any 
Do not inject through your clothes. 
     b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. 
Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in) away 
from the injection site you used before. 
6. 
       Wash your hands 
       a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them  
            thoroughly.  
Figure E 
Figure F 
247 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Clean the injection site 
     a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using a    
         circular motion. 
     b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
• Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving the 
injection. 
Figure G 
8. 
Remove the cap 
    a. Remove the cap by holding the pre-  
        filled syringe body with  one hand. Gently pull the 
cap straight off with the other hand.  
• Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject  
• Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a needle stick 
injury.  
• Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. Dispose the cap 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
Figure H 
• It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the needle. 
248 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
Insert the pre-filled syringe into the injection site 
     a. Gently pinch a fold of skin at the injection site  
         with one hand. 
     b. Holding the pre-filled syringe by its body, insert the   
          needle completely into the fold of the skin at a 45-   
          degree angle using a quick and “dart-like” motion. 
Figure I 
10. 
Give the injection 
     a. After the needle is inserted, let go of the  
         pinched skin. 
     b. Slowly push the plunger all the way down until  
         all of the liquid is injected and the syringe is empty. 
•      Do not change the position of the pre-filled syringe after the 
injection has started. 
Figure J 
249 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Remove the pre-filled syringe from the injection site 
11. 
and care for the injection site 
    a. After the pre-filled syringe is empty, remove   
        the pre-filled syringe from your skin at the same 
angle it was inserted. 
    b. Treat the injection site by gently pressing, not   
         rubbing, a cotton ball or gauze to the site and    
         apply an adhesive bandage, if necessary. Some   
         bleeding may occur. 
•   Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
•   Do not touch or recap the needle.  
•   Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure K 
12. 
Dispose of the pre-filled syringe 
• 
Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. 
     a. Throw away the used pre-filled syringe in a   
         special sharps disposal container as instructed by   
         your doctor, nurse or pharmacist. 
     b. The alcohol pad and packaging may   
         be put in your household waste. 
•     Always keep the pre-filled syringe and the special     
       sharps disposal container out of the sight and reach  
       of children. 
Figure L 
250 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Syringe with needle guard 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed.  
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure A 
Do not remove the needle cover until just before injection. Keep Yuflyma out of the sight and reach of 
children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
    a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
    b. Remove 1 pre-filled syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
• Hold the pre-filled syringe body when removing it from the carton. Do not touch the plunger. 
    c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled Syringe 
- Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
251 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Inspect the pre-filled dyringe 
      a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and  
          dosage.  
      b. Look at the pre-filled syringe and make sure it is not  
          cracked or damaged.  
    c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled  
          syringe.  
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed.  
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure B 
3. 
Inspect the medicine 
      a. Look at the medicine and confirm that the liquid is  
           clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
• 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is   
discoloured (yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
• 
You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
Figure C 
4. 
Wait 15 to 30 minutes  
      a. Leave the pre-filled syringe at room temperature for   
          15 to 30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
• 
Do not warm the pre-filled syringe using heat sources  
such as hot water or a microwave. 
Figure D 
252 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
       a. You may inject into: 
          - the front of your thighs.  
          - your abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around the    
             belly button (navel).  
          - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a  
             caregiver).  
• 
• 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your   
belly button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged,  
bruised, or scarred.  
If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any  
raised, thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your   
            skin.  
• 
Do not inject through your clothes. 
       b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection.  
            Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in)  
            away from the injection site you used before. 
6. 
Wash your hands 
      a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them 
thoroughly.  
Figure E 
Figure F 
253 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  Clean the injection site 
      a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using a circular 
motion. 
      b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
•      Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving 
the injection. 
Figure G 
8.  Remove the cap 
        a. Remove the cap by holding the pre-filled syringe 
body with  one hand. Gently pull the cap straight off with 
the other hand. 
•  Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject  
•  Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a needle stick 
injury.  
•  Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. Dispose the cap 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
Figure H 
254 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
9. 
Insert the pre-filled syringe into the injection site 
      a. Gently pinch a fold of skin at the injection site  with one 
hand. 
      b. Holding the pre-filled syringe by its body, insert the  
needle completely into the fold of the skin at a 45-degree angle 
using a quick and “dart-like” motion.  
Figure I 
10. 
Give the injection 
        a. After the needle is inserted, let go of the pinched skin. 
        b. Slowly push the plunger all the way down until all of the 
liquid is injected and the syringe is empty. 
• Do not change the position of the pre-filled syringe after the 
injection has started. 
Figure J 
255 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
11. 
and care for the injection site 
Remove the pre-filled syringe from the injection site 
        a. After the pre-filled syringe is empty, slowly lift your 
thumb from the plunger until needle is completely covered by 
the needle guard. 
        b. Treat the injection site by gently pressing, not rubbing, a 
cotton ball or gauze to the site and apply an adhesive bandage, 
if necessary. Some bleeding may occur. 
• 
• 
Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure K 
12. 
Dispose of the pre-filled syringe 
        a. Throw away the used pre-filled syringe in a special 
sharps disposal container as instructed by your doctor, nurse or    
             pharmacist.  
        b. alcohol pad and packaging may be put in your household 
waste. 
• 
sharps disposal container out of the sight and reach of children 
Always keep the pre-filled syringe and  the special 
Figure L 
256 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen 
adalimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety information 
that you need to be aware of before you begin using Yuflyma and during treatment with Yuflyma. 
Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you during your treatment and for 4 months after your last 
injection of Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even 
if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before you use Yuflyma 
How to use Yuflyma 
Possible side effects 
How to store Yuflyma 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
Yuflyma contains the active substance adalimumab, a medicine that acts on your body’s immune (defence) 
system. 
Yuflyma is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Plaque psoriasis 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Crohn’s disease 
Ulcerative colitis 
Non-infectious uveitis 
The active ingredient in Yuflyma, adalimumab, is a human monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is involved in the 
immune (defence) system and is present at increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By 
attaching to TNFα, Yuflyma decreases the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
257 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints. 
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in adults. You may first be given other 
disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, 
you will be given Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be used to treat severe, active and progressive rheumatoid arthritis without previous 
methotrexate treatment. 
Yuflyma can slow down the damage to the joints caused by the inflammatory disease and can help them 
move more freely. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is a skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales. 
Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, become thickened and lift away from the 
nail bed which can be painful. 
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe chronic plaque psoriasis in adults. 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (sometimes called acne inversa) is a chronic and often painful inflammatory skin 
disease. Symptoms may include tender nodules (lumps) and abscesses (boils) that may leak pus. It most 
commonly affects specific areas of the skin, such as under the breasts, the armpits, inner thighs, groin and 
buttocks. Scarring may also occur in affected areas. 
Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adults and 
moderate to severe hidradenitis suppurativa in adolescents aged 12 to 17 years. 
Yuflyma can reduce the number of nodules and abscesses caused by the disease and the pain that is often 
associated with the disease. You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to 
these medicines, you will be given Yuflyma. 
Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the digestive tract. Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in adults and 
moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory disease of the large intestine. 
Yuflyma is used to treat  
• 
• 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in adults and 
moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years. 
258 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye. Yuflyma is used to treat 
• 
• 
adults with non-infectious uveitis with inflammation affecting the back of the eye 
children with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age with inflammation affecting the 
front of the eye 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or 
wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Yuflyma works by reducing this inflammation. 
You may first be given other medicines. If you do not respond well enough to these medicines, you will be 
given Yuflyma. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Yuflyma  
Do not use Yuflyma: 
• 
• 
• 
If you are allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
If you have active tuberculosis or other severe infections (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if you have symptoms of infections, for example, fever, wounds, 
feeling tired, dental problems. 
If you have moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or 
have a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Yuflyma. 
Allergic reactions 
• 
If you get allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, swelling or 
rash do not inject more Yuflyma and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare cases, these 
reactions can be life threatening. 
Infections 
• 
• 
If you have an infection, including long-term infection or an infection in one part of the body (for 
example, leg ulcer) consult your doctor before starting Yuflyma. If you are unsure, contact your 
doctor. 
You might get infections more easily while you are receiving Yuflyma treatment. This risk may 
increase if you have problems with your lungs. These infections may be serious and include: 
• 
• 
• 
tuberculosis 
infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria 
severe infection in the blood (sepsis) 
In rare cases, these infections can be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if you get 
259 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may tell you to stop 
using Yuflyma for some time. 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if you live or travel in regions where fungal infections (for example, histoplasmosis, 
coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis) are very common. 
Tell your doctor if you have had infections which keep coming back or other conditions that increase 
the risk of infections. 
If you are over 65 years you may be more likely to get infections while taking Yuflyma. You and 
your doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while you are being treated with 
Yuflyma. It is important to tell your doctor if you get symptoms of infections, such as fever, wounds, 
feeling tired or dental problems. 
Tuberculosis 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if you have ever had tuberculosis, or if you have been in 
close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. If you have active tuberculosis, do not use 
Yuflyma. 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Yuflyma, your doctor 
will check you for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Yuflyma. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your medical history and appropriate screening tests (for 
example, chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be recorded 
on your Patient Reminder Card. 
• 
prevention of tuberculosis. 
• 
energy, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor 
immediately. 
If symptoms of tuberculosis (for example, cough that does not go away, weight loss, lack of 
Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if you have received treatment for the 
Hepatitis B 
• 
Tell your doctor if you are a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV or if you 
think you might be at risk of getting HBV. 
• 
virus to become active again. 
• 
system, reactivation of HBV can be life-threatening. 
In some rare cases, especially if you are taking other medicines that suppress the immune 
Your doctor should test you for HBV. In people who carry HBV, Yuflyma can cause the 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If you are about to have surgery or dental procedures please inform your doctor that you are taking 
Yuflyma. Your doctor may recommend temporary discontinuation of Yuflyma. 
Demyelinating disease 
• 
If you have or develop a demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer around the 
nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if you should receive or continue to 
receive Yuflyma. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms like changes in your 
vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccinations 
• 
Certain vaccines may cause infections and should not be given while receiving Yuflyma. 
260 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check with your doctor before you receive any vaccines. 
It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the scheduled vaccinations for their 
• 
• 
age before they start treatment with Yuflyma. 
• 
getting such an infection for up to approximately five months after the last Yuflyma dose you 
received during pregnancy. It is important that you tell your baby's doctors and other health care 
professionals about your Yuflyma use during your pregnancy so they can decide when your baby 
should receive any vaccine. 
If you received Yuflyma while you were pregnant, your baby may be at higher risk for 
Heart failure 
• 
If you have mild heart failure and are being treated with Yuflyma, your heart failure status must be 
closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if you have had or have a serious 
heart condition. If you develop new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. shortness of breath, 
or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately. Your doctor will decide if you 
should receive Yuflyma. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections or 
help you to stop bleeding. Your doctor may decide to stop treatment. If you develop a fever that does 
not go away, develop light bruises or bleed very easily or look very pale, call your doctor right away. 
Cancer 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adult patients taking 
Yuflyma or other TNF blockers. 
People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis that have had the disease for a long time may 
• 
have a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects the lymph system) and 
leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). 
• 
If you take Yuflyma the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may 
increase. On rare occasions, an uncommon and severe type of lymphoma, has been seen in patients 
taking Yuflyma. Some of those patients were also treated with azathioprine or 6- mercaptopurine. 
• 
• 
• 
tell your doctor. 
Tell your doctor if you are taking azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine with Yuflyma. 
Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Yuflyma. 
If new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, 
• 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) treated with another TNF blocker. If 
you have COPD, or are a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor whether treatment with 
a TNF blocker is appropriate for you. 
Autoimmune disease 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Yuflyma could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your doctor 
if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Children and adolescents 
Vaccinations: if possible children should be up to date with all vaccinations before using Yuflyma. 
261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other medicines and Yuflyma 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines. You 
should not take Yuflyma with medicines containing the following active substances due to increased 
risk of serious infection: 
• 
• 
anakinra 
abatacept. 
Yuflyma can be taken together with: 
• 
• 
methotrexate 
certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents (for example, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, 
leflunomide and injectable gold preparations) 
steroids or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
• 
If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
You should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its use for 
at least 5 months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
If you are pregnant, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your doctor for 
advice about taking this medicine. 
Yuflyma should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received Yuflyma during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did not 
receive Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can be used during breast-feeding. 
If you receive Yuflyma during your pregnancy, your baby may have a higher risk for getting an 
infection. 
It is important that you tell your baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about your 
Yuflyma use during your pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine. For more information on 
vaccines see the “Warnings and precautions” section. 
Driving and using machines 
Yuflyma may have a small effect on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning sensation 
and vision disturbances may occur after taking Yuflyma. 
YUFLYMA contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.8 mL dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Yuflyma 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Yuflyma in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. Your 
doctor may prescribe another strength of Yuflyma if you need a different dose. 
262 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rheumatoid arthritis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
How much and how often to 
take? 
40 mg every other week 
Notes 
In rheumatoid arthritis, 
methotrexate is continued while 
using Yuflyma. If your doctor 
decides that methotrexate is 
inappropriate, Yuflyma can be 
given alone. 
If you have rheumatoid arthritis 
and you do not receive 
methotrexate with your 
Yuflyma therapy, your doctor 
may decide to give Yuflyma 
40 mg every week or 80 mg 
every other week. 
Plaque psoriasis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Hidradenitis suppurativa 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
Adolescents from 12 to 17 years 
of age weighing 30 kg or more 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week after the first dose. 
Notes 
If you have an inadequate 
response, your doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every other 
week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
an 80 mg dose (one 80 mg 
injection) two weeks later. After 
two further weeks, continue with 
a dose of 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week, as 
prescribed by your doctor. 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week later. 
Notes 
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas. 
If you have an inadequate 
response to Yuflyma 40 mg 
every other week, your doctor 
may increase the dosage to 40 
mg every week or 80 mg every 
other week. 
It is recommended that you use 
an antiseptic wash daily on the 
affected areas. 
263 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crohn’s disease 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and adults 
from 6 years of age weighing 40 
kg or more 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a first 
dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (one 80 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 
to 17 years of age weighing less 
than 40 kg 
First dose of 40 mg, followed by 
20 mg two weeks later. 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 20 mg every week. 
Ulcerative colitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a first 
dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (one 80 mg injection) two 
weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week. 
Notes 
Your doctor may increase the 
dosage to 40 mg every week or 
80 mg every other week. 
Children and adolescents from 6 
years of age weighing less than 
40 kg 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection in one day), followed 
by 40 mg (one 40 mg injection) 
two weeks later. 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 40 
mg every other week 
264 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents from 6 
years of age weighing 40 kg or 
more 
Non-infectious uveitis 
Age or body weight 
Adults 
First dose of 160 mg (two 80 mg 
injections in one day or one 80 
mg injection per day for two 
consecutive days), followed by 
80 mg (one 80 mg injection in 
one day) two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 80 
mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg (one 80 mg 
injection), followed by 40 mg 
every other week starting one 
week after the first dose. 
Children and adolescents from 2 
years of age weighing less than 
30 kg 
20 mg every other week 
Children and adolescents from 2 
years of age weighing at least 30 
kg 
40 mg every other week 
You should continue taking 
Yuflyma at your usual dose, 
even after turning 18 years of 
age. 
Notes 
Corticosteroids or other 
medicines that influence the 
immune system may be 
continued while using Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can also be given alone. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 40 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
20 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for use 
in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 80 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
40 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for use 
in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Method and route of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Yuflyma are provided in section 7 ‘Instructions for use’. 
If you use more Yuflyma than you should 
If you accidentally inject Yuflyma more frequently than told to by your doctor or pharmacist, call your 
doctor or pharmacist and tell them that you have taken more. Always take the outer carton of the medicine 
with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Yuflyma 
If you forget to give yourself an injection, you should inject the next dose of Yuflyma as soon as you 
remember. Then take your next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you not 
forgotten a dose. 
265 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you stop using Yuflyma 
The decision to stop using Yuflyma should be discussed with your doctor. Your symptoms may return if you 
stop using Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.  Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side effects 
are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may occur at least 
up to 4 months after the last Yuflyma injection. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction 
swollen face, hands, feet 
trouble breathing, swallowing 
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination 
feeling weak or tired 
coughing 
tingling 
numbness 
double vision 
arm or leg weakness 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been observed with 
Yuflyma. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia) 
headache 
abdominal pain 
nausea and vomiting 
rash 
musculoskeletal pain 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza) 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis) 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles) 
ear infections 
266 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
oral infections (including tooth infections and cold sores) 
reproductive tract infections 
urinary tract infection 
fungal infections 
joint infections 
benign tumours 
skin cancer 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy) 
dehydration 
mood swings (including depression) 
anxiety 
difficulty sleeping 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness 
migraine 
nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain) 
vision disturbances 
eye inflammation 
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling 
vertigo (feeling of dizziness or spinning) 
sensation of heart beating rapidly 
high blood pressure 
flushing 
haematoma (collection of blood outside of blood vessels) 
cough 
asthma 
shortness of breath 
gastrointestinal bleeding 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn) 
acid reflux disease 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth) 
itching 
itchy rash 
bruising 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema) 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails 
increased sweating 
hair loss 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis 
muscle spasms 
blood in urine 
kidney problems 
chest pain 
oedema (swelling) 
fever 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising 
impaired healing 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered) 
267 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis) 
eye infections 
bacterial infections 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine) 
cancer 
cancer that affects the lymph system 
melanoma 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly presenting as 
sarcoidosis) 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels) 
tremor (shaking) 
neuropathy (disorder of the nerves) 
stroke 
hearing loss, buzzing 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling 
heart attack 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein, blockage of a blood vessel 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation) 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung) 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space) 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back 
difficulty in swallowing 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones 
fatty liver 
night sweats 
scar 
abnormal muscle breakdown 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other organ 
systems) 
sleep interruptions 
impotence 
inflammations 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow) 
severe allergic reaction with shock 
multiple sclerosis 
nerve disorders (such as eye nerve inflammation and Guillain-Barré syndrome that may cause muscle 
weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the arms and upper body) 
heart stops pumping 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung) 
intestinal perforation (hole in the intestine) 
hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system) 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash) 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) associated with allergic reactions 
268 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash) 
lupus-like syndrome 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin) 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma 
most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small) 
Some side effects observed with Yuflyma may not have symptoms and may only be discovered through 
blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for red blood cells 
increased lipids in the blood 
elevated liver enzymes 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for platelets 
increased uric acid in the blood 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium 
low blood measurements for calcium 
low blood measurements for phosphate 
high blood sugar 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase 
autoantibodies present in the blood 
low blood potassium 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
elevated bilirubin measurement (liver blood test) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
269 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.  How to store Yuflyma 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label/carton after EXP. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled pen in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage: 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Yuflyma pre-filled pen may be stored at room 
temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once removed 
from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the pen must be used within 31 days or discarded, 
even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the pen is first removed from refrigerator and the date after which it should 
be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
What Yuflyma contains 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, and water for 
injections. 
What the Yuflyma pre-filled pen looks like and contents of the pack 
Yuflyma 80 mg solution for injection in pre-filled pen is supplied as a sterile solution of 80 mg adalimumab 
dissolved in 0.8 ml solution. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled pen is a single-use disposable needle-based injection system with automated 
functions. There is a window on each side of the pen through which you can see the Yuflyma solution inside 
the pen. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled pen is available in packs containing:  
• 
• 
1 pre-filled pen for patient use with 2 alcohol pads (1 spare) 
3 pre-filled pens for patient use with 4 alcohol pads (1 spare) 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Yuflyma may be available as a pre-filled syringe and/or a pre-filled pen. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
270 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstrasse 13,  
89231 Neu-Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstr. 49,  
55218 Ingelheim, 
Germany 
KYMOS S.L.  
Ronda Can Fatjó, 7B.  
08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona,  
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: +36 1 231 0493 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tél.: +49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
271 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 2525 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél.: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Sími: +36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 0247927040 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741741 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tālr.: +36 1 231 0493 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Ö sterreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 1 519 29 22 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy.  
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
The following instructions explain how to give yourself a subcutaneous injection of Yuflyma using the pre-
filled pen. First read all the instructions carefully and then follow them step by step. 
272 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You will be instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist on the technique of self-injection. 
Do not attempt to self-inject until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give the injection. 
After proper training, the injection can be given by yourself or given by another person, for example, a 
family member or friend. 
Only use each pre-filled pen for one injection. 
273 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Pen 
Figure A 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged 
the expiration date has passed. 
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject. Keep the Yuflyma out of the reach of children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
    a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
    b. Remove 1 pre-filled pen from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
    c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled Pen 
- 1 Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
274 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Inspect the Pre-filled Pen 
     a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and  
         dosage.  
     b. Look at the pre-filled pen and make sure it is not  
          cracked or damaged. 
c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled   
         pen. 
Do not use the pre-filled pen if: 
•  it is cracked or damaged.  
•  the expiration date has passed.  
•  it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure B 
3. Inspect the Medicine. 
     a. Look through the window and make sure that the liquid  
         is clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
•  Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is discoloured 
(yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
•  You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
Figure C 
4. Wait 15 to 30 minutes 
    a. Leave the pre-filled pen at room temperature for 15 to   
        30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
•  Do not warm the pre-filled pen using heat sources such  
as hot water or a microwave.  
Figure D 
275 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
• 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
     a. You may inject into: 
          - the front of your thighs.  
          - your abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around the belly 
button (navel).  
          - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a 
caregiver).  
• 
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your 
belly button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged, bruised, or 
scarred.  
• 
raised, thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your skin.  
• 
If you have psoriasis, do not inject directly into any 
Do not inject through your clothes. 
     b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. 
Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in) away 
from the injection site you used before.  
6. 
Wash your hands 
     a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them 
thoroughly.  
Figure E 
Figure F 
276 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. 
Clean the injection site 
     a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using a  
          circular motion 
     b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
• Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before giving 
the injection. 
Figure G 
Figure H 
8. 
 Remove the cap 
     a. Hold the pre-filled pen by the injector body with the    
          cap on top using one hand. Gently pull the cap  
          straight off with the other hand.   
• 
Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject.  
• 
result in a needle stick injury. 
Do not touch the needle or needle cover. Doing so may 
• 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
Do not recap the pre-filled pen. Dispose the cap 
• 
needle. 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of the 
277 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Place the pre-filled pen on the injection site. 
     a. Hold the pre-filled pen so that you can see the   
          window. 
     b. Without pinching or stretching the skin, place the pre- 
          filled pen over the injection site at a 90-degree angle. 
Figure I 
10. 
 Give the injection 
       a. Press the pre-filled pen firmly against the skin. 
            When the injection starts you will hear the 1st loud “click”  
            and the blue plunger rod will begin to fill the  
            window. 
       b. Keep holding the pre-filled pen firmly against the skin  
           and listen for the 2nd loud “click.”  
       c. After you hear the 2nd loud “click,” continue to hold the     
           pre-filled pen firmly against the skin and count slowly  
           to 5 to make sure you inject the full dose.  
•  Do not change the position of the pre-filled pen after the 
injection has started. 
Figure J 
278 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
11.  Remove the Pre-filled Pen from the injection site and care 
for the injection site 
         a. Look at the pre-filled pen and make sure that the blue   
             plunger rod with the grey top is filling the window  
completely. 
         b. Remove the pre-filled pen from your skin. 
•      After you remove the pre-filled pen from the injection site, the 
needle will be automatically covered. Do not recap the pen. 
Figure K 
•      If the window has not turned completely blue or if the medicine is 
still injecting, this means you have not received a full dose. Call 
your healthcare provider immediately. 
         c. Treat the injection site by gently pressing, not rubbing, a   
             cotton ball or gauze to the site and apply an adhesive    
             bandage, if necessary. Some bleeding may occur. 
•       Do not reuse the pre-filled pen. 
•       Do not rub the injection site. 
Figure I 
12. Dispose of the Pre-filled Pen 
       a. Throw away the used pre-filled pen in a special  
            sharps disposal container as instructed by your doctor,   
            nurse or pharmacist.  
       b. The alcohol pad and packaging may be  
             put in your household waste. 
•  Always keep the pre-filled pen and the special sharps   
         disposal container out of the sight and reach of children. 
Figure M 
279 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe 
adalimumab 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side effects. 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before your child starts using this medicine because it contains 
important information. 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
Your doctor will also give you a Patient Reminder Card, which contains important safety 
information that you need to be aware of before your child begins using Yuflyma and during 
treatment with Yuflyma. Keep this Patient Reminder Card with you or your child. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you child only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as your child. 
If your child get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
• 
• 
• 
What is in this leaflet 
1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
What you need to know before your child uses Yuflyma 
How to use Yuflyma 
Possible side effects 
How to store Yuflyma 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use 
1.  What Yuflyma is and what it is used for 
Yuflyma contains the active substance adalimumab. 
Yuflyma is intended for the treatment of the following inflammatory diseases: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Paediatric uveitis 
The active ingredient in Yuflyma, adalimumab, is a human monoclonal antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are 
proteins that attach to a specific target in the body. 
The target of adalimumab is a protein called tumour necrosis factor (TNFα), which is involved in the 
immune (defence) system and is present at increased levels in the inflammatory diseases listed above. By 
attaching to TNFα, Yuflyma decreases the process of inflammation in these diseases. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints that usually first apperars in 
childhood. 
280 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma is used to treat polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in patients from 2 years of age. Your child 
may first be given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not work 
well enough, your child will be given Yuflyma to treat his/her polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis. 
Your doctor will decide if Yuflyma should be used with methotrexate or alone. 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Enthesitis-related arthritis is an inflammatory disease of the joints and the places where tendons join the 
bone. 
Yuflyma is used to treat enthesitis-related arthritis in patients from 6 years of age. Your child may first be 
given other disease-modifying medicines, such as methotrexate. If these medicines do not work well enough, 
your child will be given Yuflyma to treat his/her enthesitis-related arthritis. 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Plaque psoriasis is a skin condition that causes red, flaky, crusty patches of skin covered with silvery scales. 
Plaque psoriasis can also affect the nails, causing them to crumble, become thickened and lift away from the 
nail bed which can be painful. Psoriasis is believed to be caused by a problem with the body’s immune 
system that leads to an increased production of skin cells. 
Yuflyma is used to treat severe chronic plaque psoriasis in children and adolescents aged 4 to 17 years for 
whom topical therapy and phototherapies have either not worked very well or are not suitable. 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Crohn’s disease is an inflammatory disease of the digestive tract.  
Yuflyma is used to treat moderate to severe Crohn’s disease in children and adolescents aged 6 to 17 years.  
Your child may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, your child will 
be given Yuflyma to reduce the signs and symptoms of his/her disease 
Paediatric uveitis 
Non-infectious uveitis is an inflammatory disease affecting certain parts of the eye.  
Yuflyma is used to treat children with chronic non-infectious uveitis from 2 years of age with inflammation 
affecting the front of the eye. 
This inflammation may lead to a decrease of vision and/or the presence of floaters in the eye (black dots or 
wispy lines that move across the field of vision). Yuflyma works by reducing this inflammation. 
Your child may first be given other medicines. If these medicines do not work well enough, your child will 
be given Yuflyma to reduce the signs and symptoms of his/her disease. 
2.  What you need to know before your child use Yuflyma  
Do not use Yuflyma: 
• 
If your child is allergic to adalimumab or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in 
section 6). 
281 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
If your child has active tuberculosis or other severe infections (see “Warnings and precautions”). It is 
important that you tell your doctor if your child has symptoms of infections, for example, fever, 
wounds, feeling tired, dental problems. 
If your child has moderate or severe heart failure. It is important to tell your doctor if your child has 
had or has a serious heart condition (see “Warnings and precautions”). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Yuflyma. 
Allergic reactions 
• 
If your child gets allergic reactions with symptoms such as chest tightness, wheezing, dizziness, 
swelling or rash do not inject more Yuflyma and contact your doctor immediately since, in rare 
cases, these reactions can be life threatening. 
Infections 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
If your child has an infection, including long-term infection or an infection in one part of the body 
(for example, leg ulcer) consult your doctor before starting Yuflyma. If you are unsure, contact your 
doctor. 
Your child might get infections more easily while he/she is receiving Yuflyma treatment. This risk 
may increase if your child has problems with his/her lungs. These infections may be serious and 
include: 
• 
• 
• 
tuberculosis 
infections caused by viruses, fungi, parasites or bacteria 
severe infection in the blood (sepsis) 
In rare cases, these infections can be life-threatening. It is important to tell your doctor if your child  
gets symptoms such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. Your doctor may tell you to 
stop using Yuflyma for some time. 
Tell your doctor if your child lives or travels in regions where fungal infections (for example, 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis or blastomycosis) are very common. 
Tell your doctor if your child has infections which keep coming back or other conditions that 
increase the risk of infections. 
Your child and his/her doctor should pay special attention to signs of infection while your child 
being treated with Yuflyma. It is important to tell your doctor if your child gets symptoms of 
infections, such as fever, wounds, feeling tired or dental problems. 
Tuberculosis 
• 
As cases of tuberculosis have been reported in patients treated with Yuflyma, your doctor will check 
your child for signs and symptoms of tuberculosis before starting Yuflyma. This will include a 
thorough medical evaluation including your child’s medical history and appropriate screening tests 
(for example, chest X-ray and a tuberculin test). The conduct and results of these tests should be 
recorded on your child’s Patient Reminder Card. 
• 
It is very important that you tell your doctor if your child has ever had tuberculosis, or if your 
282 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
child has been in close contact with someone who has had tuberculosis. If your child has active 
tuberculosis, do not use Yuflyma. 
•  Tuberculosis can develop during therapy even if your child has received treatment for the 
• 
prevention of tuberculosis. 
If symptoms of tuberculosis (for example, cough that does not go away, weight loss, lack of 
energy, mild fever), or any other infection appear during or after therapy tell your doctor 
immediately. 
Hepatitis B 
• 
Tell your doctor if your child is a carrier of the hepatitis B virus (HBV), if you have active HBV or if 
you think you might be at risk of getting HBV. 
•  Your doctor should test you for HBV. In people who carry HBV, Yuflyma can cause the virus to 
• 
become active again. 
In some rare cases, especially if your child is taking other medicines that suppress the immune 
system, reactivation of HBV can be life-threatening. 
Surgery or dental procedure 
• 
If your child is about to have surgery or dental procedures, please inform your doctor that your child 
is taking Yuflyma. Your doctor may recommend temporary discontinuation of Yuflyma. 
Demyelinating disease 
• 
If your child has or develops a demyelinating disease (a disease that affects the insulating layer 
around the nerves, such as multiple sclerosis), your doctor will decide if he/she should receive or 
continue to receive Yuflyma. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms like changes 
in your vision, weakness in your arms or legs or numbness or tingling in any part of your body. 
Vaccinations 
• 
Certain vaccines may cause infections and should not be given while receiving Yuflyma. 
• 
•  Check with your doctor before your child receives any vaccines. 
• 
It is recommended that children, if possible, be given all the scheduled vaccinations for their age 
before they start treatment with Yuflyma. 
If your child received Yuflyma while she was pregnant, her baby may be at higher risk for 
getting such an infection for up to approximately five months after the last Yuflyma dose she 
received during pregnancy. It is important that you tell her baby's doctors and other health care 
professionals about your child’s Yuflyma use during her pregnancy so they can decide when her 
baby should receive any vaccine. 
Heart failure 
• 
If your child has mild heart failure and is being treated with Yuflyma, his/her heart failure status 
must be closely monitored by your doctor. It is important to tell your doctor if your child has had or 
has a serious heart condition. If he/she develops new or worsening symptoms of heart failure (e.g. 
shortness of breath, or swelling of your feet), you must contact your doctor immediately.  
Your doctor will decide if you should receive Yuflyma. 
Fever, bruising, bleeding or looking pale 
• 
In some patients the body may fail to produce enough of the blood cells that fight off infections or 
help your child to stop bleeding. Your doctor may decide to stop treatment. If your child develops a 
fever that does not go away, develops light bruises or bleed very easily or look very pale, call your 
283 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
doctor right away. 
Cancer 
• 
There have been very rare cases of certain kinds of cancer in children and adult patients taking 
Yuflyma or other TNF blockers. 
•  People with more serious rheumatoid arthritis that have had the disease for a long time may have 
a higher than average risk of getting lymphoma (a cancer that affects the lymph system) and 
leukaemia (a cancer that affects the blood and bone marrow). 
If your child takes Yuflyma the risk of getting lymphoma, leukaemia, or other cancers may 
increase. On rare occasions, an uncommon and severe type of lymphoma, has been seen in 
patients taking Yuflyma. Some of those patients were also treated with azathioprine or 6- 
mercaptopurine. 
• 
•  Tell your doctor if your child is taking azathioprine or 6-mercaptopurine with Yuflyma. 
•  Cases of non-melanoma skin cancer have been observed in patients taking Yuflyma. 
• 
If new skin lesions appear during or after therapy or if existing lesions change appearance, tell 
your doctor. 
• 
There have been cases of cancers, other than lymphoma in patients with a specific type of lung 
disease called Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) treated with another TNF blocker. If 
your child has COPD, or is a heavy smoker, you should discuss with your doctor whether treatment 
with a TNF blocker is appropriate for your child. 
Autoimmune disease 
• 
On rare occasions, treatment with Yuflyma could result in lupus-like syndrome. Contact your doctor 
if symptoms such as persistent unexplained rash, fever, joint pain or tiredness occur. 
Other medicines and Yuflyma 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if your child is taking, have recently taken or might take any other medicines.  
Your child should not take Yuflyma with medicines containing the following active substances due to 
increased risk of serious infection: 
• 
• 
anakinra 
abatacept. 
Yuflyma can be taken together with: 
• 
• 
methotrexate 
certain disease-modifying anti-rheumatic agents (for example, sulfasalazine, hydroxychloroquine, 
leflunomide and injectable gold preparations) 
steroids or pain medications including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
• 
If you have questions, please ask your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
• 
• 
• 
You child should consider the use of adequate contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its 
use for at least 5 months after the last Yuflyma treatment. 
If your child is pregnant, thinks she may be pregnant or is planning to have a baby, ask her doctor for 
advice about taking this medicine. 
Yuflyma should only be used during a pregnancy if needed. 
284 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
According to a pregnancy study, there was no higher risk of birth defects when the mother had 
received Yuflyma during pregnancy compared with mothers with the same disease who did not 
receive Yuflyma. 
Yuflyma can be used during breast-feeding. 
If your child receives Yuflyma during your pregnancy, her baby may have a higher risk for getting 
an infection. 
It is important that you tell her baby’s doctors and other health care professionals about her Yuflyma 
use during her pregnancy before the baby receives any vaccine. For more information on vaccines 
see the “Warnings and precautions” section. 
Driving and using machines 
Yuflyma may have a small effect on your ability to drive, cycle or use machines. Room spinning sensation 
and vision disturbances may occur after taking Yuflyma. 
YUFLYMA contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol of sodium (23 mg) per 0.2 mL dose, i.e. essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
3.  How to use Yuflyma 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended doses for Yuflyma in each of the approved uses are shown in the following table. Your 
doctor may prescribe another strength of Yuflyma if your child needs a different dose. 
Polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis 
Age or body weight 
How much and how often to 
take? 
Notes 
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 2 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 10 kg 
to less than 30 kg 
Enthesitis-related arthritis 
Age or body weight 
Children, adolescents and 
adults from 6 years of age 
weighing 30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents from 
6 years of age weighing 15 kg 
to less than 30 kg 
40 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
20 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
How much and how often to 
take? 
Notes 
40 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
20 mg every other week 
Not applicable 
285 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric plaque psoriasis 
Age or body weight 
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17  years of age weighing 
30 kg or more 
Children and adolescents from 
4 to 17  years of age weighing 
15 kg to less than 30 kg 
Paediatric Crohn’s disease 
Age or body weight 
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
40 kg or more 
Children and adolescents from 
6 to 17 years of age weighing 
less than 40 kg 
Paediatric uveitis 
Age or body weight 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing less 
than 30 kg 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 40 mg one week later. 
Notes 
Not applicable 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week. 
First dose of 20 mg, followed 
by 20 mg one week later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
First dose of 80 mg followed 
by 40 mg two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
your child’s doctor may 
prescribe a first dose of 
160 mg followed by 80 mg 
two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
40 mg every other week. 
First dose of 40 mg, followed 
by 20 mg two weeks later. 
If a faster response is required, 
the doctor may prescribe a 
first dose of 80 mg, followed 
by 40 mg two weeks later. 
Thereafter, the usual dose is 
20 mg every other week. 
How much and how often to 
take? 
20 mg every other week 
286 
Not applicable 
Notes 
Your child’s doctor may 
increase the dosage to 40 mg 
every week or 80 mg every 
other week. 
Your child’s doctor may 
increase the dosage to 20 mg 
every week. 
Notes 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 40 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
20 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for 
use in combination with 
methotrexate. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Children and adolescents from 
2 years of age weighing 30 kg 
or more 
40 mg every other week 
Your doctor may prescribe an 
initial dose of 80 mg to be 
administered one week prior to 
the start of the usual dose of 
40 mg every other week. 
Yuflyma is recommended for 
use in combination with 
methotrexate. 
Method and route of administration 
Yuflyma is administered by injection under the skin (by subcutaneous injection). 
Detailed instructions on how to inject Yuflyma are provided in section 7 ‘Instructions for use’. 
If you use more Yuflyma than you should 
If you accidentally inject Yuflyma more frequently than told to by your doctor or pharmacist, call your 
doctor or pharmacist and tell them that your child has taken more. Always take the outer carton of the 
medicine with you, even if it is empty. 
If you forget to use Yuflyma 
If you forget to give your child an injection, you should inject the next dose of Yuflyma as soon as you 
remember. Then give your child’s next dose as you would have on your originally scheduled day, had you 
not forgotten a dose. 
If you stop using Yuflyma 
The decision to stop using Yuflyma should be discussed with your doctor. Your child’s symptoms may 
return if you stop using Yuflyma. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4.  Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Most side effects 
are mild to moderate. However, some may be serious and require treatment. Side effects may occur at least 
up to 4 months after the last Yuflyma injection. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe rash, hives or other signs of allergic reaction 
swollen face, hands, feet 
trouble breathing, swallowing 
shortness of breath with physical activity or upon lying down or swelling of the feet 
Tell your doctor as soon as possible if you notice any of the following 
• 
• 
• 
• 
signs of infection such as fever, feeling sick, wounds, dental problems, burning on urination 
feeling weak or tired 
coughing 
tingling 
287 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
numbness 
double vision 
arm or leg weakness 
a bump or open sore that doesn't heal 
signs and symptoms suggestive of blood disorders such as persistent fever, bruising, bleeding, 
paleness 
The symptoms described above can be signs of the below listed side effects, which have been observed with 
Yuflyma. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
injection site reactions (including pain, swelling, redness or itching) 
respiratory tract infections (including cold, runny nose, sinus infection, pneumonia) 
headache 
abdominal pain 
nausea and vomiting 
rash 
musculoskeletal pain 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
serious infections (including blood poisoning and influenza) 
intestinal infections (including gastroenteritis) 
skin infections (including cellulitis and shingles) 
ear infections 
oral infections (including tooth infections and cold sores) 
reproductive tract infections 
urinary tract infection 
fungal infections 
joint infections 
benign tumours 
skin cancer 
allergic reactions (including seasonal allergy) 
dehydration 
mood swings (including depression) 
anxiety 
difficulty sleeping 
sensation disorders such as tingling, prickling or numbness 
migraine 
nerve root compression (including low back pain and leg pain) 
vision disturbances 
eye inflammation 
inflammation of the eye lid and eye swelling 
vertigo (feeling of dizziness or spinning) 
sensation of heart beating rapidly 
high blood pressure 
flushing 
haematoma (collection of blood outside of blood vessels) 
cough 
asthma 
shortness of breath 
288 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
gastrointestinal bleeding 
dyspepsia (indigestion, bloating, heart burn) 
acid reflux disease 
sicca syndrome (including dry eyes and dry mouth) 
itching 
itchy rash 
bruising 
inflammation of the skin (such as eczema) 
breaking of finger nails and toe nails 
increased sweating 
hair loss 
new onset or worsening of psoriasis 
muscle spasms 
blood in urine 
kidney problems 
chest pain 
oedema (swelling) 
fever 
reduction in blood platelets which increases risk of bleeding or bruising 
impaired healing 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
opportunistic infections (which include tuberculosis and other infections that occur when resistance 
to disease is lowered) 
neurological infections (including viral meningitis) 
eye infections 
bacterial infections 
diverticulitis (inflammation and infection of the large intestine) 
cancer 
cancer that affects the lymph system 
melanoma 
immune disorders that could affect the lungs, skin and lymph nodes (most commonly presenting as 
sarcoidosis) 
vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels) 
tremor (shaking) 
neuropathy (disorder of the nerves) 
stroke 
hearing loss, buzzing 
sensation of heart beating irregularly such as skipped beats 
heart problems that can cause shortness of breath or ankle swelling 
heart attack 
a sac in the wall of a major artery, inflammation and clot of a vein, blockage of a blood vessel 
lung diseases causing shortness of breath (including inflammation) 
pulmonary embolism (blockage in an artery of the lung) 
pleural effusion (abnormal collection of fluid in the pleural space) 
inflammation of the pancreas which causes severe pain in the abdomen and back 
difficulty in swallowing 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) 
gallbladder inflammation, gallbladder stones 
fatty liver 
289 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
night sweats 
scar 
abnormal muscle breakdown 
systemic lupus erythematosus (including inflammation of skin, heart, lung, joints and other organ 
systems) 
sleep interruptions 
impotence 
inflammations 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
leukaemia (cancer affecting the blood and bone marrow) 
severe allergic reaction with shock 
multiple sclerosis 
nerve disorders (such as eye nerve inflammation and Guillain-Barré syndrome that may cause muscle 
weakness, abnormal sensations, tingling in the arms and upper body) 
heart stops pumping 
pulmonary fibrosis (scarring of the lung) 
intestinal perforation (hole in the intestine) 
hepatitis 
reactivation of hepatitis B 
autoimmune hepatitis (inflammation of the liver caused by the body's own immune system) 
cutaneous vasculitis (inflammation of blood vessels in the skin) 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (early symptoms include malaise, fever, headache and rash) 
facial oedema (swelling of the face) associated with allergic reactions 
erythema multiforme (inflammatory skin rash) 
lupus-like syndrome 
angioedema (localised swelling of the skin) 
lichenoid skin reaction (itchy reddish-purple skin rash) 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma (a rare blood cancer that is often fatal) 
Merkel cell carcinoma (a type of skin cancer) 
Kaposi’s sarcoma, a rare cancer related to infection with human herpes virus 8. Kaposi’s sarcoma 
most commonly appears as purple lesions on the skin. 
liver failure 
worsening of a condition called dermatomyositis (seen as a skin rash accompanying muscle 
weakness) 
weight gain (for most patients, the weight gain was small) 
Some side effects observed with Yuflyma may not have symptoms and may only be discovered through 
blood tests. These include: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for red blood cells 
increased lipids in the blood 
elevated liver enzymes 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
290 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
high blood measurements for white blood cells 
low blood measurements for platelets 
increased uric acid in the blood 
abnormal blood measurements for sodium 
low blood measurements for calcium 
low blood measurements for phosphate 
high blood sugar 
high blood measurements for lactate dehydrogenase 
autoantibodies present in the blood 
low blood potassium 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
• 
elevated bilirubin measurement (liver blood test) 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
• 
low blood measurements for white blood cells, red blood cells and platelet count 
Reporting of side effects 
If your child gets any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5.  How to store Yuflyma 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date stated on the label/carton after EXP. 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C – 8°C). Do not freeze. 
Keep the pre-filled syringe in the outer carton in order to protect from light. 
Alternative Storage: 
When needed (for example when you are travelling), a single Yuflyma pre-filled syringe may be stored at 
room temperature (up to 25°C) for a maximum period of 31 days – be sure to protect it from light. Once 
removed from the refrigerator for room temperature storage, the syringe must be used within 31 days or 
discarded, even if it is returned to the refrigerator. 
You should record the date when the syringe is first removed from refrigerator and the date after which it 
should be discarded. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your doctor or pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
291 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What Yuflyma contains 
The active substance is adalimumab. 
The other ingredients are acetic acid, sodium acetate trihydrate, glycine, polysorbate 80, and water for 
injections. 
What the Yuflyma pre-filled syringe looks like and contents of the pack 
Yuflyma 20 mg solution for injection in pre-filled syringe is supplied as a sterile solution of 20 mg 
adalimumab dissolved in 0.2 ml solution. 
The Yuflyma pre-filled syringe is a glass syringe containing a solution of adalimumab.  
The 2 pre-filled syringes pack comes with 2 alcohol pads.  
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft.  
1062 Budapest 
Váci út 1-3. WestEnd Office Building B torony 
Hungary 
Manufacturer 
Millmount Healthcare Ltd. 
Block 7 
City North Business Campus  
Stamullen, Co. Meath K32 YD60 
Ireland 
Nuvisan GmbH 
Wegenerstrasse 13,  
89231 Neu-Ulm,  
Germany 
Nuvisan France SARL 
2400, Route des Colles,  
06410, Biot,  
France 
Midas Pharma GmbH 
Rheinstr. 49,  
55218 Ingelheim, 
Germany 
KYMOS S.L.  
Ronda Can Fatjó, 7B.  
08290 Cerdanyola del Vallès,  
Barcelona,  
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
292 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Lietuva 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
България 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Teл.: +36 1 231 0493 
Česká republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Danmark 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
Deutschland 
Celltrion Healthcare Deutschland GmbH 
Tél.: +49 (0)30 346494150 
infoDE@celltrionhc.com 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Celltrion Healthcare Belgium BVBA 
Tél/Tel: + 32 1528 7418 
Magyarország 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Malta 
Mint Health Ltd. 
Tel: +356 2093 9800 
Nederland 
Celltrion Healthcare Netherlands B.V. 
Tel: + 31 20 888 7300 
Eesti 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Norge 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tlf: +36 1 231 0493 
España 
Kern Pharma, S.L. 
Tel: +34 93 700 2525 
Ελλάδα 
ΒΙΑΝΕΞ Α.Ε. 
Τηλ: +30 210 8009111 
France 
Celltrion Healthcare France SAS 
Tél.: +33 (0)1 71 25 27 00 
Hrvatska 
Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +385 1 6595 777 
Ireland 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026 
Ísland 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Sími: +36 1 231 0493 
Italia 
Celltrion Healthcare Italy S.r.l. 
Tel: +39 0247927040 
Ö sterreich 
Astro-Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 97 99 860 
Polska 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 231 0493 
Portugal 
PharmaKERN Portugal - Produtos Farmacêuticos, 
Sociedade Unipessoal, Lda. 
Tel: +351 214 200 290 
România 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Slovenija 
OPH Oktal Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel.: +386 1 519 29 22 
Slovenská republika 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Suomi/Finland 
Celltrion Healthcare Finland Oy.  
Puh/Tel: +358 29 170 7755 
293 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Κύπρος 
C.A. Papaellinas Ltd 
Τηλ: +357 22741741 
Sverige 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tel: +36 1 231 0493 
Latvija 
Celltrion Healthcare Hungary Kft. 
Tālr.: +36 1 231 0493 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Celltrion Healthcare Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 223 4026  
This leaflet was last revised in . 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
7. 
Instructions for use 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The following instructions explain how to give your child a subcutaneous injection of Yuflyma using 
the pre-filled syringe. First read all the instructions carefully and then follow them step by step. 
You will be instructed by your doctor, nurse or pharmacist on the technique of injection. 
Do not attempt to inject your child until you are sure that you understand how to prepare and give 
the injection. 
After proper training, the injection can be given by your child or given by another person, for 
example, a family member or friend. 
Only use each pre-filled syringe for one injection. 
294 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Yuflyma Pre-filled Syringe 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
• 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
the expiration date has passed.  
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure A 
Do not remove the needle cover until just before injection. Keep Yuflyma out of the sight and reach of 
children. 
1.  Gather the supplies for the injection 
   a. Prepare a clean, flat surface, such as a table or countertop, in a well-lit area. 
   b. Remove 1 pre-filled syringe from the carton stored in your refrigerator. 
• Hold the pre-filled syringe body when removing it from the carton. Do not touch the plunger 
rod and cap. 
   c. Make sure you have the following supplies: 
- Pre-filled syringe 
- Alcohol swab 
Not included in the carton: 
- Cotton ball or gauze 
- Adhesive bandage 
- Sharps disposal container 
295 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Inspect the pre-filled syringe 
       a. Ensure you have the correct medicine (Yuflyma) and 
dosage.  
       b. Look at the pre-filled syringe and make sure it is not 
cracked or damaged.  
       c. Check the expiration date on the label of the pre-filled 
syringe.  
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if: 
• 
it is cracked or damaged.  
• 
the expiration date has passed. 
• 
it has been dropped onto a hard surface. 
Figure B 
3. 
Inspect the medicine 
     a. Look at the medicine and confirm that the liquid is  
         clear, colourless to pale brown, and free of particles. 
• 
Do not use the pre-filled syringe if the liquid is   
discoloured (yellow or dark brown), cloudy or contains 
particles in it. 
• 
You may see air bubbles in the liquid. This is normal. 
Figure C 
296 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  Wait 15 to 30 minutes  
      a. Leave the Pre-filled Syringe at room temperature for 15  
          to 30 minutes to allow it to warm up. 
• 
Do not warm the pre-filled syringe using heat sources  
such as hot water or a microwave. 
5. 
Choose an appropriate injection site 
     a. You may inject into: 
         - the front of your thighs.  
         - your child’s abdomen except for the 5 cm (2 in) around 
the belly button (navel).  
         - the outer area of the upper arm (ONLY if you are a  
caregiver).  
Do not inject into skin that is within 5 cm (2 in) of your 
• 
belly button (navel), or is red, hard, tender, damaged, bruised, or    
         scarred.  
• 
raised, thick, red or scaly skin patches or lesions on your skin.  
• 
If your child has psoriasis, do not inject directly into any 
Do not inject through your clothes. 
     b. Rotate the injection site each time you give an injection. 
Each new injection site should be at least 3 cm (1.2 in) away 
from the injection site you used before. 
297 
Figure D 
Figure E 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.  Wash your hands 
      a. Wash your hands with soap and water and dry them  
            thoroughly.  
Figure F 
Figure G 
7.  Clean the injection site 
     a. Clean the injection site with an alcohol swab using a    
         circular motion. 
     b. Let the skin dry before injecting. 
• Do not blow on or touch the injection site again before 
giving the injection. 
298 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8.  Remove the cap 
    a. Remove the cap by holding the pre-filled syringe 
body with one hand. Gently pull the cap straight 
off with the other hand.  
•  Do not pull back on the plunger rod at any time 
•  Do not remove the cap until you are ready to inject  
•  Do not touch the needle. Doing so may result in a 
needle stick injury.  
•  Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. Dispose the cap 
immediately into the sharps disposal container. 
• 
the needle. 
It is normal to see a few drops of liquid come out of 
Figure H 
9. 
Insert the pre-filled syringe into the injection site 
     a. Gently pinch a fold of skin at the injection site with 
         one hand. 
     b. Holding the pre-filled syringe by its body, insert the   
          needle completely into the fold of the skin at a 45-   
          degree angle using a quick and “dart-like” motion. 
Figure I 
299 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
Give the injection 
     a. After the needle is inserted, let go of the pinched skin 
     b. Slowly push the plunger all the way down until all 
         of the liquid is injected and the syringe is empty. 
• Do not change the position of the pre-filled syringe after 
the injection has started. 
Figure J 
11. 
injection site and care for the injection site 
Remove the pre-filled syringe from the    
    a. After the pre-filled syringe is empty, remove   
        the pre-filled syringe from your skin at the same 
angle it was inserted. 
    b. Treat the injection site by gently pressing, not   
         rubbing, a cotton ball or gauze to the site and    
         apply an adhesive bandage, if necessary. Some   
         bleeding may occur. 
 • Do not reuse the pre-filled syringe. 
• Do not touch or recap the needle.  
Figure K 
• Do not rub the injection site. 
Dispose of the pre-filled syringe 
12. 
• 
     a. Throw away the used pre-filled syringe in a special  
Do not recap the pre-filled syringe. 
sharps disposal container as instructed by your doctor, 
nurse or pharmacist. 
     b. The alcohol pad and packaging may be put in your 
household waste. 
• 
Always keep the pre-filled syringe and the special     
              sharps disposal container out of the sight and reach  
              of children. 
Figure L 
300 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
