EMA/298997/2020  
EMEA/H/C/005337 
Zabdeno (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP, recombinant) 
An overview of Zabdeno and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zabdeno and what is it used for? 
Zabdeno is a vaccine to protect adults and children aged one year and older against Ebola virus 
disease caused by Zaire ebolavirus. It is used with another Ebola vaccine called Mvabea as part of a 
vaccine regimen. 
Zabdeno contains a virus known as adenovirus which has been modified to allow the production of a 
protein from Zaire ebolavirus. The adenovirus itself has no effect on humans. Zabdeno only contains a 
small part of Zaire ebolavirus and cannot cause Ebola virus disease.  
How is Zabdeno used? 
Zabdeno can only be obtained with a prescription and is given by a trained healthcare worker. It is 
given as a single injection, followed by an injection of Mvabea about 8 weeks later. People who are at 
imminent risk of infection with Ebola virus and have received the Zabdeno and Mvabea injections more 
than 4 months earlier can receive a booster dose of Zabdeno. 
Injections are given into the muscle around the shoulder (the deltoid) or a muscle of the thigh. 
For more information about using Zabdeno, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Zabdeno work? 
The active substance in Zabdeno will lead to the production of a viral protein found on Zaire ebolavirus. 
When a person receives the vaccine, the viral protein triggers an immune response. If later on the 
person comes into contact with the actual virus, the immune system recognises the viral proteins and 
is prepared to attack the virus, so protecting the person from the disease caused by Ebola virus. 
What benefits of Zabdeno have been shown in studies? 
Five main studies showed that Zabdeno, when used with Mvabea, can trigger the production of 
antibodies capable of providing protection against Zaire ebolavirus. The studies involved a total of 
3,585 adults and children. Based on animal studies with a fully lethal dose of the virus, the antibody 
level generated in humans following vaccination with Zabdeno and Mvabea would be expected to lead 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
to around 53% survival if infected with a fully lethal dose. However, the method used in the animal 
studies results in more severe infection than natural infection in humans. Although the vaccine 
regimen can provide protection against Ebola virus disease, the level and duration of protection are not 
yet known and the company will provide further data. 
What are the risks associated with Zabdeno? 
The most common side effects in adults with Zabdeno (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
pain, warmth and swelling at the injection site, tiredness, headache, muscle pain, joint pain and chills. 
In children and adolescents aged 1 to 17 years, the most common side effects (which may affect more 
than 1 in 10 people) are pain at the injection site, tiredness, decreased activity, decreased appetite 
and irritability.  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions of Zabdeno, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zabdeno authorised in the EU? 
Zabdeno, used with Mvabea as part of a 2-dose vaccine regimen, triggers an immune response that 
can provide protection against Ebola virus disease. Although the level and duration of protection 
against the virus have not yet been determined, the European Medicines Agency considered that the 
vaccine’s benefits could be of great importance to help control an outbreak and prevent death. 
Regarding safety, most side effects are mild to moderate in severity and of short duration. The Agency 
therefore decided that Zabdeno’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in 
the EU. 
Zabdeno has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not been 
possible to obtain complete information about Zabdeno for scientific and ethical reasons. Every year, 
the Agency will review any new information that becomes available and this overview will be updated 
as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Zabdeno? 
Since Zabdeno has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Zabdeno will provide an update on the collection of data on the effectiveness of the vaccine regimen in 
the intended population on a yearly basis. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zabdeno? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zabdeno have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zabdeno are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Zabdeno are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zabdeno 
Zabdeno received a marketing authorisation under exceptional circumstances valid throughout the EU 
on 01 July 2020. 
Zabdeno (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP, recombinant)  
EMA/298997/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Further information on Zabdeno can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Zabdeno. Further information on Mvabea can also be found on 
the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/Mvabea.  
This overview was last updated in 07-2020. 
Zabdeno (Ad26.ZEBOV-GP, recombinant)  
EMA/298997/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
