Summary of Risk Management Plan for Ebola vaccine (Ad26.ZEBOV 
[recombinant, replication-incompetent]) and Ebola vaccine (MVA-BN-Filo 
[recombinant, non-replicating]) 
This  is  a  summary  of  the  risk  management  plan  (RMP)  for  Ebola  vaccine  (Ad26.ZEBOV 
[recombinant, replication-incompetent]), further referred to as Ad26.ZEBOV, and Ebola vaccine 
(MVA-BN-Filo [recombinant, non-replicating]), further referred to as MVA-BN-Filo. The RMP 
details important risks of Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo, how these risks can be minimized, 
and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Ad26.ZEBOV’s  and  MVA-BN-Filo’s  risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Ad26.ZEBOV’s  and  MVA-BN-Filo’s  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SmPC)  and  their 
package  leaflet  (PL)  give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  individuals  on 
how Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo should be read in the context of all 
this  information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo’s RMP. 
I. 
The Vaccine and What it is Used For 
Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo, as part of the Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo vaccine regimen 
are  authorized  for  active  immunization  for  prevention  of  disease  caused  by  Ebola  virus  (Zaire 
ebolavirus species) in individuals ≥1 year of age (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
Ad26.ZEBOV  and  MVA-BN-Filo  as  the  active  substances  and  it  is  given  by  intramuscular 
injection. 
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Ad26.ZEBOV’s  and  MVA-BN-Filo’s  benefits  can 
be  found  in  Ad26.ZEBOV’s  and  MVA-BN-Filo’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language 
summary, available on the European Medicines Agency website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
 
 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zabdeno (for Ad26.ZEBOV) 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/mvabea (for MVA-BN-Filo) 
II. 
Risks Associated with the Vaccine and Activities to Minimize or Further 
Characterize the Risks 
Important risks of Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo, together with measures to minimize such 
risks  and  the  proposed  studies  for  learning  more  about  Ad26.ZEBOV’s  and  MVA-BN-Filo’s 
risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimize the risks identified for vaccines can be: 
  Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on  correct  use,  in  the  PL 
and SmPC addressed to individuals and healthcare professionals; 
 
Important advice on the vaccine’s packaging; 
  The authorized pack size — the amount of vaccine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
vaccine is used correctly; 
  The  vaccine’s  legal  status  —  the  way  a  vaccine  is  supplied  to  the  individual  (eg,  with  or 
without prescription) can help to minimize its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly  analyzed  including  Periodic  Benefit-Risk  Evaluation  Report/Periodic  Safety  Update 
Report assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A. 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important risks of Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo are risks that need special risk management 
activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  vaccine  can  be  safely 
administered.  Important  risks  can  be  regarded  as  identified  or  potential.  Identified  risks  are 
concerns  for  which  there  is  sufficient  proof  of  a  link  with  the  use  of  Ad26.ZEBOV  and 
MVA-BN-Filo.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an  association  with  the  use  of  these 
vaccines is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and 
needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the vaccines 
that is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the vaccines). 
List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks 
None 
Missing information 
Use during pregnancy 
 
II.B. 
Summary of Important Risks  
Missing Information: Use during pregnancy 
Risk minimization measures 
Routine risk minimization measures 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
 
 
SmPC Section 4.6 
PL Section 2 
  A recommendation to preferably avoid vaccination 
with Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo during pregnancy, 
unless there is a clear risk of exposure to Ebola 
infection, is provided in SmPC Section 4.6 and PL 
Section 2 
Additional risk minimization measures 
  None 
Routine  pharmacovigilance  activities  beyond  adverse 
reactions reporting and signal detection 
  Cumulative reviews of individual case safety reports 
following exposure to Ad26.ZEBOV and 
MVA-BN-Filo during pregnancy 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
 
Trial VAC52150EBL3010 in healthy pregnant women 
See  section  II.C  of  this  summary  for  an  overview  of  the 
postauthorization development plan. 
II.C. 
Postauthorization Development Plan 
II.C.1. 
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorization 
The  following  studies  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific  obligation  of 
Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo: 
VAC52150EBLXXXX:  Evaluation  of  a  heterologous,  two-dose  preventive  Ebola  vaccine  for 
field effectiveness. 
Purpose of the study: To ensure adequate monitoring of effectiveness, the Applicant will perform 
this study to collect data in the context of the intended use of the Ad26.ZEBOV, MVA-BN-Filo 
prophylactic vaccine regimen. 
II.C.2. 
Other Studies in Postauthorization Development Plan 
VAC52150EBL3010:  A  Phase  3  open-label  randomized  clinical  trial  to  evaluate  the  safety, 
reactogenicity  and  immunogenicity  of  a  2-dose  Ebola  vaccine  regimen  of  Ad26.ZEBOV 
followed by MVA-BN-Filo in healthy pregnant women. 
Purpose  of  the  study:  To  evaluate  the  safety,  reactogenicity,  and  immunogenicity  of 
Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo in healthy pregnant women. 
