1. 
Introduction 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Zalasta 2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg tablets and Zalasta  5,  10, 15 and 20 mg orodispersible tablets is 
a generic medicinal product containing olanzapine  as active substance. Zalasta 7.5 mg orodispersible 
tablets is a hybrid medicinal product.  
Olanzapine,  a  thienobenzodiazepine  derivative,  belongs  to  class  of  second  generation  derivative 
antipsychotic  agents,  the  so-called  atypical  antipsychotics.  As  atypical  antipsychotics  are  generally 
classified  those  drugs,  which  in  contrast  to  classical  antipsychotics  (e.g.  haloperidol),  have  greater 
affinity for serotonin 5-HT2A receptors then for dopamine D2 receptors and cause fewer extrapyramidal 
symptoms (EPS) and improve negative symptoms. 
The efficacy and safety of olanzapine has been demonstrated in randomised, placebo-controlled and 
comparative trials in positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia, and also as monotherapy or in 
combination with mood stabilizers in the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes associated with 
bipolar disorder. A summary of these studies may be found in the EPAR of Zyprexa. 
The indication proposed for Zalasta is the same as authorized for the Reference medicinal product 
Zyprexa. 
2. 
Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Zalasta is presented in the form of tablets and orodispersible tablets. 
The tablets contain 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg of olanzapine as active substance. 
Other ingredients are lactose monohydrate, powdered cellulose, pregelatinised starch, maize starch, 
colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate. 
The orodispersible tablets contain 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg of olanzapine as active 
substance. Other ingredients are mannitol, microcrystalline cellulose, crospovidone, low-substituted 
hydroxypropylcellulose, aspartame, calcium silicate, and magnesium stearate. 
Tablets and orodispersible tablets are sealed into blisters made of cold formed OPA/Al/PVC film and 
sealing aluminium foil.  
Active Substance  
Olanzapine  which  has  the  chemical  name  2-methyl-4-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl)-10H-thieno[2,3-
b][1,5]benzodiazepine    is  a  yellow  crystalline  powder  without  odour,  practically  insoluble  in  water, 
freely  soluble  in  chloroform,  soluble  in  dichloromethane  and  very  slightly  soluble  in  methanol. 
Solubility  in  aqueous  media  decreases  with  increasing  of  pH.  Polymorphism  has  been  observed  for 
olanzapine.  
• 
Manufacture 
The  manufacturing  of  olanzapine  consists  of  synthesis  and  crystallization.  Olanzapine  of  the  same 
quality can be synthesized by two synthesis routes, which are equivalent in term of the pharmaceutical 
quality of the active substance. Olanzapine in a stable and reproducible polymorphic form is obtained 
by crystallization process.  
1/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adequate  In-Process  Controls  are  applied  during  the  manufacture  of  the  active  substance.  The 
specifications  and  control  methods  for  intermediate  products,  starting  materials  and  reagents,  have 
been presented and are satisfactory. 
• 
Specification 
The active substance specification includes tests for appearance, solubility (Ph Eur), identification 
(UV, IR), clarity and degree of opalescence (Ph Eur), degree of coloration of liquids (Ph Eur), loss on 
drying (Ph Eur), sulphated ash (Ph Eur), heavy metals (Ph Eur), related substances (HPLC), content of 
olanzapine ( potentiometer titration), residual solvents (GC-HS), particle size (laser diffraction). 
The specifications reflect all relevant quality attributes of the active substance and were found to be 
adequate to control the quality of the active substance.  Impurities have been evaluated and found to be 
acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
Batch analysis data of seven batches of active substance are provided. The results are within the 
specifications and consistent from batch to batch. 
• 
Stability 
Stability  is  being  studied  on  pilot  batches  packed  in  mini-size  simulation  of  the  intended  market 
containers.  The  stability  study  conditions,  numbers  of  batches  tested  and  testing  frequency  are  in 
accordance with the relevant ICH/CHMP guideline. The conditions are: 25 °C/60 % RH and 40 °C/75 
% RH.  
Seven  batches  of  olanzapine  were  put  on  long-term  and  accelerated  stability  testing  conditions.  A 
photostability study was performed on one batch (of samples stored for 24 months at 25 °C/60 % RH 
according to ICH Guideline. To identify degradation products of the drug substance the applicant has 
performed stress testing. 
The  parameters  investigated  are  appearance,  clarity  and  degree  of  opalescence  of  liquids,  degree  of 
coloration of liquids, loss on drying, assay of olanzapine and related compounds.  
The  proposed  re-test  period  is  justified  based  on  the  stability  results  when  the  active  substance  is 
stored in the original packing material. 
Medicinal Product 
Tablets 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  purpose  of  development  of  this  pharmaceutical  form  was  to  achieve  a  highly  bioavailable  and 
stable  dosage  form,  bioequivalent  with  reference  medicinal  product  coated  tablet.  The  emphasis  of 
development  work  was  also  to  achieve  good  content  uniformity  of  the  drug  substance,  optimal 
physical properties of the tablets, simplicity and reproducibility of technological processes  
During  formulation  development  the  following  aspects  were  evaluated:  water  vapour  sorption  of 
olanzapine,  compatibility  of  the  drug  with  excipients,  flowability,  compactability,  lubricity, 
appearance, disintegration time and dissolution rate. 
The bioequivalence study was performed with 10 mg strength since the composition of all strengths is 
proportional. The product composition used in the bioequivalence study was the same as intended for 
marketing.  The  composition  of  Zalasta  tablets  is  different  to  the  reference  product  but  there  are  no 
relevant differences that would result in different safety profile. Similarity between the tablets and the 
reference medicinal product Zyprexa coated tablets has been shown by comparison of dissolution and 
impurity profile. 
Dissolution profile testing in media with different pH was performed in order to predict in vivo release 
of  olanzapine  from  the  tablets.  When  developing  tablets  of  other  strengths,  the  same  dissolution 
2/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
method was applied and comparable in vitro dissolution profiles of olanzapine were determined for all 
strengths. The development and selection of the dissolution test method is suitable.  
Different mixtures of olanzapine and excipients and many tablet formulations prepared by direct 
compression were studied and stress tested. 
The excipients used are celactose (lactose monohydrate, powdered cellulose), pregelatinised starch, 
maize starch, colloidal anhydrous silica and magnesium stearate. The excipients are conventional and 
meet the requirements in Ph. Eur. Lactose monohydrate is manufactured from bovine milk. The 
supplier confirms that the milk used in the manufacture of the lactose is sourced from healthy animals 
under the same conditions as for human consumption. 
Tablets are packed in blister packs consisting of cold formed OPA/AL/PVC film and heat sealing 
aluminium foil. The suitability of packaging was demonstrated in the stability studies. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process includes weighing, mixing, sieving and compressing. 
The manufacturing process has been validated by a number of studies for the major steps of the 
manufacturing process.  
The batch analysis data show that the tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the 
agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
• 
Product Specification 
The product specifications include tests by validated methods for appearance, content uniformity (UV-
VIS), water (Ph Eur), hardness (Ph Eur), disintegration (Ph Eur), identification of the active substance 
(UV,  TLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  dissolution,  (Ph  Eur),  content  of  olanzapine  and  microbial  
purity (Ph Eur).  
Degradation products have been evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of view of safety. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch  analysis  data  of  five  batches  of  pilot  and  production  size  for  all  strengths  submitted  confirm 
satisfactory uniformity of the product at release. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Three pilot batches of 5, 10, 2.5 and 20 mg tablets packed in intended market containers were placed 
on stability under ICH conditions. The stability testing of 2.5, 7.5, 15 and 20 mg tablets is performed 
according to the reduced testing (bracketing design) following ICH guideline Q1D.  The batches were 
tested for appearance, disintegration, assay, dissolution and microbiological purity of the tablets 
except requirements for related substances and total related substances, water and hardness and 
microbiological purity. They have were exposed to 25º C/60% RH for 48 months for 5 and 10 mg 
tablets and for 24 months for 2.5 and 20 mg tablets and 40º C / 75% RH for 6 months for all strengths. 
A photostability study was performed on one batch of 5 mg tablets stored according to ICH Guideline 
(Q1B). 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SPC 
are acceptable. 
Orodispersible tablets 
3/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmaceutical Development 
The  purpose  of  development  work  was  to  develop  drug  product  which  would  be  comparable  and 
bioequivalent  to  Zyprexa  Velotab  orodispersible  tablets  and  possesses  the  following  properties: 
disintegration in mouth spontaneously in contact with saliva, pleasant taste and good mouth feel.  
The selection of excipients was the most critical step to achieve fast disintegration of the tablet in the 
mouth  and  pleasant  mouth  feel.  Different  mixtures  of  olanzapine  and  excipients  and  many  tablet 
formulations were studied and stress tested.  
The  product  composition  used  in  the  bioequivalence  study  was  the  same  as  intended  for  marketing. 
The composition of Zalasta orodispersible tablets is different to the reference product but there are no 
relevant  differences  that  would  result  in  a  different  safety  profile.  A  bioequivalence  study  was 
performed on the 20 mg strength because the composition of all strengths is proportional. 
Dissolution profile testing was performed in media with different pH in order to predict in vivo release 
of  olanzapine  from  the  orodispersible  tablets.  When  developing  orodispersible  tablets  of  other 
strengths,  the  same  dissolution  method  was  applied  and  comparable  in  vitro  dissolution  profiles  of 
olanzapine  were  determined  for  all  strengths.  The  development  and  selection  of  the  dissolution  test 
method is suitable.  
low-substituted 
The  excipients  used  are  mannitol,  microcrystalline  cellulose,  crospovidone, 
hydroxypropylcellulose, aspartame, calcium silicate, and magnesium stearate. Most excipients comply 
with  the  Ph.  Eur.  Low-substituded  hydroxypropylcellulose  LH-21  and  calcium  silicate  comply  with 
USP/NF since they do not have monograph in Ph. Eur. 
The orodispersible tablets are packed in blister packs consisting of cold formed OPA/AL/PVC film 
and heat sealing aluminium foil. The suitability of packaging was demonstrated in the stability studies. 
• 
Manufacture of the Product 
The manufacturing process is a standard wet granulation and includes weighing, granulation, drying, 
sieving, mixing and compressing. 
The manufacturing process has been validated by a number of studies for the major steps of the 
manufacturing process.  
The batch analysis data show that the tablets can be manufactured reproducibly according to the 
agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this oral preparation. 
• 
Product Specification 
The  product  specifications  include  tests  by  validated  methods  for  appearance,  content  uniformity 
(HPLC),  water  (Ph  Eur),  hardness  (Ph  Eur),  disintegration  (Ph  Eur),  identification  of  the  active 
substance  (HPLC,  TLC),  related  substances  (HPLC),  dissolution,  (HPLC),  content  of  olanzapine 
(HPLC), and microbial  (Ph Eur).  
Degradation products are controlled and their limits are justified by reference to stability studies and 
toxicology studies. 
The tests and limits of the specifications for the finished product are appropriate to control the quality 
of the finished product for their intended purpose. 
Batch analysis data of five batches of pilot and production size for all strengths except 7.5 mg (four 
batches) submitted confirm satisfactory uniformity of the product at release. 
• 
Stability of the Product 
Three pilot batches of 5, 10, 2.5 and 20 mg tablets and two pilot batches of 7.5 mg packed in the 
intended market containers and in bulk on stability under ICH conditions. The stability testing of 5, 
7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg orodispersible tablets is performed according to the reduced testing (bracketing 
4/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
design) following ICH guideline Q1D.  The batches were tested for appearance, disintegration, assay, 
dissolution, related substances, total related substances, water, hardness, and microbiological purity. 
They have were exposed to 25º C/60% RH for 12 months for 5 and 20 mg and for 6 months for 7.5 mg 
and 40º C / 75% RH for 6 months 5 and 20 mg and 7.5 mg. 
A photostability study was performed on one batch of 5 mg and 20 mg tablets in blisters stored for 12 
months at 25 °C/60 % RH according to the ICH Guideline (Q1B), light source: Option 2, condition 
during test 25 °C/40 % RH (available 8 days results). 
Based  on  the  available  stability  data,  the  proposed  shelf  life  and  storage  conditions  as  stated  in  the 
SPC are acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the drug substance and both drug products 
have been presented in a satisfactory manner. The results of tests carried out indicate satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that both the tablets and orodispersible tablets should have a satisfactory and uniform 
performance in the clinic. 
3. 
Non-Clinical aspects   
their 
Zalasta  tablets  and  Zalasta  orodispersible  tablets  are  generic  medicinal  products,  having  the  same 
qualitative and quantitative composition in active substance (olanzapine) and the same pharmaceutical 
reference  medicinal  products  Zyprexa  and  Zyprexa  Velotab. 
forms  as 
Pharmacodynamic, pharmacokinetic and toxicological properties of olanzapine are well characterized. 
The excipients used in the drug formulation are conventional, well known and broadly used in other 
medicinal  products.  Declared  impurities  in  amounts  present  in  both  formulations  do  not  require 
additional safety studies.  
respective 
No further studies are required and the applicant has justified why no such data was provided. 
This application is being made under Article 10.1 (generic) of Directive 2001/83/EC for Zalasta 2.5 
mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg tablets and Zalasta  5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg, and 20 mg 
orodispersible tablets , and Article 10.3 (hybrid) for Zalasta 7.5 mg orodispersible tablets, whereas the 
additional strength 7.5 mg is not authorized in Zyprexa Velotab.  
4. 
Clinical Aspects  
Introduction 
The rapporteur assessment addressed pharmacokinetic data in respect of bioequivalence studies. 
GCP aspects 
Clinical bioequivalence studies were performed in healthy volunteers. In these studies the compliance 
to regulatory, ethical and GCP requirements of clinical phases can be recognized. The clinical facility 
has recently been inspected by an EU inspection. 
In accordance to Art 8 (ia) of the amended Directive, Art 9.4(c) and Art 127 (a) of the new Regulation, 
the  Applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC. 
5/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inspections  were  carried  out  during  the  assessment  procedure:  the  inspection  has  not  resulted  in 
critical  findings  and  the  studies  can  be  accepted  in  the  context  of  a  marketing  authorization 
application. 
Exemption  
The  Applicant  submitted  6  different  strengths  for  the  tablet  form  and  5  different  strengths  for  the 
orodispersible tablet form. The Applicant has in fact provided only one bioequivalence study with one 
strength  for  each  of  the  two  formulations.  To  support  the  exemption,  appropriate  statements, 
justification  and biopharmaceutic studies reports using in vitro-dissolution techniques with standard 
media for the two pharmaceutical forms and strengths in question, in comparison with the respective 
form  of  the  reference  product  -  Eli  Lilly  Deutschland  GmbH  Zyprexa  tablets  and  Zyprexa  Velotab 
orally disintegrating tablets - have been presented and are satisfactory (see Section Additional Data). 
Clinical studies 
To support the application, the Applicant has submitted two bioequivalence studies, one for each of 
the two pharmaceutical forms in question. These studies are described in the Pharmacokinetics section 
below. 
Pharmacokinetics  
As the application deals with two dosage forms, tablets and orodispersible tablets, and the application 
dossier  contains  two  independent  reports,  the  assessment  of  particular  bioequivalence  aspects  is 
presented in two separate sections that follow. 
Pharmacokinetic study – tablets 
 Methods 
• 
For  the  tablets,  a  single-dose  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  in  fasting  healthy  volunteers  in 
comparison with the originator product, indirectly covering the submitted range of strengths under the 
bibliographic dose linearity claims described in the “Exemption” and “Additional data” sections. The 
objective of the bioequivalence study was to compare the relative single-dose bioavailability of Krka 
and Eli Lilly (Zyprexa) 10 mg olanzapine tablets under fasting conditions.  
STUDY DESIGN  
For  the  tablets,  a  comparative,  open-label,  randomized,  single-dose,  2-way  crossover  bioavailability 
study of Krka 10 mg olanzapine tablets compared to Eli Lilly 10 mg olanzapine tablets (Zyprexa) was 
performed  in  22  healthy  adult  male  volunteers  plus  additional  2  alternates  under  fasting  conditions. 
The study was designated as Olanzapine Protocol 012645. The study was conducted using the services 
of  a  Contract  research  Organization.  The  study  began  on  22nd  January  2002  and  ended  on  12th 
February  2002.  The  protocol  and  informed  consent  forms  were  reviewed  and  approved  by  an 
Institutional Review  Board  (IRB)  committee  convening  and  all subjects  signed  an  informed  consent 
form prior to dosing in the first period. 
All  24  subjects  completed  the  clinical  phase  of  the  study.  In  each  period,  the  subjects  were  housed 
from the evening before dosing until after the 48-hour blood draw and were to return for the  72-, 96-, 
120-  and  144-hour  blood  draws.  A  single  oral  10  mg  dose  was  administered  in  each  period  of  the 
study  with  240  mL  water.  Single oral 10  mg  doses  were  separated  by  a  washout  period  of 14  days. 
Blood samples were collected up to 144 hours post administration. 
TEST AND REFERENCE PRODUCTS   
The Bioequivalence study (report no: 012645 #27669) was performed with Olanzapine 10 mg tablets 
(Krka) and the reference product Zyprexa (Eli Lilly) 10 mg tablets.  
Test Product A: Olanzapine 10 mg tablets; Manufactured by KRKA d.d. 
Reference B:  Zyprexa (olanzapine) 10 mg film tablets; Manufactured by Eli Lilly.  
6/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The study and the archiving of essential documents were performed in accordance with stipulations of 
the  Protocol,  Declaration  of  Helsinki,  and  all  confidential  statements  and  especially  to  the  Note  for 
Guidance on GCP (CPMP/ICH/135/95). The accepted EEC standards of GLP were followed.  
POPULATION(S) STUDIED   
The study was performed in 22 healthy male volunteers and 2 alternates.  
ANALYTICAL METHODS   
Bioanalytical, Mass Spectrometry has determined the concentrations of olanzapine in human plasma 
using high performance liquid chromatography with mass spectrometric detection. 
The Bioanalytical portion of this study was conducted between February 14, 2002 and February 25, 
2002. The dossier includes analytical report providing results and supporting documentation of study 
sample analyses, in addition to standard curves and quality control sample data. 
The analytical method for the determination of olanzapine in human plasma was developed based on 
LC/MS/MS detection and was properly validated.  
PHARMACOKINETIC VARIABLES  
The AUC0-t, AUCinf, AUC/AUCinf, Cmax, tmax, half-life and kel pharmacokinetic parameters were 
calculated for plasma olanzapine as follows:  
AUC  0-t:  The  area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve.  From  time  0  to  the  last 
measurable concentration, as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method. 
AUCinf: The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time 0 to infinity.  
AUCinf  was  calculated  as  the  sum  of  the  AUC  0-t  plus  the  ratio  of  the  last  measurable  plasma 
concentration to the elimination rate constant. 
AUC/AUCinf: The ratio of AUC 0-t to AUCinf. 
Cmax:  Maximum measured plasma concentration over the time span specified. 
tmax: Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration. If the maximum value occurred at more 
than one time point, tmax was defined as the first time point with this value.  
kel:  Apparent  first-order  terminal  elimination  rate  constant  calculated  from  a  semi-log  plot  of  the 
plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve.  The  parameter  was  calculated  by  linear  least-squares 
regression analysis using the maximum number of points in the terminal log-linear phase (e.g. three or 
more non-zero plasma concentrations).  
t1/2: The apparent first-order terminal elimination half-life was calculated as 0.693/kel.  
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Statistical  and  pharmacokinetic  analyses  were  performed  on  data  from  22  subjects.  Descriptive 
statistics were calculated using the usual measures of central tendency and dispersion. The analysis of 
variance  (ANOVA)  model  included  sequence,  period  and  formulation  as  fixed  effects  and  subject 
nested within sequence as a random effect. The 90% confidence intervals for the difference between 
drug  formulation  least-squares  means  (LSM)  were  derived  from  the  analyses  of  the  ln-transformed 
parameters AUC 0-t, AUCinf and Cmax. 
7/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Results 
The pharmacokinetic results for olanzapine in plasma are listed below. 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters  
Treatment 
Test 
AUC0-t 
ng/ml/h 
475,85 
AUC0-∞ 
ng/ml/h 
512,27 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
12.296 
tmax 
h 
5,913 
T1/2 
h 
37,64 
Reference 
470,52 
510,01 
11,772 
6,595 
38,72 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
CV (%) 
101.0% 
 (97.4 - 
104.8%) 
7,3% 
100.3%  
(96.9 - 
103.9%) 
7,0% 
104.4%  
(98.2 - 
110.9%) 
11,7% 
N/A 
N/A 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero 
AUC0-∞  
to infinity  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t 
hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
time for maximum concentration  
T1/2  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values 
Ratios of LSM (90% Confidence Intervals) 
Parameter 
Olanzapine 10 mg tablets (KRKA) (A) vs. Zyprexa (Eli Lilly) (B) 
AUC 0-t 
AUCinf  
Cmax 
101.0% (97.4 - 104.8%) 
100.3% (96.9 - 103.9%) 
104.4% (98.2 - 110.9%) 
The  results  derived  from  the  analyses  of  the  ln-transformed  AUC  0-t,  AUCinf  and  Cmax 
pharmacokinetic parameters for olanzapine in plasma, adjusted  for non-zero pre-dose concentrations 
in Period 2 are presented in the dossier. The adjusted concentration, pharmacokinetic parameter and 
ratio analysis tables are also presented to form the basis of the claim than the non-zero concentrations 
which were all below 2% of the Cmax do not influence the integrity of data in the study. 
The  ratios  of  least-squares  means  (with  90%  confidence  intervals)  for  the  parameters  AUC  0-t, 
AUCinf  and  Cmax  for  adjusted  data  were  101.1%  (97.4  -105.0%),  100.4%  (96.9  -  104.2%)  and 
104.5%  (98.3  -  111.0%),  respectively.  The  mean  tmax  values  for  the  KRKA  and  Eli  Lilly  products 
were  5.913  and  6.595  hours,  respectively.  As  expected,  these  results  were  similar  to  those  obtained 
with unadjusted data, since the observed non-zero pre-dose concentrations were less than 2% of their 
respective Cmax in all cases. Hence, the conclusion of this study was not affected by the non-zero pre-
dose concentrations observed. 
Safety Assessment: No serious adverse events occurred during the conduct of this study. 
8/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
Pharmacokinetic Conclusion for Tablets   
The ratios of least-squares means and the 90% confidence intervals derived from the analyses of the 
ln-transformed  pharmacokinetic  parameters  AUC  0-t,  AUCinf    and  Cmax  for  olanzapine  in  plasma 
were within the 80-125% acceptance range.  
The  bioequivalence  study  Olanzapine  Protocol  012645  was  well  designed,  conducted  and  reported. 
The validity of the data was confirmed by the positive results of the GCP inspection focusing on the 
laboratory phase of the study. 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  Olanzapine  10  mg  tablets,  Manufactured  by  Krka  d.d. 
(Novo Mesto, Slovenia) is considered bioequivalent with ZyprexaTM (olanzapine) 10 mg film tablets, 
Manufactured by Eli Lilly. The results of this study with the 10 mg formulation can be extrapolated to 
the  other  strengths  2.5,  5,  7.5,  15  and  20  mg,  according  to  conditions  in  Note  for  Guidance  on  the 
Investigation of Bioavailability and Bioequivalence CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, section 5.4. 
Following the CHMP request, the Applicant provided an acceptable and exhaustive explanation of the 
participants selection and the impact of the selection procedure on the overall results.  
Pharmacokinetic Study – Orodispersible tablets  
Methods 
• 
For  the  orodispersible  tablets,  a  single-dose  bioequivalence  study  was  performed  in  fasting  healthy 
volunteers  in  comparison  with  the  originator  product,  indirectly  covering  the  submitted  range  of 
strengths under the bibliographic dose linearity claims described in the “Exemption” and “Additional 
data”  sections.  The  objective  of  the  bioequivalence  study  was  to  compare  the  relative  single-dose 
bioavailability of Krka and Eli Lilly (Zyprexa Velotab) 20 mg olanzapine orodispersible tablets under 
fasting conditions.  
Study design 
For  the  orodispersible  tablets,  a  comparative,  open-label,  randomized,  single-dose,  2-way  crossover 
bioavailability  study  of  Krka  20  mg  olanzapine  orally  disintegrating  tablets  compared  to  Eli  Lilly 
Zyprexa  Velotab  20  mg  was  performed  in  24  healthy  adult  males  and  additional  2  alternates  under 
fasting conditions.   
The  study,  designated  Protocol  AA25817,  was  conducted  using  the  services  of  a  Contract  Research 
Organization. The study was conducted in Canada, and the duration was as follows: Period 1 dosing: 
26-Mar-2005; Period 2 dosing: 16-Apr-2005, Last clinical procedure conducted on a subject: 22-Apr-
2005, and Report Date: 05-Jul-2005. 
All  subjects  were  in  a  fasted  state  following  a  10-hour  overnight  fast.  There  was  a  21-day  washout 
interval between the 2 dose administrations. Period 1 was run on Eastern Standard Time and Period 2 
was run on Daylight Saving Time. The subjects were confined to the clinic through the 48-hour post 
dose events and returned for the 72-, 96-, 120- and 144-hour events during each study period. 
Test and reference products   
Investigational Product(s):  
Product A (tested product): Olanzapine 20 mg orodispersible tablets, Manufacturer: Krka, d.d., Novo 
mesto;  
Product  B  (reference  product):  Zyprexa  VeloTabTM  20  mg  orodispersible  tablets  (olanzapine); 
Manufacturer: Lilly Deutschland GmbH (Eli Lilly);  
Population(s) studied   
9/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The bioequivalence study was an open-label, randomized, single-dose, 2-way crossover comparative 
bioavailability  study  performed  on  24  healthy  adult  non-smoking  male  subjects  and  2  alternates.  A 
total of 26 male subjects were dosed and all 26 subjects completed the clinical phase of the study.  
The subjects were screened within 28 days prior to study enrolment. The screening procedure included 
medical  histories  and  demographic  data,  including  name,  sex,  age,  race,  body  weight  (kg),  height 
(cm), body build, and history of tobacco use. Each subject received a physical examination, vital signs 
measurements 
rate),  a  12-lead 
electrocardiogram  (ECG),  and  laboratory  tests  which  included  haematologic,  hepatic,  and  renal 
function (haematology, serum chemistry, urinalysis, HIV antibody screen, Hepatitis B surface antigen 
screen, Hepatitis C antibody screen, and a urine drug screen for opiates, amphetamines, barbiturates, 
benzodiazepines, cocaine, and cannabinoids).  
rate,  blood  pressure, 
temperature,  and 
respiratory 
(heart 
On the evening prior to each dosing, each subject was screened for cocaine, cannabinoids, and alcohol. 
All  26  subjects  completed  the  clinical  phase  of  the  study.  In  each  period,  the  subjects  were  housed 
from at least 10 hours before dosing until after the 48-hour blood draw and returned for the 72-, 96-, 
120-  and 144-hour  blood draws  during  each  study  period.  Single oral  20  mg  olanzapine  doses  were 
separated  by  a  washout  period  of  21  days.  Protocol  deviations  were  noted  and  no  impact  on  the 
integrity was claimed. 
Analytical methods   
The concentrations of olanzapine in human plasma (EDTA) were determined using high performance 
liquid  chromatography  with  mass  spectrometric  detection.  Study  samples  were  received  as  part  of 
protocol number AA25817. Sample analysis was conducted between 29-Apr-2005 and 19-May-2005.  
The Analytical Report included in the dossier provides the results and supporting documentation from 
the analysis of study samples as well as standard curve and quality control sample data. 
In  a  GLP  compliance  statements,  the  Contract  Research  Organization  (CRO)  analytical  facility 
confirmed that this study was performed in compliance with the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) 
in place in the bioanalytical laboratory and provided the pertinent SOPs in the dossier.  
To  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  reported  data,  the  bioanalytical  laboratory  verified  all  results.  The 
Quality Assurance unit of the same laboratory audited the study. A Quality Assurance statement was 
then issued and is included in the dossier.  
This report reflects the raw data and has been reviewed for completeness and accuracy. 
Pharmacokinetic Variables 
As per protocol, PK and statistical analyses were performed on data from 24 subjects that completed 
the study.  
The AUC 0-t, AUCinf, AUC/AUCinf, Cmax, tmax, half-life and kel pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters 
were calculated for plasma olanzapine as follows:  
AUC  0-t:  The  area  under  the  plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve,  from  time  0  to  the  last 
measurable concentration, as calculated by the linear trapezoidal method. 
AUCinf: The area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time 0 to infinity.  
AUCinf  was  calculated  as  the  sum  of  the  AUC  0-t  plus  the  ratio  of  the  last  measurable  plasma 
concentration to the elimination rate constant. 
AUC/AUCinf: The ratio of AUC 0-t to AUCinf. 
10/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cmax: Maximum measured plasma concentration over the time span specified. 
tmax: Time of the maximum measured plasma concentration. If the maximum value occurred at more 
than one time point, tmax was defined as the first time point with this value.  
kel:  Apparent  first-order  terminal  elimination  rate  constant  calculated  from  a  semi-log  plot  of  the 
plasma  concentration  versus  time  curve.  The  parameter  was  calculated  by  linear  least-squares 
regression analysis using the maximum number of points in the terminal log-linear phase (e.g. three or 
more non-zero plasma concentrations).  
t1/2: The apparent first-order terminal elimination half-life was calculated as 0.693/kel.  
STATISTICAL METHODS   
Descriptive  statistics  were  calculated  using  the  usual  measures  of  central  tendency  and  dispersion. 
Analyses  of  variance  (ANOVA)  were  performed  on  the  In-transformed  PK  parameters  AUC  0-t, 
AUCinf  and  Cmax.  The  ANOVA  model  included  sequence,  formulation  and  period  as  fixed  effects 
and subject nested within sequence as a random effect. The 90% confidence intervals for the ratios of 
least-square means (LSM) were derived by exponentiation of the confidence intervals obtained for the 
difference between formulation LSM resulting from the analyses on the ln-transformed PK parameters 
AUC 0-t, AUCinf and Cmax. 
•  Results 
The PK results for olanzapine in plasma are listed below. 
Table 1. Pharmacokinetic parameters  
Treatment 
Test 
AUC0-t 
ng.h/ml 
1080,4 
AUC0-∞ 
ng.h/ml 
1148,0 
Reference 
1099,5 
1171,1 
Cmax 
ng/ml 
28,41 
27,71 
*Ratio (90% 
CI) 
98.6% (96.1 -
101.1%) 
98.4% (95.8 - 
101.0%) 
102.9% (97.3 
-108.9%) 
tmax 
h 
4,792 
4,833 
N/A 
T1/2 
h 
35,44 
36,32 
N/A 
CV (%) 
5,2% 
5,3% 
11,4% 
N/A 
N/A 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity  
AUC0-∞  
AUC0-t  area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time zero to t hours  
Cmax   maximum plasma concentration  
Tmax  
time for maximum concentration  
T1/2  
half-life  
*ln-transformed values 
Ratios of LSM (90% Confidence Intervals 
Parameter 
AUC 0-t  
AUCinf  
Cmax    
KRKA (A) vs. Lilly Deutschland GmbH (Zyprexa VelotabTM) (B) 
98.6% (96.1 -101.1%) 
98.4% (95.8 - 101.0%) 
102.9% (97.3 -108.9%) 
Safety Considerations:  No serious adverse events occurred during the conduct of this study. 
11/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Pharmacokinetic Conclusion for Orodispersible Tablets   
The 90% confidence intervals derived from the analyses of the ln-transformed PK parameters AUC 0-
t, AUCinf and Cmax for olanzapine in plasma were within the 80-125% acceptance range.  
The bioequivalence study Protocol AA25817 was well designed, conducted and reported. The validity 
of  the  data  was  confirmed  by  the  positive  results  of  the  GCP  inspection  focusing  on  the  laboratory 
phase of the study. 
Based  on  these  results  olanzapine  20  mg  orodispersible  tablets,  manufactured  by  Krka  d.d.  (Novo 
Mesto,  Slovenia)  is  considered  bioequivalent  with  Zyprexa  Velotab  20  mg  orodispersible  tablets, 
manufactured  by  Lilly  Deutschland  GmbH  (Eli  Lilly).  The  results  of  this  study  with  the  20  mg 
formulation  can  be  extrapolated  to  the  other  strengths  5,  7.5,  10  and  15  mg,  according  to  the 
conditions  in  Note  for  Guidance  on  the  Investigation  of  Bioavailability  and  Bioequivalence 
CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98, section 5.4. 
Following  the  CHMP  request,  the  Applicant  provided  acceptable  and  exhaustive  explanation  of  the 
participants selection and the impact of these procedures on the overall results. 
Pharmacodynamics 
Not applicable.  
Additional data 
Dissolution  comparisons  of  products  used  in  the  BE  studies  are  included  in  this  application  and  are 
used to support the exemption for studies in each of the submitted strengths of the product. 
Intrinsic dissolution was performed in 0.1 M Hydrochloric acid, in 0.01 M Hydrochloric acid and in 
purified water.  
In vitro dissolution studies- tablets and orodispersible tablets 
Dissolution  rates  of  olanzapine  from  OLANZAPINE  tablets,  ZYPREXA  tablets,  OLANZAPINE 
orodispersible tablets and ZYPREXA VeloTab tablets were determined.  Different dissolution media 
were used, i.e. 0.1 M Hydrochloric acid, Acetate buffer solution pH 4.5 and Phosphate buffer solution 
pH 6.8.  
The concentrations of olanzapine were measured by an UV spectrophotometric method for the tablets 
and by validated HPLC method for the orodispersible tablets. 
Comparable  in  vitro  dissolution  profiles  of  olanzapine  were  determined  between  OLANZAPINE 
tablets 10 mg and ZYPREXA tablets 10 mg and between OLANZAPINE orodispersible tablets 20 mg 
and ZYPREXA VeloTab tablets 20 mg in all investigated media.  
The  monograph  states  that  olanzapine  orodispersible  tablets  can  be  administered  with  or  without 
water.  Since  these  two  routes  of  administration  could  lead  to  different  oral/sublingual  absorption, 
during  evaluation  the  CHMP  objected  that  the  administration  of  the  orodispersible  tablets  without 
water  had  to  be  thoroughly  investigated.  The  applicant  presented  acceptable  and  exhaustive 
justification  that  the  product’s  administration  without  water  has  only  minimal  effect  on  the  oral 
absorption. 
•  Conclusions on clinical studies 
The number and types of the BE studies are appropriate considering the nature of the pharmaceutical 
forms investigated and the pharmacokinetic properties of olanzapine. The application deals with two 
fast-release  dosage  oral  forms,  containing  olanzapine  as  a  psychotropic  substance  with  a  relatively 
long half life (> 30 hrs). In such cases, single dose bioequivalence studies in fasting healthy volunteers 
are appropriate and are compliant to the Note for Guidance on the Investigation of Bioavailability and 
Bioequivalence  CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98.  The  comparative  bioavailability  studies  presented  are 
12/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potent  indicators  of  the  performance  of  Zalasta  in  relation  to  the  reference  medicinal  product  in  a 
clinical setting. 
In-vitro  dissolution  studies  are  in  the  studied  case  justified  for  the  development  and  strength 
exemption  purposes  and  provide  additional  insight  in  the  olanzapine  release  characteristic  of  the 
tablets  and  orodispersible  tablets.  Sufficient  comparative  information  in  relation  to  the  release 
characteristics  of  the  originator  product  was  provided  in  the  dossier.  According  to  the  results  of  the 
bioequivalence  studies,  the  in-vitro  dissolution  studies  results  are  consistent  with  the  in-vivo  results 
and  support  the  overall  conclusions  on  the  bioequivalence  of  the  tested  Zalasta  formulations  with 
respect to the reference medicinal product. 
Post marketing experience 
No post-marketing data are available.  The  medicinal product has not been  marketed in any country. 
The company must ensure that the system is in place and functioning before the product is placed on 
the market. 
5. 
Pharmacovigilance  
•  Description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
•  Risk Management Plan 
A  Risk  Management  Plan  has  not  been  submitted.  Since  the  application  concerns  a  generic  of 
reference  medicinal  product  for  which  no  safety  concerns  requiring  additional  risk  minimization 
activities have been identified, a Risk Management Plan is not required. 
•  PSUR 
The  PSUR  submission  schedule  for  Zalasta  tablets  and  Zalasta  orodispersible  tablets  should  follow 
PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal product. 
Discussion on Clinical aspects 
Tablets 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  Zalasta  10  mg  tablets  manufactured  by  Krka  d.d.  is 
considered bioequivalent with Zyprexa 10 mg film tablets manufactured by Eli Lilly. Bioequivalence 
study  Olanzapine  Protocol  012645  was  well  designed,  conducted  and  reported.    The  validity  of  the 
results  of  this  study  was  confirmed  by  the  positive  results  of  the  GCP  inspection  focusing  on  the 
laboratory phase of the study. 
Orodispersible tablets 
Based  on  the  presented  bioequivalence  study  (Protocol  AA25817)  Zalasta  20  mg  orodispersible 
tablets,  manufactured  by  Krka,  d.d.  is  considered  bioequivalent  with  Zyprexa  VeloTab  20  mg 
orodispersible  tablets  (olanzapine),  manufactured  by  Lilly  Deutschland  GmbH  (Eli  Lilly).  The 
bioequivalence  study  was  well  designed,  conducted  and  reported.  The  validity  of  the  results  of  this 
study was confirmed by the positive results of the GCP inspection focusing on the laboratory phase of 
the study. 
General conclusion  - in vitro dissolution data 
According  to  the  results  of  the  bioequivalence  studies,  the  in-vitro  dissolution  studies  results  are 
consistent  with  the  in-vivo  results  and  support  the  overall  conclusions  on  the  bioequivalence  of  the 
tested Zalasta formulations with respect to the reference medicinal products. 
13/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  User consultation 
The results of user consultation provided indicates that the Package leaflet is well structured and 
organized, easy to understand and written in a comprehensible manner. The test shows that the leaflet 
is readable in patiens /users are able to act upon the information that it contains. 
6. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Overall conclusion and Benefit/risk assessment 
The application contains adequate quality, non clinical data and the bioequivalence has been shown. A 
Benefit/Risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded.  
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application  and  available  on  the  chosen 
reference  medicinal  product,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  available  data,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  benefit/risk  ratio  of 
Zalasta in the treatment of schizophrenia is positive. Olanzapine is effective in maintaining the clinical 
improvement  during  continuation  therapy  in  patients  who  have  shown  an  initial  treatment  response. 
Olanzapine  is  indicated  for  the  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe  manic  episode.  In  patients  whose 
manic  episode  has  responded  to  olanzapine  treatment,  olanzapine  is  indicated  for  the  prevention  of 
recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder was favourable and therefore recommended the granting of 
the marketing authorisation.  
14/14 
© EMEA 2007 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
