European Medicines Agency  
EMEA/H/C/792 
EUROPEAN PUBLIC ASSESSMENT REPORT (EPAR) 
ZALASTA 
EPAR summary for the public 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis of the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also part 
of the EPAR). 
What is Zalasta? 
Zalasta is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as round, yellow 
tablets (2.5, 5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 20 mg) and as round, yellow ‘orodispersible’ tablets (5, 7.5, 10, 15 and 
20 mg). Orodispersible tablets are tablets that dissolve in the mouth. 
Zalasta is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Zalasta is similar to ‘reference medicines’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. For more information on 
generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Zalasta used for? 
Zalasta is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has a number 
of symptoms including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that 
are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Zalasta is also effective in maintaining 
improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Zalasta is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in adults. It can 
also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in adults with 
bipolar disorder (a mental illness causing alternating periods of high mood and depression) who have 
responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Zalasta used? 
The recommended starting dose of Zalasta depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg per day is used 
in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the treatment of manic 
episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose can be 10 mg per day. 
The dose is adjusted depending on how well the patient responds to and tolerates the treatment.  
The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. The orodispersible tablets, which can be used as 
an alternative to the tablets, are taken by being placed on the tongue, where they disintegrate quickly 
in the saliva, or by mixing them in water before swallowing. Patients over 65 years of age and patients 
who have problems with their liver or kidneys may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Zalasta work? 
The active substance in Zalasta, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an ‘atypical’ 
antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been available 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several receptors on the 
surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between brain cells by 
‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It is thought that 
olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytryptamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, reducing 
the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Zalasta been studied? 
Because Zalasta is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to demonstrate that it is 
bioequivalent to the reference medicines (i.e. that the medicines produce the same levels of the active 
substance in the body). 
What are the benefit and risk of Zalasta? 
Because Zalasta is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicines, its benefit and 
risk are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicines. 
Why has Zalasta been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance with 
EU requirements, Zalasta has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to 
Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Zyprexa and Zyprexa 
Velotab, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Zalasta be given 
marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Zalasta: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Zalasta to 
KRKA, d.d., Novo mesto on 27 September 2007. 
The full EPAR for Zalasta can be found here. 
The full EPARs for the reference medicines can also be found on the EMEA’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 09-2008. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
