EMA/536607/2017  
EMEA/H/C/002532 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zaltrap 
aflibercept 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zaltrap. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Zaltrap. 
For practical information about using Zaltrap, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Zaltrap and what is it used for? 
Zaltrap is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with metastatic colorectal cancer (cancer of the large 
bowel that has spread to other parts of the body) for whom treatment based on another medicine, 
oxaliplatin, has not worked or the cancer got worse. Zaltrap is used with FOLFIRI, which is a treatment 
combining the medicines irinotecan, 5-fluorouracil, and folinic acid. 
The medicine contains the active substance aflibercept. 
How is Zaltrap used? 
Zaltrap can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be supervised by a doctor who is 
experienced in using cancer medicines. 
Zaltrap is given as an infusion (drip) into the vein over one hour, at a dose of 4 mg per kilogram body 
weight. This is then followed by the FOLFIRI treatment. This cycle of treatment is repeated every two 
weeks, until the disease gets worse or the patient cannot tolerate the treatment. Treatment should be 
discontinued, delayed, or the dose may have to be adjusted, in patients who develop certain side 
effects. For further details, see the package leaflet. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Zaltrap work? 
The active substance in Zaltrap, aflibercept, is a protein that attaches to vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF) and placenta growth factor (PlGF), substances that circulate in the blood and make blood 
vessels grow. By binding to VEGF and PlGF, aflibercept stops them having an effect. As a result, the 
cancer cells cannot develop their own blood supply and are starved of oxygen and nutrients, so helping 
to slow down the growth of tumours. 
What benefits of Zaltrap have been shown in studies? 
Zaltrap was investigated in one main study involving 1,226 adults with metastatic colorectal cancer 
that had not responded to oxaliplatin-based treatment. Zaltrap was compared with placebo (a dummy 
treatment) when added to FOLFIRI. The main measure of effectiveness was the average length of time 
that patients survived after treatment. 
In this study, Zaltrap was more effective than placebo at increasing survival of patients: patients 
treated with Zaltrap plus FOLFIRI lived an average of 13.5 months, whereas patients treated with 
placebo and FOLFIRI lived an average of 12.1 months.  
What are the risks associated with Zaltrap? 
The most common side effects with Zaltrap in combination with FOLFIRI (which may affect more than 
20 patients in 100) are leucopenia and neutropenia (low levels of white cells in the blood, including the 
type that fight infections), diarrhoea, proteinuria (protein in the urine), increased blood levels of liver 
enzymes (aspartate and alanine transaminases), stomatitis (inflammation of the mouth), tiredness, 
thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts), hypertension (high blood pressure), weight loss, 
decreased appetite, epistaxis (nose bleeds), abdominal pain, dysphonia (speech disturbance), 
increases in creatinine in the blood (a marker of kidney problems), and headache. The most common 
effects that led to treatment being permanently stopped were problems with the circulation including 
hypertension, infections, tiredness, diarrhoea, dehydration, stomatitis, neutropenia, proteinuria, and 
pulmonary embolism (a clot in a blood vessel supplying the lungs). 
For the full list of all side effects reported with Zaltrap, see the package leaflet. 
Although medicines containing the same active substance are available for injection into the eye, 
Zaltrap must not be injected into the eye as it was not developed for such use and may cause local 
damage. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zaltrap approved? 
Although Zaltrap is associated with significant side effects, which can be severe enough to force 
treatment to be stopped, the results of the large main study show that there is a small but clinically 
significant benefit in prolonging the life of treated patients in whom previous treatment failed. Overall, 
the European Medicines Agency decided that Zaltrap’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
Zaltrap  
EMA/536607/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zaltrap? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zaltrap have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Zaltrap 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zaltrap on 1 February 2013. 
The full EPAR for Zaltrap can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Zaltrap, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 08-2017.  
Zaltrap  
EMA/536607/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
