25 February 2016 
EMA/296973/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to 
the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance: aflibercept (oncological indication(s)) 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010019/201508 
Period covered by the PSUR: 04 February 2015 - 03 August 2015  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for aflibercept (oncological 
indication(s)), the scientific conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
The PRAC agrees with the MAH’s proposal to maintain the cut-off value for UPCR (urinary protein 
creatinine ratio) and to add the units for PCR (protein creatinine ratio) expressed as mg protein/mmol 
creatinine. Therefore, the summary of product information (SmPC) of aflibercept should be revised to 
include the protein/creatinine ration (PCR) >100 mg/mmol.  
With regard to osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ), the PRAC considered that based on review of the MAH’s 
global pharmacovigilance database, clinical data, labelling of other drugs of the same class, worldwide 
scientific literature and biological plausibility, the weighted cumulative evidence is sufficient to support 
a causal association between aflibercept and ONJ. Associated contributing factors may include 
bisphosphonates and dental infection/procedure. Therefore, the PRAC concluded that the product 
information of aflibercept should be updated to include a warning on osteonecrosis of the jaw and add 
it as an adverse reaction with a frequency uncommon. In addition, osteonecrosis of the jaw should be 
recategorised as an important identified risk. The PRAC also considered that a direct healthcare 
professional communication should be distributed to the relevant healthcare professionals. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing aflibercept were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for aflibercept (oncological indication(s)) the CHMP is of the 
opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal products containing aflibercept (oncological 
indication(s)) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
EMA/296973/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
  
 
 
 
 
