17 November 2011 
EMA/180592/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Zavesca  
(miglustat) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000435/A46/0038 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
in  accordance  with  article  46  of  regulation  (EC) 
No1901/2006, as amended 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION 
Invented name of the medicinal product: 
Zavesca 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
Miglustat 
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
Actelion 
Zavesca is indicated for the oral treatment of adult 
patients with mild to moderate type 1 Gaucher 
disease. Zavesca may be used only in the treatment of 
patients for whom enzyme replacement therapy is 
unsuitable (see sections 4.4 and 5.1).  
Zavesca is indicated for the treatment of progressive 
neurological manifestations in adult patients and 
paediatric patients with Niemann-Pick type C disease 
(see sections 4.4, and 5.1). 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
A16AX06 
Pharmaceutical form(s) and strength(s): 
100 mg hard capsules. 
Rapporteur: 
Dr Bengt Ljungberg 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
On  Dec  7  2009,  the  MAH  submitted  a  completed  paediatric  study    for  Zavesca,  in  accordance  with 
Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended, on medicinal products for paediatric use. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
The MAH stated that the submitted paediatric study does not influence the benefit risk for Zavesca and 
that there is no consequential regulatory action. 
II.  SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
II.1  Clinical aspects 
1. Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
OGT 918-006: A Phase I/II Randomized, Controlled Study of OGT 918 in patients with 
neuronopathic  Gaucher  disease,  A  12-month  report  of  this  clinical  trial  and  a  pharmacokinetic  (PK) 
report have previously been submitted to provide paediatric safety and PK data during procedure 
EMEA/H/000435/II/29.  The  use  of  miglustat  in  neuronopathic  type  3  Gaucher  disease,  the  patient 
population in this clinical trial, is outside the approved indication for Zavesca. 
2. Clinical study 
  Description 
This was a Phase I/II Randomized Controlled Study of OGT 918 in patients with neuronopathic Gaucher 
Disease. A 12-month clinical study report was produced in 2006. Based on an interim analysis of the 
24-month  results,  the  sponsor  decided  not  to  pursue  investigations  in  the  neuronopathic  Gaucher 
disease indication, and for this reason this final clinical study report is in abbreviated form. The report 
provides all efficacy and safety data collected up to the end of the study, and a full discussion of safety 
data  over  the  whole  study  period  (comprising  a  12-month  Randomized  period,  12-month  non-
controlled 
Extension period, 12-month non-controlled Extended Use period, and a Study Continuation phase). 
  Methods 
•  Objective(s) 
The primary objective for the initial 12-month Randomized period, and the 12-month Extension period 
(Months  12–24)  was  to  evaluate  miglustat  as  a  treatment  for  neuronopathic  Gaucher  disease  by 
assessing changes in saccadic eye movement velocity and other markers of the disease, with particular 
regard to any changes in the neurological and pulmonary assessments. The secondary objective was to 
assess the clinical safety and tolerability of miglustat therapy. 
•  Study design 
This was a  prospective, open-label study in which patients on enzyme replacement therapy or having 
had  a  bone  marrow  transplant  were  randomized  2:1  to  receive  either  miglustat  or  no  miglustat 
treatment for 12 months. All patients were then offered miglustat treatment in an 
optional  12-month  Extension  period,  a  further  optional  12-month  Extended  Use  period,  and  a  Study 
Continuation phase until the results of the study were available. 
•  Study population /Sample size 
3 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 male or female patients with neuronopathic Gaucher disease (confirmed by clinical diagnosis). 
• 
Treatments 
Miglustat  200  mg  three  times  daily  for patients  aged  12  and  over, or  according  to  their  body  surface 
area (BSA) for patients aged under 12. If a patient experienced unacceptable toxicity, the dose could 
be modified. The duration of treatment with miglustat was 24 months for patients initially randomized 
to the No Treatment group, or 36 months for patients initially randomized to the miglustat group. The 
duration  of  treatment  for  some  patients  who  entered  the  Study  Continuation  phase  exceeded  36 
months. 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in vertical saccadic eye movement (VSEM)-up α and 
VSEM-down α from baseline to last value.  
Safety  endpoints:  Adverse  events  (AEs),  hemoglobin  or  platelet  values,  laboratory  analyses,  vital 
signs,  concomitant  medications,  physical  examination,  organ  volumes,  pulmonary  imaging,  tremor 
assessments  (accelerometry  and  surface  electromyography),  pregnancy  test,  nutritional  history, 
patient diary, and nerve conduction velocity studies. 
•  Statistical Methods 
Two analysis sets were defined: 
All Randomized set: all randomized patients regardless of whether patients assigned to miglustat were 
treated. 
Safety set: all randomized patients who received at least one dose of miglustat during the study period 
and had at least one post-baseline safety assessment value after the start of the miglustat treatment. 
(This  included  those  patients  randomized  to  miglustat,  and  those  patients  initially  randomized  to  No 
Treatment  who  received  miglustat  after  the  Randomized  period).  Patients  originally  randomized  to 
miglustat  could  contribute  data  from  Day  0,  whereas  patients  originally  randomized  to  No  Treatment 
could contribute data from the date the first dose of miglustat was taken during the Extension period. 
Two subgroups were 
therefore  defined:  patients  who  received  miglustat  from  the  start  of  the  study  (the  “36  Months 
miglustat group” [the “miglustat group” during the 12-month Randomized period]), and patients who 
received  miglustat  only  from  the  start  of  the  12-month  Extension  period  (the  “24  Months  miglustat 
group” [the “No Treatment group” during the 12-month Randomized period]). 
To  account  for  patient  withdrawal,  a  last  value  analysis  was  undertaken  whereby  the  change  from 
baseline  to  the  last  available  post-baseline  value  was  used.  The  summary  statistics  for  quantitative 
data  were  the  number  of  values,  mean,  standard  deviation,  median,  minimum  and  maximum.  For 
categorical  data,  the  summary  statistics  were  frequencies  and  percentages.  When  the  results  of 
inferential analyses were reported, the standard error and confidence interval were also tabulated. The 
24-month efficacy evaluations were performed on all randomized patients who had at least one post-
baseline  efficacy  assessment  during  the  12-month  Extension  period.  For  all  efficacy  endpoints, 
absolute  values  were  calculated  using  standard  descriptive  statistical  measures  (mean  and  95% 
confidence intervals). For the primary efficacy endpoint (VSEM-α), secondary eye movement endpoints 
(VSEM-β and HSEM), and 
organ  volumes,  treatment  groups  were  also  compared  using  an  analysis  of  covariance  model  with 
terms for baseline, center, and treatment group. 
  Results 
•  Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 30 patients were randomized to treatment and completed the 12-month Randomized period. 
Twenty-eight  patients  entered,  and  22  completed,  the  12-month  Extension  period  (with  16  patients 
having  received  24  months  of  miglustat  treatment,  and  6  having  received  12  months  of  miglustat 
treatment). 
Eighteen  patients  entered,  and  12  completed,  the  12-month  Extended  Use  period  (12  from  the 
miglustat  group  and  6  from  the  No  Treatment  group  entered  this  study  period;  7  and  5  respectively 
completed it). Nine patients entered the Study Continuation phase (5 from the miglustat group and 4 
from  the  No  Treatment  group).  While  four  patients  were  categorized  as  withdrawn  before  the  end  of 
the study, for 3 of these this was related to CRF completion. Only 1 patient withdrew before the end of 
the study due to an AE. Twenty-nine patients (11 males and 18 females) received at least one dose of 
miglustat  and  were  included  in  the  Safety  set.  There  was  a  greater  proportion  of  females  in  the  24 
Months miglustat group (8 patients, 89%) than in the 36 Months miglustat group (10 patients, 50%). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There  was  a  greater  proportion  of  younger  patients  (aged  2–11  years)  in  the  24  Months  miglustat 
group (8 patients, 89%) than in the 36 Months miglustat group (10 patients, 50%). Apart from these 
differences, the treatment groups were 
generally well matched with regard to demographics and baseline disease characteristics. 
• 
Efficacy results 
The  12-month  and  24-month  efficacy  analyses  did  not  show  any  statistically  significant  differences 
between  the  miglustat  and  No  Treatment  groups.  As  the  efficacy  of  miglustat  in  this  indication  could 
not be shown, the sponsor decided to stop the study, and no final efficacy analysis was planned. 
The 24-month interim analysis showed no effect of miglustat on VSEM-α.  In the 24 Months miglustat 
group, numerical increases were observed for VSEM-up α (1.87 [95% CI: 1.1–2.6] at baseline vs 2.22 
[95% CI: 1.3–3.1] at Month 24) and VSEM-down α (2.61 [95% CI: 1.8–3.5] at baseline vs 3.09 [95% 
CI:  1.8–4.4]  at  Month  24).  No  statistically  significant  difference  between  groups  was  seen  on  the 
primary and 
secondary neurological endpoints. 
•  Safety results 
All 29 patients who received at least one dose of miglustat during the study experienced at least one 
treatment-emergent  AE.  AEs  were  most  frequently  associated  with  the  system  organ  classes  of 
Gastrointestinal  disorders,  Nervous  system  disorders,  Investigations,  and  Infections  and  infestations. 
The most frequently reported AEs were diarrhea, abdominal pain, tremor, cough, and pyrexia. Twenty-
six patients (90%) experienced at least one AE assessed by the investigator as related to study drug 
administration. The most common treatment-related AEs were diarrhea, abdominal pain and tremor. 
Eight  patients  (28%)  experienced  a  total  of  14  SAEs  during  the  study,  12  of  which  were  under 
miglustat  treatment.  None  of  the  SAEs  were  considered  to  be  treatment-related.  Two  patients 
withdrew  from  the  study  due  to  AEs:  severe  motor  nerve  conduction  studies  abnormal,  related  to 
study  drug  administration;  and  neuropathy  (no  details  available  on  severity  or  relationship).  There 
were no deaths due to AEs reported during the study. 
Most  AEs  reported  during  the  study  were  of  mild  or  moderate  intensity.  A  total  of  nine  patients 
reported severe AEs, with four severe AEs reported by three patients considered related to treatment: 
motor nerve conduction velocity abnormal, aggravated ataxia, and two AEs of intention tremor. There 
were no AEs classified as life-threatening. 
Six patients reported 14 events of convulsions; one  event was considered severe and all others were 
considered  mild  or  moderate.  None  of  these  AEs  of  convulsions  were  considered  to  be  treatment-
related. With respect to clinical laboratory parameters, mean GGT and AST decreased from baseline to 
last  value,  by  approximately  50.8  U/L  and  20.4  U/L  respectively.  These  mean  changes  appeared  to 
result  from  individual  patients  with  outlying  values  –  median  change  from  baseline  was  −3.0  U/L  for 
both  GGT  and  AST.  None  of  the  changes  in  the  remaining  clinical  chemistry  parameters  were 
considered  clinically  relevant.  No  other  changes  in  hematology  parameters  or  clinical  chemistry 
parameters were considered 
clinically relevant. 
There were no noteworthy changes from baseline to Months 12, 24, 36 or last value for hemoglobin or 
platelet values. 
There were no marked differences in the mean changes from baseline to Month 24, 30, 36 or last value 
for liver or spleen organ volumes. 
Minor, changes from baseline to last value, not considered clinically relevant, were observed for blood 
pressure, heart rate, temperature, and respiratory rate. 
Over the 36-month treatment period, there was no evidence that miglustat had a detrimental effect on 
height  development:  from  baseline  to  last  value  there  was  a  mean  percentile  decrease  of 
approximately 1.5 in the 36 Months miglustat group and a mean percentile increase of approximately 5 
in the 24 Months miglustat group. Mean percentile weight decreased from baseline to last value by 11 
percentile  points  in  the  36  Months  miglustat  group  and  by  10  percentile  points  in  the  24  Months 
miglustat group. 
The mean percentile BMI decreased from baseline to last value in the 36 Months miglustat group by 14 
percentile points,  and  in  the  24  Months  miglustat  group  by  20  percentile points.  However,  mean  BMI 
percentile for the 36 Months miglustat group was > 50% at baseline.  
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III.  RAPPORTEUR’S OVERALL CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION 
  Overall conclusion 
The  12-month  and  24-month  efficacy  analyses  did  not  show  any  statistically  significant  differences 
between  the  miglustat  and  No  Treatment  groups.  As  the  efficacy  of  miglustat  in  this  indication  could 
not  be  shown,  the  sponsor  decided  to  stop  the  study,  and  no  final  efficacy  analysis  was  planned. 
Considering that the use of miglustat in neuronopathic type 3 Gaucher disease, the patient population 
in this clinical trial, is outside the approved indication for Zavesca, this is considered as acceptable.  
The  safety  profile  of  miglustat  was  consistent  with  that  already  established.  The  most  frequently 
occurring AEs were gastrointestinal. 
  Recommendation  
 Fulfilled  
No further action required 
IV.  ADDITIONAL CLARIFICATIONS REQUESTED 
Not applicable 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
