Summary of risk management plan for Zavicefta (Ceftazidime-Avibactam) 
This is a summary of the RMP for Zavicefta. The RMP details important risks of Zavicefta, how 
these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about Zavicefta s risks 
and uncertainties (missing information). 
Zavicefta s SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare professionals 
and patients on how Zavicefta should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Zavicefta should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is 
part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of EPAR's 
RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For
Zavicefta is authorised for the treatment of Complicated Intra-Abdominal Infection, Complicated 
Urinary Tract Infection, including pyelonephritis, Hospital-Acquired Pneumonia including 
Ventilator-Associated Pneumonia, and for the treatment of infections due to aerobic Gram-
negative organisms in adult patients with limited treatment options (See SmPC for the full 
indication). It contains ceftazidime and avibactam as the active substances, and it is given 
intravenously. Zavicefta is authorised for the treatment of Complicated Intra-Abdominal 
Infection, Complicated Urinary Tract Infection, including pyelonephritis, Hospital-acquired 
Pneumonia, including ventilator associated pneumonia and Infections due to aerobic Gram-
negative organisms in patients with limited treatment options in children ≥ 3 months to <18 years 
old.  
Safety and efficacy in children <3 months old have not yet been established. No data are 
available. 
Further information about the evaluation of Zavicefta s benefits can be found in Zavicefta s 
EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the 
medicine’s webpage  
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zavicefta 
II. Risks Associated with the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further Characterise
the Risks
Important risks of Zavicefta together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Zavicefta 's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size - the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status - the way a medicine is supplied to the public (eg., with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about AEs is collected continuously and regularly 
analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary.  These 
measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Zavicefta is not yet available, it is listed 
under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of Zavicefta are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for which 
there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Zavicefta.  
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that 
is currently missing and needs to be collected (eg., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
Table 1.  List of important risks and missing information 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
Hepatotoxicity 
Bacterial resistance development 
Pregnancy exposure 
Lactation exposure 
Immunocompromised population exposure 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks
There are no safety concerns considered important identified risks. 
Table 2. 
Important Potential Risk - Hepatotoxicity 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Clinical studies, recognised class effects, and medical/scientific literature. The 
incidence of AEs representing possible events of hepatotoxicity was generally 
balanced across treatment groups in the clinical studies.  No cases fulfilled Hy’s 
Law criteria and no cases of actual hepatotoxicity were identified.   
History of alcohol use, hepatitis, and other pre-existing liver disease; 
concomitant use of hepatotoxic drugs; infections; age; gender; and daily drug 
dose.  
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Statements within SmPC Sections 4.2 (Posology and method of administration), 
4.8 (Undesirable effects), and 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic properties).  
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
Table 3. 
Important Potential Risk - Bacterial resistance development 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Nonclinical studies, clinical studies, and medical/scientific literature. No AE 
of bacterial resistance development was reported from the studies in the 
CAZ-AVI development programme. One patient from the REPROVE study 
was infected with K. pneumoniae that was confirmed to be susceptible at 
baseline and, despite a clinical cure, samples collected after 14 days of 
therapy were found to have a resistant strain.   
Factors that may contribute to the development of resistance include 
inadequate infection control measures, high antibiotic use in a specific 
geographic area per unit time, increased use for prophylaxis, increased use 
for empiric polymicrobial therapy, greater severity of illness of hospitalized 
patients, more severely immunocompromised patients, devices and 
procedures, agricultural use of antimicrobials, social factors, international 
travel, and evolution of pathogens.  Evidence suggests that a causal 
relationship exists between antimicrobial usage and antimicrobial resistance 
(eg., hospitals with high antibiotic use have high rates of resistance, changes 
in antimicrobial usage in such settings are often accompanied by changes in 
resistance patterns, and an increased duration of antimicrobial exposure is 
accompanied by an increased risk of colonisation with resistant organisms.  
Routine risk minimisation measures 
Statement within SmPC Section 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic properties). 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
Additional pharmacovigilance activities: Resistance surveillance 
programme. 
See Section PART I.II.C.2 of this summary for an overview of the post-
authorisation development plan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 4.  Missing Information - Pregnancy exposure 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
CAZ-AVI use was not studied in pregnant women. There is limited clinical data 
from the use of ceftazidime-avibactam in pregnant women. 
Animal embryofoetal development studies conducted with ceftazidime or 
avibactam do not indicate harmful effects at exposures equivalent to therapeutic 
concentrations. Following administration of avibactam throughout pregnancy 
and lactation in the rat at maternal exposures greater than or equal to 
approximately 1.5 times human therapeutic exposures, there were minor changes 
in the morphology of the kidney and ureters in some (< 10%) rat pups. 
Ceftazidime-avibactam should not be used during pregnancy unless clearly 
necessary and only if the potential benefit outweighs the possible risk. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Statements within SmPC Sections 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy, and lactation) and 
5.3 (Nonclinical safety data) 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
Table 5.  Missing Information - Lactation exposure 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
CAZ-AVI use was not studied in nursing women. Women who were 
pregnant or nursing were excluded from clinical study participation. 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Statements within SmPC Sections 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy, and 
lactation) and 5.3 (Nonclinical safety data). 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
 
 
Table 6.  Missing Information - Immunocompromised population exposure 
Evidence for 
linking the risk to 
the medicine 
These patients were excluded from the clinical development program in contrast 
to patients who have a normal immune response to their infection, patients who 
are immunocompromised when they develop an infection are likely to experience 
a more severe infection, with more associated complications. In addition, they are 
likely to be treated in secondary or tertiary centres with higher risk of exposure to 
multi-drug resistant organisms. 
Population in need of further characterization: 
Patients with evidence of significant immunologic disease determined by the 
following: Human immunodeficiency virus infection, with either a current 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome defining condition (eg., Kaposi’s 
sarcoma, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia) or a CD4+ T lymphocyte count 
<200/mm3 at the time of study entry, metastatic or haematological malignancy 
requiring chemotherapeutic interventions and immunosuppressive therapy, 
including maintenance corticosteroid therapy (>40 mg/day of equivalent 
prednisolone). 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
None proposed. 
No additional risk minimisation measures. 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1. Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
Currently there are no studies which are conditions of the EU marketing authorisation of CAZ-
AVI. 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
Resistance surveillance programme 
Monitor and follow-up on any clinical and/or microbiological failures in the clinical studies 
where there is potential for development of resistance whilst on therapy. 
Post approval commitment for monitoring resistance and increasing levels through the 
Resistance Surveillance Programme. 
