EMA/369737/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004027 
Zavicefta (ceftazidime / avibactam) 
An overview of Zavicefta and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Zavicefta and what is it used for? 
Zavicefta is an antibiotic used in adults and children aged 3 months and older to treat the following 
infections: 
• 
• 
• 
complicated (difficult to treat) infections of the tissues and organs in the belly (intra-abdominal 
infections); 
complicated (difficult to treat) infections of the urinary tract, including pyelonephritis (kidney 
infection); 
infections of the lungs caught in hospital (hospital-acquired pneumonia), including ventilator-
associated pneumonia (pneumonia caught from a ventilator, a machine that helps a patient to 
breathe). 
Zavicefta can also be used for infections of the blood (bacteraemia) associated with any of the above 
infections. 
Zavicefta can be used in adults and children aged 3 months and older for infections caused by aerobic 
Gram-negative bacteria (types of bacteria) when other treatments might not work. 
Zavicefta contains the active substances ceftazidime and avibactam. 
How is Zavicefta used? 
Zavicefta is given by infusion (drip) into a vein. The infusion is given over 2 hours, usually 3 times 
daily. Treatment usually lasts between 5 and 14 days, depending on the type of infection.  
Zavicefta can only be obtained with a prescription, and prescribers should take into account official 
guidance on the use of antibiotics.  
For more information about using Zavicefta, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
 An agency of the European Union      
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Zavicefta work? 
The active substances in Zavicefta are ceftazidime and avibactam. Ceftazidime is an antibiotic called a 
cephalosporin, which belongs to the wider group ‘beta-lactams’. Cephalosporins interfere with the 
building of cell walls in bacteria. This weakens bacterial cell walls and they break down, causing the 
bacteria to die.  
Avibactam blocks the action of bacterial enzymes called beta-lactamases. These enzymes enable 
bacteria to break down beta-lactam antibiotics such as ceftazidime, making them resistant to the 
antibiotic’s action. By blocking these enzymes, avibactam allows ceftazidime to act against bacteria 
that would otherwise be resistant.  
What benefits of Zavicefta have been shown in studies? 
The benefits of Zavicefta have been shown in five main studies in adults.  
In two studies, the combination of Zavicefta and metronidazole (another antibiotic) was at least as 
effective as the antibiotic meropenem in 1,490 patients with complicated intra-abdominal infection. In 
one of the patient groups in the first study, 92% of patients  treated with Zavicefta and metronidazole 
were cured, compared with 93%  of patients treated with meropenem. In the second study, 94% of 
patients treated with Zavicefta and metronidazole were cured, compared with 94% of patients treated 
with meropenem. 
A third study looked at 332 patients with complicated intra-abdominal or urinary tract infections 
caused by Gram-negative bacteria that were resistant to ceftazidime. Zavicefta alone (for urinary tract 
infection) or in combination with metronidazole (for intra-abdominal infection) was as effective as 
alternative antibiotics: 91% of patients  were cured after treatment with Zavicefta compared with 91% 
after treatment with the best alternative antibiotic. In addition, disease-causing bacteria were 
eliminated in 82% of patients after treatment with Zavicefta compared with 63% after treatment with 
the best alternative antibiotic. These results support Zavicefta’s activity when combined with the other 
studies.  
In a fourth study, 1,020 patients with complicated urinary tract infections (including pyelonephritis) 
caused by Gram-negative bacteria were treated with Zavicefta or the antibiotic doripenem. Zavicefta 
was at least as effective as doripenem: disease-causing bacteria were eliminated in 77% of patients 
treated with Zavicefta compared with 71% of patients treated with doripenem. 
In a fifth study in 817 patients with hospital-acquired pneumonia, of whom 280 had ventilator-
associated pneumonia, around 69% of patients treated with Zavicefta were cured compared with 73% 
of those receiving meropenem.  
Data on the effectiveness of Zavicefta in treating blood infections come from patients in these 5 studies 
who also had blood infection. Across all studies, 87% of patients (47 out of 54) who received Zavicefta 
with or without metronidazole were cured compared with 83% of those who received another antibiotic 
treatment (39 out of 47). 
Additional studies have shown that when the medicine is given to children at the recommended doses, 
levels of the medicine in the blood are sufficient to treat the infection, and comparable to those in 
adults. The medicine is also absorbed, modified and removed from the body in a similar way across the 
different age groups of children, regardless of the infections they have. Based on these results, 
Zavicefta was considered to be effective at treating complicated intra-abdominal and urinary tract 
infections, hospital-acquired pneumonia, and infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms when 
other treatments might not work in children. 
Zavicefta (ceftazidime / avibactam)  
EMA/369737/2020  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
In addition, in a study in children from 3 months to under 18 years of age with complicated intra-
abdominal infection, 92% of patients (56 out of 61) were cured after treatment with Zavicefta plus 
metronidazole compared with 95% (21 out of 22) of patients who received meropenem. In another 
study with children from 3 months to under 18 years of age with complicated urinary tract infections, 
89% of patients (48 out of 54) were cured after treatment with Zavicefta compared with 83% (19 out 
of 23) of patients who received cefepime. 
What are the risks associated with Zavicefta? 
The most common side effects with Zavicefta (which may affect more than 5 in 100 people) are 
nausea (feeling sick), diarrhoea and a positive result in a Coombs test (a sign of the development of 
antibodies involved in breaking down red blood cells). For the full list of side effects with Zavicefta, see 
the package leaflet. 
Zavicefta must not be used in patients who are hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substances in 
Zavicefta or any of the other ingredients, or in those who are hypersensitive to other cephalosporin 
antibiotics or have ever had a severe allergic reaction to another beta-lactam antibiotic (for example 
penicillin). 
Why is Zavicefta approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Zavicefta’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can 
be authorised for use in the EU. Zavicefta is effective at treating complicated intra-abdominal and 
urinary tract infections, and hospital-acquired pneumonia in adults and children. It is also effective at 
treating these infections in adults when they have spread into the blood. In addition, Zavicefta is 
effective at treating infections due to aerobic Gram-negative organisms in adults and children when 
other treatments might not work. Regarding Zavicefta’s safety profile, side effects were those expected 
for the two active substances. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zavicefta? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zavicefta have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet.  
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zavicefta are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Zavicefta are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zavicefta 
Zavicefta received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 23 June 2016. 
Further information on Zavicefta can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zavicefta.  
This summary was last updated in 09-2020.  
Zavicefta (ceftazidime / avibactam)  
EMA/369737/2020  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
