27 June 2019 
EMA/PRAC/613519/2019  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): eslicarbazepine acetate 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00001267/201810 
Period covered by the PSUR: 22/10/2015 to 21/10/2018 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for eslicarbazepine acetate, the 
scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
Weight gain 
Taking into account that more eslicarbazepine acetate-treated patients experienced weight increase than 
weight decrease during the open label extension of the Phase III studies the current labelling is not 
considered adequate. In addition, there are six post-marketing cases of ‘weight increase’ for which the 
causality was assessed as possibly related to eslicarbazepine acetate by the MAH. Considering that 
changes in body weight can influence the treatment decision and are of particular importance in epilepsy 
which itself may be associated with overweight/obesity this information should adequately be reflected in 
SmPC and PIL.  
Based on this outcome, update of section 4.8 of the SmPC to add ‘weight increased’ with the frequency 
common (calculation based on clinical trial data) is recommended.  
Overdose 
During the reporting period, the MAH detected a signal of overdose. Two clusters of ADRs were identified 
in context of overdose cases – epilepsy/seizures/status epilepticus and cardiac events, mainly 
arrhythmias. The information currently provided in section 4.9 of the SmPC is limited and does not reflect 
a potential cardiac risk of eslicarbazepine acetate overdose or the risk of seizure induction. Based on this 
outcome, update of section 4.9 to reflect new information from overdose cases is recommended. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considered that changes to the 
product information of medicinal products containing eslicarbazepine acetate were warranted. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for eslicarbazepine acetate the CHMP is of the opinion that the 
benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing eslicarbazepine acetate is unchanged subject 
to the proposed changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/PRAC/613519/2019 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
