European Medicines Agency  
London, 19 February 2009 
Doc. Ref.: EMEA/304525/2009 
CHMP ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Zebinix 
International Nonproprietary Name: eslicarbazepine acetate 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000988 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. 
1.1. 
1.2. 
2. 
BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE........................................... 3 
Submission of the dossier ...................................................................................................... 3 
Steps taken for the assessment of the product..................................................................... 3 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION................................................................................................. 4 
2.1. 
Introduction............................................................................................................................ 4 
2.2. 
Quality aspects ....................................................................................................................... 5 
2.3. 
Non-clinical aspects................................................................................................................ 8 
2.4. 
Clinical aspects..................................................................................................................... 13 
2.5. 
Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................................... 72 
2.6. 
Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation................................ 77 
Page 2 of 80 
 
1.    BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON THE PROCEDURE 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant BIAL - Portela & Ca, S.A. submitted on 03 March 2008 an application for Marketing 
Authorisation  to  the  European  Medicines  Agency  (EMEA)  for  Zebinix,  through  the  centralised 
procedure under Article 3 (2) (a) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The eligibility to the centralised 
procedure was agreed upon by the EMEA/CHMP on 27 June 2007. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
A - Centralised / Article 8(3) / New active substance. 
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended - complete and independent application. 
The application submitted is a complete dossier, composed of administrative information, complete 
quality data, non-clinical and clinical data based on applicants’ own tests and studies and/or 
bibliographic literature substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Scientific Advice: 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 14 December 2006 and 21 June 2007. 
The Scientific Advice pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status: 
The product was not licensed in any country at the time of submission of the application. 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Rapporteur: Karl Broich 
Co-Rapporteur: Martin Votava 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMEA on 03 March 2008. 
The procedure started on 26 March 2008.  
The  Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  13  June 
2008.  The  Co-Rapporteur's  first  Assessment  Report  was  circulated  to  all  CHMP  members  on  
13 June 2008. In accordance with Article 6(3) of Regulation (RC) No 726/2004, the Rapporteur 
and  Co-Rapporteur  declared  that  they  had  completed  their  assessment  report  in  less  than  
80 days.   
During  the  meeting  on  21-24  July  2008,  the  CHMP  agreed  on  the  consolidated  List  of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 25 July 2008. 
The  applicant  submitted  the  responses  to  the  CHMP  consolidated  List  of  Questions  on  
16 October 2008. 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 28 November 2008. 
During the CHMP meeting on 15-18 December 2008, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding 
issues to be addressed in writing by the applicant . 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP List of Outstanding Issues on 15 January 
2009. 
The  Rapporteurs  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s responses  to  the  List  of 
Outstanding Issues to all CHMP members on 02 February 2009. 
During  the  meeting  on  16-19  February  2009,  the  CHMP,  in  the  light  of  the  overall  data 
submitted  and  the  scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for 
granting  a Marketing  Authorisation for  Zebinix  on  19  February  2009. The  applicant  provided 
Page 3 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the  letter  of  undertaking  on  the  follow-up  measures  to  be  fulfilled  post-authorisation  on  19 
February 2009. 
2. 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
2.1. 
Introduction 
Epilepsy  is  a  chronic  disease  that  requires  long-term  treatment.  The  World  Health  Organisation 
(WHO) estimates that around 50 million people in the world have epilepsy at any one time, which is 
roughly 1% of the world population. Recent studies have shown that up to 70% of newly diagnosed 
children  and  adults  with  epilepsy  in  both  developed  and  developing  countries  can  be  successfully 
treated  (i.e.  their  seizures  can  be  completely  controlled  for  several  years)  with  AEDs.  However, 
despite a broad range of AEDs available on the market, roughly 30-40% of patients with epilepsy are 
uncontrolled  with  available  treatment  and  a  further  25%  suffer  from  significant  adverse  effects 
[CPMP/EWP/566/98 rev1]. This is due to poor response and to the associated toxicities of available 
AEDs. 
About the product 
Zebinix  tablets  contain  the  new  active  substance  eslicarbazepine  acetate,  which  was  designed  to 
constitute  a  third  generation,  single-enantiomer  member  of  the  long-established  family  of  first-line 
dibenz[/b,f/]azepine  anti-epileptic  drugs  represented  by  carbamazepine  (CBZ,  first-generation)  and 
oxcarbazepine  (OXC,  second  generation). The  product is  available in  strengths  of  400  mg,  600  mg, 
and 800 mg. The proposed indication is “Adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-onset seizures with 
or  without  secondary  generalisation”.  The  use  of  ESL  in  children  will  be  applied  for  after  the 
Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) for the adult indication has been granted. 
The recommended dose is 800 mg once daily. New patients should be initiated on 400 mg once daily 
for one week before up titration. Based on individual response, the dose may be increased to 1200 mg 
once  daily.  Dose  adjustments  are  recommended  based  on  renal  function,  otherwise  no  dose 
recommendations for special populations are proposed. 
Eslicarbazepine  acetate (ESL) is a prodrug of eslicarbazepine, which is the drug entity responsible for 
the  ESL  pharmacological  effect.  Preclinical  experiments  suggest  that  both  ESL  and  eslicarbazepine 
competitively interact with site 2 of the inactivated state of a voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC), 
preventing its return to the active state and repetitive neuronal firing. The precise mechanism by which 
ESL exerts its antiepileptic effects remains to be fully elucidated. 
The development programme/Compliance with CHMP Guidance/Scientific Advice 
The  clinical  development  programme  included  22  Phase  I  studies  in  healthy  subjects  or  special 
populations, 2 Phase II studies and 3 Phase III studies. In addition, 3 Phase II studies were performed 
in adults with bipolar disorder. In these studies, ESL at any dose was administered to a total of 1694 
subjects: 558 non-epileptic adults, and 936 adults and 31 children with refractory partial epilepsy and 
172  adults  with  bipolar  disorder.  All  ESL  doses  were  given  orally  in  the  clinical  studies,  either  as 
tablets or as a suspension. 
A scientific advice for this product was given by the CHMP 2006-12-14  Scientific recommendations 
have been given by Sweden in 2006. A paediatric development programme has been announced, but 
not submitted yet. This is acceptable as at the day of submission of the application the inclusion of a 
PIP was not formally mandatory. However, the applicant declared that the use of ESL in children will 
be applied for after the Marketing Authorisation Application (MAA) for the adult indication has been 
granted. 
Page 4 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
Introduction 
Zebinix  is  presented  as  tablets  containing  400,  600  or  800 mg  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  (active 
substance). The excipients used in the formulation of the finished product are well known excipients 
such as povidone K29/32, croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. 
Zebinix 400 mg tablets are white circular biconvex, engraved ‘ESL 400’ on one side and scored on the 
other  side. The  scoreline is  only  to facilitate  breaking  for  ease  of  swallowing  and  not to  divide into 
equal doses. 
Zebinix  600 mg  tablets  are  white  oblong,  engraved  ‘ESL  600’  on  one  side  and  scored  on  the  other 
side. 
The tablet can be divided into equal halves. 
Zebinix  800 mg  tablets  are  white  oblong,  engraved  ‘ESL  800’  on  one  side  and  scored  on  the  other 
side. The tablet can be divided into equal halves.  
Tablets are packaged in Alu/Alu or Alu/PVC blisters placed into cardboard boxes. Tablets of 600 mg 
and 800 mg strengths may be packed in HDPE bottles with polypropylene child resistant closure and 
placed into cardboard boxes. 
Active Substance 
active 
The 
dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide (Chemical Name) and has the following structure: 
chemically 
designated 
substance 
as 
is 
(S)-10-Acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-
Eslicarbazepine  acetate  has  one  chiral  centre,  so  it  is  optically  active.  It  is  synthesized  as  the  S-
enantiomer  with  the  (S)-configuration  at  C10.  It  is  white  to  off-white,  non-hygroscopic,  odourless 
crystalline solid. The solubility of eslicarbazepine acetate in organic solvents at a temperature between 
15 and 25 ºC, and in aqueous buffer solutions with a pH between 1.20 and 7.40, at 37 ± 1 ºC, has been 
determined  according 
to  Ph Eur  and  USP  classification.  Under  physiological  conditions 
eslicarbazepine acetate is a non ionisable compound. Hydrolysis of the ester group occurs at low and 
high pH (1.2 and 10, respectively). It melts at 184 – 187 ºC, with decomposition.  
No polymorphs were observed by X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), differential scanning calorimetry 
(DSC),  thermogravimetric analysis  (TGA),  hot  stage  microscopy,  spectroscopy  (FT-Raman  and  FT-
IR), and moisture sorption/desorption analysis. 
Page 5 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Manufacture 
The  synthesis  of  the  drug  substance  consists  of  five  steps  followed  by  a  micronisation  step.  Four 
intermediates  are  isolated  during  the  manufacture  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate.  In  process  controls 
include tests for diastereomeric and enantiomeric purity. 
The proposed manufacturing process has been adequately described, critical steps and accompanying 
in-process  controls  have  been  defined  to  ensure  quality  of  the  final  compound.  In-process  controls 
performed during the synthesis are suitable to control the reaction progress. Appropriate specifications 
for starting materials, solvents and reagents have been established. 
The structure of eslicarbazepine acetate has been confirmed by elemental analysis (C, H and N), and 
spectroscopic  analyses  (IR,  UV,  1H-NMR,  13C-NMR  and  mass  spectrometry).  Typical  spectra  of 
eslicarbazepine acetate have been provided and analysed in detail 
Potential  impurities  originating  from  starting  materials,  intermediates,  by-products,  and  degradation 
products  have  been  discussed  in  relation  to  their  origin  and  potential  carry-over  into  the  final  drug 
substance. Residual solvents and heavy metals are routinely controlled. 
•  Specification 
The  drug  substance  specification  includes  tests  for  appearance  particle  size  distribution  (laser 
diffraction),  identification  (IR  and  HPLC),  assay  (HPLC),  purity,  including  enantiomeric  purity 
(HPLC),  water  content  (Karl  Fisher),  melting  point,  residue  on  ignition,  heavy  metals,  residual 
solvents (GC), microbial purity and sulphated ash.  
All non-compendial analytical methods have been validated. The HPLC methods for assay and purity 
have  been  validated  for  specificity  (selectivity),  linearity,  accuracy,  precision  (system  precision, 
analysis  repeatability,  intermediate  precision),  recovery,  LOD,  LOQ,  stability  of  solutions,  and 
robustness.  Forced  degradation  studies  with  eslicarbazepine  acetate  were  performed  under  several 
stress  conditions  e.g.  by  treatment  with  heat,  under  acidic  and  alkaline  conditions  as  well  as  under 
oxidizing conditions to justify the specificity of the method for purity.  
The GC method for residual solvents has been validated regarding specificity (selectivity), linearity, 
accuracy,  precision  (system  precision,  analysis  repeatability,  intermediate  precision),  LOD,  LOQ, 
stability  of  solutions,  and  robustness.  Suitable  validation  data  for  the  water  determination  (Karl-
Fischer) and the particle size test method have also been provided. 
In general analytical methods have been sufficiently validated and are suitable to control the quality of 
the drug substance. 
Batch analysis data on 6 batches from the proposed manufacturing sites has been provided. In addition 
information about all eslicarbazepine acetate batches used in non-clinical, clinical and stability studies 
has  also  been  given.  All  results  are  with  specifications  and  show  batch-to-batch  and  site-to-site 
consistency. 
•  Stability 
Stability studies have been performed on three consecutive production scale batches of eslicarbazepine 
acetate at real time (25° C/60 % RH) and intermediate conditions (30° C/65 % RH). The same batches 
have been tested at accelerated conditions (40° C/75 % RH)) for 6 month. The specification and the 
analytical methods used were the same as those proposed for control of the drug substance. 
The  stability  data  showed  that  the  drug  substance  is  stable  under  real  time,  intermediate  and 
accelerated  storage  conditions.  All  parameters  tested  in  the  stability  studies  remained  within  the 
specified limits over the period tested. There was no evidence of any significant change or degradation 
under any of the conditions.  
A photostability study has been performed on one batch of the drug substance. The protocol was in 
line  with  the  Note  for  Guidance on  Photostability Testing  of  New  Active  Substances  and  medicinal 
Products. 
Page 6 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The stability studies confirmed the proposed re-test period, when the drug substance is stored in the 
proposed containers. 
Medicinal Product  
•  Pharmaceutical Development 
In order to assure the convenience of administration and precision of dosage the drug product has been 
developed as immediate-release tablets for oral administration. Compatibility between eslicarbazepine 
acetate and excipients in the formula intended for marketing as well as some of the excipients used in 
clinical  trial  formulations  has  been  investigated in  compatibility  studies.  No  major  incompatibilities 
have been determined. In early development phase different formulations were used in clinical trials. 
Comparative  studies  were  performed  to  demonstrate  in-vitro  and  in-vivo  equivalence  between  these 
formulations and the formulation intended for marketing. Obtained results confirmed that formulations 
were comparable.  
The  impact  of  different  particle  sizes  of  the  active  substance  on  dissolution  has  been  investigated 
during the development phase. As the active substance has low aqueous solubility the particle size is 
reduced by milling during the manufacture in order to increase surface area and consequently improve 
dissolution.  Three  active  substance  batches  representing  small,  intermediate  and  large  particle  size 
within the specified range were selected for study and showed similar dissolution profiles. Moreover 
study  comparing  in  vitro  behaviour  of  tablets  with  active  substance  from  different  sources  and 
different synthesis pathways has been carried out.. 
Data on the development of the dissolution method has also been provided. Initially a ‘conventional’ 
dissolution  method  had  been  selected  with  a  single  point  specification  and  with  standard 
pharmacopoeial  conditions.  Although  sink  conditions  were  not  reached,  it  was  decided  not  to  use  a 
surfactant,  in  order  not  to  decrease  the  discriminatory  power  of  the  dissolution  method.  Sufficient 
discriminatory power could be demonstrated. However, during formulation development results from 
some  formulations  with  different  amounts  of  excipients  in  the  tablet  led  to  increased  amplitude  of 
variation of results. To avoid misleading out of specification results an alternative dissolution method 
has been developed. It has been shown, based on the performed experiments, that the method is able to 
discriminate  among  drug  product  lots  that  are  found  to  have  minor  differences  in  the  composition, 
hardness,  moisture  or  manufacturing  process.  Dissolution  method  assures  consistent  product 
performance. 
•  Adventitious Agents 
The drug product does not contain any substances with TSE/BSE risk. Magnesium stearate used in the 
formulation is of vegetable origin. 
•  Manufacture of the Product 
A standard manufacturing process, which is direct compression of a dry blend, is utilised for the drug 
product  manufacture.  The  drug  substance  is  pre-mixed  with  excipients  and  the  obtained  pre-mix  is 
wetted and then granulated. After drying the granulate is mixed with excipients and compressed. 
The  critical  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process  have  been  identified  and  adequately  studied. 
Appropriate in-process controls of the critical steps have been established.  
The  robustness  of  manufacturing  procedure  for  the  proposed  commercial  formulation  has  been 
demonstrated  by  successful  manufacture  of  several  batches  at  a  manufacturing  scale.  Extensive 
experience  over  the  years  demonstrates  that  the  manufacturing  process  is  well  under  control  and  a 
drug  product  of  adequate  quality  within  the  approved  specifications  is  obtained  and  a  continuously 
high level of quality can be guaranteed.  
Page 7 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Product Specification 
The product specification is standard for tablets and contains tests with suitable limits for appearance 
(description), identification (HPLC), average weight, uniformity of dosage units, thickness, hardness, 
friability,  water  content  (Karl  Fisher),  dissolution,  assay  (HPLC),  degradation  products  (HPLC), 
microbial purity. 
Analytical  methods  have  been  adequately  described  and  validated  for  the  intended  use.  The  HPLC 
method for assay, identification, and degradation products has been validated with respect to solution 
stability, selectivity, LOD and LOQ, linearity, repeatability of the system, repeatability of the method, 
intermediate  precision,  accuracy,  recovery,  and  robustness.    The  HPLC  method  used  for  the 
dissolution  testing  has  been  validated  for  solution  stability,  carryover,  selectivity,  linearity, 
repeatability  of  the  system,  repeatability  of  the test  procedure, intermediate  precision, accuracy,  and 
robustness. The proposed two Karl Fisher methods (coloumetric and volumetric titration) for the water 
content have also been validated.  
Results  from  several  batches  of  400,  600  and  800  mg  tablets  have  been  presented.  The  batch  data 
comprises results both for the commercial formulation and for the batches of other formulations used 
in the pivotal phase III studies. Results for non-commercial batches have been provided as supportive 
information.  Batch  analysis  results  on  6  batches  of  the  drug  product  (each  strength)  indicate 
satisfactory uniformity and compliance with the agreed specification. 
•  Stability of the Product 
Two separate stability studies have been initiated, one study with pilot scale batches manufactured in 
the site intended for commercial manufacturing and in an alternative site used during the development. 
Both studies comprise tablets 400, 600 and 800 mg packaged in the three different packaging materials 
(Alu/Alu blisters, PVC/Alu blisters and HDPE bottles) intended for marketing. Three bulk batches of 
each of the tablet strengths were manufactured. Tablets from each bulk batch were then packaged in 
all  three  packaging  materials,  and  were  assigned  with  separate  batch  numbers.  Batches  have  been 
stored under long-term (25 ±2 °C/60±5% RH), intermediate (30 ± 2°C/65±5 % RH), accelerated (40 ± 
2°C/75±5 % RH) conditions. 
The  photostability  study  was  performed  according  to  ICH  Q1B  guideline  which  demonstrates 
satisfactory resistance to photodegradation under ICH conditions. 
The applicant declared that the ongoing stability studies at both sites will be continued according to 
the stability protocols presented. Also first 3 commercial batches of each strength of will be placed on 
stability and the studies will follow the same principles outlined for the Registration batches.  
Based  on  the  stability  data  the  proposed  shelf-life  and  storage  conditions  as  defined  in  the  SPC  are 
acceptable. 
Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
Introduction 
Eslicarbazepine  acetate  (ESL)  represents  a  third-generation,  single  enantiomer  member  of  the  well-
known  family  of  first-line  dibenz[b,f]azepine  antiepileptic  drugs  carbamazepine  (CBZ,  first 
generation) and oxcarbazepine (OXC, second generation ). Although the precise mechanism of action 
is unknown electrophysiological studies indicate that both ESL and its active metabolites stabilize the 
inactivated  state  of  voltage-gated  sodium  channels  (site  2).  Therefore,  ESL  is  supposed  to  act  as  a 
voltage-gated sodium channel blocker. 
Page 8 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pharmacology studies have utilised ESL, eslicarbazepine, R-licarbazepine and OXC. In addition, 
the congener drug CBZ has been used as a comparator in some studies. In few studies the mixture of 
both enantiomers (eslicarbazepine + R-licarbazepine ) were used.  
GLP aspects 
All  safety  and  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  in  GLP  compliance,  with  the  exception  of  the 
NOVASCREEN study. 
Pharmacology 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  in  vivo  and  in  vitro  studies  were  directed  at  examining  the 
anticonvulsive properties of ESL and its metabolites in well-known models for testing anticonvulsive 
activity (maximal electroshock, corneal kindling, different chemoconvulsant tests). The in vitro profile 
of  ESL  was  established  in  a  series  of  receptor  binding  studies  and  brain  microdialysis  studies. 
Analgesic  activity  of  ESL  was  assessed  in  the  mouse  formalin  paw  test.  Biological  activity  and 
selectivity was also evaluated in vitro (NOVASCREEN study).  
•  Primary pharmacodynamics  
Primary pharmacodynamics was evaluated in many in vitro and in vivo studies.  
Study results suggested that ESL did not interact with benzodiazepine, GABA and glutamate.  
Pharmacological  profile  of  ESL,  assessed  in  vivo  in  mice  and  rats,  suggested  that  eslicarbazepine 
acetate  is  an  effective  anticonvulsant  and  is  able  to  protect  against  maximal  electroshock  seizure 
(MES)  and  a  variety  of  convulsant  agents.  Further  ESL  may  exert  anticonvulsant  properties  by 
interfering selectively with rapidly firing neurones over neurones displaying normal activity. 
Effects of ESL and its metabolites eslicarbazepine, R-licarbazepine and oxcarbazepine in the maximal 
electroconvulsive shock test were evaluated in male mice. Statistically significant decrease (-100%) in 
the number of tonic convulsion was observed after administration of 50 mg/kg and higher doses of all 
four  test  articles,  for  oxcarbazepine  also  after  the  25  mg/kg  dose.  These  studies  revealed  that,  in 
mouse, eslicarbazepine is major metabolite of ESL and only a minor metabolite of (R)-licarbazepine 
and oxcarbazepine.  
•  Secondary pharmacodynamics 
The Applicant presented only one secondary pharmacodynamic study investigating analgesic activity 
of  ESL  and  its  metabolites  (eslicarbazepine,  R-licarbazepine  and  oxcarbazepine)  and  indicated 
presence of analgesic activity for the test substances. 
•  Safety pharmacology programme 
The  safety  pharmacology  of  ESL  has  been  performed  in  mice,  rats  and  dogs.  In  addition  several  in 
vitro studies were performed to assess cardiovascular risk.  
Behavioural effects 
No effects on gross behavioural or physiological state were observed in mice following oral treatment 
with  ESL  at  the  lower  doses  of  50  mg/kg.  Dose-dependent  sedative/myorelaxant  effects  (  sedation, 
motor signs, decreased fear and reactivity to touch, abnormal gait ) were observed with ESL over the 
dose-range  from  250  to  500  mg/kg  when  given  as  a  single  oral  gavage  dose  to  male  mice.  Dose-
dependent  hypothermia  was  observed  at  100,  250  and  500  mg/kg.  Convulsions  and  Straub  tail  was 
observed at 500 mg/kg and mydriasis at 250 mg/kg. After a dose of 150 mg/kg or higher in rats almost 
identical symptoms occurred.  
Renal function 
Page 9 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ESL, at 50 or 100 mg/kg, had no effect on renal function (diuresis and urinary electrolyte excretion) in 
the mouse.  At 250 mg/kg ESL significantly reduced urinary volume, sodium and potassium excretion 
and tended to decrease creatinine excretion.  At 500 mg/kg, ESL markedly reduced or totally inhibited 
diuresis and markedly reduced sodium, potassium and creatinine excretion.  Clinical signs of tremor, 
hypothermia, lack of motor coordination and marked sedation were also observed at 500 mg/kg.  ESL, 
at 15 or 50 mg/kg, had no effect on renal function in saline-loaded rats.  At 150 mg/kg ESL may have 
had a small effect on renal function 
Gastrointestinal transit 
In mice both the gastrointestinal transit and gastric emptying was decreased at all doses tested. In rats 
15 mg/kg had no effect on gastrointestinal function, higher doses inhibited gastrointestinal transit 
Respiratory function 
Respiratory  function  was  assessed  in  conscious  mice  using  whole  body  plethysmography.  ESL 
reduced  the  transient  changes  in  the  respiratory  parameters  observed  shortly  after  administration.  
Thereafter, 50 and 100 mg/kg p. o. of ESL had no significant effects on respiration up to the end of the 
four  hour  test  period.  After  200  mg/kg  long-lasting  effects  suggestive  of  respiratory-depressant 
properties and an obstruction of the airway function was observed.  
Cardiovascular system 
Potential effects on the cardiovascular system have been investigated both in vitro and in vivo studies.  
No  significant  effect  on  arterial  blood  pressure,  PR  interval,  QRS  duration,  QTc  interval,  left 
ventricular  pressure  variables,  respiration  rate,  cardiac  output,  stroke  volume,  peripheral  resistance, 
arterial blood gases, mean femoral arterial blood flow and conductance were shown. 
•  Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No pharmacodynamic drug interaction studies were conducted.  
Pharmacokinetics 
During the early phase of the development ESL and its metabolites were analysed by HPLC-MS and 
HPLC-UV  methods,  which  did  not  distinguish  between  the  enantiomeric  monohydroxy  metabolites 
(eslicarbazepine and R-licarbazepine). In the later phase, a chiral LC-MS/MS method was developed 
which allowed determination of eslicarbazepine and R-licarbazepine.  
ESL is a prodrug which is hydrolysed to the main metabolite eslicarbazepine. Minor metabolites are 
OXC  and  R-licarbazepine.  The  metabolism  of  ESL  is  species-dependent.  The  metabolic  profile  of 
ESL in men is similar to the profile seen in mice, dogs and rabbits; whereas rat’s metabolic profile is 
considerably different.  
Toxicology 
•  Single dose toxicity 
The  single-dose  toxicity  of  ESL  was  examined  following  oral  or  i.v.  bolus  administration  to  CD-1 
mice or Sprague Dawley rats.  
Summary of Single-Dose Toxicity 
Sex/Number/ 
Species/ 
Group 
Strain 
Doses 
(mg/kg) 
Mouse/
CD-1 
150,  300, 
500 p.o. 
5 ♂ + 5 ♀ 
Approximate 
Lethal Dose 
(mg/kg) 
500 
Mouse/ 
CD-1 
100 
bolus 
i.v. 
5 ♂ + 5 ♀ 
100 
Rat/ 
150,  300,  5 ♂ + 5 ♀ 
> 500 
Major findings 
gait, 
-no mortality 
-subdued 
abnormal 
behaviour, 
piloerection, closed eyes (M, F; HD) 
-1 F (HD) sacrificed for humane reasons 
-mortality (1 F) 
-prostrate, breathing difficulties (M, F) 
-convulsions (F) 
-no mortality 
Page 10 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Species/ 
Strain 
Doses 
(mg/kg) 
Sex/Number/ 
Group 
Approximate 
Lethal Dose 
(mg/kg) 
Major findings 
Sprague 
Dawley 
Rat/ 
Sprague 
Dawley 
500 p.o. 
100 
50, 
i.v. bolus 
5 ♂ + 5 ♀ 
< 50 
gait, 
abnormal 
behaviour, 
-subdued 
piloerection, cold extremities (M, F; HD)) 
-↓body weight gain (M; HD) 
-mortality (2 F, 2 M; LD)(2 F; HD) 
-3 F (HD), 5 M (HD) sacrificed for humane 
reasons 
-prostrate,  breathing  difficulties,  dull  eyes, 
salivation, red urine (M, F; LD, HD) 
reddened  cervical 
findings: 
-necropsy 
lymph node (1 dead F; LD), reddened upper 
colon  (1  dead  M;  LD),  urinary  bladder 
distended  with  red  fluid  (4  M,  3  F;  HD), 
clear  fluid  in  bladder  (1  M;  HD);  speckled 
thymus (1 F; HD) 
F: female, M: male, LD: low dose, HD: high dose 
The approximate lethal doses identified after oral application were 500 mg/kg in the mouse and more 
than 500 mg/kg in the rat. After bolus intravenous administration the approximate lethal doses were 
100  mg/kg  for  the  mouse  and  less  than  50  mg/kg  for  the  rat.  Subdued  behaviour,  abnormal  gait, 
piloerection,  convulsions  and  breathing  difficulties  were  signs  immediately  seen  after  drug 
application. These signs were no longer apparent on the day following dosing. Mortality was observed 
in mice and rats after intravenous application of ESL. Necropsy findings in rats were mainly related to 
the bladder. 
Sedative  /  myorelaxant  effects  and  bladder  findings  became  apparent  in  the  single-dose  toxicity 
studies with ESL. The studies conducted are sufficient and no further single dose toxicity studies were 
required. 
•  Repeat dose toxicity (with toxicokinetics) 
Repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  with  ESL  were  conducted  in  mouse,  rat  and  dog.  Additionally,  studies 
with  eslicarbazepine  and  R-licarbazpine  were  conducted  in  the  rat.  The  rat  was  initially  selected  as 
rodent species, however, because the metabolic profile of ESL in mice was found to be much closer to 
that in human, additional studies were performed in mice.  
Marked  clinical  signs  (e.g.  subdued  behaviour,  piloerection,  unsteady  gait)  were  observed  in  mice 
and/or  dogs  after  ESL-treatment.  Increases  in  liver  weights  including  increases  in  cholesterol  and 
centrilobular  hypertrophy  of  the  liver  were  observed  after  ESL-treatment  of  all  animal  species 
investigated. 
 These  observations  were  attributed  to  liver  enzyme  induction.  Liver  enzyme  induction  has  been 
demonstrated in mice following daily oral dosing for 5 days with ESL, OXC and CBZ at 30 mg/kg.  
In  the  mouse,  spleen  findings  (dose-related  increase  in  weight  and  extramedullary  hematopoiesis) 
were observed in male animals. 
In  the  rat,  clinical  signs  were  not  that  obvious  after  ESL-treatment  unlike  that  in  mice  and  dogs. 
Increases  in  kidney  weights  and  nephropathy,  which  were  not  completely  reversible,  were  effects 
observed  after  ESL-treatment.  Treatment  of  rats  with  the  main  human  metabolite  eslicarbazepine 
induced  similar  clinical  signs  like  ESL-treatment  of  mice  and  dogs.  Eslicarbazepine-treated  rats 
showed  also  increased  liver  weights  (with  centrilobular  hypertrophy  of  the  liver  and  increases  in 
cholesterol),  lower  thymus  weights,  epithelial  hypertrophy  of  the  thyroid  and  histopathological 
changes in the ovaries of female animals. R-licarbazepine treatment of rats was primarily associated 
with lesions in the liver and stomach of both sexes and in the kidneys of male animals. 
In  the  dog,  besides  clinical  signs  and  liver  effects,  extended  aPTT  values  were  the  most  obvious 
finding  after  ESL-treatment.  aPTT  changes  probably  reflect  a  reduction  in  liver  synthetic  capacity. 
Page 11 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effects of ESL or eslicarbazepine treatment on reproductive organs were observed in rats and dogs, 
which were assessed under consideration of findings from the reproductive toxicity studies  
Toxicokinetic  studies  were  concurrently  performed  with  all  repeat-dose  studies.  ESL  is  rapidly 
metabolised in all animal species. The main metabolite observed in mice and dogs is eslicarbazepine 
followed by oxcarbazepine and only minor amounts of R-licarbazepine. In the rat, the main metabolite 
is oxcarbazepine, followed by eslicarbazepine and minor amounts of R-licarbazepine. In humans, ESL 
is  quickly  metabolised  to  eslicarbazepine  and  only  minor  amounts  of  R-licarbazepine  and 
oxcarbazepine. Therefore, the metabolite profile of ESL, respectively the systemic exposure towards 
the metabolites, in mice and dogs is much more similar to that in man than that in rats. However, if 
exposures towards eslicarbazepine, the main metabolite in humans, are compared, exposure ratios are 
appreciably  lower  in  all  animal  species  investigated.  Therefore  no  safety  margins  can  be  calculated 
and this is reflected in the SPC (section 5.3). 
•  Genotoxicity 
ESL was extensively tested in a battery of in vitro and in vivo tests for genotoxicity with AMES assay, 
mouse  lymphoma  test,  chromosomal  aberration  in  CHO  and  human  peripheral  lymphocytes,  and  in 
vivo mouse micronucleus test and mouse liver UDS test. From the results it can be concluded that ESL 
has some clastogenic activity in certain mammalian cell systems (mouse lymphoma and CHO cells) in 
vitro  whereas  in  others  (human  peripheral  lymphocytes)  it  obviously  is  negative.  As  ESL  does  not 
show any mutagenic activity in the AMES assay and in vivo assays in mouse with high exposures, the 
equivocal results in in vitro cytogenetic assays are not considered to be biologically relevant. 
•  Carcinogenicity 
The  rat  metabolises  ESL  primarily  to  OXC,  which  represents  approximately  86%  of  compound-
derived  circulating  material.  The  relevance  of  conducting  a  carcinogenicity  study  in  rats  was  thus 
questionable  as,  in  effect,  this  would have  had  only  very  limited  relevance  to  man,  given  that  OXC 
circulates  at  only  very  low  (≤1%  of  circulating  material)  levels  in  man  following  administration  of 
ESL and the monohydroxy metabolites represent approximately 99% of circulating material. A study 
in  rats  was  of  no  value  and  thus  the  mouse  –  in  which  the  monohydroxy  metabolites  represent 
approximately 70-75% of circulating material (together with approximately 25% OXC) – becomes the 
species  of  choice  for  a  carcinogenicity  study.  It  therefore  was  considered  valid  to  only  investigate 
potential carcinogenicity in a single species, the mouse. This strategy had been discussed in scientific 
advice  from  both  the  Swedish  Medical  Products  Agency  and  the  FDA;  both  agencies  agreed  that  a 
carcinogenicity study in rats would serve no purpose. 
The  104  weeks  mouse  study  showed  clear  evidence  for  ESL  to  be  a  potent  rodent  liver  carcinogen 
which  could  have  been  expected  given  the  relationship  to  oxcarbazepine  and  carbamazepine. 
Therapeutic relevance of the carcinogenic potential of ESL in rodents however is questionable due to 
the  known  sensitivity  of  mice  to  hepatic  carcinogenicity  when  treated  with  inducers  of  hepatic 
enzymes and suggesting a species specific effect. Such effects are known from liver enzyme induction 
studies  and carcinogenicity  studies  in  rodents  with the  closely  related  substances  oxcarbazepine and 
carbamazepine. Both also induced cell proliferation in vitro in CHO cells.  
BIAL has substantiated its assumption that liver tumours found in mice have probably been caused by 
chronic  induction  of  liver  enzymes  as  demonstrated  in  the  report  AL081212.  This  report  was  filed 
retrospectively to summarize a study performed during drug development already in 2000. This study 
was not performed according to GLP requirements and this had been the reason for not submitting it 
with  the  original  MAA.  However  the  report  shows  that  ESL  significantly  induced  liver  enzymatic 
activity  of  CYP2A6,  CYP2C19,  CYP2C9,  CYP2E1  and  CYP3A4  as  indicated  by  higher 
transformation of the respective model substrates. Also the study seemed to be adequately performed 
and reliable. It therefore seems justified to assume hepatic effects observed in mice as being ultimately 
caused by the increase of liver metabolic function. 
•  Reproduction Toxicity 
Like in repeat-dose studies, general toxic effects were observed in males and females treated with ESL 
in the reproductive toxicity studies. In a fertility study in male and female rats, impairment of female 
Page 12 of 80 
 
 
 
fertility  by  ESL  was  shown.  In  a  fertility  study  in  mice,  developmental  effects  were  observed  in 
embryos; however, effects could also result from lower corpora lutea count and thus show impairment 
of  fertility.  Corpora  lutea  counts  were  determined  but  considered  to  be  unreliable.  No  in-depth 
investigation  was  performed  on  male  fertility  in  both  fertility  studies  (e.g.  no  sperm  analysis  or 
epididymis  weights  missing).  Embryotoxicity  studies  were  performed  in  rats,  mice  and  rabbits. 
Reduced foetal weights, minor skeletal abnormalities and variations as well as ossification delays were 
observed in all embryotoxicity studies. In the mouse, the overall incidence of major abnormalities and 
the  incidence  for  major  skeletal  abnormalities  were  increased.  In  the  rat  embryotoxicty  study, 
statistically  significant  incomplete  ossifications  of  various  bones  of  the  skull,  thoracic  vertebrae, 
sternum and pelvic girdle were observed. Concomitantly maternal toxicity was noticed, but no direct 
correlation could be drawn between maternal toxicity and toxic effects observed in foetuses. Studies 
on effects of ESL on the pre-postnatal development were performed in mice and rats. Trends towards 
prolonged gestation and increases in the duration of parturition were observed for ESL-treated rats. A 
delay in attainment of sexual development milestones of male and female pups was observed in both 
studies.  In  the  rat  study,  pup  mortality  was  observed  which  was  related  to  poor  maternal  care.  No 
effects on F1 fertility parameters were observed in rats and mice. Milk transfer of eslicarbazepine was 
shown  for  mice.  Altogether,  exposure  ratios  of  animal  to  human  exposure  to  the  main  metabolite 
eslicarbazepine were low in the studies on reproductive toxicity. No safety margins exist.  
•  Toxicokinetic data 
Concurrently  with  nearly  all  of  the  repeated  dose  studies,  an  evaluation  of  toxicokinetic  parameters 
was  performed.  An  achiral  method  was  used  for  mouse  and  dog  studies  that  did  not  differentiate 
between  the  two  metabolites  eslicarbazepine  and  R-licarbazepine.  Accordingly,  data  about  the 
formation of both isomers in mice and dogs have to be taken from other studies. Metabolite patterns 
obtained for mice and dogs after repeated dosing, show that ESL is quickly metabolised to BIA 2-005 
(eslicarbazepine  and  R-licarbazepine)  and  oxcarbazepine.  Systemic  exposure  towards  BIA  2-005  is 
much higher in both species than to oxcarbazepine. For the mouse, a sex-related difference in the rate 
and/or  routes  of  metabolism  was  observed.  For  the  rat,  data  are  available  that  differentiate  between 
eslicarbazepine and R-licarbazepine. ESL was rapidly metabolised mainly to oxcarbazepine, followed 
by  eslicarbazepine  and  to  only  minor  amounts  of  R-licarbazepine.  Sex-related  differences  in  the 
amount of metabolites were observed that indicate a lower metabolising capacity in female rats. 
Altogether, toxicokinetic parameters show that the metabolite profile of the mouse and dog is much 
more similar to humans than the rat. Therefore, repeated dose studies in mice and dogs with ESL are 
of more relevance for safety assessment. 
According  to  the  guideline  on  the  evaluation  of  control  samples  in  nonclinical  safety  studies, 
toxicokinetic  data  should  have  been  presented  from  controls.  However,  most  of  the  studies  were 
performed before this guideline came into force, and is therefore acceptable. 
•  Local tolerance  
No studies on local tolerance were performed, which is acceptable. 
Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
The  applicant  provided  an  environmental  risk  assessment  which  comprises  the  PECsw  calculation 
according  to  the  Guideline  CHMP/SWP/4447/00-final.  The  doseai  used  in  this  calculation  is  not 
correct  and  should  be  replaced  by  the  expected  maximum  daily  dose  of  1200  mg.  Under  all  other 
assumptions made by the applicant the higher dose leads to a PECsw of 11.73 ng/mL. Considering that 
a forecast of market success of a medicinal product cannot be taken into account in phase I of the ERA 
the  PECsw  will  be  586.6  ng/mL.  Because  the  action  limit  of  10  ng/ml  is  exceeded,  a  phase  II 
assessment will be submitted as a follow-up measure.  
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
Page 13 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
(ESL,  Eslicarbazepine  acetate,  chemical  name 
Zebinix 
(S)-10-acetoxy-10,11-dihydro-5H-
dibenz[b,f]azepine-5-carboxamide, BIA 2-093) was designed to constitute a third-generation, single-
enantiomer member of the long-established family of first-line dibenz/b,f/azepine anti-epileptic drugs 
(AEDs)  represented  by  carbamazepine  (CBZ,  first-generation)  and  oxcarbazepine  (OXC,  second-
generation). Zebinix shares with CBZ and OXC the dibenzazepine nucleus bearing the 5-carboxamide 
substitute  but  is  structurally  different  at  the  10,11-position.  This  molecular  variation  results  in 
differences in metabolism. Unlike CBZ, Zebinix is not metabolised to CBZ-10,11-epoxide and is not 
susceptible  to  auto-induction  of  its  own  metabolism.  Unlike  OXC,  which  is  metabolised  to  both 
Eslicarbazepine  (also  called  S-licarbazepine  or  BIA  2-194)  and  R-licarbazepine  (also  called  BIA  2-
195),  Zebinix  is  a  prodrug  of  Eslicarbazepine,  which  is  the  drug  entity  responsible  for  the  ESL 
pharmacological effect.  
Preclinical experiments suggest that both ESL and Eslicarbazepine competitively interact with site 2 
of the inactivated state of a voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC), preventing its return to the active 
state and repetitive neuronal firing.  
The precise mechanism by which ESL exerts its antiepileptic effects remains to be fully elucidated. 
ESL  was  tested  in  several  animal  seizure  models  predictive  of  anticonvulsant  efficacy,  such  as  the 
maximal electroshock seizure test in rats and mice and the corneal kindling in mice. ESL also showed 
protective  effects  against  seizures  induced  by  several  chemoconvulsants  in  rats  or  mice,  namely 
metrazole, bicuculline, picrotoxin, and 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). 
BIAL  submitted  an  application  for  Zebinix  tablets  in  the  proposed  target  indication  of  adjunctive 
therapy  in  adults  with  partial-onset  seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation.  The 
recommended maintenance dose of Zebinix is 800 mg once daily which may be increased to 1200 mg 
once daily. 
Zebinix has been developed as tablets of 400 mg, 600 mg and 800 mg. In addition, during the clinical 
development, a solution has been used. 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the  community  were 
carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
Pharmacokinetics  
Introduction 
The pharmacokinetics of Zebinix and its metabolites have been investigated in 24 clinical studies.  
Absorption 
•  Bioavailability 
Eslicarbazepine  acetate  (BIA  2-093)  is  a  prodrug  of  eslicarbazepine.  Following  oral  administration, 
plasma  levels  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  usually  remain  below  the  limit  of  quantification. 
Eslicarbazepine tmax is attained at 2-3 hours (h) post-dose. Bioavailability is considered high since the 
amount of metabolites recovered in urine corresponded to more than 90% of an eslicarbazepine acetate 
dose and the main metabolite eslicarbazepine was responsible for more than 95% of systemic exposure 
after administration of eslicarbazepine acetate. 
Page 14 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Study No. BIA-2093-104 
Study No. BIA-2093-104 was a single centre, open label, randomized, two-way crossover study. In 12 
healthy  male  and  female  volunteers  the  tolerability  and  pharmacokinetics  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate 
vs.    oxcarbazepine  and  their  metabolites  were  investigated.  A  single  900  mg  oral  dose  of 
eslicarbazepine acetate respectively oxcarbazepine was administered. 
Serum  drug  levels  were  monitored  for  96  hours  following  dosing,  which  was  sufficient  to  meet  the 
80% rule for determination of AUCinf for Eslicarbazepine and oxcarbazepine. According to the study 
report Eslicarbazepine acetate could not be determined as the plasma concentration was systemically 
found to be below the limit of quantification. 
A dosage strength not intended for marketing was used as investigational product and the composition 
of the drug product is not stated. Therefore this study is only supportive. 
Following a single oral dose of 900 mg, eslicarbazepine acetate appeared to be rapidly and extensively 
metabolised to Eslicarbazepine. 
The ratio of AUCt and AUC∞ is <80% for oxcarbazepine after administration of Zebinix. However, its 
Cmax  and AUC levels are found to be below 1% (calculated to Eslicarbazepine). It is therefore agreed 
that this substance is not a main metabolite.  
After a single dose of Zebinix the tmax    of R-licarbazepine occurs later and Cmax  and AUC levels are 
lower compared to after administration of the oxcarbazepine product. These results are to be expected, 
as  two  additional  metabolic  steps  are  necessary  in  the  formation  of  R-licarbazepine  from 
i.e.eslicarbazepine  acetate(cid:198)  eslicarbazepine  (cid:198)  Oxcarbazepine(cid:198)  R-
eslicarbazepine  acetate 
licarbazepine.   
2. Study No. BIA-2093-110 
Study  No.  BIA-2093-110  is  a  single  centre,  open  label,  randomized,  multiple-dose  three-way 
crossover  study.  In  12  healthy  male  and  female  volunteers  the  tolerability  and  pharmacokinetics  of 
eslicarbazepine acetate vs.  Oxcarbazepine and their metabolites were investigated.  
Serum drug levels were followed for day 1 to day 7 for pre-morning dose and for 96 hours following 
dosing on day 8. 
According to the study report Eslicarbazepine acetate could not be determined as the systemic plasma 
concentration was found below the limit of quantification. 
The sampling schedule was appropriate for accurate determination of Cmax ss. The washout period of 10 
-15  days  between  phases  was  sufficient  to  ensure  unquantifiable  plasma  levels  at  the  start  of 
consecutive period (except subject #1).  
The randomisation schemes were balanced for sequence and appear random.  
A dosage strength not intended for marketing was used as investigational product and the composition 
of drug product is not stated. Therefore this is has only supportive. 
Pharmacokinetic Results 
Treatment 
(geometric 
mean) 
Cmax 
(Eslicarbazepine) 
(ng/mL) 
Cmin 
(Eslicarbazepine) 
(ng/mL)  
Fluctuation 
(%) 
AUC0-τ (sum all 
metabolites) 
(ng.h/mL) 
Cmax  (sum all 
metabolites) 
(ng.h/mL) 
eslicarbazepine 
acetate 1x900 
mg/day 
eslicarbazepine 
acetate 2x450 
21103 
6980 
127 
304609 
24966 ng/mL 
16233 
9207 
66.7 
148935 
17089 ng/mL 
Page 15 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mg/day 
OXC 2x450 
mg/day 
12055 
8650 
38.4 
149875 
15490 ng/mL 
The  proportion  ratios  of  the  metabolites  found  appear  congruent  with  the  results  of  the  precursor 
eslicarbazepine. 
Cumulative  Cmax  of  the  sum  of  eslicarbazepine  +  R-licarbazepine  +  oxcarbazepine  was  29%  higher 
following  administration  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  900  mg  once-daily  in  comparison  with  BIA 
eslicarbazepine  acetate  450  mg  twice-daily.  The  ratio  of  geometric  means  of  AUC  during  24  hours 
between once daily/twice daily regimen was about 1. 
Cmin of eslicarbazepine acetate under once daily regimen is decreased and the fluctuation is increased 
almost twofold in comparison to twice daily administration.  
Cumulative  plasma  Cmax  of  eslicarbazepine  +  R-licarbazepine  +  oxcarbazepine  was  10%  higher 
following administration of eslicarbazepine acetate  450 mg twice-daily in comparison with OXC 450 
mg  twice  daily.  The  ratio  of  geometric  means  of  cumulative  AUC  during  24  hours  between  once 
eslicarbazepine acetate and OXC regimen was about 1. 
Based on pharmacokinetical data an once a day regimen could be of disadvantage, as the fluctuation is 
more  pronounced.  Steady  state  (eslicarbazepine  acetate)  seems  to  be  achieved  after  4-5  days  in  any 
regimen. 
3. Study No. BIA-2093-115 
Study No. BIA-2093-115 was a single centre, open label, randomized, two period, four group parallel 
design study. 8 healthy adult volunteers were randomised per group. No dropouts were reported. 
In  each  group,  the  study  consisted  of  a  single-dose  period  (Phase  A)  followed  by  a  multiple  dose 
period of 7 days duration in which the investigational product was administered once daily (Phase B). 
Serum drug levels were followed for 96 hours in Phase A and in Phase B on day 6 and 10 at pre-dose 
and on day 11 for 96 hours. 
According  to  the  study  report  Eslicarbazepine  acetate  could  not  be  determined  as  the  plasma 
concentration was systemically found below the limit of quantification. 
The  sampling  schedule  was  appropriate  for  accurate  determination  of  Cmax.  The  duration  of  the 
multiple period was considered sufficient to reach steady state levels.  
Statistical methods and Variables 
No statistical analysis has been performed. 
Parameters investigated: Cmax, tmax, Cmin, AUC0-t AUC0-τ AUC0-∞ λz, degree of accumulation 
Pharmacokinetic Results 
The proportion ratios of the metabolites found appear to be congruent with the results of the other PK 
studies. 
Eslicarbazepine  was  the  major  circulating  drug  entity  except  for  group  4  (450  mg  R-licarbazepine) 
where it reached 11% and 18% levels if compared to R-licarbazepine. 
Oxcarbazepine was a minor metabolite in any group. 
The results indicate that eslicarbazepine has a better bioavailability than its R-enantiomer, following 
oral administration. 
Steady state for eslicarbazepine under Zebinix therapy seems to be achieved after 4-5 days. 
Page 16 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Bioequivalence  
Two  bioequivalence  studies  have  been  performed.  In  the  first  one  (BIA-2093-109),  a  tablet 
formulation  has  been  compared  to  an  oral  suspension.  As  “oral  suspension”  is  not  part  of  this 
application,  the  assessment  is  focused  on  the  tablets.  In  the  second  study  (BIA-2093-122)  the 
bioequivalence  between  the  clinical  trial  formulation  and  the  formulation  to  be  marketed  has  been 
investigated. 
Pharmacokinetic Results 
The 90% confidence interval (CI) of all parameters under consideration (BIA 2-005 Cmax, AUC0-t, 
and AUC0-∞) were within the acceptance range of [80%; 125%]. Therefore, the TBM formulation and 
the formulation used in the pivotal clinical trials were considered bioequivalent.  
The  results  showed no statistical  difference  for  extent  and  rate  of  formation  of  the  main  metabolite. 
Therefore  the  hypothesis  of  bioequivalence  can  be accepted. The  formulations can  be considered as 
interchangeable. 
Adverse  events  were  reported  both  for  the test  and the  reference  product.  No death  or  other  serious 
adverse events were reported. 
The results do not indicate that the adverse events are dose related.  
• 
Influence of food 
Two studies have been performed to investigate the food effect on orally administered eslicarbazepine 
acetate.  Both  studies  showed  that  food  has  no  relevant  effect  on  eslicarbazepine  acetate 
pharmacokinetics. 
Distribution 
The  binding  of  eslicarbazepine  to  plasma  proteins  is  relatively  low  (<40%)  and  independent  of 
concentration. In vitro studies have shown that the plasma protein binding was not relevantly affected 
by  the  presence  of  warfarin,  diazepam,  digoxin,  PHT  and  tolbutamide.  The  binding  of  warfarin, 
diazepam,  digoxin,  PHT  and  tolbutamide  was  not  significantly  affected  by  the  presence  of 
eslicarbazepine. 
Elimination 
•  Excretion 
Eslicarbazepine  acetate  metabolites  are  eliminated  from  the  systemic  circulation  primarily  by  renal 
excretion,  in  the  unchanged  and  glucuronide  conjugate  forms.  In  total,  Eslicarbazepine  and  its 
glucuronide correspond to more than 90% of total drug material excreted in urine, approximately two 
thirds in the unchanged form and one third as glucuronide conjugate. 
The  rate  and  excretion  has  been  sufficiently  characterised  during  the  renal  impairment  study  (BIA-
2093-112). For a detailed assessment of this study please see the section “Special populations”. 
•  Metabolism 
Eslicarbazepine  acetate  is  rapidly  and  extensively  biotransformed  to  eslicarbazepine  by  hydrolytic 
first-pass  metabolism.  In  studies  in  healthy  subjects  and  epileptic  adults,  the  apparent  half-life  of 
Eslicarbazepine was 10- 20 h and 13-20 h, respectively. Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of 
eslicarbazepine  are  attained  at  2-3  h  post-dose  and  steady  state  of  plasma  concentrations  is  attained 
after  4-5  days  of  QD  dosing,  consistent  with  an  effective  half-life  in  the  order  of  20-24  h.  Minor 
metabolites  in  plasma  are  R-licarbazepine  and  OXC,  which  were  shown  to  be  active,  and  the 
glucuronic acid conjugates of eslicarbazepine acetate, eslicarbazepine, R-licarbazepine and OXC.  
Page 17 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The metabolism of BIA 2-93 has been sufficiently characterised. The proportions of the metabolites 
were  consistent  within  all studies (BIA-2093-104/110/115).  For a  detailed assessment  of  the  studies 
please see the section “Absorption”. 
• 
Inter-conversion 
Interconversion of the S- to the R-enantiomer is minor pathway of the biotransformation process, as 
described in the section above. 
•  Consequences of possible genetic polymorphism 
No  studies  on  genetic  polymorphism  have  been  provided.  The  majority  of  subjects  were  non-black 
healthy adults. 
Dose proportionality and time dependency 
•  Dose proportionality 
The  dose  proportionality  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  in  adult  patients  has  been  investigated  in  a  sub-
study of one of the pivotal trials. 
1. STUDY NO. BIA-2093-301 PK SUB-STUDY 
This  study  was  performed  in  a  subset  of  patients  who  had  already  completed  a  1-year  open-label 
extension (Part II) of clinical study BIA-2093-301, and who were entering an additional 1-year open-
Page 18 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
label extension (Part III) of this study. Blood samples for PK assessment were taken in a subset of 51 
patients during one of the regular clinical visits. 
51 male and female patients were evaluated. The patients are distributed in three dosage groups  
Daily intake 
400 mg eslicarbazepine acetate 
800 mg eslicarbazepine acetate 
1200 mg eslicarbazepine acetate 
n = 
7 
26 
18 
Blood samples for PK evaluation were taken at the following time-points in relation to dosing: pre-
dose, and 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 12 hours post-dose.  
Serum drug levels were analysed for (1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12) 24 hours following dosing for eslicarbazepine 
acetate and its metabolites eslicarbazepine, R-licarbazepine and OXC. According to the study report 
Eslicarbazepine acetate could not be determined as the plasma concentration was systemically found 
to be below limit of quantification. The reduced sampling schedule was considered inappropriate for 
accurate determination of Cmax , but the Applicant clarified that to apply a reduced sampling schedule 
in patient studies compared to healthy subject studies is reasonable both from an ethical and practical 
point of view, provided that the sampling times chosen are appropriate for determination of the full PK 
profile. 
This was considered acceptable. 
Mean  plasma  concentration  time  profiles  of  eslicarbazepine  following  once  daily  (QD)  dosing  with 
400 mg, 800 mg or 1200 mg of Zebinix in study [BIA-2093-301] are presented in Figure A.  
Following  oral  administration  of  Zebinix  400  mg,  800  mg,  and  1200  mg,  Eslicarbazepine  tmax  was 
reached between 1 and 6 h post-dose (median of 2.0 h), 2 and 6 h post-dose (median of 2.0 h), and 1 
and 6 h post-dose (median of 2.5 h), respectively. Thereafter, plasma Eslicarbazepine concentrations 
declined in a multiphasic manner with an apparent t1/2 of 12.8 h, 13.5 h, and 20.2 h, following oral 
administration  of  Zebinix  400  mg,  800  mg,  and  1200  mg,  respectively.  Systemic  exposure  to 
Eslicarbazepine appears to be dose-proportional following oral administration of Zebinix 400 mg, 800 
mg and 1200 mg. 
The  dose  proportionality  could  not  be  concluded  by  these  initially  presented  results.  The  CHMP 
requested that the dose proportionality be visually evaluated, too, and recommended to show that the 
dose  normalised  curves  were  super  imposable.  The  Applicant  replied  in  the  day  120  responses 
providing the requested mean plasma concentration time profiles after dose normalisation to a 400 mg 
dose following single doses of the 400 mg, 600 mg and 800 mg tablets of the commercial formulation. 
Page 19 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
/
)
L
m
g
n
(
n
o
i
t
a
r
t
n
e
c
n
o
C
0
0
LINEAR PROFILE OF THE MEAN
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Time (hours)
400 MG
600 MG
800 MG
Although conventional limits as postulated for a regular bioequivalence approach are not always met, 
the linear pharmacokinetics can be concluded in the context of overall data and visual evaluation of 
the dose normalised plasma curves. 
In conclusion, based on the [BIA-2093-301 PK Sub-Study] results and taking into account information 
from  other  clinical  trials,  it  seems  reasonable  to  conclude  that  the  PK  of  eslicarbazepine  can  be 
regarded as dose-proportional. 
•  Time dependency 
There was no time dependency of the Eslicarbazepine PK. 
Intra- and inter-individual variability 
Interindividual variability in the extent of systemic exposure to the main  metabolite BIA 2-005 was 
relatively low through all studies. Intra-subject variability of AUC and Cmax was lower than 15%. 
Pharmacokinetics in target population 
The findings about the rate and the extent of absorption and metabolism of Zebinix are in line with the 
PK study in healthy adults (BIA-2093-301). 
Special populations 
• 
Impaired renal function 
Zebinix and its metabolites are mainly renally excreted. Significant increases in the extent of systemic 
exposure to its metabolites were found in study BIA-2093-112, the magnitude of which depended on 
the degree of renal impairment. These findings all point to a reduced ability of kidneys with impaired 
function to excrete Zebinix or its metabolites. Therefore, dose adjustment is required in patients with 
impaired renal function and is reflected in the SPC. 
The main metabolites were effectively removed by repeated dialysis from the circulation of patients 
with end-stage renal disease. 
Page 20 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STUDY NO. BIA-2093-112 
Study design  
Study No. BIA-2093-112 an open-label, single-dose, single-centre, parallel group study in 5 groups of 
subjects with different degrees of renal function: 
Group 1 – normal renal function (creatinine clearance > 80 mL/min) 
Group 2 – mild renal impairment (creatinine clearance 50-80 mL/min) 
Group 3 – moderate renal impairment (creatinine clearance 30-50 mL/min) 
Group 4 – severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance <30 mL/min) 
Group 5 – end stage renal disease, requiring haemodialysis (ESRD) 
Safety evaluation was performed before starting groups 3 and 4 and before starting group 5. 
 Objective as to characterise the pharmacokinetics (PK) of Zebinix and its metabolites eslicarbazepine, 
R-licarbazepine,  oxcarbazepine,  BIA  2-093  glucuronide,  BIA  2-194  glucuronide,  BIA  2-195 
glucuronide and oxcarbazepine glucuronide in subjects with renal impairment. 
During the whole study, subjects received a single dose of 800 mg Zebinix. 
Serum drug levels were followed for 96 hours and urine levels for 72 h following dosing.  
The sampling schedule was appropriate for accurate determination of Cmax.  
Subjects in the ESRD group were dialyzed at 12 hours post-medication. 
Population studied   
8  subjects  were  enrolled  in  the  control  group  and  each  renal  impairment  group.  Overall  40  patients 
were  enrolled  all  of  which  completed  the  study.  The  functional  groups  are  based  on  creatinine 
clearance measured by the Cockcroft-Gault Equation. 
Statistical methods and pharmacokinetic Variables  
The following parameters were calculated: 
Cmax,  AUC 0-Inf , AUC 0-t last, tmax, t1/2. Clearance (apparent/renal), volume of distribution. 
ANOVA for the above stated parameters (except for tmax), 95% CIs are calculated. 
Pharmacokinetic Results 
Concentrations of Zebinix and its glucuronide in plasma and urine were below LLOQ for most of the 
subjects.  The  quantifiable  concentrations  amounts  were  found  at  a  very  low  level.  Therefore  the 
mother compound is considered negligible. 
The  metabolites  R-licarbazepine  and  OXC  showed  quantifiable  plasma  levels.  Results  for  the 
pharmacokinetic variables and statistical analysis are provided in the clinical study report. The relative 
proportion of active moieties remained reasonably similar in the different groups. 
For clarity reasons detailed data of these metabolites were omitted. 
Page 21 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statistical Analysis for BIA 2-194 in human Plasma 
Pharmacokinetic variables of glucuronidated metabolites 
Cmax 
BIA2-194 
Gluc. 
BIA2-195-
Gluc. 
OXC-Gluc. 
Group 1 
(control) 
ng/ml 
Group 2 
(mild) 
ng/ml  % 
Group 3 
(moderate) 
ng/ml  % 
Group 4 
(severe) 
ng/ml  % 
Group 5 
(ESRD) 
ng/ml  % 
1859 
965 
ratio 
51 
3345 
ratio 
180 
3307 
ratio 
177 
5492 
ratio 
295 
45 
73 
70 
155 
128 
282 
241 
531 
103 
229 
127 
173 
274 
374 
617 
841 
- 
- 
AUC0-∞ 
Group 1 
(control) 
Group 2 
(mild) 
Group 3 
(moderate) 
Group 4 
(severe) 
Group 5 
(ESRD) 
Page 22 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
h* ng/ml 
BIA2-194 
Gluc. 
BIA2-195-
Gluc. 
OXC-Gluc. 
32721 
652 
1781 
h* 
ng/ml 
43425 
% 
ratio 
133 
h* 
ng/ml 
191192 
% 
ratio 
584 
h* 
ng/ml 
379148 
% 
ratio 
1158 
h* 
ng/ml 
70803 
% 
ratio 
216 
4076 
625 
13440 
2061 
67493 
10351 
212 
33 
6045 
339 
18699 
1049 
47844 
2686 
- 
- 
CLR 
Group 1 
(control) 
mL/h 
Group 2 
(mild) 
mL/h  % 
Group 3 
(moderate) 
mL/h  % 
Group 4 
(severe) 
mL/h  % 
Group 5 
(ESRD) 
mL/h  % 
BIA2-194 
Gluc. 
BIA2-195-
Gluc. 
OXC-Gluc. 
5978 
11818 
7238 
ratio 
85 
ratio 
20 
1215 
5060 
2127 
18 
648 
5 
471 
111 
2810 
38 
1033 
14 
351 
ratio 
8 
1 
5 
222 
204 
- 
ratio 
3 
2 
- 
Results of the control group were consistent with findings in the other studies of this application. 
Results  concerning  the  phase  I  metabolites  eslicarbazepine  (about  95%  of  the  drug  exposure),  R-
licarbazepine  and  OXC  were  as  expected  (for  mainly  renal  eliminated  substances):  Cmax  remained 
generally unaffected. Concerning AUC, a clear tendency to increase and for the tmax to decrease was 
seen. The effect increased with increasing degrees of renal impairment. Clearance (renal and apparent) 
decreased with increased renal impairment. 
Apparent  terminal  elimination  half-life  was  increased  in  the  moderate  and  severe  renal  impairment 
groups. 
The glucuronated metabolites were affected in a disproportionally stronger manner: 
For the AUC no clear linear relationship was observed, but values for the moderate and severe renal 
impairment groups were much higher than for the normal and mild groups and the clearance decreased 
strongly with higher degree of renal impairment. 
In the ESRD group mean plasma concentrations of metabolites were effectively reduced by dialysis. 
However, it was only after the second dialysis that plasma concentrations were reduced to low levels 
approaching  LLOQ  (lower  limit  of  quantitation).  In  the  case  of  BIA  2-194  glucuronide,  BIA  2-195 
glucuronide and  oxcarbazepine  glucuronide  plasma  concentrations increased  markedly  after the  first 
dialysis.  
• 
Impaired hepatic function 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  Zebinix in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment showed  that 
inhibition of the hepatic metabolism of the parent drug affected the formation of its main metabolite 
eslicarbazepine.  However  this  finding  is  considered  not  to  be  of  clinical  relevance.  Therefore  the 
results  of  study  (BIA-2093-111)  do  not  indicate  the  necessity  of  a  dose  adjustment  in  patients  with 
mild to moderate hepatic impairment. 
STUDY NO. BIA-2093-111 
Study design  
Study No. BIA-2093-111 an open-label, multiple-dose, single-centre, parallel group study in 2 groups 
of subjects: subjects with moderate hepatic impairment and healthy controls. The study is divided in a 
single dose phase (day 1) and steady state phase (sampling on day 8). 
Page 23 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objective: To characterise the pharmacokinetics (PK) of Zebinix and its metabolites (eslicarbazepine, 
R-licarbazepine,  oxcarbazepine,  BIA  2-093  glucuronide,  BIA  2-194  glucuronide,  BIA  2-195 
glucuronide and oxcarbazepine glucuronide) in subjects with moderate hepatic impairment. 
During the whole study, subjects received a dose of  800 mg Zebinix once daily over 8 days . 
Serum drug levels were followed for 24 hours and urine levels for 96 h following dosing.  
The sampling schedule was appropriate for accurate determination of Cmax.  
Test product 
Tablets containing 800 mg of eslicarbazepine acetate provided by BIAL.  
Population studied   
Nine subjects were enrolled in the hepatic impairment group [with a Child-Pugh category of moderate 
impairment  (a  Child-Pugh  score  of  7  to  9)],  of  which  8  completed  the  study,  and  8  subjects  were 
enrolled in the healthy control group, of which all completed the study. 
Bioanalytics 
The amount of conjugated metabolites is investigated indirectly: After treatment with β-glucoronidase 
the  samples  will  reanalysed.  The  difference  of  the  two  measurements  reflects  the  amount  of 
conjugated metabolites. 
Statistical methods and pharmacokinetic Variables  
The following parameter were calculated for the single dose phase: Cmax,  AUC 0-Inf , AUC 0-t  last, 
tmax, t1/2.  
Parameters  in  the  steady  state:  AUCss,  Cmax  ss,  Cmin,  Tmax  ss,  t1/2,  Clearance  (apparent/renal),  volume  of 
distribution. 
ANOVA for the above stated parameters (except for tmax), the 95% CI are calculated. 
Pharmacokinetical Results 
BIA  2-093  glucuronide  findings  were  below  LLOQ  in  most  of  the  subjects  and  BIA  2-195 
concentrations are considered negligible 
The  plasma  levels  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  in  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment  showed  higher 
concentrations than in the control groups. The inhibition of the hepatic metabolism of the parent drug 
is therefore considered evident. However, the concentration of eslicarbazepine acetate in plasma was 
still very low (0.01%) in comparison with those observed for the main metabolite BIA 2-194. 
Furthermore, no significant difference was found between the hepatic impaired group and the healthy 
control group for BIA 2-194 and its glucuronide in plasma. 
Therefore the clinical finding is considered to have no clinical relevance. 
The  SPC  will  therefore  state  that  no  dose  adjustment  is  needed  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate 
hepatic impairment. The pharmacokinetics of eslicarbazepine has not been evaluated in patients with 
severe hepatic impairment and use in these patients is therefore not recommended. 
•  Gender 
The results of a study (BIA-2093-105- see under “Elderly” below) do not indicate that gender has an 
impact on pharmacokinetic parameters. 
•  Race 
No information on pharmacokinetic in different races or genetic polymorphism were provided. 
•  Weight 
The  effect  of  BMI  on  the  pharmacokinetics  has  not  been  studied.  This  is  acceptable  as  the  drug 
substance is individually titrated. 
Page 24 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Elderly 
STUDY NO. BIA-2093-105 
Study design  
Study No. BIA-2093-105 was a single centre, open label, non-randomized, parallel group study. The 
study consisted of a single-dose phase (Phase A) followed by a multiple-dose phase (Phase B). Phase 
B started 96 hours after Phase A dosing. 
During the whole study, subjects received a single 600 mg dose of Zebinix (Phase A) followed by 600 
mg Zebinix once daily for 8 days in Phase B.  
Serum drug levels were followed for 72 hours following dosing, which was sufficient to meet the 80% 
rule for determination of AUCinf for BIA 2-005. According to the study report Eslicarbazepine acetate 
could  not  be  determined  as  the  plasma  concentration  was  systemically  found  to  be  below  limit  of 
quantification. 
The  sampling  schedule  was  appropriate  for  accurate  determination  of  Cmax.  There  was  no  washout 
period between the two phases. 
Test and reference products   
Tablets containing 600 mg of eslicarbazepine acetate.  
Population studied   
30  subjects  [14  healthy  elderly  (7  male  and  7  female)  and  16  healthy  young  (8  male  and  8  female) 
were analysed. One dropout in the young group is reported (discontinued before receiving any dose).  
Pharmacokinetic Results 
For  clarity  reasons  only  results  for  BIA  2-194  (Eslicarbazepine)  are  presented  and  discussed  in  this 
report, because it is the main metabolite (about 90%) of Zebinix. 
Eslicarbazepine - Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the comparison of pharmacokinetic 
parameters evaluated for Test (elderly) and Reference (young) 
Age effect (single-dose) 
PE 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
90% CI 
AUC0-τ 
PE 
(ng.h/mL) 
90% CI 
PE 
AUC0-∞ 
90% CI 
(ng.h/mL) 
PE = Point Estimate; CI = Confidence Interval. 
The post-hoc power values for Cmax, AUC0-τ and AUC0-∞ are 83.5%, 79.6% and 67.4%, respectively. 
Test/Reference 
0.95 
0.82;1.09 
1.02 
0.87;1.18 
1.06 
0.89;1.26 
Eslicarbazepine -Point estimates and 90% confidence intervals for the comparison of pharmacokinetic 
parameters evaluated for Test (elderly) and Reference (young) 
Age effect (multiple-dose) 
PE 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
90% CI 
PE 
AUC0-τ 
90% CI 
(ng.h/mL) 
AUC0-∞ 
PE 
90% CI 
(ng.h/mL) 
PE = Point Estimate; CI = Confidence Interval. 
The  post-hoc  power  values  for  Cmax,  AUC0-τ  and  AUC0-∞  are  92.2%,  92.1%  and  85.1%, 
respectively. 
Test/Reference 
0.88 
0.78;0.99 
0.98 
0.87;1.11 
1.01 
0.88;1.16 
Page 25 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Point  estimates  and  90%  confidence  intervals  for  the  comparison  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
evaluated for Test (female) and Reference (male) 
Gender effect (single-dose) 
PE 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
90% CI 
AUC0-τ 
PE 
90% CI 
(ng.h/mL) 
PE 
AUC0-∞ 
90% CI 
(ng.h/mL) 
PE = Point Estimate; CI = Confidence Interval. 
The  post-hoc  power  values  for  Cmax,  AUC0-τ  and  AUC0-∞  are  84.3%,  84.1%  and  71.0%, 
respectively. 
Test/Reference 
1.09 
0.94;1.25 
1.16 
1.01;1.33 
1.17 
0.99;1.38 
Point  estimates  and  90%  confidence  Intervals  for  the  comparison  of  pharmacokinetic  parameters 
evaluated for Test (female) and Reference (male) 
Gender Effect (Multiple-dose) 
Cmax 
(ng/mL) 
AUC0-τ 
(ng.h/mL) 
AUC0-∞ 
(ng.h/mL) 
PE 
90% CI 
PE 
90% CI 
PE 
90% CI 
Test/Reference 
1.10 
0.97;1.25 
1.04 
0.92;1.17 
1.01 
0.88;1.16 
PE = Point Estimate; CI = Confidence Interval. 
The post-hoc power values for Cmax, AUC0-τ and AUC0-∞ are 90.8%, 92.4% and 85.1%, respectively. 
For  age  and  gender  effects,  90%  CI  for  all  metrics  includes  the  unit  which  means  that  there  are  no 
significant statistical differences associated with age or gender for the main PK parameters of Zebinix, 
except for the parameter AUC0-τ after single dose (gender). However the CI misses the unit shortly and 
the observation is not confirmed under multiple dose treatment. For a majority of the metrics the 90% 
CI  were  even  within  the  acceptance  range  for  bioequivalence  (80-125%).  Therefore,  it  can  be 
concluded that the results clearly support the absence of clinically relevant differences between elderly 
and young subjects as well as between female and male subjects. 
•  Children 
It should be noted that the treatment of children is not part of the application and that a PIP will be 
submitted after marketing authorisation has been granted. 
STUDY NO. BIA-2093-202 
Study design  
Study  No.  BIA-2093-202  is  an  open-label,  single-centre,  multiple-dose  study,  in  30  paediatric 
epileptic  patients  distributed  by  3  age  groups  of  10  patients  each:  2-6  years  [Group  1],  7-11  years 
[Group 2], and 12-17 years [Group 3]. 
The  study  consisted  of  3  consecutive  4-week  treatment  periods  in  which  patients  received  Zebinix 
once-daily  at  the  following  dosage  regimens:  5  mg/kg/day  (weeks  1–4),  15  mg/kg/day  (weeks  5–8) 
and  30  mg/kg/day  or  1800  mg/day,  whichever  less  (weeks  9–12).  At  the  end  of  each  4-weeks 
treatment  period,  patients  were  hospitalised  and  serial  blood  samples  for  drug  assays  were  obtained 
over a dosing interval. 
The objective was the characterisation of the pharmacokinetics of Eslicarbazepine acetate in children 
and adolescents with epilepsy. 
Page 26 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serum drug levels were followed for 12 hours following dosing for Zebinix and its main metabolites 
eslicarbazepine,  R-licarbazepine  and  OXC.  According  to  the  study  report  Eslicarbazepine  acetate 
could  not  be  determined  as  the  plasma  concentration  was  systemically  found  to  be  below  limit  of 
quantification. 
The reduced sampling schedule is considered still appropriate for accurate determination of Cmax. The 
periods were not separated by a washout phase. 
Concomitant medication 
Doses of 1 to 3 concomitant anti epileptic drugs (other than OXC and carbamazepine) were kept stable 
from  1  month  prior  to enrolment  into  the  baseline  phase  and  throughout  the  study,  unless  clinically 
unacceptable. Intermittent use of benzodiazepines was allowed. 
Test products   
The investigational products consisted of Eslicarbazepine acetate tablets in strengths of 200 mg, 400 
mg, 600 mg and 800 mg and an oral suspension of 50 mg/mL. 
Bioequivalence of the suspension, which is not part of the application, with the solid dosage form has 
been previously demonstrated. 
Population studied   
31 male and female patients with a documented diagnosis of partial-onset seizures at the age of 2-17 
years (group 1 n=12; group 2 n= 8; group 3 n=11) were enrolled. 26 completed all treatment periods. 
Statistical methods and pharmacokinetic Variables  
No statistical analysis for pharmacokinetic parameters. 
Parameters determined are:  Cmax, tmax, AUCt last, AUC 0-Inf, t1/2 and clearance. 
PK results :PK parameters for BIA 2-194 
Eslicarbazepine acetate showed dose-proportional pharmacokinetics in epileptic children of different 
age groups treated with Eslicarbazepine acetate concomitantly with anti-epileptic drugs. Similarly to 
what  occurs  in  adult  subjects,  Eslicarbazepine  acetate  was  rapidly  metabolised  to  BIA  2-194  (S-
licarbazepine), the major metabolite. 
Page 27 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  results  of  the  study  in  children  and  adolescents  revealed  that  the  extent  of  absorption  and 
metabolism  might  be  age  dependant  as  clearance  is  decreased  in  older  children.  The  clearance  in 
younger children appears to be increased.  
These issues will be clarified in the paediatric clinical programme which is ongoing. 
BIAL received in December 2006 Scientific Advice from EMEA with respect to the use of Zebinix in 
paediatric  patients.  In  June  2007,  BIAL  received  from  EMEA  Scientific  Advice  regarding  a  waiver 
request  for  a  non  clinical  study  in  juvenile  animals  with  Zebinix.  The  final  study  report  from  the 
therapeutic exploratory study [Study No. BIA-2093-202], “Pharmacokinetics, efficacy and tolerability 
of Zebinix in children and adolescents with refractory partial epilepsy”, was included in the original 
MAA.  
The study comprises use of Zebinix in children and adolescents 2-17 years with partial onset seizures 
not controlled in spite of treatment with one to three current AEDs. A randomised, placebo-controlled 
Phase  III  study  (Study  No.  BIA-2093-305)  in  paediatric  patients  (2-16  years)  with  partial-onset 
seizures  refractory  to  treatment  with  one  or  two  other  AEDs  is  ongoing  and  92  patients  out  of  252 
planned were enrolled by the 3rd September 2008.  
A study aiming to evaluate the effect of Zebinix on cognitive function in children 6-16  years old is 
planned to start during the 4th quarter of 2008 (Study No. BIA-2093-208). BIAL plans to submit a PIP 
of the use of Zebinix in children with partial onset seizures to EMEA during the 2nd -3rd quarter of 
2009. 
Pharmacokinetics Interaction studies 
Pharmacokinetic interactions between Zebinix and digoxin, warfarin, oral contraceptives, phenytoin, 
topiramate and lamotrigine have been investigated.  
In particular, the interaction with other AEDs has been investigated in three dedicated drug interaction 
studies, [BIA 2093-119] with lamotrigine (LMT), [BIA 2093-120] with topiramate (TPM) and [BIA 
2093-121]  with  phenytoin (PHT),  and from  analysis of  data  from  the  Phase  III  programme  [Studies 
301, 302 and 303].  
Increased  plasma  levels  were  only  found  with  phenytoin.  In  summary,  the  conclusions  from  the 
findings of these studies are as follows: 
Phenytoin 
At  steady  state  (BIA-2093-121)  the  total  exposure  of  BIA  2-194  was  reduced  if  phenytoin  was 
concomitantly applied. Enzyme induction is a possible explanation. 
Zebinix increased plasma levels of phenytoin at steady state, probably due to inhibition of CYP2C19 
and in accordance with this finding a higher incidence of adverse events was observed. 
Topiramate 
Topiramate had no clinical relevant impact on the pharmacokinetics of Zebinix at steady state (BIA-
2093-120).  However  Zebinix  reduced the  total  exposure  of topiramate  about  20%.  The  concomitant 
administration of topiramate and Zebinix did not increase the incidence of adverse effects.  
Lamotrigine 
An  interaction  study  (BIA-2093-119)  of  lamotrigine  and  Zebinix  showed  no  pharmacokinetic 
interaction at steady state. 
The following table summarises results of the effect of Zebinix on other AEDs from all the mentioned 
sources. It also includes a column with a plausible mechanism for identified interactions, and a column 
with the effect of OXC (Trileptal) on other AEDs as reference. 
Page 28 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of ESL on other Anti Epileptic Drugs (AED) 
AED 
Dedicated 
interaction 
studies 
Bioequivalence 
approach of 
sparse data 
BIA 2093-119 
BIA 2093-120 
BIA 2093-121 
Memo-ESL-
AEDs DDIsPhIII-
20APR2007 
Phenytoin 
(PHT) 
35%↑ of PHT 
exposure 
Phenobarbi-
tal (PHB) 
Lamotrigine 
(LMT) 
14% ↓ of LMT 
exposure 
11% ↑ of PHT 
exposure at ESL 
800 mg, no data 
for > doses 
41% increase of 
PHB exposure at 
ESL 1200 mg 
ESL QD 25% ↓ 
of LMT 
exposure, 
ESL BID 55% ↓ 
of LMT 
Topiramate 
(TPM) 
18% ↓ of TPM 
exposure 
16% ↓ of TPM 
exposure 
Levetirace-
tam (LEV) 
Carbamaze-
pine 
(CBZ) 
No effect on 
LEV 
13% ↓ of CBZ 
exposure 
POP PK of sparse 
Phase III data 
Plausible 
mechanism 
EMFFR2007/10/01 
OXC 
(approved 
label) 
40% ↑ of 
PHT 
exposure at 
OXC doses 
>1200 
mg/day 
14% ↑ of 
PHB 
exposure 
No effect on PHT 
Inhibition of 
CYP2C19 
No effect on PHB 
Inhibition of 
CYP2C19 
12% ↑ in clearance 
of LMT 
No interaction 
5-16% ↑ in 
clearance of TPM, 
3-8.5% ↑ in 
clearance if also on 
CBZ 
Mechanism 
unknown but 
reduced 
bioavailability 
is a plausible 
explanation. 
No effect on LEV  No interaction 
Induction of 
CYP3A4. 
<10% ↓ of 
CBZ 
exposure 
Up to 14%↑ in 
CBZ clearance at 
200 mg dose. 
Effect lower at 
higher CBZ doses 
due to ↑ auto--
induction 
Valproate 
(VPT) 
No effect on 
VPT 
No effect on VPT  No interaction 
<10% ↓ of 
VPT 
exposure 
Analogously, the results of the effect of other AEDs on Zebinix is provided in the following table. It 
also  includes  a  column  with  plausible  mechanism  for  identified  interactions,  and  a  column  with  the 
effect of AEDs on OXC as reference. 
Page 29 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effect of other Anti Epileptic Drugs (AEDs) on ESL 
POP PK of 
sparse data + 
rich data 
PK sub-study of 
BIA 2093-301 
EMFFR2007/13
/00 
33% ↑ in CL of 
eslicarbazepine 
by PHT /PHB. 
AED 
Dedicated 
interaction 
studies 
BIA 2093-119 
BIA 2093-120 
BIA 2093-121 
Phenytoin 
(PHT) 
33 % ↓ of 
eslicarbazepine 
exposure 
Phenobarbi-
tal (PHB) 
Lamotrigine 
(LMT) 
No effect on 
eslicarbazepine. 
Topiramate 
(TPM) 
10% ↓ of 
eslicarbazepine 
exposure 
Levetirace-
tam (LEV) 
Carbamaze-
pine 
(CBZ) 
Valproate 
(VPT) 
40% ↑ in CL of 
ESL 
POP PK of sparse 
Phase III data 
Plausible 
mechanism 
EMFFR2007/09/01 
OXC 
(approved 
label) 
60% ↑ in CL of ESL 
by barbiturates 
Induction of 
glucuroni-
dation 
No effect on 
eslicarbazepine 
No effect on 
eslicarbazepine 
No interaction 
No interaction 
No effect on 
eslicarbazepine 
No interaction 
13% ↑ in CL of 
eslicarbazepine at 200 
mg CBZ dose, 150% 
↑ in CL at 2400 mg 
CBZ dose. 
Dose 
dependent 
induction of 
glucuroni-
dation 
No effect on 
eslicarbazepine 
No interaction 
30% ↓ of 
MHD 
exposure 
25% ↓ of 
MHD 
exposure 
40% ↓ of 
MHD 
exposure 
18% ↓ of 
MHD 
exposure 
These summary tables indicate that results obtained from the different sources are in good agreement 
with each other, both with regard to the effect of Zebinix on the PK of other AEDs and the effect of 
other AEDs on the PK of eslicarbazepine. Results are also in line with the known interaction profile of 
OXC,  which  could  be  expected  considering  the  qualitative  similarities  between  Zebinix  and  OXC, 
with eslicarbazepine and R-licarbazepine being the main circulating compounds for both although the 
relative ratio differs.  
Overall, the magnitudes of the effect of Zebinix on concomitant AEDs are small and would not justify 
dose adjustments except when combined with PHT. The increase in exposure to PHT, which probably 
is  caused  by  inhibition  of  its  metabolism  via  CYP2C19,  seems  to  be  dose  dependent  and  dose 
adjustments may only be indicated at Zebinix doses exceeding 800 mg per day. Barbiturates also have 
an  effect  on  Zebinix,  with a  30-60  % reduction in drug  exposure.  A similar  effect  is  also seen  with 
carbamazepine (CBZ), the probable mechanism being a dose dependent induction of glucuronidation. 
No clinically relevant effects on Zebinix were found with LMT, TPM, levetiracetam or valproate.  
Interaction with other drugs 
Digoxin 
Concomitant  administration  of  Zebinix  had  no relevant  effect on  the  extent  of  systemic  exposure to 
Digoxin (as expressed by Digoxin AUCτ). With respect to the rate of systemic exposure, concomitant 
administration  of  Zebinix  decreased  Cmax  of  Digoxin  by  15%,  which  is  not  expected  to  affect  the 
therapeutic efficacy. Saftey should not be affected negatively.  
Page 30 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warfarin 
Co-administration of Zebinix 1200 mg QD with warfarin showed a significant decrease in exposure to 
S-warfarin, with no significant effect on the R-warfarin pharmacokinetics; since S-warfarin clearance 
is mediated almost entirely by CYP2C9, whereas R-warfarin clearance is dependent on multiple CYP 
pathways (CYP2C19, CYP3A4 and CYP1A2). 
Oral contraceptives 
Administration  of  Zebinix  to  female  subjects  showed  a  decrease  in  systemic  exposure  to  both 
hormones of a combined oral contraceptive containing levonorgestrel and ethinyloestradiol. Therefore, 
it  must  be  considered  that  concurrent  use  of  Zebinix  and  hormonal  contraceptives  may  render  the 
contraceptives less effective. 
•  Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
In in vitro studies in human liver microsomes, Eslicarbazepine appeared to have no relevant inhibitory 
effect on the activity of CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 and 
only a moderate inhibitory effect on CYP2C19. The 50% inhibitory concentration (IC50) values for 
Eslicarbazepine  upon  CYP2C19  activity  were  232  µg/mL.  Studies  with  Eslicarbazepine  in  fresh 
human  hepatocytes  showed  no  significant  induction  of  CYP1A2,  CYP3A  and  phase  2  enzymes 
involved in glucuronidation and sulphatation of 7-hydroxy-coumarin. The incubation of 14C-BIA 2-
093 in the presence of AEDs acetazolamide, clobazam, clonazepam, gabapentin, LMT, phenobarbital, 
PHT, primidone and sodium valproate showed no relevant inhibition of Zebinix metabolism by these 
AEDs. 
Pharmacodynamics  
Introduction  
Eslicarbazepine acetate (Zebinix) represents a third-generation, single enantiomer member of the well- 
known  family  of  first-line  dibenz[b,f]azepine  antiepileptic  drugs  carbamazepine  (CBZ,  first 
generation) and oxcarbazepine (OXC, second generation). 
Mechanism of action 
Although the precise mechanism of action is unknown, electrophysiological studies indicate that both 
Zebinix and its active metabolites (S-licarbazepine, R-licarbazepine and oxcarbazepine) stabilize the 
inactivated state of voltage-gated sodium channels (site 2). Therefore, Zebinix is supposed to act as a 
voltage-gated sodium channel blocker. 
Primary pharmacology 
For  epilepsy  there  is  no  human  pharmacodynamic  model.  Therefore,  no  specific  pharmacodynamic 
models have been evaluated during Phase I clinical studies. 
The  primary  pharmacodynamic  in  vivo  and  in  vitro  animal  studies  were  directed  at  examining  the 
anticonvulsive  properties  of  Zebinix  and  its  metabolites.  Using  well-known  models  for  testing 
anticonvulsive  activity  (maximal  electroshock,  corneal  kindling,  different  chemoconvulsant  tests) 
Zebinix was found to display qualitatively the same anticonvulsive profile as the comparator CBZ.  
Secondary pharmacology 
Thorough QT- study 
The  study  results  did  not  raise  concerns  with  respect  to  a  QTc  prolonging  potential.  Moxifloxacin 
established the assay sensitivity. The numerical small increase in QTcB is not considered relevant. 
Page 31 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Despite  of  a  mild  increase  in  heart  rate  the  PR  interval  increases  dose  dependently  with 
Eslicarbazepine  acetate  by  about  5  –  8  ms  (placebo:  2  ms).  This  is  neither  considered  of  clinical 
relevance on its own.  
The outlier analysis did not indicate a clear dose effect for Eslicarbazepine acetate. Due to statistical 
reasons the negative predictive value of the outlier analysis is limited, however. 
With respect to safety ECGs the analysis did not show dose dependent ECG abnormalities.  
In summary, the thorough QT study did not raise concerns with respect to QT-prolongation. 
CLINICAL EFFICACY  
Introduction  
The clinical development program of Zebinix as adjunctive oral (tablet) therapy in adult subjects with 
partial onset seizures includes the following completed Phase II and Phase III clinical trials: 
•  1 completed double-blind Phase II supporting trial (BIA-2093-201),  
•  3 primary double-blind, placebo controlled efficacy trials (part I of BIA-2093-301, BIA-2093-
302 and BIA-2093-303, respectively) and 
•  1  open  label  extension  study  evaluating  long-term  efficacy  and  safety  of  Zebinix  (part  II  of 
BIA-2093-301).  
Three  open-label  extention  studies  in  the  sought  indication  were  still  ongoing  at  the  time  of  the 
submission: part II of BIA-2093-302 and BIA-2093-203, respectively as well as part III of BIA-2093-
301. 
These studies are summarised in the following table: 
Page 32 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treated with ESL 
314 patients 
(239 patients 
completed study)  
519 subjects 
exposed in ongoing 
open label 
extension studies 
(as of 30 September 
2007) 
Study ID 
BIA-2093-301 
(part I) 
BIA-2093-302 
(part I) 
BIA-2093-303 
(part I) 
BIA-20932093-
201 
Part II of BIA-
2093-301 
ESL dose/day 
Maximum treatment 
duration (verum) 
Total number of 
subjects 
Trial 
Design 
mc, db,  
pc 
mc, db,  
pc 
mc, db,  
pc 
Primary efficacy trials 
400, 800 or 1200 mg 
400, 800 or 1200 mg 
800 or 1200 mg 
Supporting efficacy trial 
mc, db, pc  
400 to 1200 mg 
Randomized 
(Completed) 
402 (330) 
395 (327) 
253 (197) 
Randomized 
(Completed) 
144 (110) 
16 weeks (12 week 
maintenance period) 
14 weeks (12 week 
maintenance period) 
16 weeks (12 week 
maintenance period) 
13 weeks (12 week 
maintenance with 
increasing doses) 
Long-term efficacy trials 
400 to 1200 mg 
ole 
1 year * 
ole 
ole 
1 year* 
400 to 1200 mg 
400 to 1200 mg 
Part II of BIA-
2093-302 
(ongoing) 
Part II of BIA-
2093-303 
(ongoing) 
Part III of BIA-
2093-301 
(ongoing) 
mc= multicenter, db=double blind, pc=placebo controlled, ESL=Eslicarbazepine acetate 
ole= open label extension 
* after completion of part II, patients had/have the opportunity to enter a further extension period, part 
III of respective study (ongoing) 
400 to 1200 mg 
1 year 
1 year 
ole 
The  three  phase  III  studies  were  pooled  and  a  pre-planned  analysis  was  performed  (Phase  III 
integrated studies).  
In addition to the studies performed in the indication applied for, one phase II study in children with 
epilepsy (Study No. BIA-2093-202) and three phase II studies in adult patients with bipolar disorder 
(Study Nrs. BIA-2093-203, -204 and -205, respectively) have been conducted. 
Dose-response studies and main clinical studies  
The doses used to evaluate the efficacy of Zebinix in the phase 2/3 trials were derived from phase I 
and one phase II studies which showed therapeutic properties and an acceptable safety profile of 800 
mg  and  1200  mg  Zebinix  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  a  once-daily  regimen,  and  a  smaller  treatment 
response for the 400 mg dose. The phase III studies were planned to define the dose recommendations 
to be included in the SPC.  
Based on these results, Zebinix 400 mg (except in study BIA-2093-303), 800 mg and 1200 mg were 
investigated in the phase II and III studies in the claimed indication. 
Page 33 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Main studies 
Studies BIA-2093-301, BIA-2093-302 and BIA-2093-303 (referred to as studies 301, 302 and 303, 
respectively) and phase III integrated studies 
Methods 
The 3 pivotal studies (BIA-2093-301, BIA-2093-302 and BIA-2093-303, respectively) were similar in 
design: 
They were 2-part, multicenter, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies in subjects with 
refractory  simple  or  complex  partial-onset  seizures,  with  or  without  secondarily  generalisation. 
Seizures  were  classified  according  to  the  International  Classification  of  Epileptic  Seizures 
(Commission on Classification and Terminology of the International League Against Epilepsy, 1989). 
Part I of each study followed a parallel-group design and consisted of a 8-week prospective baseline 
period  (single-blind  placebo  period  in  study  301  only),  followed  by  a  double-blind  2-week  titration 
period,  a  double-blind  12-week  maintenance  period,  and  in  studies  301  and  303,  a  double-blind  4-
week tapering-off period.  
Table: Study design and treatment regimens for Phase III efficacy studies 
Study 
Study Design  
Treatment Regimen 
No. 
Subjects 
Randomise
d 
BIA-2093-
301 
BIA-2093-
302  
BIA-2093-
303  
402 
395 
253 
Part I:  
26-week, parallel-group, randomised, 
placebo-controlled study (22 weeks in 
Study 302):  
−  8-week baseline period (in Study 301: 
single-blind placebo period) 
−  2-week double-blind titration period 
−  12-week double-blind maintenance 
period 
−  4-week double-blind tapering-off 
period (not in Study 302) 
Part II:  
Optional, 1-year, open-label extension for 
subjects who had completed Part I. 
Part I:  
−  Placebo  
−  Daily doses of ESL: 
−  Studies 301 + 302 = 
400, 800 or 1200 mg 
(QD)  
−  Study 303 = 800 or 
1200 mg (QD)  
Part II:  
Starting dose of 800 mg 
ESL QD that could be 
titrated up or down at 
400-mg intervals 
between 400 and 1200 
mg 
QD = once daily 
The  only  major  differences  between the  3  studies  in  the  Part  I  study  design  were  the  doses  of  ESL 
given and differences in the study periods and titration regimens: 
• 
• 
• 
There were 3 ESL dose groups (400 mg, 800 mg or 1200 mg once daily [QD]) in studies 301 
and 302, but only 2 ESL dose groups (800 mg or 1200 mg QD) in study 303. 
The  baseline  period  was  observational  in  studies  302  and  303  and  single-blind  placebo  in 
study 301. 
In study 302 there was no tapering-off period.  
•  All 3 studies used slightly different titration and tapering-off regimens. 
Page 34 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Part  II  of  each  study  was  an  optional  1-year  open-label  period  of  treatment  with  Zebinix  for  those 
subjects  who  completed  the  12-week  maintenance  period  in  study  302  and  the  4-week  tapering-off 
period in studies 301 and 303. 
As predefined in the study protocol of each phase III study, the data of part I of the three phase III 
studies were pooled and a pre-planned analysis was performed in order to describe the efficacy and 
safety of Zebinix in as broad a population as possible (Phase III integrated studies). This is acceptable 
as the studies are similar in design.  
•  Study Participants  
Key inclusion criteria for each of the 3 studies were: 
At Visit 1 (screening), subjects must have:  
•  Been 18 years or older.  
•  Had a documented diagnosis of simple or complex partial seizures with or without secondary 
generalisation for at least 12 months prior to screening.  
•  Had at least 4 partial seizures in each 4-week period during the last 8 weeks prior to screening.  
•  Been  currently  treated  with  1  or  2  AEDs1  (any  except  oxcarbazepine  and  felbamate),  in  a 
stable dose regimen for at least 2 months prior to screening (subjects using vigabatrin should 
have been on this medication for at least 1 year with no deficit in visual field identified, and a 
confirmatory test should be available within 1 month before study entry; if present, VNS was 
considered an AED, i.e. only 1 concomitant AED was allowed in subjects with VNS). 
1In Study 302, the number of allowed concomitant AEDs was extended to 3 AEDs by amendment. 
At Visit 2 (randomisation), subjects must have:  
•  Had  at  least  4  partial  seizures  in  each  4-week  period  of  the  8-week  baseline  period  prior  to 
randomisation (documented in a diary) and no seizure-free interval exceeding 21 consecutive 
days.  
• 
• 
Satisfactorily completed diaries by themselves or their caregiver. 
Satisfactorily complied with the study requirements during the baseline period. 
Key exclusion criteria for each of the 3 studies included if a subject had: 
•  Only simple partial seizures with no motor symptomatology (classified as A2-4 according to 
that  were  not  video-
International  Classification  of  Epileptic  Seizures) 
the 
electroencephalogram documented.  
• 
Primary generalised epilepsy.    
•  Known rapid progressive neurological disorder.  
•  A history of status epilepticus or cluster seizures (i.e. 3 or more seizures within 30 minutes) 
within the 3 months prior to screening.  
• 
Seizures of psychogenic origin within the last 2 years.  
•  A history of schizophrenia or suicide attempt.  
• 
• 
Exposure to felbamate or oxcarbazepine within 1 month of screening.  
Exposure to benzodiazepines on more than an occasional basis (except when used chronically 
as AED).  
Page 35 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
•  Known hypersensitivity to carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, or chemically related substances.  
• 
Second or third-degree atrioventricular blockade not corrected with a pacemaker 
•  Relevant  clinical  laboratory  abnormalities  (e.g.  Na+  <130 mmol/L,  ALT  or  AST  >2.0  times 
the upper limit of normal, WBC count <3,000 cells/mm3).  
•  An estimated creatinine clearance (CLCR) <50 mL/min.  
•  Treatments  
During  the  8  week  baseline  period  of  study  301,  placebo  was  administered  QD  in  a  single-blind 
fashion, which should allow for an accounting of the number of seizures under placebo treatment. 
In studies 302 and 303, no study treatment was administered during baseline. 
At the end of the baseline period, subjects who met the selection criteria were randomly assigned to 1 
of the following treatment groups, study medication was taken without regard to meals: 
• 
2093-302: 
Studies BIA-2093-301 and BIA-
• 
Study BIA-2093-303: 
randomisation ratio: 1:1:1:1 
randomisation ratio: 1:1:1 
•  Group 1: ESL 1200 mg 
•  Group 1: ESL 1200 mg 
•  Group 2: ESL 800 mg 
•  Group 3: ESL 400 mg 
•  Group 4: Placebo 
•  Group 2: ESL 800 mg 
•  Group 3: Placebo 
The dosing schedules for the different periods are illustrated below: 
Group 1: ESL 1200 mg 
Study 
Baseline 
(V1 to V2) 
Titration  
(V2 to V3) 
Maintenance  
(V3 to V5) 
Tapering-off 
(V5 to V6) 
301 
Placebo 
Week 1:
1200a mg 
Week 15:  800 mg 
400 mg 
Week 2:
800 mg 
Week 16:  400 mg 
Weeks 17+18: Placebo 
302 
303 
No 
treatment 
No 
treatment 
800 mg 
1200a mg 
Not applicable 
600 mg 
1200b mg 
Weeks 15+16: 600 mg 
Weeks 17+18: Placebo 
a 
b 
1x 400 mg plus 1 x 800 mg tablets 
2 x 600 mg tablets 
Page 36 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group 2: ESL 800 mg 
Study 
Baseline 
(V1 to V2) 
Titration  
(V2 to V3) 
Maintenance  
(V3 to V5) 
Tapering-off 
(V5 to V6) 
301 
Placebo 
Week 1:
800 mg 
Week 15:  800 mg 
400 mg 
Week 2:
800 mg 
Week 16:  400 mg 
Weeks 17+18: Placebo 
302 
303 
No 
treatment 
No 
treatment 
Group 3: ESL 400 mg 
Study 
Baseline 
(V1 to V2) 
800 mg 
800 mg 
Not applicable 
400 mg 
800 mg 
Weeks 15+16: 400 mg 
Weeks 17+18: Placebo 
Titration  
(V2 to V3) 
Maintenance  
(V3 to V5) 
Tapering-off 
(V5 to V6) 
301 
Placebo 
400 mg 
400 mg 
Weeks 15+16: 400 mg 
400 mg 
400 mg 
Not applicable 
Weeks 17+18: Placebo 
Not applicable 
Titration  
(V2 to V3) 
Maintenance  
(V3 to V5) 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Tapering-off 
(V5 to V6) 
Placebo 
Not applicable 
Placebo 
Placebo 
Placebo 
No 
treatment 
302 
303 
Group 4: Placebo 
Baseline 
Study 
(V1 to V2) 
301 
302 
303 
Placebo 
No 
treatment 
No 
treatment 
•  Objectives 
The 3 pivotal studies had essentially the same objectives: 
The primary study objective was to evaluate the efficacy of Zebinix administered once daily at doses 
of  400  mg1,  800  mg  and  1200  mg  compared  with  placebo  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  patients  with 
refractory partial epilepsy over a 12-week maintenance period. 
The secondary objectives of this study were the following: 
•  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Zebinix at once-daily doses of 400 mg1, 800 mg and 
1200 mg in comparison to placebo, over a 12-week maintenance period preceded by a 2-week 
titration period and followed by a 4-week tapering-off period2 . 
•  To  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  Zebinix  at  doses  titrated  to  an  efficacy  or  safety 
endpoint over a 1-year open-label period. 
•  To  assess  the  maintenance  of  therapeutic  effects  of  Zebinix  over  a  12-week  maintenance 
period preceded by a 2-week titration period and followed by a 4-week tapering-off period2 
and over a 1-year open-label period. 
Page 37 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  To  assess  the  drug-drug  pharmacokinetic  interactions  between  Zebinix  and  concomitant 
AEDs over the double-blind and open-label parts of the study. 
•  To assess the health-related quality-of-life and depressive symptoms over the double-blind 
and open-label parts of the study. 
1 only in study 301 and 302 
2 only studies 301 and 303 had a tapering period 
•  Outcomes/endpoints 
In all three pivotal studies, the primary efficacy endpoint was:  
seizure frequency over the 12-week maintenance period in Part I of the study, standardised to 
a ‘frequency per 4 weeks’ unit. 
Secondary efficacy endpoints were as follows: 
•  Proportion of responders (i.e., patients with a ≥ 50% reduction in seizure frequency during the 
12-week maintenance period compared with the 8-week baseline period) 
•  Seizure  frequency  per  week  for  each  week  of  the  baseline,  titration,  maintenance,  and 
tapering-off periods (the latter except study 302, which had no tapering-off period) 
•  Distribution of seizure reduction (< 50%, 50-75%, or >75% seizure reduction) 
•  Proportion of seizure-free patients (100% seizure reduction)  
•  Proportion  of  patients  with  a  25%  or  greater  exacerbation in  seizure  frequency compared  to 
baseline 
•  Seizure frequency by seizure type 
•  Seizure frequency as a function of BIA 2-194 plasma levels at visit 5  
•  Treatment retention time (time to withdrawal due to lack of efficacy or adverse events [AEs]) 
during Part I of the study  
•  Clinical global impressions (CGIs)  
•  Responses to the Quality of Life in Epilepsy-31 inventory (Quolie-31) 
•  Symptoms of depression (based on Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale [MADRS]). 
Safety:  Safety  endpoints 
tests  (hematology,  coagulation, 
biochemistry,  and  thyroid  function,  urin  alaysis),  vital  signs  and  weight,  electrocardiogram,  blood 
trough  levels  of  concomitant  AEDs,  and  withdrawal  and/or  rebound  effect  during  the  tapering-off 
period (the latter except study 302, which had no tapering-off period). 
included  AEs,  clinical 
laboratory 
Phase III integrated studies: 
The primary efficacy variable in the integrated analyses was the standardised seizure frequency over 
the  12-week  maintenance  period,  which  was  also  the  primary  efficacy  variable  in  each  of  the 
individual studies. In addition, for the integrated analysis there were 2 key secondary variables for the 
assessment of efficacy of Zebinix compared to placebo: 
•  Frequency  of  responders  (≥  50%  reduction  in  seizure  frequency  from  the  8-week  baseline 
period to the 12-week maintenance period). 
•  Relative reduction (%) in seizure frequency from the 8-week baseline period to the 12-week 
maintenance period.  
Several  other  secondary  efficacy  variables  were  also  analysed  for  the  12-week  maintenance  period, 
including: 
•  Relative reduction in seizure frequency and responder rate per week 
•  Categorised  relative  change  in  seizure  frequency  (seizure  reduction  <50%,  50%  to  75%  and 
>75%, exacerbation <25% and ≥25%) 
•  Most severe type of seizure by week 
•  Number of days with seizures 
•  Proportion of seizure-free subjects (100% seizure reduction) 
Page 38 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Treatment retention time (time to withdrawal due to lack of efficacy or adverse events) in Part 
I of the study 
•  Changes  in  the  Clinical  Global  Impression  (CGI),  Montgomery  Asberg  Depression  Rating 
Scale (MADRS) and the Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory-31 (QOLIE-31) questionnaires 
•  The effect on the seizure frequency (primary efficacy variable) due to an interaction between 
Zebinix and concomitantly given AEDs  
The  following  were  analysed  as  other  secondary  efficacy  variables  for  the  titration  and  tapering-off 
periods: Standardised seizure frequency and relative reduction of standardised seizure frequency. 
•  Sample size 
In  all  three  pivotal  studies  samples  size  determinations  and  statistical  powering  calculations  were 
based on the primary efficacy variable (natural log transformation of the seizure frequency in a 4-week 
period).  
Assuming  that  approximately  15%  of  the  randomised  patients  would  be  excluded  from  the  efficacy 
population, the required number of patients to be recruited in total was approximately 400 for studies 
301 and 302 and 252 for study 303. 
•  Randomisation 
All pivotal studies were randomised and double-blind. The randomisation procedure appears adequate. 
In studies 301 and 302, patients were randomized in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to placebo, Zebinix 400 mg/day, 
Zebinix 800 mg/day or Zebinix 1200mg/day, respectively; in study 303, patients were randomized in a 
1:1:1 ratio to placebo, Zebinix 800 mg/day or Zebinix 1200 mg/day, respectively. 
•  Blinding (masking) 
Studies 301 and 302: 
Zebinix was presented as white oblong tablets of 400 mg and 800 mg. As the 800 mg tablet is thicker 
than the 400 mg tablet, matching placebo tablets were available for both strengths of Zebinix.  
Study 303: 
Zebinix was presented as white oblong tablets of 400 mg and 600 mg which were of the same size and 
appearance; matching placebo tablets were used.    
The  investigator  was  provided  with a  sealed envelope  for  each  patient containing  information about 
the  study  medication  administered  to  the  patient.  The  envelope  might  only  be  opened  in  case  of 
emergency, when knowledge of the treatment was needed. Decoding had to be documented and at the 
end of the study, all envelopes had to be returned to the sponsor via CRO. 
•  Statistical methods 
The statistical methods were essentially the same for the three pivotal studies: 
Safety population: The safety population consisted of all patients, who received at least 1 dose of the 
investigational product after randomisation.  
Intention-to-treat  (ITT):  The  ITT  population  consisted  of  all  randomised  patients,  with  at  least  one 
administration  of  the  investigational  product  and  at  least  one  post-baseline  seizure  frequency 
assessment. If a patient discontinued before the end of the 12-week maintenance period then all data 
from  the  start  of  the  2-week  titration  period  to  discontinuation  were  used.  If  the  variable  was  a 
summarisation  of  the  12-week  maintenance  period  then  only  data from  the  start  of  the  maintenance 
period to discontinuation were used. If the variable was a summarisation of the 12-week maintenance 
Page 39 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
period and the titration period then all data from the start of the titration period to discontinuation were 
used. 
Per-protocol  (PP):  The  PP  efficacy  population  included  all  patients  completing  the  12-week 
maintenance period of the study and without major protocol violations. 
Assignment  of  patient  to  ITT  and  PP  populations  were  undertaken  by  a  blinded  review  of  the  data 
prior to database lock.  
The primary efficacy assessment was based on an ITT approach. All primary and secondary efficacy 
variables were also analysed for the PP population. 
Seizure  frequency  was  compared  among  the  treatment  groups  by  using  an  analysis  of  covariance 
(ANCOVA) that models seizure frequency as a function of baseline seizure frequency and treatment. 
Natural logarithm transformation was applied to standardised seizure frequency in order to conform to 
the  assumptions  of  ANCOVA  and  to  be  consistent  with  sample  size  calculation.  Dunnett’s  multiple 
comparison procedure was used for the comparison of the active treatment means to the placebo mean. 
The proportion of responders over the 12-week maintenance period was analysed by using a Cochran-
Mantel-Haenszel  (CMH)  test.  Continuous  data  were  summarised  by  using  descriptive  statistics,  i.e., 
number  of  patients,  mean,  standard  deviation,  median,  and  range  (minimum  and  maximum). 
Categorical variables were summarised by using frequency (counts) and percentages. By-patient data 
listings were prepared in support of all statistical summary tables and for other case report form data, 
as appropriate. For testing the differences the following tests were used: Least square means from the 
ANCOVA for each treatment group (adjusted for the covariates), least square means for differences 
between each active dose and placebo. 
Dunnett p-values and confidence intervals (CIs) for those differences were presented when ANCOVA 
or analysis of variance test were used. 
Results  
•  Participants  
In  the  3  Phase  III  studies  combined,  1050  subjects  were  randomized  and  1049  (99.9%)  began 
treatment in the titration period, the ITT population comprised 1035 (98.6%), the PP population 756 
(72.0%) patients.  
The following table presents the study populations in each study and each treatment goup: 
Page 40 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Analysis populations - Phase III integrated studies 
Population 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Placebo 
ESL 
Overall 
400 mg 
800 mg 
1200 mg 
Total 
Total 
Study BIA-2093-301 
Randomised 
Safetya 
102  
102 (100) 
100  
100 (100)
98  
98 (100) 
102  
102 (100) 
300  
300 (100) 
ITTb 
Per 
protocolc 
102 (100) 
99 (99.0) 
98 (100) 
98 (96.1) 
295 (98.3) 
91 (89.2) 
94 (94.0) 
86 (87.8) 
72 (70.6) 
252 (84.0) 
Study BIA-2093-302 
Randomised 
Safetya 
100  
100 (100) 
96  
96 (100) 
101  
101 (100) 
98  
98 (100) 
295  
295 (100) 
ITTb 
Per 
protocolc 
100 (100) 
96 (100) 
100 (99.0) 
97 (99.0) 
293 (99.3) 
81 (81.0) 
70 (72.9) 
75 (74.3) 
54 (55.1) 
199 (67.5) 
Study BIA-2093-303 
Randomised 
Safetya 
88  
87 (98.9) 
ITTb 
Per 
protocolc 
84 (95.5) 
51 (58.0) 
Integrated Analysis 
Randomised 
Safetya 
290  
289 (99.7) 
ITTb 
286 (98.6) 
Per 
protocolc 
223 (76.9) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
85  
85 (100) 
80  
80 (100) 
165  
165 (100) 
84 (98.8) 
77 (96.3) 
161 (97.6) 
47 (55.3) 
35 (43.8) 
82 (49.7) 
196  
196 (100)
284  
284 (100) 
280  
280 (100) 
760  
760 (100) 
195 
(99.5) 
164 
(83.7) 
282 (99.3)  272 (97.1) 
749 (98.6) 
208 (73.2)  161 (57.5) 
533 (70.1) 
402  
402 
(100) 
397 
(98.8) 
343 
(85.3) 
395  
395 
(100) 
393 
(99.5) 
280 
(70.9) 
253 
252 
(99.6) 
245 
(96.8) 
133 
(56.6) 
1050 
1049 
(99.9) 
1035 
(98.6) 
756 
(72.0) 
Subjects who had taken at least 1 dose of randomised study medication. 
ITT = intent-to-treat. 
a 
b  All randomised subjects with at least 1 administration of study medication and at least 1 
post-baseline seizure frequency assessment, i.e. at least 1 subject diary was available. 
c  All subjects completing the 12-week maintenance period of the study without major 
protocol violations. 
The percentage of subjects who completed titration and maintenance periods, respectively is shown in 
the following table: 
Page 41 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Study completion status - Phase III integrated studies 
Disposition 
Number (%) of Subjects 
Placebo 
ESL 
Randomised  
Titration period 
400 mg 
800 mg 
1200 mg 
290  
196  
284  
280  
Total 
760  
Started  
Completed  
289 (100) 
285 (98.6) 
196 (100) 
194 (99.0) 
284 (100) 
270 (95.1) 
280 (100) 
263 (93.9) 
760 (100) 
727 (95.7) 
Maintenance period 
Started  
Completed  
280 (96.9) 
259 (89.6) 
192 (98.0) 
178 (90.8) 
263 (92.6) 
240 (84.5) 
253 (90.4) 
201 (71.8) 
708 (93.2) 
619 (81.4) 
Most  discontinuations  were  because  of  unacceptable  AEs  which  occurred  in  a  treatment-  and  dose-
dependent manner, followed by ‘other reason’, withdrawal of consent and patient non-compliance. 
The percentage of patients discontinuing treatment increases noticeably with increasing dose. Whereas 
the percentage of withdrawals across all three studies is essentially similar in the placebo and 400 mg 
dose  group,  it  is  higher  in the  800  mg  dose  group  and  is  almost  double  as  high  in  the  highest  dose 
group  (1200  mg)  compared  to  the  800  mg  dose  group.  Most  discontinuations  were  because  of 
unacceptable AEs which occurred in a treatment- and dose-dependent manner. In all 3 single studies 
these findings were alike. 
•  Conduct of the study 
In study 301 no amendments to the final study protocol relevant to part I were issued. 
In study 302, among 3 protocol amendments, one is of interest: as inclusion criterion, the number of 
allowed concomitant AEDs was extended from 2 to 3. 
In  study  303,  among  2  protocol  amendments,  one  is  mentionable:  to  reach  the  recruitment  goal  14 
study sites in Mexico were opened (in addition to the centres in Portugal and Spain).  
The number of concomitant AEDs is optimally 1 or 2. However, only 8.1 % of the ITT population of 
study 302 and <5% of the safety population of the phase III integrated studies took three concomitant 
AEDs. 
•  Baseline data 
Phase III integrated studies 
The  combined  population  was  predominantly  Caucasian  (76.8%  in  the  placebo  group,  81.3%  in  the 
Total Zebinix group) and approximately 20% Hispanic in each group (except for the 400 mg Zebinix 
group since Study 303 did not have a 400 mg group and was the only study to include Mexico), see 
following table.  
Page 42 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Demographic and other baseline characteristics - Phase III integrated studies (safety 
population) 
Characteristi
c 
Placebo 
ESL 
(N=289) 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
Total 
(N=760) 
Age 
Mean±SD 
n (%) <18 
years  
n (%) ≥65 
years 
Gender 
Male 
Female 
Ethnic group, 
n (%) 
Caucasian 
Hispanic 
African 
(black)  
Other 
Asian 
BMI 
n (%) 
Mean±SD 
Missing 
36.9±12.01 
2 (0.7) 
37.5±11.26 
0 
38.0±11.96 
0 
37.0±11.54 
1 (0.4) 
37.5±11.62 
1 (0.1) 
5 (1.7) 
2(1.0) 
3 (1.1) 
4 (1.4) 
9 (1.2) 
143 (49.5) 
146 (50.5) 
89 (45.4) 
107 (54.6) 
140 (49.3) 
144 (50.7) 
131 (46.8) 
149 (53.2) 
360 (47.4) 
400 (52.6) 
222 (76.8) 
54 (18.7) 
8 (2.8) 
187 (95.4) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
221 (77.8) 
52 (18.3) 
6 (2.1) 
210 (75.0) 
53 (18.9) 
9 (3.2) 
618 (81.3) 
107 (14.1) 
17 (2.2) 
5 (1.7) 
0 
3 (1.5) 
2 (1.0) 
4 (1.4) 
1 (0.4) 
3 (1.1) 
5 (1.8) 
10 (1.3) 
8 (1.1) 
288 (99.7) 
25.2±4.45 
1 (0.3) 
196 (100) 
24.6±4.63 
0 
283 (99.7) 
24.9±4.61 
1 (0.4) 
280 (100) 
25.5±4.70 
0 
759 (99.9) 
25.1±4.66 
1 (0.1) 
N = total number of subjects; n = number of subjects with available data; SD = standard 
deviation. 
Only very few patients of the pivotal studies were ≥65 years (9 patients (1.2 %) in the total Zebinix and 
5 patients (1.7%) in the placebo group, respectively. 
Page 43 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline disease characteristics at baseline were similar in each of the treatment groups (see 
following table). 
Table: Baseline disease characteristics - Phase III integrated studies (safety population) 
Characteristic 
Placebo 
ESL 
Duration of 
epilepsy 
Mean±SD 
Age at onset 
Mean±SD 
Family history, 
n (%) 
Yes 
No 
Missing 
Possible aetiologies, 
n (%) 
Idiopathic 
Congenital/ 
hereditary 
disorders 
Cranial trauma/ 
injuries 
Systemic/toxic/ 
metabolic 
disorders 
Infectious 
diseases 
Brain tumours 
Cerebrovascular 
diseases 
Other/unknown 
(N=289) 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
Total 
(N=760) 
22.7±13.11 
22.8±11.98 
14.1±12.31 
14.7±12.36 
22.6±12.3
0 
15.4±13.4
2 
22.0±12.52 
15.0±12.64 
22.4±12.2
9 
15.0±12.8
5 
31 (10.7) 
257 (88.9) 
1 (0.3) 
8 (4.1) 
187 (95.4) 
1 (0.5) 
33 (11.6) 
251 (88.4) 
0 
20 (7.1) 
260 (92.9) 
0 
61 (8.0) 
698 (91.8) 
1 (0.1) 
78 (27.0) 
25 (8.7) 
33 (16.8) 
20 (10.2) 
64 (22.5) 
26 (9.2) 
67 (23.9) 
29 (10.4) 
164 (21.6) 
75 (9.9) 
39 (13.5) 
36 (18.4) 
33 (11.6) 
30 (10.7) 
99 (13.0) 
4 (1.4) 
3 (1.5) 
3 (1.1) 
4 (1.4) 
10 (1.3) 
22 (7.6) 
27 (13.8) 
29 (10.2) 
33 (11.8) 
89 (11.7) 
12 (4.2) 
5 (1.7) 
4 (2.0) 
3 (1.5) 
9 (3.2) 
8 (2.8) 
6 (2.1) 
12 (4.3) 
19 (2.5) 
23 (3.0) 
104 (36.0) 
75 (38.3) 
113 (39.8) 
103 (36.8) 
291 (38.3) 
N = total number of subjects; n = number of subjects with data available; SD = standard 
deviation. 
Mean  standardised  seizure  frequency  at  baseline  was  about  13  seizures/28  days  in  all  treatment 
groups, the most frequent seizures were complex partial seizures, followed by simple partial seizures. 
Mean  standardised  seizure  frequency  of  secondary  generalised  or  unclassified  seizures  was 
considerably lower. The  frequency  of  each  seizure  type  was  similar  in  each  of the  treatment  groups 
(see following table). 
Page 44 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Baseline standardised seizure frequency - Phase III integrated studies (safety population) 
Seizure 
Type 
Placebo 
ESL 
(N=289) 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
Total 
(N=760) 
287 (99.3) 
12.9±16.77 
196 (100) 
13.0±15.05 
284 (100) 
13.4±15.26 
277 (98.9) 
13.1±15.11 
757 (99.6) 
13.2±15.13 
138 (47.8) 
4.9±11.24 
87 (44.4) 
5.1±13.09 
138 (48.6) 
5.5±11.64 
133 (47.5) 
4.8±10.03 
358 (47.1) 
5.2±11.47 
197 (68.2) 
5.6±12.14 
139 (70.9) 
5.7±7.98 
207 (72.9) 
6.1±9.65 
204 (72.9) 
6.1±11.78 
550 (72.4) 
6.0±10.11 
92 (31.8) 
1.3±3.86 
66 (33.7) 
1.3±3.48 
86 (30.3) 
1.1±2.99 
91 (32.5) 
1.2±3.44 
243 (32.0) 
1.2±3.29 
45 (15.6) 
1.0±4.52 
21 (10.7) 
0.8±4.93 
46 (16.2) 
0.7±3.00 
43 (15.4) 
1.1±4.33 
110 (14.5) 
0.8±4.07 
Overall 
seizures 
n (%) 
Mean±SD 
Simple 
Partial 
n (%) 
Mean±SD 
Complex 
Partial 
n (%) 
Mean±SD 
Partial 
Evolving 
n (%) 
Mean±SD 
Unclassifie
d 
n (%) 
Mean±SD 
N = total number of subjects; n = number of subjects with data available; SD = standard 
deviation. 
The  majority  (about  70%)  of  patients  used  2  concomitant  AEDs  in  each  of  the  treatment  groups 
followed by 1 concomitant AED (22.5% - 31.1%). 
Table: Number of concomitant anti-epileptic drugs taken in parallel at end of the baseline 
period - Phase III integrated studies (safety population) 
Numbe
r of 
AEDs  
0 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Number (%) of subjects 
Placebo 
(N=289) 
0 
65 (22.5) 
210 (72.7) 
14 (4.8) 
0 
ESL 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
1 (0.5) 
61 (31.1) 
129 (65.8) 
4 (2.0) 
1 (0.5) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
0 
72 (25.4) 
199 (70.1) 
12 (4.2) 
1 (0.4) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
0 
73 (26.1) 
197 (70.4) 
9 (3.2) 
1 (0.4) 
Total 
(N=760) 
1 (0.1) 
206 (27.1) 
525 (69.1) 
25 (3.3) 
3 (0.4) 
AED = anti-epileptic drug. 
The percentage of patients taking only 1 concomitant AED was somewhat higher in the 400 mg dose 
group compared to placebo group, and was evenly distributed in the placebo, 800 and 1200 mg dose 
Page 45 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
groups.  This  is  not  to  be  regarded  of  relevance,  as  it  seems  to  privilege  the  400  mg  dose  group. 
However, the 400 mg dose group did not prove to be efficacious. A similar finding was seen for study 
302. The number of concomitant AEDs in studies 301 and 303 was inconspicuous. 
The most frequent concomitant AEDs were Carbamazpine, Valproic acid and Lamotrigine in all three 
single studies. Concomitant AEDs used by more than 1% of study patients at baseline are given in the 
following table:  
Table: Most frequent concomitant anti-epileptic drugs at the end of the baseline period - Phase 
III integrated studies (safety population) 
AED 
Carbamazepine 
Valproic acid  
Lamotrigine 
Levetiracetam  
Topiramate  
Phenytoin  
Phenobarbital  
Clobazam 
Clonazepam 
Gabapentin 
Primidone  
Tiagabine  
Pregabalin  
Placebo 
(N=289) 
181 (62.6) 
82 (28.4)  
63 (21.8) 
45 (15.6) 
37 (12.8)  
26 (9.0)  
34 (11.8)  
24 (8.3) 
15 (5.2) 
3 (1.0) 
4 (1.4)  
1 (0.3)  
2 (0.7)  
Number (%) of subjects 
ESL 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
114 (58.2) 
37 (18.9) 
46 (23.5) 
23 (11.7) 
21 (10.7) 
15 (7.7) 
15 (7.7)  
19 (9.7) 
19 (9.7) 
12 (6.1) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
1 (0.5) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
162 (57.0) 
74 (26.1) 
51 (18.0) 
39 (13.7) 
43 (15.1) 
35 (12.3) 
32 (11.3)  
27 (9.5) 
20 (7.0) 
8 (2.8) 
6 (2.1) 
2 (0.7) 
3 (1.1) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
153 (54.6) 
72 (25.7) 
60 (21.4) 
44 (15.7) 
41 (14.6) 
28 (10.0) 
25 (8.9)  
18 (6.4) 
16 (5.7) 
8 (2.9) 
7 (2.5) 
7 (2.5) 
6 (2.1) 
Total 
(N=760) 
429 (56.4) 
183 (24.1) 
157 (20.7) 
106 (13.9) 
105 (13.8) 
78 (10.3) 
72 (9.5) 
64 (8.4) 
56 (7.4) 
28 (3.7) 
15 (2.0) 
11 (1.4) 
10 (1.3) 
In the 400 mg dose group, valproic acid was given as concomitant AED in only 18.9 % of subjects 
compared to 28.4 % in the placebo group.  
In study 302 valproic acid was only used by 12.5% of patients in the 400 mg dose group compared to 
26.0% in the placebo group, whereas it was used by 28.0% of patients in the 800 mg and by 20.6% of 
patients in the 1200 mg dose group, respectively.  
However, in the subgroup analysis of the integrated phase III studies the trend in the median relative 
reduction was similar in subjects not taking valproic acid (placebo: -10.1%, 400 mg: -23.0%, 800 mg: 
-33.3%, 1200 mg: -38.3%) and those taking valproic acid (placebo: -26.4%, 400 mg: -26.8%, 800 mg: 
-41.8%, 1200 mg: -39.9%). 
The  ANCOVA  results  for  the  standardised  seizure  frequency  and  relative  reduction  in  seizure 
frequency by concomitant valproic acid treatment showed comparable efficacy of Zebinix during the 
maintenance phase in the different dose groups compared to placebo in patients taking valproic acid 
compared to patients taking no valproic acid. 
The responder rate was similar in subjects not taking valproic acid (placebo: 18.8%, 400 mg: 22.4%, 
800  mg:  34.0%,  1200  mg:  44.6%) and  those taking  valproic  acid  (placebo:  28.6%,  400  mg:  25.0%, 
800 mg: 42.6%, 1200 mg: 40.3%. 
Therefore, the described imbalances do not appear to have influenced the efficacy results. 
During the titration and maintenance periods, 38.1% of placebo and 52.2% of total Zebinix subjects 
took concomitant non-AED medications, with a similar proportion in each of the Zebinix groups.  
Page 46 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During  the  study,  54.0%  of  placebo  subjects  and  56.2%  of  total  Zebinix  subjects  had  concomitant 
medical conditions (other than epilepsy).  
In the different Zebinix dose groups and the placebo group there were no major differences regarding 
the number of concomitant AEDs per patient at baseline. The majority of patients of all groups used 
two concomitant AEDs, the proportion of these patients ranging from 59.6% (in the Zebinix 400 mg 
group) to 68.4% (in the Zebinix 800 mg group). 
The  most  frequently  administered  concomitant  anti-epileptic  medications  at  baseline  were 
carbamazepine  (taken  by  55.6  –  61.8%  of  the  ITT  patients,  depending  on  the  treatment  group), 
lamotrigine (24.2 – 27.6%) and valproic acid (22.4% - 28.4%). 
Furthermore,  subgroup-analyses  of  the  integrated  phase  III  studies  did  not  reveal  any  influence  of 
these parameters on the efficacy of Zebinix in each dose group. 
•  Outcomes and estimation 
Standardised seizure frequency: 
For the natural log transformation of the seizure frequency per 4 weeks over the 12-week maintenance 
period,  which  was  the  primary  efficacy  variable  in  all  3  pivotal  studies,  a  statistically  significant 
difference was seen for the comparison of the 800 mg and 1200 mg  groups compared to placebo in 
every single of the 3 studies: 
Table: Primary Efficacy Analysis - ANCOVA for seizure frequency per 4 weeks over the 12-
week maintenance period (ITT population) 
Study 
BIA-2093-301 
Placebo 
7.6 [6.8, 8.6] 
BIA-2093-302 
9.8 [8.7, 11.1] 
BIA-2093-303 
7.3 [6.3, 8.5] 
LS Mean [95%CI] p-valuea 
ESL 400 mg  
6.7 [6.0, 7.7] 
n.s. 
8.7 [7.7, 9.9] 
n.s. 
N/A 
ESL 800 mg  
5.7 [5.0, 6.5] 
p=0.003 
7.1 [6.2, 8.2] 
p=0.002 
5.7 [4.9, 6.7] 
p=0.048 
ESL 1200 mg  
5.4 [4.6, 6.1] 
p < 0.001 
7.0 [6.0, 8.1] 
p=0.001 
5.5 [4.6, 6.5] 
p=0.021 
ITT = intent-to-treat; LS = least square; N/A = not applicable; n.s. = not significant 
a  p-value for comparison to placebo. 
As  it  can  be  seen  in  the  following  figure,  the  LS  mean  of  seizure  frequency  decreased  in  a  dose-
dependent  manner  in  all  of  the  single  studies,  however,  the  increase  in  effect  in  study  302  after 
administration of 1200 mg compared to 800 mg was only small. 
Figure: Seizure frequency per 4 weeks over the 12-week maintenance period - individual Phase 
III studies (ITT population) 
Page 47 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BIA-2093-302
BIA-2093-301
I
C
%
5
9
d
n
a
n
a
e
m
S
L
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
s
k
e
e
w
4
r
o
f
d
e
t
s
u
j
d
a
y
c
n
e
u
q
e
r
f
e
r
u
z
i
e
s
f
o
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
I
C
%
5
9
d
n
a
n
a
e
m
S
L
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
s
k
e
e
w
4
r
o
f
d
e
t
s
u
j
d
a
y
c
n
e
u
q
e
r
f
e
r
u
z
i
e
s
f
o
11.0
10.5
10.0
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
BIA-2093-303
I
C
%
5
9
d
n
a
n
a
e
m
S
L
d
e
t
a
m
i
t
s
E
s
k
e
e
w
4
r
o
f
d
e
t
s
u
j
d
a
y
c
n
e
u
q
e
r
f
e
r
u
z
i
e
s
f
o
9.5
9.0
8.5
8.0
7.5
7.0
6.5
6.0
5.5
5.0
4.5
4.0
3.5
P l a c e b o
4 0 0   m g
8 0 0   m g
1 2 0 0   m g
P l a c e b o
4 0 0   m g
8 0 0   m g
1 2 0 0   m g
P l a c e b o
4 0 0   m g
8 0 0   m g
1 2 0 0   m g
Source data: Table EF.2.1 and Table EF.2.2 in Study Report INT/PhaseIII/301-303 
In the integrated dataset of the ITT population, the median standardised seizure frequency at baseline 
was  similar  in  all  treatment  groups  (range:  7.0  to  8.0).  During  the  12-week  maintenance  period  the 
median standardised seizure frequency was lowest in the 1200 mg Zebinix group (4.6) and highest in 
the placebo group (6.4): 
Standardised seizure frequency - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Study/ 
Baseline Period 
Maintenance Period 
Treatment 
N  Mean±SD  Median 
N 
Mean±SD  Median 
Integrated Studies 
286 
Placebo 
195 
ESL 400 mg 
282 
ESL 800 mg 
272 
ESL 1200 
mg 
12.9±16.82 
13.0±15.08 
13.4±15.31 
13.3±15.26 
7.0 
8.0 
7.7 
8.0 
279 
192 
262 
253 
11.7±17.85 
10.6±13.11 
9.8±14.79 
9.0±13.10 
6.4 
5.9 
5.0 
4.6 
The ANCOVA analysis of the integrated data from all 3 studies showed that compared to the placebo 
group  the  change  in  standardised  seizure  frequency  during  the  maintenance  period  was  statistically 
significant (p<0.0001) for the 800 mg and 1200 mg Zebinix groups in the ITT and PP populations. In 
the  PP  population,  the  difference  between  the  400  mg  and  placebo  group  was  also  statistically 
significant (p=0.0369). 
Page 48 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The dose related increase in effect is shown in the following figures: 
Figure: Standardised seizure frequency - Phase III integrated studies (ITT and PP populations) 
ITT
ITT
PP
PP
y
y
c
c
n
n
e
e
u
u
q
q
e
e
r
r
f
f
e
e
r
r
u
u
z
z
i
i
e
e
s
s
d
d
e
e
s
s
i
i
d
d
r
r
a
a
d
d
n
n
a
a
t
t
S
S
)
)
I
I
C
C
%
%
5
5
9
9
,
,
n
n
a
a
e
e
m
m
S
S
L
L
(
(
9.5
9.5
9
9
8.5
8.5
8
8
7.5
7.5
7
7
6.5
6.5
6
6
5.5
5.5
5
5
9.5
9.5
9
9
8.5
8.5
8
8
7.5
7.5
7
7
6.5
6.5
6
6
5.5
5.5
5
5
Placebo
Placebo
400 mg
400 mg
800 mg
800 mg
1200 mg
1200 mg
Placebo
Placebo
400 mg
400 mg
800 mg
800 mg
1200 mg
1200 mg
253
253
164
164
262
262
208
208
192
192
161
161
N = 223
N = 223
N = 279
N = 279
Responder rate 
The  responder  rate  (subjects  with  a  change  in  standardised  seizure  frequency  ≥50%  relative  to 
baseline)  was  considerably  higher  in  the  Zebinix  800  mg  and  1200  mg  groups  than  in  the  placebo 
group  in  each  of  the  3  studies  as  well  as  in  the  integrated  analysis  of  the  3  studies  in  the  ITT 
population and increased with increasing dose.  
The difference to placebo was statistically significant for the 800 mg and 1200 mg Zebinix groups in 
study 301 and 302 and in the integrated analyses of the 3 studies in the ITT population. In study 303, 
the difference to placebo was only statistically significant for the 1200 mg but not for the 800 mg dose 
group (in both, the ITT and PP populations). For the 400 mg dose group, the difference to placebo was 
not statistically significant in any of the single studies or the integrated analysis of all 3 studies.  
Table: Responder analysis - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Study/ 
N 
Treatment 
Number 
(%)  
of 
responders 
Odds ratio 
Relative Risk 
Estimate 
95% CI  Estimate 
95% CI 
301 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
99 
97 
20 (20.2) 
23 (23.7) 
- 
1.23 
ESL 800 mg 
94 
33 (35.1) 
2.14 
ESL 1200 mg 
94 
42 (44.7) 
3.19 
302 
- 
(0.62, 
2.42) 
(1.12, 
4.09) 
(1.69, 
6.03) 
- 
1.17 
1.74 
2.21 
- 
(0.69, 
1.99) 
(1.08, 
2.80) 
(1.41, 
3.47) 
Overal
l 
p-
value 
- 
0.5528 
0.0204 
0.0003 
Page 49 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/ 
N 
Treatment 
Number 
(%)  
of 
responders 
Odds ratio 
Relative Risk 
Estimate 
95% CI  Estimate 
95% CI 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
99 
95 
18 (18.2) 
21 (22.1) 
- 
1.28 
ESL 800 mg 
88 
33 (37.5) 
2.70 
ESL 1200 mg 
86 
36 (41.9) 
3.24 
303 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
81 
- 
80 
22 (27.2) 
- 
29 (36.3) 
- 
- 
1.52 
ESL 1200 mg 
73 
32 (43.8) 
2.09 
Integrated Studies 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
279 
192 
60 (21.5) 
44 (22.9) 
- 
1.25 
ESL 800 mg 
262 
95 (36.3) 
2.08 
ESL 1200 mg  253 
110 (43.5) 
2.81 
- 
(0.63, 
2.58) 
(1.38, 
5.27) 
(1.66, 
6.31) 
- 
- 
(0.78, 
2.98) 
(1.07, 
4.10) 
- 
(0.77, 
2.04) 
(1.42, 
3.04) 
(1.92, 
4.10) 
- 
1.22 
2.06 
2.30 
- 
- 
1.33 
1.61 
- 
1.19 
1.69 
2.02 
- 
(0.69, 
2.14) 
(1.25, 
3.39) 
(1.42, 
3.74) 
- 
- 
(0.84, 
2.11) 
(1.04, 
2.51) 
- 
(0.81, 
1.76) 
(1.28, 
2.22) 
(1.55, 
2.63) 
Overal
l 
p-
value 
- 
0.4955 
0.0031 
0.0004 
- 
- 
0.2151 
0.0304 
- 
0.3668 
0.0001 
<0.000
1 
ITT = intent-to-treat; CI = confidence interval; Responder: relative change in standardised seizure 
frequency ≥50% in comparison to baseline period.  
The dose related increase in responder rate is shown in the following figures: 
Figure: Responder analysis - Phase III integrated studies (odds ratio - ITT and PP populations) 
ITT
ITT
PP
PP
)
)
I
I
C
C
%
%
5
5
9
9
,
,
e
e
t
t
a
a
m
m
i
i
t
t
s
s
E
E
(
(
r
r
e
e
d
d
n
n
o
o
p
p
s
s
e
e
R
R
5.5
5.5
5
5
4.5
4.5
4
4
3.5
3.5
3
3
2.5
2.5
2
2
1.5
1.5
1
1
0.5
0.5
0
0
5.5
5.5
5
5
4.5
4.5
4
4
3.5
3.5
3
3
2.5
2.5
2
2
1.5
1.5
1
1
0.5
0.5
0
0
Placebo
Placebo
400 mg
400 mg
800 mg
800 mg
1200 mg
1200 mg
Placebo
Placebo
400 mg
400 mg
800 mg
800 mg
1200 mg
1200 mg
N = 279
N = 279
192
192
262
262
253
253
N = 223
N = 223
164
164
208
208
161
161
Page 50 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP considered that the  results of the responder analyses of the three single studies as well as 
of the integrated analysis of the 3 studies were considered consistent: the responder rate increased in a 
dose  dependent  way  and  (in  contrast  to  the  400  mg  dose  group)  the  difference  to  placebo  was 
statistically  significant  for  the  800  and  1200  mg  dose  groups,  except  in  study  303,  in  which  the 
difference to placebo was only statistically significant for the 1200 mg dose group.  
The  formal  assessment  of  the  differences  concerning  responder  rate  in  study  303,  the  relative 
reduction in seizure frequency in study 302 and the change in median number of days with seizures in 
study 302 compared to the results of the respective other studies was further discussed in the answer to 
the List of questions, and did not reveal significant heterogeneities between the pivotal studies.  
Apparently, in the three single studies as well as in the integrated analysis patients who discontinued 
treatment  prematurely  during  one  of  the  treatment  periods  were  still  categorized  as  treatment 
responders for that particular treatment period when their seizure frequency was reduced by 50% or 
more  up  to  the  point  of  discontinuation.  The  applicant  was  asked  to  provide  a  supplementary 
responder analysis for all three main trials as well as the integrated analysis in which all patients who 
discontinued are regarded as non-responders.  
The results of this supplementary responder analysis, in which discontinued subjects were analysed as 
non-responders,  were  consistent  with  those  of  the  original  analysis  and  confirm  the  improved 
responder rate with 800 mg and 1200 mg Zebinix QD compared to placebo. 
Relative reduction of standardised seizure frequency 
The relative reduction in standardised seizure frequency during the maintenance period was greater in 
the Zebinix treatment groups than in the placebo group in all 3 studies and the integrated analysis in 
the ITT population. In the integrated studies, the median relative change was -14.6% in the placebo 
group compared to -23.4% in the 400 mg  Zebinix group, -35.4% in the 800 mg  Zebinix group, and 
-38.8% in the 1200 mg Zebinix group. 
Table: Relative reduction (%) of standardised seizure frequency - Phase III integrated studies 
(ITT population) 
Study/ 
N 
Mean±SD 
Median 
Range 
Treatment 
301 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
302 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
303 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
99 
97 
94 
94 
99 
95 
88 
86 
80 
- 
80 
-8.0±58.95 
-16.4±81.56 
-31.0±43.58 
-35.4±46.85 
1.6±61.75 
-13.7±48.73 
-25.9±58.90 
-22.5±67.74 
-8.2±69.73 
- 
-19.9±72.02 
-16.4 
-25.8 
-36.1 
-46.5 
-5.8 
-22.4 
-33.8 
-32.3 
-20.8 
- 
-36.4 
-100 to 289 
-100 to 685 
-100 to 147 
-100 to 81 
-100 to 316 
-100 to 154 
-100 to 286 
-100 to 328 
-100 to 308 
- 
-100 to 384 
Page 51 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study/ 
N 
Mean±SD 
Median 
Range 
Treatment 
ESL 1200 mg 
71 
-
21.8±105.20 
-43.1 
-100 to 716 
Integrated 
Studies 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
278 
192 
262 
251 
-4.6±63.14 
-15.0±67.19 
-25.9±58.51 
-27.1±74.27 
-14.6 
-23.4 
-35.4 
-38.8 
-100 to 316 
-100 to 685 
-100 to 384 
-100 to 716 
ITT = intent-to-treat; SD = standard deviation. 
The  ANCOVA  of  the  integrated  data  from  all  3  studies  showed  that  the  difference  in  the  relative 
reduction in standardised seizure frequency was statistically significant between the placebo group and 
the 800 mg and the 1200 mg groups in the ITT and PP populations. 
Responder rate and relative reduction in standardised seizure frequency per week 
In the phase III integrated studies, the response to treatment was evident already in the first week of 
the titration period and had reached its peak in the first week of the maintenance period. The responder 
rate was approximately 46% of subjects in the Zebinix 800 mg group and 50% in the Zebinix 1200 mg 
group in the first week of the maintenance period, and remained stable through the last week of the 
maintenance period (week 12).  
The standardised seizure frequency also decreased already during the titration period and continued to 
decrease until reaching a steady state by week 4 of the maintenance period.  
Seizure type 
In  the  phase  III  integrated  studies,  the  standardised  seizure  frequency  by  seizure  type  showed  a 
difference compared to placebo for simple partial and for complex partial seizures.  
Page 52 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Standardised seizure frequency by seizure type - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Seizure Type/ 
Treatment 
Simple Partial 
Baseline Period 
Maintenance Period 
N 
n 
Mean±SD 
N 
n 
Median 
Mean±S
D 
Median 
Placebo 
286 
137 
4.9±11.25 
ESL 400 mg 
195 
86 
5.1±13.13 
ESL 800 mg 
282 
136 
5.6±11.67 
272 
130 
4.9±10.14 
ESL 1200 
mg 
Complex Partial 
0 
0 
0 
0 
279 
142 
192 
88 
262 
118 
4.7±12.8
8 
4.8±12.2
4 
3.9±12.1
5 
253 
109 
3.4±7.85 
Placebo 
286 
197 
5.7±12.19 
3.4 
279 
192 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 
mg 
195 
282 
272 
139 
207 
200 
5.8±7.99 
6.2±9.67 
6.1±11.89 
3.9 
3.8 
3.8 
Partial evolving to secondarily generalised 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 
mg 
Unclassified 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 
mg 
286 
195 
282 
272 
286 
195 
282 
272 
92 
66 
84 
88 
44 
21 
44 
41 
1.3±3.88 
1.3±3.48 
1.1±3.00 
1.2±3.47 
1.0±4.55 
0.8±4.95 
0.6±2.96 
1.1±4.35 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
192 
262 
253 
279 
192 
262 
253 
279 
192 
262 
253 
135 
178 
154 
85 
52 
72 
68 
51 
24 
44 
40 
5.4±11.2
7 
4.5±6.87 
4.4±6.94 
4.3±11.1
7 
0.9±2.44 
0.9±2.34 
0.8±2.51 
0.7±2.08 
0.7±3.34 
0.4±1.74 
0.6±4.05 
0.6±2.30 
0.3 
0 
0 
0 
2.0 
2.3 
2.0 
1.0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
ITT = intent-to-treat; n = number of subjects with seizures of the respective type; N = total number 
of subjects with available data; SD = standard deviation. 
Concerning  the  2  other  seizure  types  (partial  evolving  to  secondarily  generalised  and  unclassified 
seizures) the number of subjects and seizure frequency was low and no meaningful interpretation can 
be made of these data.  
With respect to secondarily generalised seizures, the following is found, when the 3 pivotal studies are 
looked at separately (ITT population): 
Page 53 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 301: 
Compared to the respective baseline level marked reductions of seizure frequency during the 12-week 
maintenance  period  were  found  for  the  mean  number  of  partial  evolving  to  secondarily  generalised 
seizures in the Zebinix 800 mg group (from 4.1 to 2.7). 
Decreases of medians regarding the number of partial evolving to secondarily generalised seizures in 
the Zebinix 800 mg group (from 2.5 to 0.9) exceeded corresponding changes observed in the placebo 
group (ITT population).  
However,  for  the  1200  mg  dose  group,  the  reduction  in  median  seizure  frequency  compared  to  the 
respective baseline level appears to be smaller than in the placebo group. 
Study 302: 
The  relative  reduction  in  median  standardised  seizure  frequency  was  higher  in    the  1200  mg  dose 
group compared to the placebo group, however a higher efficacy for the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose 
groups  compared  to  placebo  and  a  dose  related  trend  could  only  be  seen,  when  data  from  titration 
period where included.  
From Study 303 no trend concerning efficacy of Zebinix for the treatment of secondary  generalised 
seizures can be derived. 
As the CHMP considered that no clear trend towards efficacy of Zebinix in the treatment of secondary 
generalised seizures was seen, further analysis of the data was  requested. 
An ANCOVA for the standardised seizure frequency during the maintenance period was performed to 
compare treatments for subjects with partial evolving to secondarily generalized seizures at baseline 
using the following model: 
ln(stand  seizure  freq  +  4)  =  treatment  +  ln(baseline  value+4)  +  Number  of  concomitant  AEDs  at 
baseline + error.  
The results of the ANCOVA clearly demonstrate the efficacy of the 800 mg Zebinix and the 1200 mg 
Zebinix treatment groups in comparison to placebo for the ITT population [Table EF.2.1.8 in Study 
INT/Phase III/301-303]: 
p=0.0001 for testing the hypothesis H0: 1200 mg Zebinix – placebo=0 
p=0.0147 for testing the hypothesis H0: 800 mg Zebinix – placebo=0 
To  address  this  point,  also  a  responder  analysis  (relative  change  in  seizure  frequency  ≥50%  in 
comparison  to  baseline  period)  was  calculated  for  subjects  with  partial  evolving  to  secondarily 
generalized seizures at baseline. The overall p-values from the CMH test (stratified by study) and from 
the  Chi-square  test  did  not  show  any  statistical  significance  nor  did  the  p-values  from  the  pairwise 
tests  of  Zebinix  groups  versus  placebo.  However,  only  about  30%  of  subjects  from  the  3  Phase III 
studies had partial evolving to secondarily generalized seizures at baseline, and thus the power of these 
responder analyses was not sufficient to show any significant differences between treatment groups.  
What could be seen is that the trend in this subgroup was the same as for the overall population. The 
proportion of responders in each treatment group increased from 19.8% in the placebo group to 21.2% 
in the 400 mg Zebinix group, 37.5% in the 800 mg Zebinix group and 47.1% in the 1200 mg Zebinix 
group. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  though  the  number  of  patients  with  secondary  generalized  seizures  was 
low  in  the  pivotal  studies,  both  the  ANCOVA  results  for  the  standardised  frequency  of  secondary 
generalized  seizures  during  maintenance  phase  and  the  clear  trend  seen  in  the  responder  analysis 
(which was generally the same than for partial seizures overall though not statistically significant) are 
strongly  indicative  of  efficacy  of  Zebinix  in  the  treatment  of  secondary  generalized  seizures.  Taken 
into consideration, that secondary generalized seizures evolve from primary partial seizures, for which 
efficacy  of  Zebinix  has  been  shown,  the  response  is  considered  sufficient  and  supports  the  use  of 
Zebinix in these subjects. 
Page 54 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The ANCOVA of standardised seizure frequency by seizure type showed that the difference compared 
to placebo for simple partial and complex partial seizures was statistically significant for the 800 mg 
and 1200 mg groups.  
Table:  ANCOVA  analysis  of  standardised  seizure  frequency  by  seizure  type  -  Phase  III 
integrated studies (ITT population) 
Treatment 
N  LS Mean 
SE 
95% CI 
p-value 
Simple partial 
Placebo 
279 
2.35 
0.021 
ESL 400 mg 
192 
2.23 
0.025 
ESL 800 mg 
262 
1.71 
0.022 
ESL 1200 mg 
253 
1.76 
0.022 
Complex partial 
Placebo 
279 
3.34 
0.023 
ESL 400 mg 
192 
2.95 
0.028 
ESL 800 mg 
262 
2.68 
0.024 
ESL 1200 mg 
253 
2.30 
0.024 
Pairwise 
Comparison 
to Placebo 
Overall 
Treatment 
Effect 
(2.09, 
2.61) 
(1.93, 
2.54) 
(1.47, 
1.95) 
(1.63, 
2.01) 
(3.02, 
3.68) 
(2.59, 
3.34) 
(2.38, 
2.99) 
(2.01, 
2.60) 
- 
0.5656 
0.0004 
0.0014 
- 
0.1276 
0.0039 
<0.0001 
0.0004 
0.0001 
CI = confidence interval; ITT = intent-to-treat; LS = least square; N = total number of subjects; 
SE = standard error. 
Note: The ANCOVA model was based on log-transformed seizure frequencies with treatment, 
study, baseline seizure frequency and number of concomitant AEDs at baseline as factors. Least 
square means and confidence limits for the absolute effects within treatment groups have been 
back-transformed via the exponential function. Dunnetts multiple comparison procedure was 
used for the comparison of the active treatment means to the placebo mean. 
Concerning standardised seizure frequency, the effect was somewhat pronounced in the 800 mg dose 
group compared to the 1200 mg for simple partial seizures, and a clear dose-related effect was seen for 
complex partial seizures.  
A responder analysis by seizure type showed that subjects treated with Zebinix 800 mg and 1200 mg 
had a greater response than placebo for simple partial and complex partial seizures, and the percentage 
of responders was higher in the 1200 mg dose group than in the 800 mg dose group for both seizure 
types. 
Page 55 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Responder analysis by seizure type - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Seizure Type/ 
Treatment 
N 
Simple Partial 
Number 
(%) 
Odds ratio 
Relative Risk 
responders  Estimat
95% CI  Estimat
95% CI 
e 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
133 
84 
39 (29.3) 
26 (31.0) 
- 
1.41 
ESL 800 mg 
127 
61 (48.0) 
2.23 
ESL 1200 mg  123 
63 (51.2) 
2.53 
Complex Partial 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
191 
137 
59 (30.9) 
39 (28.5) 
- 
0.99 
ESL 800 mg 
193 
83 (43.0) 
1.69 
ESL 1200 mg  188 
100 (53.2) 
2.54 
e 
- 
1.28 
1.64 
1.75 
- 
0.99 
1.39 
1.72 
- 
(0.79, 
2.08) 
(1.19, 
2.26) 
(1.27, 
2.39) 
- 
(0.69, 
1.44) 
(1.07, 
1.82) 
(1.34, 
2.21) 
- 
(0.72, 
2.74) 
(1.34, 
3.71) 
(1.51, 
4.23) 
- 
(0.59, 
1.66) 
(1.11, 
2.57) 
(1.67, 
3.87) 
Overall 
p-value 
- 
0.3155 
0.0019 
0.0003 
- 
0.9698 
0.0139 
<0.0001 
CI = confidence interval; ITT = intent-to-treat; N = number of subjects who had the seizure type 
during the baseline period and with available data during the maintenance period; Responder: 
relative change in standardised seizure frequency ≥50% in comparison to baseline period.  
Efficacy analyses concerning simple partial and complex partial seizures demonstrate a relevant effect 
of the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose on both seizure types. Responder analysis revealed a dose response 
for  both  seizure  types  and  analysis  of  standardised  seizure  frequency  showed  a  clear  dose  related 
effect for complex partial seizures. 
Categorised relative change in standardised seizure frequency 
In the phase III integrated studies, the relative reduction in standardised seizure frequency increased 
with increasing dose of Zebinix during the maintenance period.  
Table: Relative (%) change in standardised seizure frequency during the maintenance period 
compared to baseline - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Treatment 
N 
Reduction  
Exacerbation  Missing 
≥75% 
8.2 
5.2 
14.5 
20.2 
50% to 
<75% 
25% to 
<50% 
0% to 
<25% 
13.3 
17.7 
21.8 
22.9 
19.0 
24.5 
24.0 
17.8 
20.4 
29.2 
19.8 
15.4 
<25% 
14.0 
12.0 
7.3 
7.5 
≥25% 
24.7 
11.5 
12.6 
15.4 
0.4 
0 
0 
0.8 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 
mg 
279 
192 
262 
253 
ITT = intent-to-treat. 
Page 56 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
A larger proportion of Zebinix subjects (60.3% of 800 mg subjects and 60.9% of 1200 mg subjects) 
had  a  reduction  in  standardised  seizure  frequency  of  25%  or  more  compared  to  placebo  subjects 
(40.5%). While 38.7% of placebo subjects had an exacerbation of seizure frequency, less than 24% of 
subjects in any Zebinix group did so. However the percentage of patients with an increase in seizure 
frequency,  especially  with  an  increase  of  ≥  25%  is  slightly  higher  in  the  1200  mg  dose  group 
compared to the 800 mg dose group (see next figure). 
Figure: Relative (%) change in standardised seizure frequency during the maintenance period 
compared to baseline - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Concerning exacerbation of seizures, the same trend concerning the Zebinix groups was seen, when 
study 301 was analysed solely:  
The  proportion  of  patients  with  a  25%  or  greater  exacerbation  in  seizure  frequency  during 
maintenance phase versus baseline was highest in the placebo group (21.6%); in the Zebinix groups 
however,  it  was  lowest  in  the  400  mg  dose  group  (8.1%)  and  highest  in  the  1200  mg  dose  group 
(12.2%). 
In study 302 the proportion of patients with a 25% or greater exacerbation in seizure frequency during 
maintenance phase versus baseline was highest in the placebo group (28.0%); in the verum groups it 
was lowest in the 800 mg dose group (10.0%), intermediate in the 1200 mg dose group (14.4%) and 
highest in the 400 mg dose group (15.6%). 
In  study  303,  however,  the  proportion  of  patients  with  a  25%  or  greater  exacerbation  in  seizure 
frequency during maintenance phase versus baseline was lowest in the 1200 mg dose group (13.0%), 
compared to the 800 mg dose group (16.7%) and the placebo group (22.6%), respectively. 
The  CHMP  noted  that  in  the  integrated  phase  III  analysis,  the  percentage  of  subjects  with  a  ≥50% 
relative reduction in standardised seizure frequency is higher in the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose groups 
compared to placebo, and especially for the ≥75% relative reduction the effect is larger in the 1200 mg 
dose group compared to the 800 mg dose group. 
Page 57 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  percentage  of  patients  with  an  exacerbation  in  seizure  frequency  during  the  maintenance  phase 
compared  to  the  baseline  is  clearly  higher  in  the  placebo  group  compared  to  each  of  the  treatment 
groups. However the percentage of patients with an increase in seizure frequency, especially with an 
increase of ≥ 25% is slightly higher in the 1200 mg dose group compared to the 800 mg dose group in 
the integrated phase III analysis and in studies 301 and 302, respectively. 
The applicant was requested to further evaluate and discuss the potential of Zebinix to induce seizures 
and  to  worsen  specific  seizure  types.  For  this  purpose,  increase  in  seizure  frequency  <  25%  and    ≥ 
25%,  respectively  should  be  presented  for  different  seizure  types  (including  absences)  for  the 
individual studies as well as the integrated analysis. 
Exacerbations in seizure frequency during Maintenance Period (Overall and by Seizure Type) 
Seizure type 
% 
Number (%) of subjects 
Overall 
Simple partial 
Complex partial 
Partial evolving 
to secondarily 
generalised 
Unclassified 
Exacerbation 
<25% 
≥25% 
<25% 
≥25% 
<25% 
≥25% 
<25% 
≥25% 
<25% 
≥25% 
Placebo 
(N=279) 
39 (14.0) 
69 (24.7) 
16 (5.7) 
39 (14.0) 
25 (9.0) 
47 (16.8) 
5 (1.8) 
400 mg 
(N=192) 
23 (12.0) 
22 (11.5) 
10 (5.2) 
16 (8.3) 
16 (8.3) 
15 (7.8) 
7 (3.6) 
ESL 
800 mg 
(N=262) 
19 (7.3) 
33 (12.6) 
4 (1.5) 
21 (8.0) 
13 (5.0) 
30 (11.5) 
1200 mg 
(N=253) 
19 (7.5) 
39 (15.4) 
11 (4.3) 
20 (7.9) 
10 (4.0) 
26 (10.3) 
5 (1.9) 
4 (1.6) 
11 (3.9) 
10 (5.2) 
11 (4.2) 
12 (4.7) 
0 
6 (2.2) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (0.8) 
3 (1.1) 
0 
6 (2.4) 
Source: (Table Q48-1 and Q48-2 in Appendix 35) 
The  percentage  of  patients  experiencing  absence  seizures  during  baseline  and/or  maintenance  phase 
was  very  low  (placebo  group:  0.4%  of  patients  during  baseline,  0.7%  during  maintenance;  400  mg 
dose group: 0.5% during baseline, 0% during maintenance; 800 mg dose group: 0.4% during baseline, 
1.1% during maintenance; 1200 mg dose group: 1.2% during baseline, 1.6% during maintenance). The 
frequency of patients experiencing absences are too low to draw definite conclusions, however, from 
the data presented there is no clear indication of a potential of Zebinix to increase absences. 
It was concluded that there is no indication for a potential exacerbation of seizures during treatment 
with Zebinix. 
Number of days with seizures: 
In the integrated phase III analysis, the median standardised number of days with seizures per 4 weeks 
was between 5.9 and 6.5 in all treatment groups at baseline. The standardised number of days already 
decreased  during  the  titration  period  in  the  Zebinix  800 mg  (p=0.0018)  and  1200  mg  groups 
(p=0.0249). During the maintenance period the median standardised number of days with seizures per 
4 weeks was 5.3 in the placebo group compared to 4.3 in the 800 mg Zebinix group (p=0.0054) and to 
3.8 in the 1200 mg group (p=0.0007). 
Page 58 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Standardised number of days with seizure per 4 weeks - Phase III integrated studies (ITT 
population) 
Treatment 
Baseline Period 
Maintenance Period 
N  Mean±SD  Media
N  Mean±SD Median  p-value 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
286 
195 
282 
272 
8.0±5.70 
8.5±5.58 
8.5±5.81 
8.6±6.17 
n 
5.9 
6.5 
6.5 
6.3 
279 
192 
262 
253 
7.0±5.83 
7.0±5.83 
6.1±5.77 
6.1±6.22 
5.3 
5.1 
4.3 
3.8 
- 
0.4410 
0.0054 
0.0007 
ITT = intent-to-treat; N = total number of subjects with available data; SD = standard 
deviation. 
Note: p-values generated with a Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test using modified ridit 
scores with study as stratification factor. 
In  study  302,  the  Zebinix  800  mg  group  (ITT  population)  had  the  greatest  differences  in  median 
number of days with seizures between the baseline period value and the 12-week maintenance period 
value (3.2) and the 2-week titration + 12-week maintenance periods value (3.0). Differences in median 
values in the Zebinix 1200 mg group were 1.8 and 1.6, respectively. 
Seizure-free subjects 
In  the  integrated  phase  III  analysis,  the  proportion  of  subjects  who  were  seizure-free  during  the 
maintenance  period  increased  with  increasing  dose  of  Zebinix,  from  2%  to  3%  of  subjects  in  the 
placebo and Zebinix 400 mg groups to 3.8% of subjects in the 800 mg group and 8% of subjects in the 
1200 mg group. 
Treatment retention time 
In the integrated phase III  analysis, treatment retention time was similar in the placebo and 400 mg 
groups and decreased with higher doses of Zebinix. Findings in the safety population were the same as 
for the ITT population and were generally the same in the three single studies. Most discontinuations 
were because of unacceptable AEs which occurred in a treatment- and dose-dependent manner. 
Page 59 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
Figure: Treatment retention time - Phase III integrated studies (ITT population) 
Efficacy during tapering period  
During  the  tapering-off  period  (studies  301  and  303  only),  the  standardised  seizure  frequency 
remained essentially constant in the placebo group relative to the end of the maintenance period and 
increased slightly in the Zebinix groups without any sign of a rebound effect. 
Page 60 of 80 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Standardised seizure frequency in tapering-off period - Studies BIA-2093-301 and BIA-
2093-303 (ITT population) 
Treatment 
Group 
Study BIA-2093-301 
Study BIA-2093-303 
Baseline Period 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
Maintenance 
Period 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
Tapering-off 
Period 
Placebo 
ESL 400 mg 
ESL 800 mg 
ESL 1200 mg 
N 
Mean±SD 
Media
n 
N 
Mean±SD 
Median 
102 
99 
98 
98 
12.4±17.94 
11.4±9.74 
11.2±11.21 
11.6± 15.92 
99 
97 
94 
94 
88 
93 
85 
73 
11.1±17.21 
 8.9±9.51 
 7.1±8.11 
 8.1±15.51 
9.1±15.85 
9.1±11.66 
8.2±9.04 
9.5±18.45 
6.7 
7.5 
7.0 
7.5 
6.7 
5.7 
4.8 
4.7 
5.8 
5.0 
5.8 
5.8 
84 
- 
84 
77 
81 
- 
80 
73 
70 
- 
73 
60 
12.9±18.31 
- 
13.1±18.58 
12.1±12.83 
11.2±21.62 
- 
9.7±14.42 
7.8±10.45 
10.3±19.70 
- 
10.0±12.92 
8.0±8.17 
6.5 
- 
7.8 
6.0 
5.7 
- 
4.6 
3.7 
5.4 
- 
5.4 
5.1 
ITT = intent-to-treat; N=total number of subjects; SD = standard deviation. 
Interaction between doses of Zebinix and concomitant anti-epileptic drugs 
In the integrated phase III analysis, based on the ANCOVA model, no effect was seen on the efficacy 
of Zebinix when given concomitantly with carbamazepine, lamotrigine, or valproic acid.  
Health related questionnaires 
Clinical global impression (CGI) 
On the Global Improvement scale, a larger percentage of Zebinix subjects than placebo subjects had 
been noted at the end of the maintenance period (V5) as much improved (21.2% placebo, 29.4% Total 
Zebinix) or very much improved (5.4% placebo, 10.4% Total Zebinix), and this effect was greatest in 
the 800 mg and 1200 mg Zebinix groups. Similar results were seen for therapeutic effect. 
At  the  end  of  the  maintenance  period  side  effects  were  reported  by  24.2%  of  placebo  subjects  and 
27.6% of Zebinix subjects, and ≤ 5% of subjects considered these to significantly interfere with their 
functioning. 
Motgomery &Asberg depression rating scale (MADRS) 
Symptoms  of  depression  as  assessed  by  the  MADRS  did  not  show  major  changes  from  the 
randomisation visit to the last visit in either the placebo or Zebinix groups. 
Quality of life in epilepsy inventory-31 (Quolie-31) 
There were no major changes of QOLIE-31 mean scores from randomisation to the last visit for any of 
the subscales or on the overall score in either the placebo or Zebinix groups. 
Page 61 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study 303: 
Whereas in studies 301 and 302 major protocol violations where at an acceptable level (in study 301 
only 4 Patients were excluded from PP population because of major protocol violations, in study 302 
major protocol violations occurred in 14.4% of patients) the percentage of patients with major protocol 
violations in study 303 was remarkable (33.6%): 
The blind was broken for 5 patients immediately after study completion. To assess the potential impact 
this  deviation  had  on  results  from  this  study,  a  restricted  ITT  population,  in  which  data  for  these  5 
patients were removed from the ITT population, was used for several efficacy analyses: 
In contrast to the results from ANCOVA analysis of seizure frequency per 4 weeks over the 12-week 
maintenance  period in the complete  ITT  population (which  had shown a  statistically  significant  and 
dose  dependent  effect  of  the  Zebinix  800  mg  and  1200  mg  groups),  ANCOVA  analysis  of  the 
restricted ITT population revealed no statistically significant difference between the Zebinix 800 mg 
and the placebo groups.  
However,  results  were  almost  the  same  between  the  complete  and  restricted  ITT  populations  for 
median absolute and relative reductions in seizure frequency or the proportions of responders, seizure-
free  patients  and  patients  with  a  ≥  25%  exacerbation  in  seizure  frequency  over  the  12-week 
maintenance period. 
Furthermore, in the PP population, ANCOVA analysis for seizure frequency per 4 weeks over the 12-
week maintenance period (as well as the 2-week titration + 12 week maintenance periods) revealed no 
statistically significant difference between treatment and placebo groups, which might be due to a low 
sample  size  for  the  PP  population  compared  with  that  of  the  ITT  population  (133  vs.  245  patients, 
respectively). The LS mean difference to placebo was greater in the Zebinix 1200 mg group than in 
the Zebinix 800 mg group (-1.6 versus -1.2, respectively). 
As has been shown above the responder rates for the 800 and 1200 mg dose groups clearly exceeded 
that of the placebo group, but the difference compared to placebo was statistically significant only for 
the 1200 mg dose group. 
Additionally,  some  inconsistencies  in  the  analyses  of  the  accessory  secondary  efficacy  parameters 
were found.  
The CHMP was concerned by the frequency and character of the major protocol violations of study 
303, raising doubts on the reliability of the study results. Whereas the results of studies 301 and 302 
were  highly  consistent,  some  results  of  study  303  were  considered  implausible.  The  applicant  was 
therefore  requested  to  repeat  the  integrated  analysis  without  study  303:  the  analysis  with  excluded 
study 303 was not significantly different from the overall integrated analysis. Although the drop-out 
rate in the study 303 was relatively high, the overall results did not change after excluding this study 
from the analysis. 
Page 62 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Ancillary analyses 
Analysis of subpopulations 
In the integrated phase III analysis, the trend for increasing efficacy with increasing dose of Zebinix 
was generally consistent among sub-populations. No relevant difference was found between men and 
women,  geographical  regions,  subjects  with  longer  (≥20  years)  or  shorter  (<20  years)  epileptic 
duration, for subjects <18 years at diagnosis or between 18 and 50 years, for number of concomitant 
AEDs (1 or 2). While the same dose-dependent trend was seen for Hispanics, it was less pronounced 
than for Caucasians. 
The  efficacy  seen  in  each  dose  group  was  generally  comparable  during  the  maintenance  period 
regardless of whether subjects were taking concomitant carbamazepine, lamotrigine or valproic acid. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
The integrated analysis of the 3 pivotal studies has already been described above (Main studies). 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Children 
One open-label phase II study in children with epilepsy has been performed BIA-2093-202, and has 
been described above. 
This  study  is  indicative  of  efficacy  of  Zebinix  in  the  treatment  of  children  with  partial  seizures, 
however, due to the study design the contribution to the proof of efficacy in the adult epilepsy patients 
is very limited. Further studies are ongoing and/or planned. 
Supportive studies 
Long term efficacy trials: out of the 857 subjects who completed part I of studies 301, 302 and 303, 
831 (97.0%) entered part II of these studies, an open-label extension trial to evaluate the safety and 
efficacy of Eslicarbazepine acetate over a 1-year open-label period. Part II of study 301 was completed 
and studies 302 and 303 were still ongoing at the time of opinion. 
In  Study  301-II  the  efficacy  parameters  remained  stable  over  time,  the  Zebinix  dose  administered 
remained stable after the first 4 weeks of treatment. 
The  discontinuation  rate  (23.9%  of  patients)  was  moderately  high,  the  most  common  reason  was 
withdrawal of consent (41 patients, corresponding to 13.1%), followed by occurrence of unacceptable 
AE  (10  patients,  3.2%).  Exacerbation  of  seizures  occurred  in  2  patients  (0.6%).  However  lack  of 
efficacy was not among the pre-defined reasons for withdrawal; it was concluded to be the reason if a 
patient prematurely discontinued the study due to exacerbation of seizures. 
Due to the inevitable selection bias, the missing of a control group and the open-label design, open-
label  extension  studies  are  naturally  of  limited  value.  Therefore,  the  data  concerning  health-related 
questionnaires are not conclusive and inclusion of the respective data into chapter 5.1 of the SPC is 
misleading.  
However, the presented data indicate that the therapeutic effect of eslicarbazepine is maintained over 
time. 
After completion of the open-label extension parts of studies 302 and 303, the applicant should submit 
the respective efficacy results. 
Page 63 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discussion on clinical efficacy 
The  three  pivotal  studies  (301,  302  and  303)  were  essentially  similar  in  design  and  allowed  for  an 
integrated analysis (phase III integrated studies). 
With  regard  to  the  primary  efficacy  variable  of  the  three  pivotal  studies  (i.e.  the  seizure  frequency 
during the maintenance period standardised to 4 weeks) as well as to the responder rate, efficacy of the 
800 and 1200 mg daily dose of Zebinix could be shown. Results for the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose 
were statistically significant superior to placebo in the separate analyses of all three single studies as 
well as in the phase III integrated analysis, except, that in study 303, the responder rate for the 800 mg 
dose group did not reach statistical significance compared to placebo.   
Relative reduction in standardised seizure frequency during the maintenance period was considerably 
larger for the Zebinix treatment groups compared to placebo, the results for the 800 and 1200 mg dose 
groups being statistically significant. 
A  dose  dependent  increase  of  the  therapeutic  effect  of  Zebinix  was  shown  with  relatively  high 
consistency. 
The effect of the 400 mg dose did not reach statistical significance in almost all parameters examined, 
therefore, 800 mg is applied for as the minimum therapeutic dose.  
The analyses of the further secondary efficacy variables showed a level of efficacy of the 800 mg and 
1200  mg  dose  of  Zebinix  which  closely  matched  the  results  shown  in  the  analysis  of  the  primary 
endpoint and the responder rate.  
However, some inconsistencies of the presented data were seen to be formally assessed and discussed 
by the applicant. 
In the ITT population of the three pivotal studies, there was a higher and dose dependent incidence of 
early  discontinuations  due  to  adverse  events  during  the  maintenance  period  in  the  Zebinix  groups 
(7.1%) compared to the placebo group (1%). 
Apparently, in the three single studies as well as in the integrated analysis patients who discontinued 
treatment  prematurely  during  one  of  the  treatment  periods  were  still  categorized  as  treatment 
responders for that particular treatment period when their seizure frequency was reduced by 50% or 
more up to the point of discontinuation.  
The requested conservative responder analysis, in which patients who discontinued early are regarded 
as non-responders, shows a statistically significant higher responder rate for the 800 mg and 1200 mg 
Zebinix groups compared to placebo in the integrated analysis, as well as for study 301 and 302. These 
results are in line with the original responder analysis in which patients who discontinued treatment 
prematurely were still categorized as responders when their seizure frequency was reduced by ≥ 50% 
up to the point of discontinuation. In study 303, the conservative responder analysis revealed a higher 
percentage  of  responders  in  the  800  mg  (32.5%)  and  1200  mg  (35.6%)  dose  group  compared  to 
placebo  (23.5%),  though  the  differences  were  not  statistically  significant  for  both  dose  groups.  A 
further formal assessment of the conservative responder rates in the three pivotal studies did not reveal 
relevant  heterogeneities  between  the  studies.  The  finding  that  the  difference  in  percentage  of 
responders of the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose group, respectively compared to the placebo group, was 
not  statistically  significant  in  study  303  is  probably  based  on  the  lower  number  of  patients  in  the 
respective study and does not put in doubt the overall efficacy results of Zebinix.   
Efficacy  analyses  concerning  simple  partial  and  complex  partial  seizures  demonstrated  a  relevant 
effect  of  the  800  mg  and  1200  mg  dose  on  both  seizure  types.  Responder  analysis  revealed  a  dose 
response  for  both  seizure  types  and  analysis  of  standardised  seizure  frequency  showed  a  clear  dose 
related  effect  for  complex  partial  seizures.  Efficacy  of  Zebinix  in  the  treatment  of  secondary 
generalised seizures was sufficiently justified by the applicant.  
The  completed  open-label  extension-study  301-II  indicates,  that  the  therapeutic  effect  of  Zebinix  is 
maintained over time.  
Page 64 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
CLINICAL SAFETY  
Introduction 
The  Zebinix  clinical  development  program  for  the  indication  of  Zebinix  as  adjunctive  therapy  for 
refractory  partial  seizures  included  22  phase  I  studies,  2  phase  II  studies  (study  201  performed  in 
adults  and  study  202  in  children  and  adolescents,  respectively),  and  3  phase III  studies  in  adults 
(including a double-blind part I and open-label extension periods).  
In addition, 3 phase II studies were performed in adults for the treatment of acute manic episodes and 
prevention of recurrence of mood episodes in bipolar disorder I. 
Information  on  safety  of  Zebinix  in  the  therapy  as  adjunctive  treatment  in  adult  epilepsy  patients  is 
mainly derived from the integrated safety data from part I of the phase III studies 301, 302 and 303 
together with the data from study 201 and the completed extension of study 301 part II. All of these 
studies were performed in the target indication, namely adults with refractory partial seizures. 
Furthermore, the clinical pharmacology studies (phase I studies) as well as phase II clinical studies in 
other  than  the  target  indication,  i.e.  1  paediatric  study  (No.  202),  3  studies  in  patients  with  bipolar 
disorder  (Nrs.  203,  204  and  205,  respectively)  and  ongoing  studies  (part  II  of  studies  302  and  303, 
respectively as well as part III of study 301) provided supportive data to elucidate the safety profile of 
Zebinix. 
Patient exposure 
At  the  cut-off  date  of  30  September  2007  more  than  2000  subjects  had  been  exposed  to  single  or 
repeated doses of Zebinix. All Zebinix doses were given orally in the clinical studies, either as tablets 
or as a suspension. 
Table 1: Summary of total exposure in ESL clinical program (completed studies) 
Development  
Phase 
Number of Subjects Treated 
ESL 
Subject  
Population 
Number  
of Studies 
Placebo 
Phase I 
Phase II 
Phase III 
with 
Non-epileptic adults 
Adults/Childrenb 
refractory partial epilepsy 
Adults 
with 
disorder 
Adults  with 
partial epilepsy 
refractory 
bipolar 
Total clinical studies 
22 
2 
3 
3 
30 
558 
127b 
172c 
840 
1694 
115 
47 
51 
289 
502 
Total 
592a 
174 
199c 
1049d, e 
2014 
a Due to cross-over designs, numbers treated in Phase I studies are not additive. 
b 31 children 2-17 years of age received ESL in Study BIA-2093-202. 
c  The  total  column  is  not  cumulative  of  the  ESL  and  placebo  columns  due  to  24  subjects  who  received  placebo 
treatment in Studies BIA-2093-203 or -204 and then received ESL in Study BIA-2093-205. 
d  The  total  column  is  not  cumulative  of  the  ESL  and  placebo  columns  due  to  80  subjects  who  were  treated  with 
placebo in Part I of Study BIA-2093-301 and then with ESL in Part II.  
e 1 subject in Study BIA-2093-303 was treated with placebo during the 12-week treatment period and then with ESL 
400 mg QD for 14 days; this subject is not included in the numbers shown here. 
In the open-label extension studies in the target indication (part II of studies 301, 302 and 303) 833 
patients received at least one dose of Zebinix, 700 patients were exposed to Zebinix for ≥ 6 months 
and 612 patients for ≥ 12 months.  
In Phase  I studies in healthy subjects Zebinix doses up to 3600 mg/day were tested (study No.118), 
and the identified maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was 2400 mg/day (study No. 113).  
Page 65 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In studies in patients with bipolar disorder the maximum daily Zebinix dose tested was 2400 mg QD, 
administered in monotherapy. 
Adverse events 
TEAEs 
Table:  Summary of TEAEs - Phase II/III-part I adult epilepsy studies  
Type of event 
All TEAEs 
Possibly related 
TEAEs 
SAEs 
TEAEs leading to 
discontinuation of 
study medication  
Deaths 
Study 201 
Placebo 
(N=47) 
Total 
ESL 
(N=96) 
Integrated Phase III Studies, 
Part I 
Placebo 
(N=289) 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
Total 
ESL 
(N=760) 
21 (44.7) 
10 (21.3) 
38 (39.6) 
23 (24.0) 
134 (46.4) 
72 (24.9) 
119 (60.7)  178 (62.7)  189 (67.5)  486 (63.9) 
134 (47.2)  154 (55.0)  363 (47.8) 
75 (38.3) 
1 (2.1) 
5 (10.6) 
2 (2.1) 
9 (9.4) 
4 (1.4) 
13 (4.5) 
9 (4.6) 
17 (8.7) 
10 (3.5) 
33 (11.6) 
9 (3.2) 
54 (19.3) 
28 (3.7) 
104 (13.7) 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
In part I of the phase III studies, the overall incidence of TEAEs increased with increasing doses of 
Zebinix  (46.4%  placebo,  60.7%  400  mg  Zebinix,  62.7%  800  mg  Zebinix  and  67.5%  1200  mg 
Zebinix), the dose-dependent increase was also seen for possibly related TEAEs and TEAEs leading to 
discontinuation of study medication. 
The increase in TEAEs was mainly due to a small number of specific events in the Zebinix 800 and 
1200  mg  groups,  namely  diplopia,  nausea,  abnormal  coordination,  dizziness,  headache,  and 
somnolence. In addition to vertigo, blurred vision, vomiting, and fatigue, these were the same events 
that  led  to  an  increased  incidence  of  subjects  discontinuing  in  the  Zebinix  groups.  TEAEs  occurred 
mainly during the first 6 weeks of treatment.  
In  general, the  profile  of  at  least  possibly  related TEAEs  of  the integrated  Phase  III  studies and the 
(double-blind) study 201 appears similar to that of oxcarbazepine and the apparent frequencies do not 
raise any serious concern.   
In the placebo controlled studies with Zebinix in the target indication, some possibly related TEAEs 
(e.g. headache, diplopia, nausea and vomiting) appear to occur less frequently compared to the known 
frequencies  from  oxcarbazepine.  However,  conclusive  results  could  only  be  provided  from  active 
comparator studies. 
Clinically  significant  hyponatraemia  (<125  mmol/L)  has  occurred  uncommonly,  however,  an 
evaluation  of  the  frequency  of  hyponatraemia  causing  clinical  symptoms  and  the  time  to  onset  of 
hyponatraemia after start of Zebinix treatment is missing and should be presented. 
The  frequency  of  rash  appears  to  be  common,  which  is  in  accordance  with  the  incidence  of  rash 
known  from  oxcarbazepine.  No  definite  conclusion  concerning  the  possible  risk  of  serious  immune 
and skin disorders (including Steven-Johnson syndrome) can be drawn and these events will be further 
followed in the RMP. 
Serious adverse events  
In part I of the phase III studies there was a somewhat higher (but not dose related) incidence of SAEs 
in the  Zebinix  groups  (3.7%)  compared  to  the placebo  group (1.4%).The  only  SOCs  in  which  more 
than 2 subjects per Zebinix treatment group reported SAEs were nervous system disorders (1, 0.3% 
placebo; 13, 1.7% Total Zebinix) and gastrointestinal disorders (0 placebo; 7, 0.9% Total Zebinix). 
Page 66 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Serious TEAEs, by decreasing frequency - Phase II/III adult epilepsy studies (safety 
population) 
Preferred term 
Total subjects 
with SAEs  
Coordination 
abnormal 
Vomiting 
Drug toxicity 
Vertigo 
Diplopia 
Dizziness 
Convulsion 
Cerebellar 
syndrome 
Constipation 
Gastric 
disorder 
Hypertensive 
crisis 
Rash 
Angina 
pectoris 
Endometriosis 
Follicle centre 
lymphoma, 
follicular grade 
I, II, III 
Gastric ulcer 
Gastroenteritis 
Hyponatraemia 
Renal failure 
acute 
Complex 
partial seizures 
Depression 
Grand mal 
convulsion 
Nervousness 
Psychotic 
disorder 
Traumatic 
brain injury 
Vasculitis 
cerebral 
Death 
Fibroadenoma 
of breast 
Paraesthesia 
Pneumonia 
primary 
atypical 
Study 201 
Placebo
(N=47) 
Total 
ESL 
(N=96) 
Number (%) of subjects 
Integrated Phase III Studies, 
Part I 
Placebo 
(N=289) 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
Total ESL 
(N=760) 
Study 301
Part II 
Total ESL 
(N=314) 
1 (2.1) 
2 (2.1) 
4 (1.4) 
9 (4.6) 
10 (3.5) 
9 (3.2) 
28 (3.7) 
19 (6.1) 
2 (1.0) 
2 (0.7) 
1 (0.4) 
5 (0.7) 
0 
2 (0.7) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
0 
1 (0.4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
1 (0.4) 
0 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
4 (0.5) 
3 (0.4) 
3 (0.4) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
2 (0.3) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
2 (1.0) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
1 (0.5) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
Page 67 of 80 
0 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
1 (0.4) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
2 (0.6) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
3 (1.0) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
0 
0 
0 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred term 
Gastroenteritis 
viral 
Gastrointestin
al infection 
Lymphadenitis 
Otitis media 
acute 
Head injury 
Thermal burn 
Scull fracture 
Colorectal 
cancer 
Hemiparesis 
Psychomotor 
hyperactivity 
Status 
epilepticus 
Postical state 
Ischaemic 
stroke 
Delusion 
Delusional 
disorder, 
persecutory 
type 
Study 201 
Placebo
(N=47) 
Total 
ESL 
(N=96) 
1 (2.1) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (1.0) 
0 
0 
Number (%) of subjects 
Integrated Phase III Studies, 
Part I 
Study 301
Part II 
Placebo 
(N=289) 
400 mg 
(N=196) 
800 mg 
(N=284) 
1200 mg 
(N=280) 
Total ESL 
(N=760) 
Total ESL 
(N=314) 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
0 
1 (0.3) 
1 (0.3) 
Events are sorted by decreasing frequency in the Total ESL column of Studies 301, 302, and 303 Part I. 
N = total number of subjects; SAE = serious adverse event. 
Deaths   
In total 10 death cases occurred during the clinical trial programme of Zebinix. 
During  the  phase  I  study  BIA-2093-105  a  65  year  old  patient  treated  with  600mg  Zebinix  died  of 
cardiovascular failure after occlusion of a coronary artery. A causal relationship with Zebinix appears 
unlikely. 
In two of the three phase II studies in adult patients with bipolar disorder two deaths occurred. In study 
BIA-2093-203, a 42-year-old subject in the placebo group experienced an ischemic stroke. The event 
was  not  considered  related  to  study  medication.  In  study  BIA-2093-205,  a  30-year-old  subject 
committed  suicide  5  days  after  the  last  900mg  dose  of  Zebinix.  The  subject  had  been  prematurely 
discontinued  from  study  due  to  withdrawal  of consent. The investigator considered the event  as  not 
related to Zebinix treatment.  
In part I of the placebo-controlled integrated phase III study BIA-2093-301, a 50-year-old subject in 
the placebo group died of hypothermia.  
During the open label extension periods of the phase III studies six patients died. 
In part II of study BIA-2093-301 a 56-year old patient treated with Zebinix 800 mg QD, gabapentin 
1200 mg/day and valproic acid 1500 mg/day, died of drowning in the bathroom. A causal relationship 
with Zebinix was determined unlikely. 
Page 68 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In part II of study BIA-2093-302 one 31-year old subject and one 33-year old subject treated with 
Zebinix 1200mg/day died of drowning. Investigator assessed these two cases as unlikely to be related 
to Zebinix treatment. Another 31-year-old subject treated with Zebinix 800 mg QD, levetiracetam 2 
g/day and CBZ 400 mg/day, and with several cardiovascular risk factors suffered from a sudden 
unobserved death and severe coronary atherosclerosis. Investigator assessed this event as a case of 
sudden unexplained death which was possibly related to Zebinix. 
In part II of study BIA-2093-303 one 54-year-old subject treated with Zebinix 800 mg QD, CBZ 1000 
mg/day and LMT 150 mg/day died due to neoplasm recurrence of a previous low grade astrocytoma. 
The investigator assessed this event as not related to Zebinix treatment. Another 33-year-old subject 
treated with Zebinix 800 mg QD, CBZ 800 mg/day and valproic acid 1000 mg/day died of acute 
respiratory insufficiency and epilepsy grand mal. The investigator assessed this event as possibly 
related to Zebinix.  
Whereas  it  can  not  completely  be  ruled  out  that  in  two  of  these  patients  an  increase  in  seizure 
frequency caused by Zebinix might have contributed to death. However, anticonvulsives are known to 
increase  the  seizure  frequency  in  individual  patients  and  Zebinix  appears  not  to  lead  to  a  relevant 
increase in seizure frequency. 
A  ‘Risk  for  suicidality  class  wording’  for  anticonvulsants  has  recently  been  finalised  in  the 
Pharmacovigilance Working Party and the respective information is included in the SPC and PIL.  
Toxicological studies in dogs did not reveal a signal with respect to cardiotoxicity. It has been shown 
that  Zebinix  inhibits  voltage-gated  sodium  channels,  however,  it  is  not  clarified,  whether  this 
inhibition  occurs  specifically  in  the  central  nervous  system  or  not.  Inhibition  of  cardiac  sodium 
channels leads to an increase in QRS-duration, which is associated with sudden death.  
In the thorough QT study, the time averaged QRS duration increased of about 0.8 to 1.05 ms (placebo: 
0.32  ms)  which  seems  to  be  not  clinically  relevant.  Furthermore,  from  the  evaluation  of  the  ECG 
recordings  performed  during  clinical  studies  with  Zebinix,  no  signal  towards  an  increase  in  QRS 
interval can be derived. 
The thorough QT study did not raise concerns with respect to QT prolongation, and showed a mild and 
dose dependent increase in the PR interval of about 5-8 ms (placebo: 2 ms) despite of a mild increase 
in  heart  rate  (neither  of  which  is  considered  of  clinical  relevance  of  its  own).  Evaluation  of  ECG 
recordings performed during clinical trials showed a mean increase in PR interval in Zebinix treated 
patients compared to baseline which was not strictly dose dependent but highest in the 1200 mg dose 
group  with  a  mean  increase  in  PR  interval  of  5.5  ±30.6  ms  (compared  to  a  slight  decrease  in  the 
placebo group of -0.8 ± 20.6 ms). The results are in accordance with the finding of the thorough QT 
study. Thus, administration of Zebinix should be absolutely contraindicated in patients with 2nd and 
3rd degree atrioventricular block and further evaluation of a population at risk of PR increase under 
treatment with Zebinix should be performed. 
However,  during  the  integrated  phase  III  studies  and  study  201  atrioventricular  block  (first  degree) 
was  registered  as  TEAE  only  once  after  administration  of  placebo  but  not  after  administration  of 
Zebinix.   
Laboratory findings: 
The numbers of clinically significant increases in transaminases which occurred during the integrated 
phase III studies, part II of study 301, study 201 and phase I studies in Zebinix patients compared to 
placebo  patients  do not raise  serious  concerns.  However,  to  include as  much  data  as  possible in the 
evaluation of transaminase increase, all cases which occurred during the other phase II studies (besides 
study 201) and of part II of studies 302 and 303 should also be listed and evaluated with respect to  
severity and causal relationship. 
Increase in INR should be included in the RMP (increase in aPTT is already included). The potential 
of  Zebinix  to  increase  total-  and  LDL-  cholesterol  should  be  closely  observed  through  routine 
pharmacovigilance.  
Page 69 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety in special populations 
Only  very  few  patients  ≥  65  years  have  been  exposed  to  Zebinix  during  the  phase  III  studies  (9 
patients ≥ 65 received Zebinix during double blind period of phase III studies). No patient ≥ 65 years 
received Zebinix in the phase II study relevant for the indication (No. 201).  
There  is  a  trend  towards  a  higher  frequency  of  all  TEAEs  and  possibly  related  TEAEs  for  this  age 
group;  however,  the  number  of  elderly  patients  is  too  small  to  draw  meaningful  conclusions. 
Altogether, Zebinix has not been adequately studied in elderly patients and adequate information on 
the  very  limited  data  on  Zebinix  in  elderly  should be  given  in  the  SPC.  Moreover,  the  incidence  of 
epilepsy  is  the  highest  in  the  elderly  population  and  therefore  this  population  will  be  the  most 
frequently treated population among the target population for therapy with this product. Therefore, the 
applicant was asked to make a proposal, how the efficacy and safety in the elderly population will be 
addressed. Next, the applicant is asked to summarize the data, which are expected to be gained post-
authorization from the population > 65 years. 
Clinical data in patients with mild to moderate hepatic impairment is limited and no pharmacokinetic 
as well as no clinical data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment. Therefore, Zebinix 
should  only  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  and  is  not 
recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Due to the increased extent of exposure to Zebinix observed in subjects with renal impairment, dose 
adjustments are required in these subjects. As only 8 patients in the evaluation of the appropriate cut-
off for dose adjustment in renal impaired patients [Memo-Zebinix-RenalImpAdjust_05JUN2007] had 
a Creatinine clearance within the range of 30-60 ml/min reliability of the respective evaluation should 
be further justified by the applicant. Zebinix is not recommended in patients with severe and end-stage 
renal impairment (Creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min) due to insufficient data.   
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
Although the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) was higher in subjects treated 
with  concomitant  CBZ  than  in  subjects  not  treated  with  CBZ,  this  was  true  for  both  Zebinix  and 
placebo treated subjects. Diplopia was reported more frequently by patients taking Zebinix plus CBZ 
compared to the overall population. 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
The  percentage  of  patients  discontinuing  treatment  increases  noticeably  with  increasing  dose.  Most 
discontinuations  were  because  of  unacceptable  AEs  which  occurred  in  a  treatment-  and  dose-
dependent  manner.  The  increased  incidence  of  subjects  discontinuing  in  the  Zebinix  groups  in  the 
integrated  Phase  III  studies  was  primarily  due  to  events  of  vertigo,  diplopia,  blurred  vision,  nausea, 
vomiting, fatigue, abnormal coordination, dizziness, headache, and somnolence. 
Post marketing experience 
There is no post-marketing experience with Zebinix. 
Overall conclusions on clinical safety 
Due  to  the  very  close  pharmacological  relationship  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  with  oxcarbazepine 
(following oral administration of Zebinix and oxcarbazepine, respectively, the same active  moieties, 
i.e.S-licarbazepine,  R-licarbazepine  and  oxcarbazepine,  are  found  in  plasma,  though  in  somewhat 
different proportions), it is highly probable, that adverse events, which occur after administration of 
oxcarbazepine may also occur after administration of Zebinix.  
In general, the profile of at least possibly related TEAEs which occurred during the integrated Phase 
III studies and the double-blind phase II study No. 201 appears similar to that of oxcarbazepine and 
the apparent frequencies do not raise any serious concern.   
Page 70 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the placebo controlled studies with Zebinix in the target indication, some possibly related TEAEs 
(e.g. headache, diplopia, nausea and vomiting) appear to occur less frequently compared to the known 
frequencies  from  oxcarbazepine.  However,  conclusive  results  could  only  be  provided  from  active 
comparator studies. 
In part I of the phase III studies, the overall incidence of TEAEs increased with increasing doses of 
Zebinix  (46.4%  placebo,  60.7%  400  mg  Zebinix,  62.7%  800  mg  Zebinix  and  67.5%  1200  mg 
Zebinix), the dose-dependent increase was also seen for possibly related TEAEs and TEAEs leading to 
discontinuation of study medication. 
The increase in TEAEs was mainly due to a small number of specific events in the Zebinix 800 and 
1200  mg  groups,  namely  diplopia,  nausea,  abnormal  coordination,  dizziness,  headache,  and 
somnolence. In addition to vertigo, blurred vision, vomiting, and fatigue, these were the same events 
that led to an increased incidence of subjects discontinuing in the Zebinix groups.  
There  was  a  somewhat  higher  incidence  of  SAEs  in  the  Zebinix  groups  (3.7%)  compared  to  the 
placebo group (1.4%), but the proportion of subjects was similar in each of the Zebinix groups. The 
only SOCs in which more than 2 subjects per group reported SAEs were nervous system disorders (1, 
0.3%  placebo;  13,  1.7%  Total  Zebinix)  and  gastrointestinal  disorders  (0  placebo;  7,  0.9%  Total 
Zebinix). 
During the clinical development program, 8 death cases occurred in patients treated with Zebinix. 
From the information provided, a causal relationship with Zebinix treatment appears unlikely.  
It can not be ruled out that an increase in seizure frequency caused by Zebinix in individual patients 
might  have  contributed  to  individual  death  cases.  However,  anticonvulsants  are  known  to  increase 
seizure  frequency  in  individual  patients  and  Zebinix  appears  not  to  lead  to  a  relevant  increase  in 
seizure  frequency.  One  Zebinix  patient  died  of  sudden  unobserved  death  and  severe  coronary 
atherosclerosis, in which case a contributory role of Zebinix by increase in PR interval at pre-existing 
atrioventricular  block  can  not  be  completely  ruled  out.  Evaluation  of  ECG  recordings  performed 
during clinical trials showed a mean increase in PR interval in Zebinix treated patients compared to 
baseline which was not strictly dose dependent but highest in the 1200 mg dose group with a mean 
increase in PR interval of 5.5 ±30.6 ms (compared to a slight decrease in the placebo group of -0.8 ± 
20.6  ms).  The  results  are  in  accordance  with  the  finding  of  the  thorough  QT  study.  Thus, 
administration  of  Zebinix  is  absolutely  contraindicated  in  patients  with  2nd  and  3rd  degree 
atrioventricular  block  and  caution  is  advised  in  patients  with  medical  conditions  or  co-medication 
known to be associated with PR prolongation. 
However,  during  the  integrated  phase  III  studies  and  study  201  atrioventricular  block  (first  degree) 
was  registered  as  TEAE  only  once  after  administration  of  placebo  but  not  after  administration  of 
Zebinix.   
There are no concerns with respect to QT prolongation or QRS-duration. 
From  the  data  presented  there  is  no  clear  sign  of  a  potential  of  Zebinix  for  cardiovascular  or 
cerebrovascular  ischaemic  events.  However,  as  patient  numbers  are  too  low  to  draw  definite 
conclusions  on  these  infrequent  events,  TEAEs  with  possible  cardiovascular  or  cerebrovascular 
ischaemic origin have been included in the RMP. 
Only  very  few  patients  ≥  65  years  have  been  exposed  to  Zebinix  during  the  phase  III  studies  (9 
patients ≥ 65 received Zebinix during double blind period of phase III studies). No patient ≥ 65 years 
received Zebinix in the phase II study relevant for the indication (No. 201).  
There  is  a  trend  towards  a  higher  frequency  of  all  TEAEs  and  possibly  related  TEAEs  for  this  age 
group; however, the number of elderly patients is too small to draw meaningful conclusions. On the 
other  hand,  the  characteristics  of  Zebinix  can  be  predicted  to  a  large  extent  based  on  similarity  of 
Zebinix  with  oxcarbamazepine/carbamazepine.  To  gain  more  information,  an  open-label,  6  month 
study in approximately 100 patients ≥ 65 years will be performed, respective results will be provided 
as a follow-up measure. 
Page 71 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As  clinical  data  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  is  limited  and  no 
pharmacokinetic as well as no clinical data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment, 
Zebinix  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  and  is  not 
recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Due to the increased extent of exposure to Zebinix observed in subjects with renal impairment, dose 
adjustments are required in patients with CLCR 30-60 ml/min and is not recommended in patients with 
severe and end-stage renal impairment (CLCR <30 ml/min) due to insufficient data.   
Hyponatriaemia (<125 mmol/L) occurred uncommonly during the integrated phase III studies.  
The  frequency  of  rash  appears  to  be  common,  which  is  in  accordance  with  the  incidence  of  rash 
known  from  oxcarbazepine.  No  definite  conclusion  concerning  the  risk  of  serious  immune  and  skin 
disorders can be drawn and these events will be further followed in the RMP. 
Increase in INR and aPTT have been taken into account in the RMP.  
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the Pharmacovigilance system 
As the applicant had informed the Rapporteurs that a new version of the DDPS was expected end of 
2008 (in fulfilment of a commitment made during the validation phase), the Rapporteurs requested the 
Applicant  to  include  that  information  on  the  new  version.  This  new  version  was  submitted  by  the 
Applicant in December 2008 and is assessed as follows: 
The  applicant  has  provided  documents  that  set  out  a  detailed  description  of  the  system  of 
pharmacovigilance (Version 3.0 dated 12 December 2008). A statement signed by the applicant and 
the qualified person for pharmacovigilance, indicating that the applicant has the services of a qualified 
person responsible for pharmacovigilance and the necessary means for the notification of any adverse 
reaction occurring either in the Community or in a third country has been provided.  
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements. 
Risk Management Plan 
The MAA submitted a risk management plan. 
Table Summary of the risk management plan: 
Safety concern 
Hyponatraemia 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Systematically collected and 
analysed in ongoing clinical 
studies. 
Information will be reported and 
evaluated in PSURs 
Page 72 of 80 
Proposed risk minimisation activities 
Listed in the SPC (section 4.8)  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC 
“Hyponatraemia has been reported as an 
adverse reaction in less than 1% of 
patients treated with Zebinix. 
Hyponatraemia is asymptomatic in most 
cases, however, it may be accompanied by 
clinical symptoms like worsening of 
seizures, confusion, decreased 
consciousness. Frequency of 
hyponatraemia increased with increasing 
eslicarbazepine acetate dose. In patients 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with pre-existing renal disease leading to 
hyponatraemia, or in patients 
concomitantly treated with medicinal 
products which may themselves lead to 
hyponatraemia (e.g. diuretics, 
desmopressin), serum sodium levels 
should be examined before and during 
treatment with eslicarbazepine acetate. 
Furthermore, serum sodium levels should 
be determined if clinical signs of 
hyponatraemia occur. Apart from this, 
sodium levels should be determined 
during routine laboratory examination. If 
clinically relevant hyponatraemia 
develops, Zebinix should be 
discontinued” 
Listed in the SPC (section 4.3 and 4.8)  
It includes information to stop therapy in 
case of signs or symptoms of 
hypersensitivity (section 4.4).  
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC  
“Rash developed as an adverse reaction in 
1.1% of total population treated with 
Zebinix in placebo-controlled add-on 
studies in epileptic patients. If signs or 
symptoms of hypersensitivity develop, 
Zebinix must be discontinued.” 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC  
“No cases of serious cutaneous reactions 
have been reported with eslicarbazepine 
acetate. Presence of HLA-B*1502 allele 
in individuals of Han Chinese and Thai 
origin has been shown to be strongly 
associated with the risk of developing 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) when 
treated with carbamazepine. Therefore, 
whenever possible, subjects of Han 
Chinese and Thai origin should be 
screened for this allele before starting 
treatment with carbamazepine or 
chemically-related compounds. The 
presence of HLA-B*1502 allele in other 
ethnicities is negligible. The allele HLA-
B*1502 is not associated to SJS in the 
Caucasian population.”  
No particular risk minimization activity is 
considered necessary. Hypothyroidism 
reported as an ADR was uncommon 
(frequency ≥1/1000 to <1/100). 
Cutaneous 
adverse reactions 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Stevens Johnson 
Systematically collected and 
analysed in ongoing as well as 
future clinical studies. 
Systematic collection of detailed 
information regarding cutaneous 
adverse reactions through a specific 
questionnaire (Annex 7) 
Systematic check of return of the 
questionnaire 
Information will be reported and 
evaluated in PSURs 
The relevance of HLA data to the  
prevention of the Stevens Johnson 
syndrome will be discussed in 
PSURS for each Stevens 
Johnson/TEN case  
Thyroid function 
changes 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Systematically collected and 
analysed in ongoing clinical 
studies. 
Information will be reported and 
Page 73 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
evaluated in PSURs 
Systematically collected and 
analysed in ongoing clinical 
studies. 
Regular reporting in PSURs. 
No particular risk minimization activity is 
considered necessary 
No detailed action plan for specific safety 
concerns is deemed necessary. 
 Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
No particular risk minimization activity is 
considered necessary 
INR and aPTT 
increase 
Cardiovascular/ce
rebrovascular 
ischaemia 
Potential for 
suicidality as 
anti-epileptic 
drug   
Systematically collected and 
analysed in ongoing as well as 
future clinical studies. 
Systematic collection of data of 
cardiovascular/cerebrovascular 
serious adverse reactions through a 
specific questionnaire (annexed in 
the RMP). 
Systematic check of return of the 
questionnaire 
Information will be reported and 
evaluated in PSURs. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Systematically collected and 
analysed in ongoing clinical studies 
in adults (Phase III studies) through 
MADRS  
Information will be reported and 
evaluated in PSURs 
Exposure during 
pregnancy 
Systematic collect registry of 
pregnancy reports in routine 
pharmacovigilance. 
Establish a Pregnancy Registry in 
order to identify and characterise 
safety concerns. 
A protocol  of the registry will be 
submitted by July 2009  
Page 74 of 80 
Warning in Section 4.4 of the SPC  
«Suicidal ideation and behaviour have 
been reported in patients treated with anti-
epileptic active substances in several 
indications. A meta-analysis of 
randomised placebo controlled trials of 
anti-epileptic medicinal products has also 
shown a small increased risk of suicidal 
ideation and behaviour. The mechanism 
of this risk is not known and the available 
data do not exclude the possibility of an 
increased risk for Zebinix. Therefore 
patients should be monitored for signs of 
suicidal ideation and behaviours and 
appropriate treatment should be 
considered. Patients (and caregivers of 
patients) should be advised to seek 
medical advice should signs of suicidal 
ideation or behaviour emerge.» 
Specific information is included in section 
4.6 of the SPC that caution should be 
exercised when prescribing Zebinix to 
pregnant or lactating women. 
Risk related to epilepsy and antiepileptic 
medicinal products in general 
It has been shown that in the offspring of 
women with epilepsy, the prevalence of 
malformations is two to three times 
greater than the rate of approximately 3 % 
in the general population. Most frequently 
reported are cleft lip, cardiovascular 
malformations and neutral tube defects. 
 
 
Multiple antiepileptic medicinal product 
therapy may be associated with a higher 
risk of congenital malformations than 
monotherapy, therefore it is important that 
monotherapy is practised whenever 
possible. Specialist advice should be 
given to women who are likely to become 
pregnant or who are of child-bearing 
potential. The need for antiepileptic 
therapy should be reviewed when a 
woman is planning to become pregnant. 
No sudden discontinuation of antiepileptic 
therapy should be undertaken as this may 
lead to breakthrough seizures which could 
have serious consequences for both, 
mother and child. 
Risk related to Zebinix 
There are no data from the use of Zebinix 
in pregnant women. Studies in animals 
have shown reproductive toxicity (see 
section 5.3). If women receiving Zebinix 
become pregnant or plan to become 
pregnant, the use of Zebinix should be 
carefully re-evaluated. Minimum effective 
doses should be given, and monotherapy 
whenever possible should be preferred at 
least during the first three months of 
pregnancy. Patients should be counselled 
regarding the possibility of an increased 
risk of malformations and given the 
opportunity to antenatal screening. 
Monitoring and prevention 
Antiepileptic medicinal products may 
contribute to folic acid deficiency, a 
possible contributory cause of foetal 
abnormality. Folic acid supplementation 
is recommended before and during 
pregnancy. As the efficacy of this 
supplementation is not proven, a specific 
antenatal diagnosis can be offered even 
for women with a supplementary 
treatment of folic acid. 
In the newborn child 
Bleeding disorders in the newborn caused 
by antiepileptic medicinal products have 
been reported. As a precaution, vitamin 
K1 should be administered as a preventive 
measure in the last few weeks of 
pregnancy and to the newborn. 
Women of childbearing 
potential/contraception 
Eslicarbazepine acetate adversely 
interacts with oral contraceptives. 
Page 75 of 80 
Therefore, an alternative, effective and 
safe method of contraception should be 
used during treatment and up to the end of 
the current menstrual cycle after treatment 
has been stopped. 
It is unknown whether eslicarbazepine 
acetate is excreted in human breast milk. 
Animal studies have shown excretion of 
eslicarbazepine in breast milk. As a risk to 
the breast-fed child cannot be excluded 
breast-feeding should be discontinued 
during treatment with Zebinix.  
A warning is included in section 4.2 of the 
SPC that Zebinix is not recommended for 
use in children until further data become 
available. “Paediatric population 
Zebinix is not recommended for use in 
children below 18 years due to a lack of 
data on safety and efficacy.” 
A warning is included in section 4.2 of the 
SPC that Zebinix should be used with 
caution in elderly subjects.  
Elderly (over 65 years of age) 
Caution should be exercised in the 
treatment of elderly patients as there is 
limited safety information on the use of 
Zebinix in these patients. 
Paediatric 
population 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
A double blind, placebo controlled 
phase III study (Study code BIA-
2093-305) in approximately 250 
children aged from 2 to 16 years 
with refractory partial epilepsy to 
evaluate efficacy and safety of 
Zebinix in this population is 
ongoing. A phase II study (Study 
code BIA-2093-208) to evaluate the 
effects of Zebinix on cognition in 
comparison with placebo as 
adjunctive therapy in approximately 
90 children aged 6 to 16 years old 
with refractory partial-onset 
seizures is being implemented. 
Elderly 
population 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
An open-label study (Study Code 
BIA-2093-401) evaluating Zebinix 
as add-on therapy in approximately 
100 subjects ≥65 years is planned 
to be implemented in 2009. The 
basic study design will consist of an 
8-week baseline period followed by 
a 6-month treatment period in 
which Zebinix will be titrated in the 
dose range of 400-1200 mg 
according to clinical response. To 
be admitted in the study subjects 
should have at least 2 seizures per 
month despite treatment with 1 or 2 
AEDs given in therapeutic doses. 
Missing 
information 
Interactions 
inducing 
properties of 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
activities. 
Specific information is included in section 
4.5 of the SPC  
The following clinical trials are 
planned for 2009:  
BIA-2093-129: Pharmacokinetic 
“Zebinix is extensively converted to 
eslicarbazepine, which is mainly 
eliminated by glucuronidation. In vitro 
eslicarbazepine is a weak inducer of 
Page 76 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zebinix 
on: 
-  CYP 3A4 
- Carbamazepine 
interaction study between Zebinix 
and carbamazepine in healthy 
subjects 
BIA-2093-124: Effect of repeated 
administration of Zebinix on the 
pharmacokinetics of simvastatin in 
healthy subjects 
CYP3A4 and UDP-glucuronyl 
transferases. Therefore, in vivo 
eslicarbazepine may have an inducing 
effect on the metabolism of medicinal 
products which are mainly eliminated by 
metabolism through CYP3A4 or 
conjugation through the UDP-glucuronyl 
transferases. When initiating or 
discontinuing treatment with Zebinix or 
changing the dose, it may take 2 to 3 
weeks to reach the new level of enzyme 
activity. This time delay must be taken 
into account when Zebinix is being used 
just prior to or in combination with other 
medicines that require dose adjustment 
when co-administered with Zebinix. 
Eslicarbazepine has inhibiting properties 
with respect to CYP2C19. Thus, 
interactions can arise when co-
administering high doses of Zebinix with 
medicinal products that are mainly 
metabolised by CYP2C19. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted  in  the  application,  is  of  the  opinion  that  no 
additional risk minimisation activities are required beyond those included in the product information. 
2.6.  Overall conclusions, risk/benefit assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
Information  on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
Non-clinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Information on the non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been presented in 
a satisfactory manner. No unexpected or unduly worrying findings have been evidenced. The 
Applicant has committed to perform post-approval studies to complete the environmental risk 
assessment, including a water sediment study.  
Efficacy 
In  three  pivotal  efficacy  studies  with  parallel  group  design,  Zebinix  in  doses  of  400  mg/day,  800 
mg/day or 1200 mg/day was added to 1 to 3 concomitant antiepileptic drugs.  
With  regard  to  the  primary  efficacy  variable  of  the  three  pivotal  studies  (i.e.  the  seizure  frequency 
during  the  maintenance  period  standardised  to  4  weeks)  as  well  as  to  the  50%  responder  rate  (the 
relative change in standardised seizure frequency ≥50% in comparison to baseline period.), efficacy of 
the 800 and 1200 mg daily dose of Zebinix could be shown. The respective results for the standardised 
seizure frequency for the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose were statistically significant superior to placebo in 
the separate analyses of all three single studies as well as in the phase III integrated analysis. 
Page 77 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Standardised seizure frequency -  
Phase III integrated studies in the ITT population: 
Baseline Period 
Maintenance Period 
Treatment 
N 
Mean±SD 
Median 
N 
Mean±SD 
Median 
286 
Placebo 
Zebinix 400 mg 195 
Zebinix 800 mg 282 
Zebinix 1200 mg 
12.9±16.82 
13.0±15.08 
13.4±15.31 
272 
279 
7.0 
192 
8.0 
7.7 
262 
13.3±15.26  8.0 
11.7±17.85 
10.6±13.11 
9.8±14.79 
253 
6.4 
5.9 
5.0 
9.0±13.10  4.6 
Responder analysis -   Phase III integrated studies in the ITT population: 
Treatment 
N 
Number (%)  
of responders 
Odds ratio 
Estimate  95% CI 
Relative Risk 
Estimate 
95% CI 
Placebo 
279  60 (21.5) 
Zebinix 400 mg  192  44 (22.9) 
Zebinix 800 mg  262  95 (36.3) 
Zebinix 1200 mg 253  110 (43.5) 
- 
1.25 
2.08 
2.81 
- 
- 
(0.77, 2.04)  1.19 
(1.42, 3.04)  1.69 
(1.92, 4.10)  2.02 
- 
- 
(0.81, 1.76)   
(1.28, 2.22)   
(1.55, 2.63)   
The effect of the 400 mg dose did not reach statistical significance in almost all parameters examined; 
therefore, 800 mg is applied for as the minimum therapeutic dose. A dose dependent increase of the 
therapeutic effect of Zebinix was shown with relatively high consistency. 
Efficacy  analyses  concerning  simple  partial  and  complex  partial  seizures  demonstrated  a  relevant 
effect of the 800 mg and 1200 mg dose on both seizure types and efficacy of Zebinix on secondary 
generalized seizures was sufficiently justified by the applicant.  
Taken the results of the 3 open-label extension-studies altogether, it appears the therapeutic effect of 
Zebinix is maintained over time. 
Safety 
From the safety database all the adverse reactions reported in clinical trials have been included in the 
Summary of Product Characteristics. 
Due  to  the  very  close  pharmacological  relationship  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  with  oxcarbazepine 
(following oral administration of Zebinix and oxcarbazepine, respectively, the same active  moieties, 
i.e.  eslicarbazepine,  R-licarbazepine  and  oxcarbazepine,  are  found  in  plasma,  though  in  somewhat 
different proportions), it is highly probable, that adverse events, which occur after administration of 
oxcarbazepine may also occur after administration of Zebinix.  
In general, the profile of at least possibly related TEAEs which occurred during the integrated Phase 
III studies and the double-blind phase II study No. 201 appears similar to that of oxcarbazepine and 
the apparent frequencies do not raise any serious concern.   
In the placebo controlled studies with Zebinix in the target indication, some possibly related TEAEs 
(e.g. headache, diplopia, nausea and vomiting) appear to occur less frequently compared to the known 
frequencies  from  oxcarbazepine.  However,  conclusive  results  could  only  be  confirmed  from  active 
comparator studies. 
Evaluation of ECG recordings performed during clinical trials showed a mean increase in PR interval 
in Zebinix treated patients compared to baseline which was not strictly dose dependent but highest in 
the 1200 mg dose group with a mean increase in PR interval of 5.5 ±30.6 ms (compared to a slight 
Page 78 of 80 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decrease in the placebo group of -0.8 ± 20.6 ms). The results are in accordance with the finding of the 
thorough QT study. Thus, administration of Zebinix is absolutely contraindicated in patients with 2nd 
and 3rd degree atrioventricular block and caution is advised in patients with medical conditions or co-
medication known to be associated with PR prolongation. 
There are no concerns with respect to QT prolongation or QRS-duration. 
Only very few patients ≥ 65 years have been exposed to Zebinix during the phase III studies. To gain 
more  information,  an  open-label,  6  months  study  in  approximately  100  patients  ≥  65  years  will  be 
performed, respective results will be provided as a follow-up measure. 
As  clinical  data  in  patients  with  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  is  limited  and  no 
pharmacokinetic as well as no clinical data are available in patients with severe hepatic impairment, 
Zebinix  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  mild  to  moderate  hepatic  impairment  and  is  not 
recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment. 
Dose adjustments are required in patients with CLCR 30-60 ml/min and is not recommended in patients 
with severe and end-stage renal impairment (CLCR <30 ml/min) due to insufficient data.   
Hyponatriaemia (<125 mmol/L) occurred uncommonly during the integrated phase III studies.  
The  frequency  of  rash  appears  to  be  common,  which  is  in  accordance  with  the  incidence  of  rash 
known  from  oxcarbazepine.  No  definite  conclusion  concerning  the  possible  occurrence  of  serious 
immune and skin disorders (including Steven-Johnson syndrome) can be drawn and these events will 
be further followed in the RMP. 
Increase in INR and aPTT have been included in the RMP.  
Having  considered  the  safety  concerns  in  the  risk  management  plan,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the 
proposed activities described in section 3.5 adequately addressed these. 
•  User consultation 
The applicant has submitted results from user testing of the package leaflet, which was performed in 
English.  During  the  testing  requested  information  to  all  questions  was  located  by  at  least  80 %  of 
participants; all questions were correctly answered by 100 % of participants, who were able to locate 
the  requested  information.  Overall,  the  user  test  is  found  acceptable.  The  results  demonstrated  a 
sufficient  percentage  of  identification  and  comprehension  of  product related  information.  Therefore, 
the package leaflet was considered to be in line with the current readability requirements. 
Risk-benefit assessment 
With regard to the primary efficacy variable of the three pivotal studies (i.e. seizure frequency during 
the maintenance period standardised to 4 weeks) and the 50% responder rate, efficacy of the 800 mg 
and 1200 mg dose of Zebinix could be demonstrated.  
The benefits with Zebinix are the fact that, added to concomitant antiepileptic drugs it decreases the 
standardised frequency of seizures per month (median) from 7.7 to 5.0 on Zebinix 800 mg and from 
8.0  to  4.6  on  Zebinix  1200mg,  versus  a  decrease  from  7.0  to  6.4  seizures  observed  in  the  placebo 
group. 
The percentage of responders (patients with a relative change in standardised seizure frequency ≥50% 
in comparison to baseline period) is also improved by Zebinix: 36.3% on Zebinix 800mg and 43.5% 
on Zebinix 1200mg, versus only 21.5% observed in the placebo group. 
Page 79 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  dose  dependent  increase  of  the  therapeutic  effect  of  Zebinix  was  shown  with  relatively  high 
consistency.  
In general, the profile of at least possibly related TEAEs which occurred during the integrated Phase 
III  studies  and  the  double-blind  phase  II  study  No.  201  appears  similar  to  that  of  oxcarbazepine. 
TEAEs  (especially  possibly  related  TEAEs  and  TEAEs  leading  to  withdrawal)  increased  with 
increasing doses of Zebinix.  
800 mg of Zebinix which is regarded the primary target dose, therefore offers the best benefit to risk 
ratio  of  the  doses  tested.  Dependent  from  effectiveness  and  tolerability  the  dose  may  further  be 
increased to 1200 mg. 
The  benefit/risk  balance  of  Zebinix  (eslicarbazepine  acetate)  as  adjunctive  therapy  in  adults  with 
partial-onset seizures with or without secondary generalisation, is considered to be positive. 
A risk management plan was submitted. The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the 
opinion that:  
(cid:131)  pharmacovigilance activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance were needed 
to investigate further some of the safety concerns  
(cid:131)  no additional risk minimisation activities were required beyond those included in the product 
information.  
Recommendation 
Based  on  the  CHMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CHMP  considered  by 
consensus that the risk-benefit balance of Zebinix in the adjunctive therapy in adults with partial-onset 
seizures  with  or  without  secondary  generalisation  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation. 
Page 80 of 80 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
