25 June 2015 
EMA/475393/2015  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Zebinix  
International non-proprietary name: eslicarbazepine acetate 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/988 P46 023.1 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
On 25th February 2015, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for eslicarbazepine acetate, in 
accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
Parts  III  to  V  (three  subsequent  open-label  extension  periods) of  Study  BIA-2093-305,  for  which  the 
clinical study report is now submitted, are not part of the PIP for eslicarbazepine acetate (P/0015/2015 
issued on 30 January 2015). Parts I (double-blind) and II (1 year open extension) of study BIA-2093-
305  are  part  of  the  respective  PIP  and  have  already  been  submitted  to  and  assessed  by  the  EMA  in 
2014.  
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
Scientific discussion 
Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  study  titled  “Efficacy  and  safety  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  (BIA  2-093)  as 
adjunctive  therapy  for  refractory  partial  seizures  in  children:  a  double-blind,  randomised,  placebo-
controlled, parallel-group, multicentre clinical trial” No BIA-2093-305 is part of a clinical development 
program and that the variation application consisting of the full relevant data package (i.e. containing 
several  studies)  covering  the  development  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  as  adjunctive  therapy  for 
refractory partial seizures in children aged 2 to below 18 years old is expected to be submitted by July 
2015. In addition, an extension application to register a new pharmaceutical form (oral suspension 50 
mg/ml)  is  expected  to  be  submitted  simultaneously.  A  line  listing  of  all  the  concerned  studies  is 
annexed. 
Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study(ies) 
Study  treatments  were  provided  as  an  oral  suspension  (50  mg/mL)  for  use  in  the  age  group  of  2–6 
years (stratum I) or as white oblong tablets (200 mg) for use in the older children and adolescents (≥7 
years of age; strata II and III). 
On  19  Jun  2009  it  was  decided  to  recall  all  oral  suspension  study  medication  from  the  study  due  to 
quality  issues;  however,  after  closure  of  the  part  I  database  and  unblinding,  it  was  found  that  this 
quality issue only affected the placebo formulation of the oral suspension. 
Clinical aspects 
1. 
Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for parts III to V of study BIA-2093-305, the three last of four open-
label extension parts of a phase III study investigating eslicarbazepine acetate as adjunctive treatment 
in paediatric patients with partial onset seizures that were refractory to treatment with 1 to 2 AEDs. 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. 
Clinical study 
Study BIA-2093-305, title “Efficacy and safety of eslicarbazepine acetate (BIA 2-093) as 
adjunctive therapy for refractory partial seizures in children: a double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, parallel-group, multicentre clinical trial – Part III-V” 
Description 
This was a phase III, double-blind, randomised, placebo controlled, multicentre, parallel group (part I) 
trial  to  evaluate  efficacy  and  safety  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  (ESL)  as  adjunctive  therapy  for 
refractory  partial  seizures  in  children  aged  2  to  less  than  18  years  with  a  diagnosis  of  partial  onset 
seizures  that  were  refractory  to  treatment  with  1  to  2  anti-epileptic  drugs  (AEDs)  with  4  subsequent 
open-label extension phases (part II-V).  
Parts I and II of the study have already been submitted to and assessed by the EMA. In part I of study 
305 no superior efficacy of ESL over placebo could be shown as adjunctive treatment in children ≥ 2 
years of age with refractory partial onset seizures. 
A separate report for parts III-V has now been submitted. 
After completion of Part II, patients had the option to continue treatment in up to 3 subsequent open-
label extension periods: Part III (1 year), Part IV (1 year), and Part V (2 years; the last planned part of 
the study).  
The study was performed in 43 centres in 14 counties in Europe and Asia.  
Methods 
• 
Objective(s) 
The  objective  pertaining  to  the  open-label  extensions  of  the  study  (Parts  II-V)  was  to  assess  the 
maintenance  of  the  therapeutic  effect  of  eslicarbazepine  acetate  (ESL)  during  long-term  treatment  in 
Part  II,  Part  III,  Part  IV,  and  Part  V  of  the  study,  while  ensuring  the  provision  of  ESL  to  the patients 
who participated in the original investigational plan comprising Parts I and II. 
• 
Study design/Treatments 
A  phase  III  randomised,  double  blind,  placebo-controlled,  multinational  parallel-group  (part  I)  study 
with 4 subsequent long-term, open-label extension periods (parts II-V).  
Parts III, IV and V: 
In each of Parts III, IV, and V, the starting ESL dose was the same dose that the patient was receiving 
at  the  end  of  the  previous  extension  period  (i.e.  Parts  II,  III,  and  IV,  respectively),  unless  the 
investigator decided to titrate this dose to achieve further reduction in seizure frequency or due to the 
occurrence of any intolerable AEs.  
The daily dose was titrated by the investigator according to clinical response in the dose range from 10 
mg/kg/day  to  30  mg/kg/day  (or  800  mg/day  to  maximum  1200  mg/day  for  patients  with  high  body 
weight). 
• 
Study population  
Main criteria for inclusion (in study part I): 
Page 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Diagnosis of epilepsy for at least 6 months prior to enrolment; for patients from the Czech Republic: 
diagnosis of epilepsy for at least 24 months prior to enrolment (Amendment 1 Czech Republic, 05 Oct 
2007). 
• Children 2 to 16 years of age; as per Global Amendment 4 (16 Sep 2010): children 2 to 18 years of 
age; for patients from Romania: children 2 to 17 years of age (Amendment 1 Romania, 09 Nov 2010).  
•  At  least  4  partial-onset  seizures  in  the  last  month  prior  to  enrolment  despite  stable  therapy  with 
adequate dosage of 1 or 2 AEDs; for patients from the Czech Republic: at least 4 partial-onset seizures 
in  the  last  month  prior  to  enrolment  despite  stable  therapy  with  adequate  dosage  of  2  AEDs 
(Amendment 1 Czech Republic, 05 Oct 2007). 
• At least 4 partial-onset seizures during each 4-week interval of the 8-week baseline period. 
• Stable dose regimen of AEDs during the 8-week baseline period. 
•  Current  treatment  with  1  or  2  AEDs  (any  AED  except  oxcarbazepine);  if  present,  vagus  nerve 
stimulation is considered an AED (this last addition was introduced per Global Amendment 1 [20 Dec 
2007]). 
Patients  with  primarily  generalised  seizures,  known  progressive  neurological disorders,  known  second 
or third degree atrioventricular block (introduced per Global Amendment 4 [16 Sep 2010]), history of 
status  epilepticus  within  the  3  months  prior  to  enrolment,  seizures  of  non-epileptic  origin,  Lennox-
Gastaut syndrome or West syndrome were excluded from the study. 
• 
Sample size 
Planned to be randomised in part I: 252 patients (126 per treatment group), 
Treated in part I: 304 patients (155 with ESL, 149 with placebo),  
Treated in part II: 260 patients (128 with ESL in Part I, 132 with placebo in Part I) , 
Treated in part III: 152 patients (65 with ESL in Part I, 87 with placebo in Part I), 
Treated in part IV: 81 patients (37 with ESL in Part I, 44 with placebo in Part I),  
Treated in part V: 56 patients (27 with ESL in Part I, 29 with placebo in Part I),  
Analysed for efficacy in part III-V: 148 patients (intention-to-treat [ITT]),  
Analysed for safety in part III-V: 152 patients (i.e. all treated patients). 
Table 1 - 
patients 
Completion rates and reasons for study discontinuation during part III-V (all 
Page 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
enrolled)
The  MAH  decided  to  report  these  extension  periods  of  study  BIA-2093-305  after  the  last  patient  in 
Europe  had  completed  part  V  of  the  study  in  November  2013,  although  there  are  still  12  patients 
ongoing for Asia region. A cut-off date for Asian patients of 16th June 2014 was established. The CSR is 
dated 16th December 2014.  
Rapporteur’s comment:  
The most frequent reason for study discontinuation during parts III-V was due to switch to continued 
treatment with ESL as part of a compassionate use program. 
During  study  parts  III,  IV  or  V,  respectively  0%-5.3%  of  study  subjects  discontinued  due  to  lack  of 
efficacy and 0% -0.7% discontinued due to “adverse event”.  
• 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Efficacy during part III-V:  
● Standardised seizure frequency per period of Baseline Part I, Baseline Part III-V, each subperiod (by 
12-week intervals), and overall. 
● Absolute changes in seizure frequency per 12-week interval, defined as the difference between 
standardised seizure frequencies during each time interval and Baseline Part I and Baseline Part III-V. 
● Relative changes in seizure frequency per 12-week interval calculated as absolute changes divided by 
the standardised seizure frequency at Baseline Part I and Baseline Part III–V. 
● Responders per 12-week interval: responders were defined as those patients with a relative seizure 
reduction of at least 50% in the respective time interval compared to Baseline Part I and Baseline part 
III–V. 
● Categorised relative change from Baseline Part I and from Baseline Part III–V in seizure frequency 
per 12-week interval (≥25%; >-50% to <25%; ≥-75% to ≤-50%; <-75%). 
Page 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
● Exacerbations in seizure frequency (increase in relative change in seizure frequency of ≥25%) per 
time interval compared to Baseline Part I and Baseline Part III–V. 
● Proportion of patients who are seizure-free per 12-week interval. 
● Standardised seizure frequency per 12-week interval by seizure type (simple partial, complex partial, 
partial evolving to secondary generalised, unclassified, other); seizures with missing seizure type 
information were considered as unclassified for the analysis. 
● Number of days with seizures (standardised to 4-week time period). 
● Seizure duration (as classified in the diary): <30sec, ≥30 sec to <1 min, ≥1 min to <5 min, ≥5 min, 
unknown. 
● Treatment retention time, defined as the time to first occurrence of 1 of the following during 
treatment: withdrawal of study medication due to AEs or withdrawal of study medication due to lack of 
efficacy (defined as seizure exacerbation ≥100% compared to the baseline period of Part I). 
● Seizure severity assessed with the 13-item Hague seizure severity scale. 
Safety during part III-V: 
● Reports of AEs, including serious AEs, 
● Safety laboratory (haematology, biochemistry, and urinalysis), 
● Vital signs, 
● 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) parameters, 
● Physical and neurological examinations, 
● Sexual maturation assessment. 
• 
Statistical Methods  
Part III-V: 
In general, results are displayed for the total population and by the treatment patients received during 
Part I (ESL or placebo). All evaluations were of descriptive nature. No confirmatory analysis was 
carried out. 
The following baseline periods were defined as reference periods in efficacy analyses: 
• Baseline Part I: from Visit V1 (screening visit) to the day before Visit V2 of Part I. 
• Baseline Part III–V: the last 4 weeks (in Part II) prior to first intake (Day 1) in Part III–V. 
• 
Baseline data 
The median standardised number of seizures during the baseline period (part I) was lower in the ESL 
group (11.5; range: 3.7, 605.8) than in the placebo group (17.0; range: 3.9, 1972.5). 
Table 2 - 
Standardised  seizure  frequency  during  the  baseline  period  (safety  set) 
Page 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3 - 
Concomitant antiepileptic drugs during Part III-V (safety set) 
• 
Efficacy results 
Part III-V 
Responder Rates: 
The total responder rate during Part III–V was 25.7% when compared to Baseline Part III–V. Total 
responder rates steadily increased up to 50.0% during weeks 181-192, and then decreased to 25.0% 
during weeks >192.  
Responder rates beyond week 181 should be interpreted with caution due to the small number of 
patients. 
Table 4 - 
ITT set) 
Table: Responder Rates of study parts III-V (compared to baseline part III-V, 
Page 6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 - 
Responder Rates of study parts III-V (compared to baseline part I, ITT set) 
Standardised seizure frequency and relative reduction: 
The  total  median  standardised  seizure  frequency  during  Part  III-V  was  2.6,  resulting  in  a  median 
relative change from baseline part III-V of -21.4% (and from baseline part I of -75.5%). The median 
relative change from baseline part III-V increased up to weeks 181-192 (to -40.5%).  
13 patients (8.8%) were seizure-free during part III-V. The proportion of seizure-free patients ranged 
from 20.3% to 32.0% of patients during each of the 12-week intervals.  
Whereas the overall median relative change from baseline part III-V was higher in patients treated ESL 
in part I  (-28.4%) than in patients treated with placebo in part I (-14.7%), the proportion of seizure 
free  patients  were  generally  higher  in  patients  treated  with  placebo  in  part  I  than  in  patients  treated 
with ESL in part I.  
2 patients (3.1%) treated with ESL in part I and 1 patient (1.1%) treated with placebo in part I were 
switched to monotherapy during part III–V. 
 Rapporteur’s comment:  
Taking into consideration the open-label character and high drop-out rate during part III-V of the study 
(i.e. 29.6% during part III, 12.5% during part IV and 34.2% during part V of the study and with only 
very few patients being treated beyond week 182) as well as further discontinuation after completion 
of parts III and IV, respectively, together with the results of part I of study 305 (in which no superior 
efficacy of ESL over placebo could be shown), no robust conclusions of efficacy of ELS in the evaluated 
population can be drawn from the this study part of study 305. In view of the presumed high selection 
bias it is nevertheless reassuring, that overall efficacy results of study parts III-V  compared favorably 
Page 7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not  only  to  baseline  of  study  part  I  but  also  to    baseline  of  study  part  III-V,  i.e.  the  last  4  weeks  of 
treatment during open-label extension part II of this study.  
• 
Safety results 
Table 6 - 
Summary of treatment-emergent adverse events (safety set) 
The main safety results during Part III–V in all patients treated with ESL were as follows: 
● 96 patients (63.2%) experienced at least 1 TEAE. Most frequently reported TEAEs were convulsion 
(18 patients [11.8%]), nasopharyngitis (15 [9.9%]), and pyrexia (14 [9.2%]). 
● 20 patients (13.2%) had at least 1 TEAE that was considered at least possibly related to ESL by the 
investigator. The most commonly reported such TEAE was increased gamma-glutamyltransferase 
(GGT) (6 patients [3.9%]). 
● 16 patients (10.5%) had at least 1 serious TEAE; the only serious TEAEs reported by more than 1 
patient were asthma, bronchopneumonia, convulsion, pneumonia, and status epilepticus (2 patients 
[1.3%] each). 
● No serious TEAEs were considered to be related to the study medication by the investigator  and no 
TEAEs led to treatment discontinuation. 
● One patient died during Part III–V due to a severe case of bronchopneumonia, which was assessed 
by the investigator as unrelated to the study drug:  
The patient was 4 years old, female and treated with placebo in part I.  
Bronchopneumonia began 9 days prior to the patient’s death, led to hospitalization and was treated 
with cefuroxime and paracetamol. No dose change was made in the study medication. During the 
period that she had serious respiratory infection with recurrent fever, she also suffered from a seizure 
while eating. She then became tachypneic and cyanotic for a period, and subsequently she developed 
bradypnea and went in respiratory arrest. The seizure most likely precipitated aspiration of food into 
the respiratory tract, which led to outcome of respiratory failure. 
●Changes from a normal laboratory value at baseline (OL) to an abnormal value at endpoint occurred 
in fewer than 23.1% of patients per laboratory parameter. For any laboratory parameter, no more than 
3 patients had a laboratory value considered clinically significant by the investigator, with the 
exception of creatine kinase, activated by N-acetyl cysteine (clinically significant for 5 patients 
[3.3%]), GGT (clinically significant for 15 patients [9.9%], and leukocytes (clinically significant for 6 
patients [3.9%]). 
● The majority of the 148 patients who had post-baseline measurements of sodium levels, had normal 
sodium levels: 14 patients (9.2%) had low sodium levels and no patients had high sodium levels. Most 
Page 8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the patients (12/14) with low sodium levels had values >130 to 135 mmol/L, and the other patients 
had values ≤130 mmol/L. However, none of these sodium levels were considered clinically significant. 
● No clinically relevant findings were seen in the analysis of vital signs, height, weight, body mass 
index, head circumference, sexual maturation assessment, and ECG during Part III–V. 
The  proportion  of  patients  with  exacerbation  of  seizure  frequency  (increase  of  ≥  25%)  compared  to 
baseline  part  III-V  was  26.6%.  The  proportions  of  patients  with  exacerbation  showed  no  consistent 
trend over time. 
It  is  stated  that  no  clinically  relevant  changes  in  the  total  score  of  the  Hague  seizure  severity  scale 
were seen during part III-V. 
Rapporteur’s comment: 
According  to  the  study  report,  no  patients  experienced  a  TEAE  that  led  to  treatment  discontinuation. 
However, in 1 patient who withdrew during study part III the reason for discontinuation was specified 
as “adverse event”.  
Whereas  hyponatremia  (common), 
leukopenia,  transaminases 
increased  and 
liver  disorder, 
respectively are labelled AEs of Zebinix in the approved adult indication, increased creatine kinase can 
often be found after generalised tonic-clonic seizures.  
No  serious  AE  was  considered  related  to  the  study  medication  and a  causal  relationship  of  the  death 
case with the study medication is considered remote.  
No new unique safety concerns occurred within this study. Update or change of product information is 
therefore not considered necessary at this point.  
1. 
Discussion on clinical aspects 
In part I of study 305 no superior efficacy of ESL over placebo could be shown as adjunctive treatment 
in  children  ≥  2  years  of  age  with  refractory  partial  onset  seizures.  The  only  statistically  significant 
difference in favour of ESL compared to placebo (in an analysis of the relative change in standardised 
seizure  frequency  during  the  titration  +  maintenance  period  based  on  patients  in  strata  II  and  III) 
resulted  from  a  post-hoc  analysis.  Although  it  is  reassuring  that  overall  efficacy  results  of  study  part 
III-V compared favorably not only to baseline of study part I but also to baseline of study part III-V, 
i.e. the last 4 weeks of treatment during open-label extension part II, no robust conclusions of efficacy 
of ESL in the evaluated population can be drawn from the open extension parts of the study. 
Efficacy  results  of  study  305  appear  contradictory  to  the  results  of  study  208,  submitted  during 
variation  EMEA/H/C/988/II/41  in  which  ESL  as  adjunctive  treatment  was  statistically  significantly 
different  from  placebo  with  respect  to  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  (improvement  in  standardized 
seizure  frequency)  as  well  as  with  respect  to  further  efficacy  parameters  in  paediatric  patients  with 
partial onset seizures.  
No new unique safety concerns occurred within study 305. Update or change of product information is 
therefore not considered necessary at this point.  
Page 9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
The applicant does not propose any amendment of the product information and further states, that the 
data submitted do not influence the benefit-risk balance for Zebinix and therefore do not require taking 
further regulatory action on the marketing authorization for Zebinix.  
Study  305  (including  part  III-V)  does  not  allow  for  conclusion  of  efficacy  of  ESL  as  adjunctive 
treatment in paediatric patients with refractory partial onset seizures and the current information given 
in the PI of Zebinix, that efficacy of eslicarbazepine acetate in children has not yet been established is 
considered further valid.  
No  new  unique  safety  concerns  occurred  within  this  study.  Update  or  change  of  product  information 
regarding safety is therefore not considered necessary at this point.  
Recommendation  
  Fulfilled  
  Not fulfilled: 
Additional clarifications requested 
 Not applicable 
Page 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
