Summary of risk management plan for Zejula (Niraparib)  
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Zejula. The RMP details important 
risks of Zejula, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained 
about Zejula's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Zejula's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Zejula should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Zejula should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Zejula's 
RMP. 
I.
The medicine and what it is used for
Zejula is authorised for monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
platinum-sensitive relapsed high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary 
peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) to platinum-based chemotherapy 
and as monotherapy for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced epithelial 
(FIGO Stages III and IV) high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who 
are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains Niraparib as the active substance 
and it is given by oral route. 
Further information about the evaluation of Zejula’s benefits can be found in Zejula’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s 
webpage: http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/EPAR_-
_Summary_for_the_public/human/004249/WC500239292.pdf 
II.
Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimise or
further characterise the risks
Important risks of Zejula, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed 
studies for learning more about Zejula's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 



Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure
that the medicine is used correctly;

The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with
or without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including periodic safety update report (PSUR) assessmentso that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Zejula are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered.  
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Zejula. Potential risks are concerns for 
which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this 
association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information 
refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs 
to be collected (e.g., on the long-term use of the medicine). 
List of important risks and missing information 
Important  identified 
risks 
Haematological  toxicity  (thrombocytopenia,  anaemia,  neutropenia  including 
neutropenic infection and sepsis) 
Hypertension 
MDS and AML 
Important  potential 
risks 
SPM other than MDS and AML 
Missing information  None 
II.B
Summary of important risks 
Important identified risk: Haematological toxicity (thrombocytopenia, anaemia, neutropenia 
including neutropenic infection and sepsis) 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Non-clinical: Toxicology studies in rats and dogs showed 
haematologic adverse events, including decreased red cell mass, 
decreased leukocyte counts in the peripheral blood, decreased 
circulating platelets, and hypocellularity in the bone marrow.   
Clinical: In the NOVA study, 62.1%, 52% and 30.8% of the patients 
treated with niraparib experienced thrombocytopenia, anaemia and 
neutropenia events compared to 5%, 6.7%, and 6.1% in the placebo 
group, respectively. 11.2%, 4.1% and 1.4% of the thrombocytopenia, 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
anaemia and neutropenia events were serious in the niraparib-
treated patients compared to 0% in the placebo group. 
In the PRIMA study, 73%, 71.7% and 46% of the patients dosed with 
a fixed dose of 300 mg niraparib experienced thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia and neutropenia events, respectively; 53.8%, 50.3% and 
35.5% of the patients dosed with individualised dose of niraparib 
experienced thrombocytopenia, anaemia and neutropenia events, 
compared to 4.9%, 17.6%, and 7.8% in the placebo group, 
respectively. 21.3%, 4.1% and 2.2% of the thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia and neutropenia events were serious in the fixed-dose of 
300 mg niraparib-treated patients compared to 0% in the placebo 
group; 7.1%, 8.3% and 2.4% of the patients dosed with 
individualised dose of niraparib experienced thrombocytopenia, 
anaemia and neutropenia events compared to 0% in the placebo 
group.  
Class-effect: Haematological toxicities are known risks of other 
PARP inhibitors like olaparib and rucaparib. 
Post-marketing experience (PBRER evaluation of clinical and 
post-marketing data): Cumulatively, up to DLP of 26 Mar 2021, a 
review of the haematological toxicities cases indicate that they are 
consistent with the known safety profile of niraparib. 
Thrombocytopenia: The incidence of on-treatment thrombocytopenia 
was more common among patients with lower baseline platelet 
counts (<150,000/µL) with 13 (93%) of 14 patients developing 
thrombocytopenia compared to those patients with higher baseline 
levels (<150,000/µL), although the incidence in this group was also 
high (211 of 352 patients, 60%).  Patients with any prior history of 
thrombocytopenia also had a higher risk (121 of 172 patients, 70%) 
compared to those without a prior history (104 of 195 patients, 53%). 
There were no clinically meaningful differences in the overall 
incidence of any grade thrombocytopenia events based on age or 
number of prior platinum therapies. Thrombocytopenia events were 
more commonly reported in the niraparib arm among patients who 
were non-White (72%) compared to white patients (60%) and among 
patients with lower baseline weight (<67 kg; 67%) compared to 
those with higher weight (≥67 kg; 56%). Niraparib-treated patients 
who had a prior history of myelosuppression reported 
thrombocytopenia events at a higher incidence (64%) than those 
without a history of myelosuppression (50%). Thrombocytopenia 
events were also more common among niraparib-treated patients 
with ovarian cancer (62%) and fallopian tube cancer (67%) 
compared to those with primary peritoneal cancer (48%). 
The incidence of Grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia events was higher 
among niraparib-treated patients who received 2 prior platinum 
therapies (37%) compared to those who had received >2 prior 
therapies (26%) and among patients with lower baseline weight 
(<67 kg, 38%) compared to those with higher weight (≥67 kg, 28%). 
There was no effect of age, race, cancer subtype, or history of 
myelosuppression on the incidence of Grade 3/4 thrombocytopenia 
events. Thrombocytopenia events were more common in niraparib-
treated patients who had a germline breast cancer gene mutation 
(gBRCAmut) (97 of 136 patients, 71%) compared to patients who did 
not (non-gBRCAmut; 128 of 231 patients, 55%).  
Analysis conducted by the Sponsor identified two clinical variables, 
body weight (<77 kg) and platelet count (<150,000/µL) associated 
with high-grade (i.e., grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia); patients with 
baseline body weight < 77 kg or baseline platelet count <150,000/µL 
platelets showed higher incidence of grade 3 or 4 
thrombocytopenia during the first cycle of niraparib than patients with 
weight ≥77 kg and platelet count ≥150,000/µL.  
For patients who weigh less than 77 kg (170 lbs) or have baseline 
platelet count <150,000/μL, the recommended starting dose of 
ZEJULA is 200 mg (two 100 mg capsules or tablets) taken orally 
once daily. For all others, the recommended starting dose is 300 mg 
(three 100 mg capsules or tablets). If patients were monitored and 
managed by careful dose reduction, and in some cases transfusions, 
then the toxicity was generally reversible. 
The PRIMA study adopted the modified starting dose and this study 
safety analyses indicated that reducing the starting dose to 200 mg 
in these patients could reduce the incidence of grade 3 or 4 
thrombocytopenia without compromising the efficacy of Zejula. 
Anaemia: The incidence of on-treatment anaemia was more 
common among patients with lower baseline haemoglobin 
concentration (<10 g/dL) with 18 (82%) of 22 patients developing 
anaemia compared to those patients with higher baseline levels 
(≥12 g/dL), although the incidence in this group was also high (63 of 
154 patients, 41%).  Patients with any prior history of anaemia also 
had a somewhat higher risk (126 of 236 patients, 53%) compared to 
those without a prior history (58 of 131 patients, 44%). 
There was no considerable difference in the incidence of anaemia 
events or Grade 3/4 anaemia events based on age, race, number of 
prior platinum therapies, or prior myelosuppression. Anaemia events 
were more common among niraparib-treated patients with lower 
baseline weight (<67 kg; 57%) compared to those with higher weight 
(≥67 kg; 43%) and in patients with ovarian cancer (52%) compared 
to those with fallopian tube cancer (41%) or primary peritoneal 
cancer (42%). The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 anaemia events was 
also higher among niraparib-treated patients with ovarian cancer 
(27%) compared to those with fallopian tube cancer (15%) or 
primary peritoneal cancer (16%).  The incidence of Grade 3/4 
anaemia events was higher among niraparib-treated patients in the 
gBRCAmut cohort (33%) compared to the non-gBRCAmut cohort 
(21%). 
Neutropenia: The incidence of on-treatment neutropenia was most 
common among patients with a prior history of Grade 4 neutropenia 
(20 of 36 patients, 56%) and was also more common among 
patients with any prior history of neutropenia (75 of 206 patients, 
36%) compared to those without a prior history (36 of 161 patients, 
22%). There was no considerable difference in the incidence of 
neutropenia events regardless of grade or for Grade 3/4 neutropenia 
events based on age, race, number of prior platinum therapies or 
cancer subtype. Patients with lower baseline weight (<67 kg) had a 
higher incidence of neutropenia events (38%) compared to those 
with higher weight (≥67 kg; 22%); similarly, patients who had a prior 
history of myelosuppression had a higher incidence (33%) compared 
to those without a history of myelosuppression (21%). The incidence 
of Grade 3/4 neutropenia events was higher in patients with lower 
baseline weight (24%) compared to those with higher weight (16%); 
the incidence of Grade 3/4 events was 21% for patients with a 
history of myelosuppression and 15% for those without a reported 
history. Overall, neutropenia events were reported at similar 
incidences among niraparib-treated patients in the gBRCAmut 
cohort (42 of 136 patients, 31%) compared to patients in the 
non-gBRCAmut cohort (69 of 231 patients, 30%). The incidence of 
Grade 3/4 neutropenia events was similar among niraparib-treated 
patients in the gBRCAmut cohort (21%) and in the non-gBRCAmut 
cohort (19%). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 
 Guidance in SmPC section 4.2 on dosing interruptions and
adjustments in cases of haematological toxicity
 Warning in SmPC section 4.4 that haematological toxicity is
expected and to use caution with anticoagulation and
antiplatelet drugs
Testing blood counts and monitoring is recommended in
SmPC section 4.4
Listed as adverse reactions in SmPC section 4.8


PL Sections 
 Section 2 advises the patient to talk to the practitioner
before or while taking Zejula regarding low blood-cell
counts.
 Section 3 mentions that the recommended starting dose is
200 mg and if the patient weigh ≥ 77 kg and have platelet
count ≥ 150,000/μL before starting treatment, the
recommended starting dose is 300 mg.
 Section 4 lists the haematologic side effects under the very
common category.
Prescription status 
 Prescription only medicine
 Use restricted to physicians experienced in the use of
anticancer medicinal products
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None 
Important identified risk: Hypertension 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical: In the NOVA study, 23.2% of the patients treated with 
niraparib experienced hypertension compared to 5.6% in the 
placebo group. There was only one serious event of hypertension in 
the niraparib group.  
In the PRIMA study, 18.7% of the patients dosed with a fixed dose of 
300 mg niraparib experienced hypertension; 16.6% of the patients 
dosed with individualised dose of niraparib experienced 
hypertension, compared to 7% in the placebo group. There was only 
one serious event of hypertension in the fixed-dose niraparib group.   
Post-marketing experience (PBRER evaluation of clinical and 
post-marketing data): Serial reviews of hypertension cases over 
time, up to DLP of 26 Mar 2021, indicate that they are consistent 
with the known safety profile of niraparib.  
There are multiple risk factors for hypertension in the general 
population including: Lifestyle factors (excess salt intake, excess 
body weight, smoking, alcohol), renal disease, endocrine disease, 
and family history.   
The incidence rates of TEAEs of hypertension regardless of grade 
and of Grade 3 hypertension were similar in patients <65 years and 
those ≥65 years who received niraparib.  Patients in the niraparib 
arm who are White were more likely to have hypertension of any 
grade reported as a TEAE (21%) compared to non-Whites (11%); 
the incidence of Grade 3 hypertension was similar across race. 
Patients in the niraparib arm who had received more than 2 lines of 
prior platinum therapy were more likely to experience hypertension 
of any grade (26%) and Grade 3 hypertension (13%) compared to 
those who had received only 2 prior lines (16% and 6%, 
respectively). There were no substantial differences in the incidence 
of hypertension across cancer subtype. 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC sections 
 Warning in SmPC section 4.4 that hypertension has been
reported with niraparib therapy and that blood pressure
should be monitored
Listed as an adverse reaction in SmPC section 4.8

PL sections 
 Section 2 advises the patient to talk to the practitioner
before or while taking Zejula regarding high blood pressure.
 Section 4 lists high blood pressure under the very common
category.
Prescription status 
 Prescription only medicine
 Use restricted to physicians experienced in the use of
anticancer medicinal products
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 
Important identified risk: MDS and AML 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Clinical: In the niraparib clinical development program up to the cut-
off of 26 Mar 2021, the overall cumulative incidence of MDS/AML 
unadjusted for duration of follow-up, was comparable between the 
pooled niraparib treatment group and placebo group (1.0% vs. 
0.9%). The total number of cases were, 23 in niraparib arm and 4 in 
placebo arm in GSK sponsored and unblinded clinical trials.  
However, in PR-30-5011-C NOVA study (median follow up time of 
5.6 year) where patients with recurrent ovarian cancer were pre-
exposed to 2 or more lines of platinum based chemotherapies, the 
subject incidence of MDS/AML was higher in niraparib arm (3.5%) 
than that in the placebo arm (1.7%). This finding is similar to the 
corresponding 3-year cumulative incidences of 3.5% and 2.1% of 
MDS/AML reported in published literature of a meta-analysis of 
randomized trials of PARPi.  The event rate per patient follow-up 
year was 0.0117 and 0.0055, respectively. In gBRCAmut and non-
gBRCAmut cohorts, the incidence of MDS/AML was 6.6% and 1.7% 
in patients receiving niraparib and 3.1% and 0.9% in patients 
receiving placebo, respectively. 
Class-effect: MDS and AML are known risks of other PARP 
inhibitors like olaparib and rucaparib [Olaparib SmPC; Rucaparib 
SmPC]  
Post-marketing experience (PBRER evaluation of clinical and 
post-marketing data): Cumulatively, up to DLP of 26 Mar 2021, 
MDS/AML has been reported from the postmarketing setting from 
Risk factors and risk groups 
both spontaneous sources and postmarketing surveillance 
programs. Disproportional analyses showed relative higher reporting 
of MDS/AML associated with the use of niraparib in the GSK global 
safety database, FAERS database and EudraVigilance database.  
the post-marketing data has not provided support for this potential 
risk for niraparib.  
All clinical trial patients had potential contributing factors for the 
development of MDS/AML, having received previous chemotherapy 
with platinum agents. Many had also received other DNA damaging 
agents and radiotherapy. The majority of reports were in gBRCAmut 
carriers. Some of the patients had a history of previous cancer or of 
bone marrow suppression. 
Prolonged use of alkylator therapy for other illnesses – e.g.,
More general risk factors include the following: 
Increased age.
•
•
Previous cancer therapy including radiotherapy, alkylating
agents, epipodophyllotoxins, topoisomerase II inhibitors or colony-
stimulating factors used to stimulate marrow function during
chemotherapy [Hershman, 2007; Hijiya, 2009].
•
rheumatological disease.
•
Environmental toxins, especially benzene and other organic
solvents, smoking, petroleum products, fertilisers, semi-metal, stone
dusts and cereal dusts. Exposure to benzene can produce aplastic
anaemia and pancytopenia, which can progress to AML.
Other genetically associated diseases – e.g., Schwachman-
•
Diamond syndrome, Fanconi's anaemia and neurofibromatosis type
1 [ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines, 2014].
•
predispose patients to AML [Catenacci, 2005].
•
Antecedent haematological disorders including MDS
Genetic risk factors such as p53 or BRCA mutations
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
SmPC Sections 
 Warning in SmPC section 4.4 of the possible occurrence of
MDS/AML and for treatment with niraparib to be
discontinued if MDS/AML are confirmed
Listed as adverse reactions in SmPC section 4.8

PL sections 
 Section 2 advises the patient to talk to the practitioner
before or while taking Zejula regarding MDS/AML.
 Section 4 lists the MDS/AML side effects under the common
category.
Prescription Status 
 Prescription only medicine
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
 Use restricted to physicians experienced in the use of
anticancer medicinal products
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 


3000-04-002 /GSK 214708: An integrated meta-analysis of
MDS/AML and other SPM incidence in patients with ovarian
cancer who have been treated with niraparib
3000-04-001 /GSK 213705: PASS to evaluate the risks of
MDS/AML and other second primary malignancies in adult
patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
peritoneal cancer receiving maintenance treatment with Zejula
(Niraparib)
Important potential risk: SPM other than MDS and AML 
Evidence for linking the risk to 
the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Clinical: In the NOVA study, 5 patients treated with niraparib 
experienced SPM other than MDS and AML compared to one in the 
placebo group.  
In the PRIMA study there were 4 cases of malignancies other than 
MDS/AML in the fixed dose and none in the individualised dose 
compared to 3 cases in the placebo group.  
Class-effect: SPM other than MDS and AML are known risks of 
other PARP inhibitors like olaparib and rucaparib [Olaparib SmPC; 
Rucaparib SmPC]. 
Post-marketing experience (PBRER evaluation of clinical and 
post-marketing data): Cumulatively, up to DLP of 26 Mar 2021, the 
post-marketing data has not provided support for this potential risk 
for niraparib.  
Prior DNA-damaging chemotherapeutic drugs represents a risk 
factor for development of new malignancies [Livraghi, 2015].  
Curtis et al (2006) reported that excluding female genital sites, 
overall subsequent cancer risk was higher in blacks (O/E=1.42, 
excess absolute risk (EAR)=29) than whites (ratio of observed to 
expected cancers (O/E)=1.16, EAR=14). Women younger than age 
50 years at ovarian cancer diagnosis, had a 58% increased risk of 
new malignancies, whereas risk declined to below unity among 
patients diagnosed at ages older than 70 years. Most of the overall 
excess was attributable to significantly increased risks for acute 
leukaemia, as well as for cancers of the breast, colon, rectum, small 
intestine, bladder, renal pelvis, eye, and intrahepatic bile ducts 
[Curtis, 2006].  
The risk groups or risk factors for the MDS and AML are also 
applicable to the other SPM (see risk groups or risk factors for MDS 
and AML above). 
Risk minimisation measures 
Routine risk minimisation measures: 
Prescription Status 
Additional pharmacovigilance 
activities 
 Prescription only medicine
 Use restricted to physicians experienced in the use of
anticancer medicinal products
Additional risk minimisation measures 
None 


3000-04-002 /GSK 214708: An integrated meta-analysis of
MDS/AML and other SPM incidence in patients with ovarian
cancer who have been treated with niraparib
3000-04-001; GSK 213705: PASS to evaluate the risks of
MDS/AML and other second primary malignancies in adult
patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
peritoneal cancer receiving maintenance treatment with Zejula
(Niraparib)
II.C 
Post-authorisation development plan  
II.C.1 
Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
The following study is a condition of the marketing authorization (PAES): 
Study Short Name: PR-30-5017-C / GSK213359 A Phase 3, Randomized, Double-Blind, 
Placebo-Controlled, Multicenter Study of Niraparib Maintenance Treatment in Patients with 
Advanced Ovarian Cancer Following Response on Front-Line Platinum-Based Chemotherapy 
Purpose of the Study:  The objectives are as follows: 
Primary objective: To evaluate the efficacy of niraparib versus placebo as maintenance 
treatment, as measured by progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with Stage III or IV 
ovarian cancer (including fallopian and peritoneal cancers) with a complete response (CR) or 
partial response (PR) following front-line platinum-based chemotherapy treatment.
Secondary Objectives: 
1. To evaluate additional measures of clinical benefit for niraparib versus placebo as
maintenance treatment, such as overall survival (OS), patient-reported outcomes (PROs), time
to first subsequent therapy (TFST), and time to progression on the next anticancer therapy
(PFS2).
2. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of niraparib versus placebo
Exploratory Objectives: 
1. To assess population pharmacokinetics (PK) and estimate PK parameters for niraparib and
its major metabolite
2. To evaluate potential biomarkers related to ovarian cancer and poly(ADP-ribose)
polymerase (PARP) inhibition (e.g. DNA repair pathways)
3. To explore the relationship between homologous recombination-deficient (HRD) status and
platinum sensitivity in ovarian cancer patients who have initial response to front-line platinum
therapy
II.C.2
Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
Study Short Name: 3000-04-002 / GSK 214708: An integrated meta-analysis of MDS/AML 
and other SPM incidence in patients with ovarian cancer who have been treated with niraparib 
Purpose of the Study: 
The primary endpoint is to compare the incidence rate of MDS/AML in patients with
•
ovarian cancer treated with niraparib versus any other treatment comparator.
The secondary endpoint is to compare the incidence rate of SPM in the same
•
population.
The third endpoint is to estimate incidence of MDS/AML and other SPM in patients
•
with ovarian cancer treated with niraparib in pooled TESARO clinical studies.
Study Short Name: 3000-04-001 / GSK 213705: PASS to evaluate the risks of MDS/AML and 
SPM in adult patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer 
receiving maintenance treatment with Zejula® (Niraparib). 
Purpose of the Study: 
The objective of this PASS is to determine the risk of developing MDS/AML and SPM in 
patients administered niraparib in the routine clinical setting with: 
– epithelial (FIGO Stages III and IV) high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube or primary
peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following completion of
first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
or 
– platinum-sensitive, relapsed, high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or
primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial to platinum-based
chemotherapy
The objectives are as follows: 
Primary: To estimate the incidence rate of MDS/AML, and the distribution of these events 
across different risk factors for MDS/AML, among a cohort of adult patients: 1) with epithelial 
(FIGO Stages III and IV) high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who 
are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first line platinum-based 
chemotherapy or 2) with platinum-sensitive, relapsed, high-grade serous epithelial ovarian, 
fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in a complete or partial response to 
platinum-based chemotherapy, treated with niraparib.  
Secondary: To estimate the incidence rate of SPM, and the distribution of these events across 
different risk factors for SPM, in the same cohorts.  
Exploratory: To compare the incidence rate ratios of MDS/AML and other SPM in niraparib-
treated patients to a retrospective cohort of patients with similar disease and treatment 
characteristics, but who were not treated with any PARP inhibitor.  
