EMA/505047/2020  
EMEA/H/C/004249 
Zejula (niraparib) 
An overview of Zejula and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zejula and what is it used for? 
Zejula is a cancer medicine used in women with advanced ovarian cancer, which includes cancer of the 
ovaries, fallopian tubes (that connect the ovaries to the uterus) or the peritoneum (the lining around 
the abdomen). It can be used on its own for maintenance (continuing) treatment: 
• 
In women newly diagnosed with advanced cancer in whom the cancer has shrunk or disappeared 
with a platinum-based medicines; 
• 
in women whose cancer had relapsed (come back) after responding to previous treatment and in 
whom the cancer has shrunk or disappeared with a platinum-based medicine  
Ovarian cancer is rare and Zejula was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used in rare 
diseases) on 4 August 2010. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human medicines/Rare disease designation 
Zejula contains the active substance niraparib. 
How is Zejula used? 
Zejula is available as capsules (100 mg) to be taken by mouth. The dose is 2 or 3 capsules once a day, 
depending on the patient’s weight, platelet count and whether or not the cancer has come back after 
previous treatment. Treatment should continue for as long as the patient benefits from it. The doctor 
may interrupt treatment or reduce the dose if the patient has certain side effects. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised 
by a doctor who has experience in the use of cancer medicines. 
For more information about using Zejula, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Zejula work? 
The active substance in Zejula, niraparib, blocks the action of enzymes called PARP-1 and PARP-2, 
which help to repair damaged DNA in cells when the cells divide to make new cells. By blocking PARP 
enzymes, the damaged DNA in cancer cells cannot be repaired, and, as a result, the cancer cells die. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Zejula have been shown in studies? 
Zejula increased the time women lived without their disease getting worse in two main studies 
involving over 1,000 women with ovarian cancer, including fallopian tube or peritoneal cancers.  
One study involved women with high-grade epithelial ovarian cancer that had come back after previous 
treatment with two or more platinum-based therapies. The women had a lasting response (the cancer 
had not progressed for at least 6 months) before the last platinum-based therapy. After treatment with 
Zejula, women lived on average 11.3 months without their disease getting worse compared with 4.7 
months in women receiving placebo (a dummy treatment). 
Another study involved women with advanced high-grade epithelial ovarian cancer that had only been 
treated with a platinum-based medicine and in whom the cancer had shrunk or disappeared. Women 
who then continued treatment with Zejula lived 13.8 months without their disease getting worse 
compared with 8.2 months in women receiving placebo (a dummy treatment). 
What are the risks associated with Zejula? 
The most common side effects with Zejula (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are nausea 
(feeling sick), thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts), tiredness and weakness, anaemia (low 
red blood cell counts), constipation, vomiting, abdominal (belly) pain, neutropenia (low levels of 
neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), headache, lack of appetite, 
diarrhoea, dyspnoea (difficulty breathing), hypertension (high blood pressure), back pain, dizziness, 
cough, joint pain, hot flushes and decrease in white blood cells. Serious side effects include 
thrombocytopenia and anaemia. For the full list of side effects of Zejula, see the package leaflet. 
Zejula must not be used in women who are breastfeeding. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Zejula authorised in the EU? 
Although treatments for advanced ovarian cancer are available, the disease inevitably comes back. 
Zejula has been shown to prolong the time before the disease gets worse again in patients who have 
responded to platinum-based therapies. This may allow treatment for ovarian cancer to be delayed. 
Regarding safety, side effects are generally manageable with dose reductions.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Zejula’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zejula? 
The company that markets Zejula will submit the final analyses of the study on the effectiveness of 
Zejula in advanced epithelial (FIGO Stages III and IV) high-grade ovarian cancer. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zejula have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zejula are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Zejula are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Zejula (niraparib)  
EMA/505047/2020 
Page 2/3 
 
 
  
 
Other information about Zejula 
Zejula received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 November 2017. 
Further information on Zejula can be found on the Agency’s website: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zejula.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2020.  
Zejula (niraparib)  
EMA/505047/2020 
Page 3/3 
 
 
  
 
