30 April 2020 
EMA/217985/2020  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): niraparib 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00010655/201909 
Period covered by the PSUR: 25 March 2019 To: 25 September 2019  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for niraparib, the scientific conclusions of 
CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome (PRES) from spontaneous 
reports, clinical trials and the literature and considering a plausible mechanism of action (severe 
hypertension in 4 out of 5 cases), the PRAC considers a causal relationship between niraparib and PRES is 
at least a reasonable possibility. Furthermore, a correlation between niraparib and hypertension with 
proven PRES exists. Therefore, the PRAC considers the adverse reaction PRES should be included in 
section 4.8 of the SmPC with the frequency rare. Furthermore, a warning should be included in section 
4.4 of the SmPC to adequately inform prescribers about PRES. 
In view of available data on hypertensive crisis from spontaneous reports, clinical trials and relevant 
literature and taking into account a plausible mechanism of action, the PRAC considers a causal 
relationship between niraparib and this risk is established. Hypertension is already an important identified 
risk for niraparib and is reflected in section 4.8 of the SmPC. The PRAC considers that hypertensive crisis 
should also be included as adverse reaction in section 4.8 of the SmPC with the frequency rare. 
Available data also showed that several hypertension events occurred within the first month of treatment. 
Furthermore, available data on PRES suggest it is closely linked to the regulation of blood pressure (4 out 
of 5 cases presented with hypertension) and several cases also occurred during the first month of 
therapy. Based on this information, there is a need to amend the existing warning in section 4.4 of the 
SmPC on hypertension to recommend a more frequent blood pressure monitoring especially at the 
beginning of treatment. A home-based monitoring of the blood pressure may also be considered when 
appropriate. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for niraparib the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing niraparib is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/217985/2020 
Page 2/2 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
