27 October 2020 
EMA/OD/0000031233 
EMADOC-1700519818-571923 
Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report 
Zejula (niraparib) 
Treatment of ovarian cancer 
EU/3/10/760 
Sponsor: GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited     
Note  
Assessment report as adopted by the COMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2020. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Product and administrative information .................................................. 3 
2. Grounds for the COMP opinion ................................................................. 4 
2.1. Orphan medicinal product designation .............................................................................................. 4 
2.2. Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of marketing authorisation .............. 5 
3. Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of type II variation
 .................................................................................................................... 5 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 5 
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 .............................................................. 9 
4. COMP position adopted on date ............................................................. 12 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Product and administrative information 
Product 
Designated active substance 
(3S)-3-{4-[7-(aminocarbonyl)-2H-indazol-2-yl] 
phenyl} piperidine tosylate monohydrate salt 
International Non-Proprietary Name  
Tradename 
Orphan condition 
Sponsor’s details: 
Niraparib 
Zejula 
Treatment of ovarian cancer  
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited   
12 Riverwalk 
Citywest Business Campus 
Dublin 24  
D24 YK11 
Ireland  
Orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
Sponsor/applicant 
COMP opinion 
EC decision 
EC registration number  
Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited  
6 May 2010 
4 August 2010 
EU/3/10/760 
Post-designation procedural history 
Transfer of sponsorship 
Transfer from Merck Sharp & Dohme Limited to 
Tesaro U.K. Limited – EC decision of 19 December 
2012 
COMP opinion on review of orphan 
16 November 2017 
designation at the time of marketing 
authorisation  
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from Tesaro U.K. Limited to TESARO Bio 
Netherlands – EC decision of 10 December 2018 
Transfer of sponsorship  
Transfer from TESARO Bio Netherlands to 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited – EC decision of 18 
December 2019 
Type II variation procedural history 
Rapporteur / Co-rapporteur 
Bjorg Bolstad / Alexandre Moreau 
Applicant 
Application submission 
Procedure start 
Procedure number 
Invented name 
GlaxoSmithKline (Ireland) Limited   
10 February 2020 
29 February 2020 
EMA/H/C/004249/II/0019 
Zejula 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Proposed therapeutic indication 
Zejula is indicated as monotherapy for the 
maintenance treatment of adult patients with 
advanced epithelial (FIGO Stages III and IV) high-
grade ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal 
cancer who are in response (complete or partial) 
following completion of first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy.  
Further information on Zejula can be found in the 
European public assessment report (EPAR) on the 
Agency’s website 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EP
CHMP opinion 
AR/zejula   
17 September 2020 
COMP review of orphan medicinal product designation procedural history 
COMP rapporteur(s) 
Brigitte Schwarzer-Daum / Frauke Naumann-Winter 
Sponsor’s report submission 
9 March 2020 
COMP discussion and adoption of list of 
8-10 September 2020 
questions  
Oral explanation cancellation 
COMP opinion 
6 October 2020 
8 October 2020 
2.  Grounds for the COMP opinion  
2.1.  Orphan medicinal product designation 
The COMP opinion that was the basis for the initial orphan medicinal product in 2010 designation was 
based on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to be affecting 
approximately 2.9 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, at the time the application was made; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to diagnosis of the condition at a 
late stage and poor overall survival; 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, sufficient justification has been provided that (3S)-3-{4-[7-(aminocarbonyl)-2H-indazol-2-
yl] phenyl} piperidine tosylate monohydrate salt may be of significant benefit to those affected by 
the condition. This appears to be justified on the grounds of a clinically relevant advantage, due to 
potential improved effect secondary to a novel mechanism of action and in particular inhibition of 
poly ADP ribose polymerase, as supported by the preclinical data in relevant models and 
preliminary clinical studies in ovarian cancer patients. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.  Review of orphan medicinal product designation at the time of 
marketing authorisation  
The COMP opinion on the initial review of the orphan medicinal product designation in 2017 was based 
on the following grounds: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan indication of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 4.3 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is chronically debilitating due to pain, weight loss, ascites and vaginal bleeding, and 
life-threatening with approximately half of the patients surviving less than five years. 
although satisfactory methods of treatment of the condition have been authorised in the European 
Union, Zejula is of significant benefit to patients in the orphan condition as defined in the granted 
therapeutic indication. The currently authorised product Lynparza is indicated for maintenance 
treatment of patients with BRCA mutation. In contrast, maintenance treatment with Zejula 
improved progression free survival in adult patients with platinum sensitive relapsed high grade 
serous ovarian cancer independent of BRCA mutation status. Therefore, Zejula provides significant 
benefit for patients without BRCA mutation, who currently have no authorised maintenance 
treatment. 
3.  Review of criteria for orphan designation at the time of 
type II variation 
Article 3(1)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat a life-threatening or chronically debilitating 
condition affecting not more than five in 10 thousand people in the Community when the 
application is made 
Condition 
Ovarian cancer is a varied group of neoplasms characterised as a malignant transformation of tissue on 
the surface of the ovaries. The majority of cases of ovarian cancer are of epithelial origin (
90%) with 
the remainder coming from germ cells or sex cord stromal cells. 
∼
The exact cause of ovarian cancer remains unknown but many associated risk factors have been 
identified. A woman's reproductive history appears to contribute significantly to her lifetime risk of 
ovarian cancer. Family history also plays a very important role in the development of ovarian cancer. 
The clinical presentation of epithelial ovarian carcinoma, fallopian tubal carcinoma, and peritoneal 
carcinoma may be either acute or subacute. Women who present in an acute fashion are typically 
those with advanced disease who present with a condition that requires urgent care and evaluation 
(e.g. pleural effusion, bowel obstruction). Most patients with early stage disease are asymptomatic, 
and in general the symptoms of ovarian cancer are nonspecific and often mimic the presence of upper 
abdominal disease, making diagnosis of early ovarian cancer difficult. Typically, only patients with 
more advanced disease present with definitive symptoms such as abdominal distension, effusions 
(pleural or peritoneal) and the development of respiratory symptoms. Thus, ovarian cancer is rarely 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
diagnosed in its early stages (stages I/II), often going undetected until it has spread beyond the ovary 
(stages III/IV). 
The proposed condition has been designated previously. 
The approved therapeutic indication “for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced 
epithelial (FIGO Stages III and IV) high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer who 
are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy” 
falls within the scope of the designated orphan condition “Treatment of ovarian cancer”. 
Intention to diagnose, prevent or treat  
The medical plausibility has been confirmed by the positive benefit/risk assessment of the CHMP. 
Chronically debilitating and/or life-threatening nature 
Ovarian cancer is the fifth most common cause of cancer in women in the developed world. The 
median age at diagnosis is 63years. Frequently diagnosed at an advanced stage, symptoms can be 
vague and sometimes misattributed to irritable bowel syndrome. Median progression free survival 
(PFS) for patients with advanced ovarian cancer is approximately 18months and overall survival (OS) 
for all ovarian cancer 40% to 50% at 10years. Prognosis is influenced by age (Flaum et al, Clinical 
Genetic. 2020;97:54-63).  
It has recently been noted that ovarian cancer rates have dropped to 4.2 in 100,000 (-11.5%) since 
2015. (Carioli G et al, Annals of Oncology Vol31, issue 5 April 2020). 
Number of people affected or at risk 
The sponsor has accessed data on the prevalence of ovarian cancer based on a literature search and 
databases from Nordcan and ECIS. An earlier Rarecare publication has also been used. 
Below is a table of selected publications used for the estimate of the prevalence of ovarian cancer in 
the European Union. 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1.   
The sponsor notes that most of the data used in these publications is from epidemiological sources 
which date around 2010. In order to establish a more current prevalence a calculation based on 
incidence and duration is therefore proposed. 
Incidence 
A more current incidence was deduced from primarily two databases: Nordcan and ECIS. 
The Nordcan database was accessed in 2019 by the sponsor and had records up to 2016. The average 
crude incidence rate (based on female population only) for ovarian cancer in the Nordic countries is 
17.5 per 100,000 in the period from 2010 to 2016. Of note, there is a continuous decline in crude 
incidence rate from 18.3 per 100,000 in 2010 to 16.8 in 2016, corresponding to an 8.2% decrease. If 
the effects of changes due to shifts in the age of the population are removed by standardising to the 
age of the Nordic population, the same tendency is even more pronounced (16.2 in 2010 to 14.5 in 
2016), with a decrease in the Nordic age-standardised rate (ASR) of 10,5%.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.  Incidence of ovarian cancer in the Nordic countries  
The European Cancer Information System (ECIS, https://ecis.jrc.ec.europa.eu/index.php) is a data 
repository for information on cancer in the European Union, set up by the European Commission's Joint 
Research Centre (JRC) in close collaboration with the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety 
(DG SANTE), building on existing experience, competence and cooperation of cancer registries 
associated to the European Network of Cancer Registries (ENCR), together with other key stakeholders 
in the cancer information domain. 
The project, in its first edition, makes use of data from a call launched in 2015 and addressed to all 
European population-based cancer registries with the aim of establishing a single European cancer-
registry data repository. As of February 2018, a total of 147 population-based cancer registries from 
32 European countries responded to the call for data and were included in the dataset.  
Due to this methodology, the ECIS dataset is considered the most appropriate set of data on cancer 
incidence in the EU/EEA. 
In total, 45,134 new cases of ovarian cancer were extrapolated by ECIS for the EEA-30 (28 EU Member 
States plus Iceland and Norway) for 2018. For Liechtenstein, data is not available. 
The combined population of EU-28 plus Norway and Island in 2018 was 518,023,294 persons 
(Eurostat, 2019). For this population, 45,134 cases of newly diagnosed ovarian cancer corresponds to 
a crude incidence rate (both sexes) of 8.71/100,000 population. 
Survival  
For the purpose of the calculation of disease duration, real-world data as provided in registry sources is 
proposed to be more appropriate than data derived from the setting of clinical trials. All registry data 
presented show a similar pattern of very fast decline in relative survival in the first three years after 
diagnosis, while for later years the death rates attributable to ovarian cancer decrease continuously. 
This indicates that a certain (though difficult to quantify) subset of patients is permanently cured from 
the disease. It has been estimated that less than 10% of patients experience a 10-year disease-free 
survival (Tewari et al., 2019).  
Of the registry data available the data from the sponsor believes that the NORDCAN database is 
considered the most appropriate since the source registries systematically include most of the 
Scandinavian population. At the same time, it is based on reported cases (not estimates), and the data 
is the most recent available (2010 to 2016). This is an important point as survival rates have increased 
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
continuously over the last decades in many member states. Survival rates in the Nordic countries are 
among the highest in Europe (Figure 4), hence referring to this data is considered a conservative 
approach.  
Figure 1.  Ovarian Cancer, age standardised five-years relative survival, 2000-2007 
In the Nordic countries, about 20% of patients die within the first year after diagnosis, and, depending 
on the country, only between 41% (Denmark) and 49% (Sweden) are still alive after 5 years 
(NORDCAN, 2019).  
Based on this data, for the purpose of point prevalence calculation, the duration of disease for ovarian 
cancer is considered 5 years which is an acceptable estimation.  
The sponsor added the incidence of fallopian and primary peritoneal (proportion justified according to a 
recent publication) and concludes on an estimate of 4.88 in 10.000 which was accepted by the COMP 
for the Maintenance of the Orphan Designation.  
Article 3(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 
Existence of no satisfactory methods of diagnosis prevention or treatment of the condition 
in question, or, if such methods exist, the medicinal product will be of significant benefit to 
those affected by the condition. 
Existing methods 
The following authorised treatments: bevacizumab, doxorubicin hydrochloride, topotecan, olaparib, 
niraparib, rucaparib, trabectedin, gemcitabine, paclitaxel, carboplatin, cisplatin, cyclophosphamide, 
docetaxel, epirubicin, 5FU, irinotecan, mephalan, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, paclitaxel, and 
treosulphan, are available in the EU.  
There is a current ESMO guideline for the treatment of newly Diagnosed and Relapsed Epithelial 
Ovarian Carcinoma (Ledermann et al 2013), which is supplemented with an eUpdate addressing and 
incorporating the approval of Olaparib (Ledermann et al 2016).  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
The aim of surgery for early ovarian cancer is to resect the tumour and to undertake adequate 
staging. This will provide prognostic information and will define whether chemotherapy is needed.  
In advanced epithelial ovarian cancer, the aim is complete cytoreduction of all macroscopic visible 
disease, since this has been shown to be associated with a significantly increased OS and PFS. The 
value of surgical cytoreduction in relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer remains controversial and is 
not regarded as a standard of care, as the evidence for this approach has not been demonstrated 
in prospective trials.  
Front line: standard chemotherapy consists of a combination of paclitaxel and carboplatin. The 
combination of cisplatin and paclitaxel is equally effective but is more toxic and less convenient to 
administer. For those patients who develop an allergy to or do not tolerate paclitaxel, the 
combination of docetaxel-carboplatin or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD)-carboplatin can be 
considered an alternative. The addition of bevacizumab is recommended for patients with advanced 
ovarian cancer with poor prognostic features such as stage IV.  
•  Recurrence: Treatment depends on the categorisation into ‘platinum-refractory’, ‘platinum-
resistant’, ‘partially platinum-sensitive’ and ‘platinum-sensitive’ patients.  
•  E-update: on recurrent ‘platinum-sensitive’ ovarian cancer: patients with high-grade tumours 
should be tested for a germline BRCA mutation. Consideration should be given to testing tumours 
for a somatic BRCA mutation. Patients with recurrent high-grade serous ovarian cancer and a 
germline or tumour BRCA mutation should be offered maintenance olaparib after a response to 
platinum-based chemotherapy  
• 
The ESMO guidelines have been updated to account for the introduction of PARP inhibitors. 
Recommendations: 
•  Maintenance therapy with a PARP inhibitor (olaparib, niraparib or rucaparib) following a response 
to platinum-based therapy in patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive high-grade ovarian cancer 
is a new standard of care option, irrespective of BRCA status [I, A]. 
• 
For patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer and a BRCA mutation unable to 
receive platinum-based therapy, rucaparib monotherapy is an option [III, A]. 
Significant benefit 
The sponsor is proposing that their product niraparib will offer a significant benefit in the treatment of 
a specific target patient population which is only partially treated with olaparib. The wording of the 
proposed amendment to the current niraparib indication is: 
“for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube or 
primary peritoneal cancer who are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line 
platinum-based chemotherapy.” 
The wording of the comparative similar indication for olaparib is:  
“maintenance treatment of adult patients with advanced (FIGO stages III and IV) BRCA1/2-mutated 
(germline and/or somatic) high-grade epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer 
who are in response (complete or partial) following completion of first-line platinum-based 
chemotherapy.” 
The COMP noted that the therapeutic indication for niraparib is for first line maintenance in an “all-
comers” (i.e. no specific enrichment approach in addition to requiring either CR or PR after a platinum-
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
containing regimen) (although the treatment effect size is the largest in the HR-deficient subgroup).   
It is not clear whether the claim of SB over bevacizumab is based on improved efficacy and safety 
because the sponsor highlights safety profile of bevacizumab and no explicit claim for major 
contribution to patient care is mentioned by the sponsor. As such the claim of SB over bevacizumab 
and olaparib appear to be based on improved efficacy.  
The proposed therapeutic indication corresponds to a broader patient population as compared to the 
one olaparib is authorised for. As such Niraparib is indicated for a broader patient population than 
olaparib and brings a clinically relevant advantage in patients who do not have a BRCA1/2 mutation.  
Bevacizumab, on the contrary, is used in a broad patient population not restricted by biomarkers or 
genetic mutations. The sponsor highlights the following limitations of bevacizumab: no survival benefit, 
safety concerns and data are lacking on its use in the growing number of patients receiving NACT. 
The pivotal studies of bevacizumab and niraparib are not comparable neither by design nor by 
population. Bevacizumab was studied as continued treatment with one of a triple baseline 
chemotherapy without prospective biomarker assessment and niraparib was studied in a dedicated 
maintenance study in responding patients with biomarker assessment. In view of the different timing 
of the performance of the studies, the use of prior neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with ovarian 
cancer was very different. The growing NACT group is considered important.    
The comparisons between the biomarker-defined subsets are limited by methodological differences. A 
retrospective analysis of GOG-218 patients showed that while patients with homologous recombination 
negative (I.e. proficient) tumours might benefit with bevacizumab therapy (HR 0.71), there was no 
benefit in the homologous recombination deficient subgroup (HR 0.95-1) (Norquist et al. 2018). This is 
contrary to the results for niraparib.  
In accordance with the need to submit data for the claim for major contribution to patient care the 
sponsor provided a literature review including dedicated large surveys with patients on maintenance 
treatment for ovarian cancer (not necessarily niraparib), reporting a preference for oral over iv and a 
review of COVID recommendations. Preference for oral therapies in the context of the treatment of 
ovarian cancer has been reported in the literature (Calhoun and Roland 2000; Rohr et al. 2020). 
Of particular interest was the recent publication by Rohr et al 2020. It reported on a large European 
survey of 2,101 patients with ovarian cancer conducted by the European Network of Gynaecological 
Oncological Trial Groups (ENGOT) in order to explore patients’ expectation of maintenance therapies.  
The results of the study showed that 42.9% of respondents preferred oral tablets, 32.1% had no 
preference, and 25% preferred IV administration. The study also found that, there was a clear 
preference for a once daily oral dose (32%) compared to twice daily (15.5%) or twice weekly (13%) 
oral administration. 
The COMP considered that this level of data was sufficient to support the claim for major contribution 
to patient care when niraparib was compared to bevacizumab, and a clinically relevant advantage over 
olaparip due to the difference in the target patient population, and recommended maintaining the 
current 10-year market exclusivity.  
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.  COMP position adopted on date 
The COMP concluded that:  
• 
• 
• 
• 
the proposed therapeutic indication falls entirely within the scope of the orphan condition of the 
designated Orphan Medicinal Product; 
the prevalence of ovarian cancer (hereinafter referred to as “the condition”) was estimated to 
remain below 5 in 10,000 and was concluded to be 4.8 in 10,000 persons in the European Union, 
at the time of the review of the designation criteria; 
the condition is life-threatening and chronically debilitating due to diagnosis of the condition at a 
late stage and poor overall survival;  
although satisfactory methods for the treatment of the condition have been authorised in the 
European Union, the assumption that Zejula is of significant benefit for those affected by the 
orphan condition still holds. The sponsor has provided clinical data in a broader patient population 
compared to olaparib which corresponds to a clinically relevant advantage. In addition, the oral 
administration of niraparib constitutes a major contribution to patient care over regimens 
containing bevacizumab, which is administered by intravenous administration in the granted 
therapeutic indication.  
The COMP, having considered the information submitted by the sponsor and on the basis of Article 
5(12)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 141/2000, is of the opinion that: 
• 
• 
the criteria for designation as set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(1)(a) are satisfied; 
the criteria for designation as set out in Article 3(1)(b) are satisfied. 
The Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products has recommended that Zejula, (3S)-3-{4-[7-
(aminocarbonyl)-2H-indazol-2-yl] phenyl} piperidine tosylate monohydrate salt, niraparib for 
treatment of ovarian cancer (EU/3/10/760) is not removed from the Community Register of Orphan 
Medicinal Products.   
Orphan Maintenance Assessment Report  
EMA/OD/0000031233 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
