EMA/107042/2018  
EMEA/H/C/002409 
Zelboraf (vemurafenib) 
An overview of Zelboraf and why it is authorised in the EU  
What is Zelboraf and what is it used for? 
Zelboraf is a cancer medicine used to treat adults with melanoma (a type of skin cancer) that has 
spread to other parts of the body or cannot be surgically removed. Zelboraf is only for patients whose 
melanoma tumour cells have a specific mutation (genetic change) called ‘BRAF V600’. 
Zelboraf contains the active substance vemurafenib.  
How is Zelboraf used? 
Zelboraf can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
specialist doctor experienced in treating cancer. Before starting treatment a test must be carried out to 
make sure that the patient’s tumours have the BRAF V600 mutation. 
Zelboraf is available as tablets (240 mg). The recommended dose is 960 mg (four tablets) twice daily. 
The first dose is taken in the morning and the second dose in the evening around 12 hours later. Each 
dose can be taken with or without food, but Zelboraf should be taken in the same way day-to-day.  
Treatment should be continued until the disease worsens or the side effects become too severe.  
For more information about using Zelboraf, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Zelboraf work? 
The active substance in Zelboraf, vemurafenib, is an inhibitor of BRAF, a protein involved in stimulating 
cell division. In melanoma tumours with the BRAF V600 mutation, an abnormal form of BRAF is 
present which plays a role in the development of the cancer by allowing uncontrolled division of the 
tumour cells. By blocking the action of the abnormal BRAF, Zelboraf helps to slow down the growth and 
spread of the cancer.  
What benefits of Zelboraf have been shown in studies? 
Zelboraf was compared with the cancer medicine dacarbazine in a main study involving 675 patients 
with melanoma containing the BRAF V600 mutation whose tumours had spread or could not be 
surgically removed. Patients were to receive either medicine until their disease got worse or their 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
treatment became too toxic for them. The main measures of effectiveness were how long the patients 
lived (overall survival) and how long they lived without their disease getting worse (progression-free 
survival). 
Zelboraf was shown to be effective at prolonging patients’ lives and delaying the worsening of the 
disease. The study showed that patients taking Zelboraf lived on average for 13.2 months compared 
with 9.9 months for patients on dacarbazine, and it took on average 5.3 months for the disease to 
worsen in the Zelboraf group compared with 1.6 months in the dacarbazine group. 
What are the risks associated with Zelboraf? 
The most common side effects with Zelboraf (which may affect more than 3 in 10 patients) include 
arthralgia (joint pain), tiredness, rash, photosensitivity reaction (sunburn-like reactions following 
exposure to light), nausea and vomiting (feeling sick and being sick), alopecia (hair loss), diarrhoea, 
headache, pruritus (itching), skin papilloma (warts) and hyperkeratosis (thickening and toughening of 
the skin). The most common serious side effects include another type of skin cancer called ‘cutaneous 
squamous cell carcinoma’, which is commonly treated by local surgery, keratoacanthoma (benign skin 
tumour), rash, arthralgia and change in liver test results (increased gamma-glutamyltransferase 
[GGT]).  
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Zelboraf, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zelboraf authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Zelboraf’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. The Agency noted that Zelboraf had been convincingly shown to improve 
overall survival and to delay the worsening of ‘BRAF V600 positive’ melanoma which has spread or 
cannot be surgically removed. With regard to its risks, in the main study around half of the patients 
taking Zelboraf experienced a severe side effect and about one fifth developed cutaneous squamous 
cell carcinoma. The Agency considered the side effects to be manageable and included 
recommendations for doctors to help reduce the risks in the product information.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zelboraf? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zelboraf have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zelboraf are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Zelboraf are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zelboraf 
Zelboraf received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 17 February 2012. 
Further information on Zelboraf can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European Public Assessment Reports.  
This overview was last updated in 02-2018. 
Zelboraf (vemurafenib)  
EMA/107042/2018  
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
