EMA/610103/2021  
EMEA/H/C/004835 
Zeposia (ozanimod) 
An overview of Zeposia and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zeposia and what is it used for? 
Zeposia is a medicine used to treat adults with the following diseases:  
• 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). Multiple sclerosis is a disease in which the immune 
system (the body’s defences) attacks and damages the protective insulation around the nerves and 
the nerves themselves in the brain and spinal cord. In RRMS, the patient has flare-ups (relapses) 
followed by periods with milder or no symptoms (remission). Zeposia is used in patients with active 
disease, which means that patients have relapses or signs of active inflammation on scans; 
•  ulcerative colitis, a disease causing inflammation and ulcers in the lining of the gut, when the 
disease is moderately to severely active. Zeposia is used when standard treatment or biological 
agents (medicines made by cells grown in a laboratory) have not worked well enough or cannot be 
used by the patient.  
Zeposia contains the active substance ozanimod. 
How is Zeposia used? 
Zeposia can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be started and supervised by a 
doctor experienced in the management of multiple sclerosis or ulcerative colitis. 
It is available as capsules of different strengths and should be taken once a day. To reduce the risk of 
side effects on the heart, the dose should be built up slowly when starting treatment or after treatment 
has been interrupted. The starting dose is one 0.23 mg capsule a day for the first 4 days; patients 
should then take one 0.46 mg capsule a day for 3 days (on days 5, 6 and 7), and then one 0.92 mg 
capsule daily from day 8 onward.  
For more information about using Zeposia, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Zeposia work? 
The active substance in Zeposia, ozanimod, blocks the action of sphingosine-1-phosphate receptors on 
lymphocytes (cells of the immune system that can attack the body’s own tissues in diseases such as 
multiple sclerosis or ulcerative colitis). By attaching to these receptors, ozanimod stops lymphocytes 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2021. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
from travelling from the lymph nodes towards the brain, spinal cord or intestine, thus limiting the 
damage they cause in multiple sclerosis and ulcerative colitis. 
What benefits of Zeposia have been shown in studies? 
RRMS 
Zeposia was shown to be effective at reducing the number of relapses in two main studies involving a 
total of 2,666 patients with RRMS.  
In the first study lasting over one year, the average number of relapses per year in patients treated 
with the standard dose of Zeposia was about half that in patients treated with another medicine, 
interferon beta-1a (0.18 versus 0.35 relapses). 
In the second study, which lasted two years, patients treated with the standard dose of Zeposia had on 
average 0.17 relapses per year, compared with 0.28 for patients given interferon beta-1a. 
Ulcerative colitis 
One main study showed that Zeposia, taken together with aminosalicylates (anti-inflammatory 
medicines) and/or corticosteroids, was more effective than placebo (a dummy treatment) in producing 
or maintaining remission (a period when the disease is not active or causing noticeable symptoms) in 
adults with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis for whom standard treatment or treatment with 
biological agents did not work well enough or could not be used. 
The study was divided into two parts lasting one year in total. One part involved 645 patients and 
studied the effect of initial (induction) treatment with Zeposia for 10 weeks. The other part involved 
457 patients who had responded to the 10-week induction treatment and studied the effect of Zeposia 
as maintenance treatment for 42 weeks. 
After induction treatment, around 18% (79 of 429) of the patients taking Zeposia had achieved 
remission compared with around 6% (13 of 216) of the patients taking placebo. After maintenance 
treatment, around 37% (85 of 230) of the patients taking Zeposia were in remission compared with 
19% (42 of 227) of the patients taking placebo.    
What are the risks associated with Zeposia? 
The most common side effects with Zeposia are nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nose and throat), 
which may affect more than 1 in 10 people, and increased levels of liver enzymes (a sign of liver 
problems), which may affect up to 1 in 10 people; around 1 person in 100 had to stop treatment 
during the studies because of increases in liver enzyme levels. For the full list of side effects of 
Zeposia, see the package leaflet. 
Zeposia must not be used in patients with severe liver disorders, severe active infections, cancer or 
weakened immune system. It must not be used in patients with certain heart conditions or who have 
recently had a stroke, a heart attack or other heart problems. It must also not be used in pregnant 
women or women who can become pregnant and are not using effective contraception. For the full list 
of restrictions, see the package leaflet.  
Why is Zeposia authorised in the EU? 
Zeposia was shown to be effective at reducing the number of relapses in patients with relapsing-
remitting multiple sclerosis and at improving symptoms in patients with ulcerative colitis in the short 
Zeposia (ozanimod)  
EMA/610103/2021 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
and long term. Its side effects are comparable to those of other medicines that work in a similar way 
and are considered manageable with appropriate treatment. 
The European Medicines Agency, therefore, decided that Zeposia’s benefits are greater than its risks 
and it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zeposia? 
The company that markets Zeposia will provide educational materials for doctors and a guide for 
patients and their carers with important safety information about the medicine, its risks and its 
conditions for use. A reminder card will also be given to women who can become pregnant with 
important information on the need to use effective contraception during treatment with Zeposia. 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zeposia have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zeposia are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Zeposia are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zeposia 
Zeposia received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 20 May 2020. 
Further information on Zeposia can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zeposia.   
This overview was last updated in 11-2021. 
Zeposia (ozanimod)  
EMA/610103/2021 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
