ANNEX I
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS
1
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Zerbaxa 1 g/0.5 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION
Each vial contains ceftolozane sulfate equivalent to 1 g ceftolozane and tazobactam sodium equivalent
to 0.5 g tazobactam.
After reconstitution with 10 mL diluent, the total volume of the solution in the vial is 11.4 mL, which
contains 88 mg/mL of ceftolozane and 44 mg/mL of tazobactam.
Excipient with known effect
Each vial contains 10 mmol (230 mg) of sodium.
When the powder is reconstituted with 10 mL of sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for
injection, the vial contains 11.5 mmol (265 mg) of sodium.
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1.
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (powder for concentrate).
White to yellowish powder.
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS
4.1  Therapeutic indications
Zerbaxa is indicated for the treatment of the following infections in adult and paediatric patients (see
sections 4.2 and 5.1):
- 
- 
- 
Complicated intra-abdominal infections (see section 4.4);
Acute pyelonephritis;
Complicated urinary tract infections (see section 4.4).
Zerbaxa is also indicated for the treatment of the following infection in adult patients (18 years or
older) (see section 5.1):
- 
Hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), including ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP).
Consideration should be given to official guidance on the appropriate use of antibacterial agents.
4.2  Posology and method of administration
Posology
The recommended intravenous dose regimen for adult patients with creatinine clearance > 50 mL/min
is shown by infection type in Table 1.
2
Table 1: Intravenous dose of Zerbaxa by type of infection in adult patients (18 years or older)
with creatinine clearance* > 50 mL/min
Type of infection 
Dose 
Frequency 
Complicated intra-abdominal 
infection** 
Complicated urinary tract 
infection 
Acute pyelonephritis
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, 
including ventilator-associated 
pneumonia***
1 g ceftolozane / 
0.5 g tazobactam 
1 g ceftolozane / 
0.5 g tazobactam 
Every 
8 hours
Every 
8 hours
2 g ceftolozane / 
1 g tazobactam 
Every 
8 hours
Infusion 
time 
Duration of
treatment
1 hour 
4-14 days
1 hour 
7 days
1 hour 
8-14 days
*Creatinine clearance estimated using Cockcroft-Gault formula.
**To be used in combination with metronidazole when anaerobic pathogens are suspected.
***To be used in combination with an antibacterial agent active against Gram-positive pathogens
when these are known or suspected to be contributing to the infectious process.
The recommended intravenous dose regimen for paediatric patients with estimated glomerular
filtration rate (eGFR) > 50 mL/min/1.73 m2 is shown by infection type in Table 2.
Table 2: Intravenous dose of Zerbaxa by type of infection in paediatric patients (from birth* to
below 18 years of age) with eGFR** > 50 mL/min/1.73 m2
Type of infection 
Dose 
Frequency 
Infusion 
time 
Duration of
treatment
Complicated intra-abdominal 
20 mg/kg ceftolozane 
Every 
1 hour 
5-14 days*****
infection*** 
/ 10 mg/kg 
8 hours 
Complicated urinary tract 
infection 
Acute pyelonephritis 
tazobactam up to a 
maximum dose of 1 g 
ceftolozane / 0.5 g
tazobactam****
20 mg/kg ceftolozane 
Every 
1 hour 
7-14 days*****
/ 10 mg/kg 
8 hours
tazobactam up to a
maximum dose of 1 g
ceftolozane / 0.5 g
tazobactam****
*Defined as > 32 weeks gestational age and ≥ 7 days postnatal.
**eGFR estimated using Bedside Schwartz equation.
***To be used in combination with metronidazole when anaerobic pathogens are suspected.
****Children weighing > 50 kg should not exceed the maximum dose of 1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g
tazobactam.
*****The total treatment duration shown may include intravenous Zerbaxa followed by appropriate
oral therapy.
Special populations
Elderly (≥ 65 years of age)
No dose adjustment is necessary for the elderly based on age alone (see section 5.2).
Renal impairment
In patients with mild renal impairment (estimated creatinine clearance > 50 mL/min), no dose
adjustment is necessary (see section 5.2).
In adult patients with moderate or severe renal impairment, and in adult patients with end stage renal
disease on haemodialysis, the dose should be adjusted as listed in Table 3 (see sections 5.1 and 6.6).
3
Table 3: Recommended intravenous dose regimens for Zerbaxa in adult patients (18 years or
older) with creatinine clearance* ≤ 50 mL/min 
Complicated intra-abdominal 
infections, complicated urinary tract 
infections, and acute pyelonephritis** 
Hospital-acquired pneumonia,
including ventilator-associated
pneumonia**
Estimated 
creatinine 
clearance 
(mL/min)*
30 to 50
15 to 29
End stage 
renal disease 
on 
haemodialysis 
500 mg ceftolozane / 250 mg 
tazobactam intravenously every 8 hours 
1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g tazobactam
intravenously every 8 hours
250 mg ceftolozane / 125 mg 
tazobactam intravenously every 8 hours 
500 mg ceftolozane / 250 mg
tazobactam intravenously every 8 hours
A single loading dose of 500 mg 
ceftolozane / 250 mg tazobactam 
followed after 8 hours by a 100 mg 
ceftolozane / 50 mg tazobactam 
maintenance dose administered every 
8 hours for the remainder of the 
treatment period (on haemodialysis 
days, the dose should be administered at 
the earliest possible time following 
completion of haemodialysis) 
A single loading dose of 1.5 g
ceftolozane / 0.75 g tazobactam
followed after 8 hours by a 300 mg
ceftolozane / 150 mg tazobactam
maintenance dose administered every
8 hours for the remainder of the
treatment period (on haemodialysis
days, the dose should be administered at
the earliest possible time following
completion of haemodialysis)
*Creatinine clearance estimated using Cockcroft-Gault formula.
**All doses of Zerbaxa are administered intravenously over 1 hour and are recommended for all
indications. The duration of treatment should follow the recommendations in Table 1.
There is insufficient information to recommend a dose regimen for paediatric patients with moderate
or severe renal impairment (eGFR ≤ 50 mL/min/1.73 m2) or end stage renal disease (see sections 5.1
and 5.2).
Hepatic impairment
No dose adjustment is necessary in patients with hepatic impairment (see section 5.2).
Paediatric population
The safety and efficacy of ceftolozane/tazobactam in children and adolescents below 18 years of age
have not yet been established for the treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), including
ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP).
Method of administration
Zerbaxa is to be administered by intravenous infusion over a 1 hour period for all doses.
Precautions to be taken before handling or administering the product
See section 6.2 for incompatibilities.
See section 6.6 for instructions on reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product before
administration.
4.3  Contraindications
- 
- 
- 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1;
Hypersensitivity to any cephalosporin antibacterial agent;
Severe hypersensitivity (e.g., anaphylactic reaction, severe skin reaction) to any other type of
beta-lactam antibacterial agent (e.g., penicillins or carbapenems).
4
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use
Hypersensitivity reactions
Serious and occasionally fatal hypersensitivity (anaphylactic) reactions are possible (see sections 4.3
and 4.8). If a severe allergic reaction occurs during treatment with ceftolozane/tazobactam, the
medicinal product should be discontinued and appropriate measures taken.
Patients who have a history of hypersensitivity to cephalosporins, penicillins or other beta-lactam
antibacterial agents may also be hypersensitive to ceftolozane/tazobactam.
Ceftolozane/tazobactam is contraindicated in patients with a history of hypersensitivity to ceftolozane,
tazobactam, or cephalosporins (see section 4.3).
Ceftolozane/tazobactam is also contraindicated in patients with severe hypersensitivity (e.g.,
anaphylactic reaction, severe skin reaction) to any other type of beta-lactam antibacterial agent (e.g.,
penicillins or carbapenems) (see section 4.3). 
Ceftolozane/tazobactam should be used with caution in patients with a history of any other type of
hypersensitivity reaction to penicillins or other beta-lactam antibacterial agents. 
Effect on renal function
A decline in renal function has been seen in adult patients receiving ceftolozane/tazobactam.
Impaired renal function
The ceftolozane/tazobactam dose should be adjusted based on renal function (see section 4.2, Table 3).
In clinical trials of complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections,
including pyelonephritis, the efficacy of ceftolozane/tazobactam was lower in adult patients with
moderate renal impairment compared with those with normal or mildly impaired renal function at
baseline.
Patients with renal impairment at baseline should be monitored frequently for any changes in renal
function during treatment and the dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam should be adjusted as necessary. 
Limitations of the clinical data
Patients who were immunocompromised, patients with severe neutropenia, and patients with end stage
renal disease on haemodialysis were excluded from clinical trials.
Complicated intra-abdominal infections
In a trial in adult patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections, the most common diagnosis
was appendiceal perforation or peri-appendiceal abscess (420/970 [43.3%] patients), of which 137/420
(32.6%) had diffuse peritonitis at baseline. Approximately 82% of all patients in the trial had
APACHE II (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II) scores of < 10 and 2.3% had
bacteraemia at baseline. In the clinically evaluable (CE) patients, the clinical cure rates for
ceftolozane/tazobactam were 95.9% in 293 patients aged less than 65 years and 87.8% in 82 patients
aged 65 years or more.
Complicated urinary tract infections
Clinical efficacy data in adult patients with complicated lower urinary tract infection are limited. In a
randomised active-controlled trial 18.2% (126/693) of microbiologically evaluable (ME) patients had
complicated lower urinary tract infection, including 60/126 patients who were treated with
ceftolozane/tazobactam. One of these 60 patients had bacteraemia at baseline.
5
Clostridioides difficile-associated diarrhoea
Antibacterial-associated colitis and pseudomembranous colitis have been reported with
ceftolozane/tazobactam (see section 4.8). These types of infection may range in severity from mild to
life-threatening. Therefore, it is important to consider this diagnosis in patients who present with
diarrhoea during or subsequent to the administration of ceftolozane/tazobactam. In such
circumstances, the discontinuation of therapy with ceftolozane/tazobactam and the use of supportive
measures together with the administration of specific treatment for Clostridioides difficile should be
considered.
Non-susceptible micro-organisms
The use of ceftolozane/tazobactam may promote the overgrowth of non-susceptible micro-organisms.
If super infection occurs during or following treatment, appropriate measures should be taken.
Ceftolozane/tazobactam is not active against bacteria that produce beta-lactamase enzymes which are
capable of both degrading ceftolozane and not inhibited by the tazobactam component (see
section 5.1).
Direct antiglobulin test (Coombs test) seroconversion and potential risk of haemolytic anaemia
The development of a positive direct antiglobulin test (DAGT) may occur during treatment with
ceftolozane/tazobactam (see section 4.8). In clinical studies, there was no evidence of haemolysis in
patients who developed a positive DAGT on treatment. 
Sodium content
Ceftolozane/tazobactam contains 230 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to 11.5% of the WHO
recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult. The reconstituted vial with 10 mL of
0.9% sodium chloride (normal saline) for injection contains 265 mg sodium per vial, equivalent to
13.3% of the WHO recommended maximum daily intake of 2 g sodium for an adult.
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction
No significant medicinal product interactions are anticipated between ceftolozane/tazobactam and
substrates, inhibitors, and inducers of cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYPs) based on in vitro and in vivo
studies.
In vitro studies demonstrated that ceftolozane, tazobactam and the M1 metabolite of tazobactam did
not inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, or CYP3A4 and did not
induce CYP1A2, CYP2B6, or CYP3A4 at therapeutic plasma concentrations.
Ceftolozane and tazobactam were not substrates for P-gp or BCRP, and tazobactam was not a
substrate for OCT2, in vitro at therapeutic plasma concentrations. In vitro data indicate that
ceftolozane did not inhibit P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OCT1, OCT2, MRP, BSEP, OAT1,
OAT3, MATE1, or MATE2-K in vitro at therapeutic plasma concentrations. In vitro data indicate that
neither tazobactam nor the tazobactam metabolite M1 inhibit P-gp, BCRP, OATP1B1, OATP1B3,
OCT1, OCT2, or BSEP transporters at therapeutic plasma concentrations.
Tazobactam is a substrate for OAT1 and OAT3. In vitro, tazobactam inhibited human OAT1 and
OAT3 transporters with IC50 values of 118 and 147 mcg/mL, respectively. Co-administration of
ceftolozane/tazobactam with OAT1 and OAT3 substrate furosemide in a clinical study did not
significantly increase furosemide plasma exposures (geometric mean ratios of 0.83 and 0.87 for Cmax
and AUC, respectively). However, active substances that inhibit OAT1 or OAT3 (e.g., probenecid)
may increase tazobactam plasma concentrations.
6
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation
Pregnancy
There are no data on the use of ceftolozane/tazobactam in pregnant women. Tazobactam crosses the
placenta. It is not known if ceftolozane crosses the placenta.
Animal studies with tazobactam have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3) without evidence
of teratogenic effects. Studies with ceftolozane in mice and rats have not shown evidence of
reproductive toxicity or teratogenicity. Ceftolozane administered to rats during pregnancy and breast-
feeding was associated with a decrease in auditory startle response in postnatal day (PND) 60 male
pups (see section 5.3).
Zerbaxa should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit outweighs the possible risks to
the pregnant woman and foetus.
Breast-feeding
It is unknown whether ceftolozane and tazobactam are excreted in human milk. A risk to
newborns/infants cannot be excluded. A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding
or to discontinue/abstain from Zerbaxa therapy taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the
child and the benefit of therapy for the woman.
Fertility
The effects of ceftolozane and tazobactam on fertility in humans have not been studied. Fertility
studies in rats showed no effect on fertility and mating after intraperitoneal administration of
tazobactam or intravenous administration of ceftolozane (see section 5.3).
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines
Zerbaxa may have a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Dizziness may occur
following administration of Zerbaxa (see section 4.8).
4.8  Undesirable effects
Summary of the safety profile
Zerbaxa was evaluated in Phase 3 comparator-controlled clinical trials of complicated intra-abdominal
infections and complicated urinary tract infections (including pyelonephritis) in adult patients. 
The most common adverse reactions (≥ 3% in pooled Phase 3 trials of complicated intra-abdominal
infections and complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis) occurring in patients
receiving Zerbaxa were nausea, headache, constipation, diarrhoea, and pyrexia and were generally
mild or moderate in severity.
Zerbaxa was evaluated in a Phase 3 comparator-controlled clinical trial of adult patients with hospital-
acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia.
The most common adverse reactions (≥ 5% in a Phase 3 trial of hospital-acquired pneumonia,
including ventilator-associated pneumonia) occurring in patients receiving Zerbaxa were diarrhoea,
alanine aminotransferase increased, and aspartate aminotransferase increased and were generally mild
or moderate in severity.
7
Tabulated list of adverse reactions
The following adverse reactions have been identified during adult clinical trials with Zerbaxa. Adverse
reactions are classified according to MedDRA system organ class and frequency. Frequency
categories are derived according to the following conventions: common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10),
uncommon (≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100) (see Table 4).
Table 4: Adverse reactions identified during adult clinical trials with ceftolozane/tazobactam
System organ class
Common  
(≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Infections and infestations  Clostridioides difficile colitis2
Uncommon 
(≥ 1/1 000 to < 1/100)
Candidiasis including
oropharyngeal and vulvovaginal1,
Clostridioides difficile colitis1,
fungal urinary tract infection1,
Clostridioides difficile infection2
Blood and the lymphatic
system disorders 
Thrombocytosis1
Anaemia1
Metabolism and nutrition
disorders
Hypokalemia1
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system disorders  Headache1, dizziness1
Insomnia1, anxiety1
Cardiac disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Hypotension1
Respiratory, thoracic, and
mediastinal disorders
Gastrointestinal disorders
Nausea1, diarrhoea3, constipation1,
vomiting3, abdominal pain1
Hyperglycaemia1,
hypomagnesaemia1,
hypophosphataemia1
Ischemic stroke1
Atrial fibrillation1, tachycardia1,
angina pectoris1
Phlebitis1, venous thrombosis1
Dyspnoea1
Gastritis1, abdominal distension1,
dyspepsia1, flatulence1, ileus
paralytic1
Skin and subcutaneous
tissue disorders
Renal and urinary
disorders
General disorders and
Rash1
Urticaria1
Renal impairment1, renal failure1
administration site
Pyrexia1, infusion site reactions1 
conditions
Investigations
Alanine aminotransferase increased3,
aspartate aminotransferase increased3,
transaminases increased2, liver function
test abnormal2, blood alkaline
phosphatase increased2, gamma-
glutamyltransferase increased2
Coombs test positive3, increased
serum gamma-glutamyl
transpeptidase (GGT)1, increased
serum alkaline phosphatase1,
Clostridioides test positive2
1 Specific for the complicated intra-abdominal infections, acute pyelonephritis, and complicated
urinary tract infections indications treated with Zerbaxa (1 g / 0.5 g intravenously every 8 hours) for
up to 14 days.
2 Specific for the hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia indication
treated with Zerbaxa (2 g / 1 g intravenously every 8 hours) for up to 14 days.
3 Applies across all indications: complicated intra-abdominal infections, acute pyelonephritis,
complicated urinary tract infections, and hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated
pneumonia.
8
Paediatric population
The safety assessment in paediatric patients, aged from birth to less than 18 years, is based on the
safety data from two trials in which 70 patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections and
100 patients with complicated urinary tract infections (including acute pyelonephritis) received
Zerbaxa. The safety profile in these 170 paediatric patients was generally similar to that observed in
the adult population with complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract
infections (including acute pyelonephritis). There were three additional adverse reactions observed in
the paediatric population: neutropenia, increased appetite, and dysgeusia (all frequency common). The
most common adverse reactions (≥ 2% in pooled paediatric phase 2 trials) occurring in patients
receiving Zerbaxa were diarrhoea, alanine aminotransferase increased, and aspartate aminotransferase
increased. Safety data in patients less than 3 months of age with complicated intra‑abdominal
infections are limited.
Description of selected adverse reactions
Laboratory values
The development of a positive direct Coombs test may occur during treatment with Zerbaxa. The
incidence of seroconversion to a positive direct Coombs test was 0.2% in patients receiving Zerbaxa
and 0% in patients receiving the comparator in the adult complicated intra-abdominal infections and
complicated urinary tract infections clinical trials. The incidence of seroconversion to a positive direct
Coombs test was 31.2% in patients receiving Zerbaxa and 3.6% in patients receiving meropenem in
the adult hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia clinical trial. The
incidence of seroconversion to a positive direct Coombs test was 45.3% in patients receiving Zerbaxa
and 33.3% in patients receiving meropenem in the paediatric complicated intra-abdominal infection
clinical trial. The incidence of seroconversion to a positive direct Coombs test was 29.7% in patients
receiving Zerbaxa and 8.7% in patients receiving meropenem in the paediatric complicated urinary
tract infection clinical trial. In clinical studies, there was no evidence of haemolysis in patients who
developed a positive direct Coombs test in any treatment group.
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V.
4.9  Overdose
There is no experience with overdose of Zerbaxa. The highest single dose of Zerbaxa used in clinical
trials was 3 g / 1.5 g of ceftolozane/tazobactam administered to healthy volunteers.
In the event of overdose, Zerbaxa should be discontinued and general supportive treatment given.
Zerbaxa can be removed by haemodialysis. Approximately 66% of ceftolozane, 56% of tazobactam,
and 51% of the M1 metabolite of tazobactam were removed by dialysis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antibacterials for systemic use, other cephalosporins and penems,
ATC code: J01DI54.
9
Mechanism of action
Ceftolozane belongs to the cephalosporin class of antimicrobials. Ceftolozane exerts bactericidal
activity through binding to important penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), resulting in inhibition of
bacterial cell-wall synthesis and subsequent cell death. 
Tazobactam is a beta-lactam structurally related to penicillins. It is an inhibitor of many molecular
Class A beta-lactamases, including CTX-M, SHV, and TEM enzymes. See below.
Mechanisms of resistance
Mechanisms of bacterial resistance to ceftolozane/tazobactam include:
i. 
Production of beta-lactamases that can hydrolyse ceftolozane and which are not inhibited
by tazobactam (see below)
ii.  Modification of PBPs
Tazobactam does not inhibit all Class A enzymes.
In addition tazobactam does not inhibit the following types of beta-lactamase:
AmpC enzymes (produced by Enterobacterales)
Serine-based carbapenemases (e.g., Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemases [KPCs])
i. 
ii. 
iii.  Metallo-beta-lactamases (e.g., New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase [NDM])
iv.  Ambler Class D beta-lactamases (OXA-carbapenemases)
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationships
For ceftolozane the time that the plasma concentration exceeds the minimum inhibitory concentration
of ceftolozane for the infecting organism has been shown to be the best predictor of efficacy in animal
models of infection. 
For tazobactam the PD index associated with efficacy was determined to be the percentage of the dose
interval during which the plasma concentration of tazobactam exceeds a threshold value
(%T > threshold). The time above a threshold concentration has been determined to be the parameter
that best predicts the efficacy of tazobactam in in vitro and in vivo non-clinical models. 
Susceptibility testing breakpoints
Minimum inhibitory concentration breakpoints established by the European Committee on
Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing (EUCAST) are as follows:
Pathogen 
Enterobacterales 
P. aeruginosa 
H. influenzae 
Type of Infection
Complicated intra-abdominal
infections*
Complicated urinary tract infections*
Acute pyelonephritis*
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, including
ventilator-associated pneumonia**
Complicated intra-abdominal 
infections*
Complicated urinary tract infections*
Acute pyelonephritis*
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, including
ventilator-associated pneumonia**
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, including 
ventilator-associated pneumonia**
Minimum Inhibitory
Concentrations (mg/L)
Susceptible  Resistant 
≤ 2 
> 2
≤ 4
> 4
≤ 0.5
> 0.5
*Based on 1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g tazobactam intravenously every 8 hours.
10
 
**Based on 2 g ceftolozane / 1 g tazobactam intravenously every 8 hours.
Clinical efficacy against specific pathogens
Efficacy has been demonstrated in clinical studies against the pathogens listed under each indication
that were susceptible to Zerbaxa in vitro:
Complicated intra-abdominal infections
Gram-negative bacteria
Enterobacter cloacae
Escherichia coli 
Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Proteus mirabilis
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Gram-positive bacteria
Streptococcus anginosus
Streptococcus constellatus
Streptococcus salivarius
Complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis 
Gram-negative bacteria
Escherichia coli 
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Proteus mirabilis
Hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-associated pneumonia
Gram-negative bacteria
Enterobacter cloacae
Escherichia coli
Haemophilus influenzae
Klebsiella oxytoca
Klebsiella pneumoniae
Proteus mirabilis
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
Serratia marcescens
Clinical efficacy has not been established against the following pathogens although in vitro studies
suggest that they would be susceptible to Zerbaxa in the absence of acquired mechanisms of
resistance:
Citrobacter freundii
Citrobacter koseri
Klebsiella (Enterobacter) aerogenes
Morganella morganii
Proteus vulgaris
Serratia liquefaciens
In vitro data indicate that the following species are not susceptible to ceftolozane/tazobactam:
Staphylococcus aureus
Enterococcus faecalis
Enterococcus faecium
11
Paediatric population
Zerbaxa was evaluated in two blinded, randomised, active-controlled clinical trials in paediatric
patients from birth (defined as > 32 weeks gestational age and ≥ 7 days postnatal) to below 18 years of
age, one in patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections (in combination with metronidazole),
and the other in patients with complicated urinary tract infections and acute pyelonephritis. The
primary objectives in these studies were to assess safety and tolerability of ceftolozane/tazobactam;
efficacy was a secondary descriptive endpoint. Patients below 18 years of age with eGFR
< 50 mL/min/1.73 m2 (estimated using Bedside Schwartz equation) were excluded from these clinical
trials. Additionally, data in patients below 3 months of age with complicated intra‑abdominal
infections are very limited (one patient in the Zerbaxa arm). Clinical cure rate at TOC (MITT) was
80.0% (56/70) for Zerbaxa compared to 100.0% (21/21) for meropenem in paediatric patients with
complicated intra-abdominal infections. Microbiological eradication rate at TOC (mMITT) was 84.5%
(60/71) for Zerbaxa compared to 87.5% (21/24) for meropenem in paediatric patients with acute
pyelonephritis and complicated urinary tract infections.
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with
Zerbaxa in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in hospital-acquired pneumonia, including
ventilator-associated pneumonia (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use).
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties
The Cmax and AUC of ceftolozane/tazobactam increase approximately in proportion to dose within
ceftolozane single-dose range of 250 mg to 3 g and tazobactam single-dose range of 500 mg to 1.5 g.
No appreciable accumulation of ceftolozane/tazobactam is observed following multiple 1-hour IV
infusions of 1 g / 0.5 g ceftolozane/tazobactam or 2 g / 1 g ceftolozane/tazobactam administered every
8 hours for up to 10 days in healthy adults with normal renal function. The elimination half-life (t½) of
ceftolozane or tazobactam is independent of dose.
Distribution
The binding of ceftolozane and tazobactam to human plasma proteins is low (approximately 16% to
21% and 30%, respectively). The mean (coefficient of variation CV%) steady-state volume of
distribution of ceftolozane/tazobactam in healthy adult males (n=51) following a single 1 g / 0.5 g IV
dose was 13.5 L (21%) and 18.2 L (25%) for ceftolozane and tazobactam, respectively, similar to
extracellular fluid volume.
Following 1 hour intravenous infusions of 2 g / 1 g ceftolozane/tazobactam or adjusted based on renal
function every 8 hours in ventilated adult patients with confirmed or suspected pneumonia (N=22),
ceftolozane and tazobactam concentrations in pulmonary epithelial lining fluid were greater than
8 mcg/mL and 1 mcg/mL, respectively, over 100% of the dosing interval. Mean pulmonary
epithelial-to-free plasma AUC ratios of ceftolozane and tazobactam were approximately 50% and
62%, respectively and are similar to those in healthy adult subjects (approximately 61% and 63%,
respectively) receiving 1 g / 0.5 g ceftolozane/tazobactam.
Biotransformation
Ceftolozane is eliminated in the urine as unchanged parent substance and thus does not appear to be
metabolised to any appreciable extent. The beta-lactam ring of tazobactam is hydrolysed to form the
pharmacologically inactive, tazobactam metabolite M1.
Elimination
Ceftolozane, tazobactam and the tazobactam metabolite M1 are eliminated by the kidneys. Following
administration of a single 1 g / 0.5 g IV dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam to healthy male adults greater
than 95% of ceftolozane was excreted in the urine as unchanged parent substance. More than 80% of
tazobactam was excreted as the parent compound with the remaining amount excreted as the
12
tazobactam M1 metabolite. After a single dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam, renal clearance of
ceftolozane (3.41 - 6.69 L/h) was similar to plasma clearance (4.10 - 6.73 L/h) and similar to the
glomerular filtration rate for the unbound fraction, suggesting that ceftolozane is eliminated by the
kidney via glomerular filtration.
The mean terminal elimination half-life of ceftolozane and tazobactam in healthy adults with normal
renal function is approximately 3 hours and 1 hour, respectively. 
Linearity/non-linearity
The Cmax and AUC of ceftolozane/tazobactam increase in proportion to dose. Plasma levels of
ceftolozane/tazobactam do not increase appreciably following multiple IV infusions of up to
2.0 g / 1.0 g administered every 8 hours for up to 10 days in healthy adults with normal renal function.
The elimination half-life (t½) of ceftolozane is independent of dose.
Special populations
Renal impairment
Ceftolozane/tazobactam and the tazobactam metabolite M1 are eliminated by the kidneys. 
The ceftolozane dose normalised geometric mean AUC increased up to 1.26-fold, 2.5-fold, and 5-fold
in adults with mild, moderate, and severe renal impairment, respectively, compared to healthy adults
with normal renal function. The respective tazobactam dose normalised geometric mean AUC
increased approximately up to 1.3-fold, 2-fold, and 4-fold. To maintain similar systemic exposures to
those with normal renal function, dose adjustment is required (see section 4.2).
In adults with end stage renal disease on haemodialysis, approximately two-thirds of the administered
ceftolozane/tazobactam dose is removed by haemodialysis. The recommended dose in adults with end
stage renal disease on haemodialysis with complicated intra-abdominal infections or complicated
urinary tract infections (including acute pyelonephritis) is a single loading dose of 500 mg / 250 mg
ceftolozane/tazobactam followed by a 100 mg / 50 mg maintenance dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam
administered every 8 hours for the remainder of the treatment period. The recommended dose in adults
with end stage renal disease on haemodialysis with hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-
associated pneumonia is a single loading dose of 1.5 g / 0.75 g ceftolozane/tazobactam followed by a
300 mg / 150 mg maintenance dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam administered every 8 hours for the
remainder of the treatment period. With haemodialysis, the dose should be administered immediately
following completion of dialysis (see section 4.2).
Augmented renal clearance
Following a single 1-hour intravenous infusion of 2 g / 1 g ceftolozane/tazobactam to critically ill
adults with CrCL greater than or equal to 180 mL/min (N=10), mean terminal half-life values of
ceftolozane and tazobactam were 2.6 hours and 1.5 hours, respectively. Free plasma ceftolozane
concentrations were greater than 8 mcg/mL over 70% of an 8-hour period; free tazobactam
concentrations were greater than 1 mcg/mL over 60% of an 8-hour period. No dose adjustment of
ceftolozane/tazobactam is recommended for hospital-acquired pneumonia, including ventilator-
associated pneumonia in adults with augmented renal clearance.
Hepatic impairment
As ceftolozane/tazobactam does not undergo hepatic metabolism, the systemic clearance of
ceftolozane/tazobactam is not expected to be affected by hepatic impairment. No dose adjustment is
recommended for ceftolozane/tazobactam in subjects with hepatic impairment (see section 4.2).
Elderly
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of ceftolozane/tazobactam, no clinically relevant differences
in exposure were observed with regard to age. No dose adjustment of ceftolozane/tazobactam based on
age alone is recommended.
13
Paediatric patients
For Zerbaxa dose recommendations in paediatric patients with complicated intra-abdominal infections
and complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis, refer to Table 2 in section 4.2.
The pharmacokinetics of ceftolozane and tazobactam in paediatric patients (below 18 years of age)
were evaluated in one Phase 1 study (in proven or suspected gram-negative infection) and two Phase 2
studies (in complicated intra-abdominal infections and in complicated urinary tract infections,
including pyelonephritis). The data from these three studies were pooled and population
pharmacokinetic modelling was conducted to estimate paediatric individual steady-state AUC and Cmax
as well as to perform simulations to assess PK/PD probability of target attainment (PTA).
The individual steady-state AUC and Cmax for ceftolozane and tazobactam, in paediatric patients aged
2 to below 18 years with complicated intra-abdominal infections or complicated urinary tract
infections were generally similar to adults. There is limited experience with the use of ceftolozane and
tazobactam in paediatric patients below 2 years of age. The recommended dose regimens in these
paediatric patients were based on simulations conducted using population pharmacokinetic models,
and no clinically relevant differences in steady-state AUC and Cmax are expected between paediatric
patients under 2 years and older children and adults. 
There was insufficient clinical pharmacokinetic data in paediatric patients with eGFR
≤ 50 mL/min/1.73 m2 with complicated intra-abdominal infections or complicated urinary tract
infections to recommend a dose regimen for paediatric patients with eGFR ≤ 50 mL/min/1.73 m2.
Gender
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of ceftolozane/tazobactam, no clinically relevant differences
in AUC were observed for ceftolozane and tazobactam. No dose adjustment is recommended based on
gender.
Ethnicity
In a population pharmacokinetic analysis of ceftolozane/tazobactam, no clinically relevant differences
in ceftolozane/tazobactam AUC were observed in Caucasians compared to other ethnicities. No dose
adjustment is recommended based on race.
5.3  Preclinical safety data
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety
pharmacology, repeated dose toxicity in adult and juvenile animals, or genotoxicity. Carcinogenicity
studies with ceftolozane/tazobactam have not been conducted.
Effects in non-clinical studies were observed only at exposures considered sufficiently in excess of the
maximum human exposure indicating little relevance to clinical use.
Adverse reactions not observed in clinical studies, but seen in animals at exposure levels similar to
clinical exposure levels and with possible relevance to clinical use were as follows: ceftolozane
administered to rats during pregnancy and breast-feeding was associated with a decrease in auditory
startle response in postnatal day (PND) 60 male pups at maternal doses of 300 and 1 000 mg/kg/day.
A dose of 300 mg/kg/day to rats was associated with a ceftolozane plasma exposure (AUC) value
lower than the ceftolozane plasma AUC value at the highest recommended human dose of 2 grams
every 8 hours.
Peri/postnatal development was impaired (reduced pup weights, increase in stillbirths, increase in pup
mortality) concurrent with maternal toxicity after intraperitoneal administration of tazobactam in the
rat.
14
Environmental risk assessment (ERA)
Environmental risk assessment studies have shown that one of the active ingredients, ceftolozane, may
pose a risk to surface water organisms (see section 6.6).
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS
6.1  List of excipients
Sodium chloride
Arginine
Citric acid, anhydrous
6.2 
Incompatibilities
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in
section 6.6.
6.3  Shelf life
3 years.
After reconstitution and dilution, chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for
24 hours at room temperature or 4 days at 2 to 8 ºC. The medicinal product is photosensitive and
should be protected from light when not stored in the original carton.
From a microbiological point of view, the medicinal product should be used immediately upon
reconstitution. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8 ºC, unless
reconstitution/dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions.
6.4  Special precautions for storage
Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC – 8 ºC).
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
For storage conditions after reconstitution and dilution of the medicinal product, see section 6.3.
6.5  Nature and contents of container
20 mL vial (Type I clear glass) with stopper (bromobutyl rubber) and flip-off seal.
Pack size of 10 vials.
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling
Each vial is for single use only.
Aseptic technique must be followed in preparing the infusion solution.
Preparation of doses
The powder for concentrate for solution for infusion for each vial is reconstituted with 10 mL of water
for injections or sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection per vial; following
reconstitution the vial should be shaken gently to dissolve the powder. The final volume is
15
approximately 11.4 mL per vial. The resultant concentration is approximately 132 mg/mL (88 mg/mL
of ceftolozane and 44 mg/mL of tazobactam) per vial. 
CAUTION: THE RECONSTITUTED SOLUTION IS NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION.
Zerbaxa solution for infusion is clear and colourless to slightly yellow.
Variations in colour within this range do not affect the potency of the product.
See section 4.2 for recommended dose regimens for Zerbaxa based on indication and renal function.
The preparation for each dose is shown below.
Instructions for preparing adult doses in INFUSION BAG:
For preparation of the 2 g ceftolozane / 1 g tazobactam dose: Withdraw the entire contents from
two reconstituted vials (approximately 11.4 mL per vial) using a syringe and add it to an infusion bag
containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 1.5 g ceftolozane / 0.75 g tazobactam dose: Withdraw the entire contents from
one reconstituted vial (approximately 11.4 mL per vial) and 5.7 mL from a second reconstituted vial
using a syringe and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection
(normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g tazobactam dose: Withdraw the entire contents
(approximately 11.4 mL) of the reconstituted vial using a syringe and add it to an infusion bag
containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 500 mg ceftolozane / 250 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 5.7 mL of the
contents of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium
chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 300 mg ceftolozane / 150 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 3.5 mL of the
contents of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium
chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 250 mg ceftolozane / 125 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 2.9 mL of the
contents of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium
chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 100 mg ceftolozane / 50 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 1.2 mL of the contents
of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for
injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
Instructions for preparing paediatric doses in INFUSION BAG or in INFUSION SYRINGE:
NOTE: The following procedure describes the steps to prepare 100 mL of stock solution with a final
concentration of 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam. The volume of this stock solution to
be administered to the paediatric patient will be based on calculating the appropriate dose based on the
patient’s weight (see section 4.2). Detailed steps and calculations are provided. 
1.  Preparing the stock solution (100 mL of 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam):
Withdraw the entire contents (approximately 11.4 mL) of the reconstituted vial using a syringe
and add it to an infusion bag containing 89 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection (normal
saline) or 5% glucose injection.
2.  Preparing the required volume of stock solution for infusion: 
a.  Calculate the appropriate amount of Zerbaxa (in mg) to deliver the required dose to
the paediatric patient. Based on this dose in mg, calculate the appropriate volume of
16
the 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam stock solution to be administered.
Refer to Table 5 below to confirm the calculations. Note that the table is NOT
inclusive of all possible calculated doses but may be utilised to estimate the
approximate volume to verify the calculation.
b.  Transfer an appropriately calculated volume of stock solution to an adequately sized
infusion bag or infusion syringe. Values shown in Table 5 are approximate, and it may
be necessary to round to the nearest graduation mark of an appropriately sized syringe
for smaller volumes.
Table 5: Preparation of Zerbaxa for paediatric patients (from birth* to below 18 years of age)
from the 100 mL stock solution of 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam
Zerbaxa dose
(mg/kg)
Weight (kg)
Calculated
amount of
ceftolozane (mg)
Calculated
amount of
tazobactam
(mg)
Volume of stock
solution to
administer to
patient (mL)
20 mg/kg
ceftolozane /
10 mg/kg
tazobactam**
50 and greater 
1 000 
40 
30 
20 
15 
10 
5 
3 
800 
600 
400 
300 
200 
100 
60 
500 
400 
300 
200 
150 
100 
50 
30 
100
80
60
40
30
20
10
6
1.5 
*Defined as > 32 weeks gestational age and ≥ 7 days postnatal.
**Children weighing > 50 kg and with eGFR > 50 mL/min/1.73 m2 should not exceed the maximum
dose of 1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g tazobactam.
30 
15 
3
One of the active ingredients, ceftolozane, may have harmful effects if it reaches the aquatic
environment (see section 5.3). Do not throw away any unused medicinal product or waste material via
wastewater. Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with
local requirements. These measures will help protect the environment.
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)
EU/1/15/1032/001
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION
Date of first authorisation: 18 September 2015
Date of latest renewal: 17 April 2020
17
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT
MM/YYYY
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu.
18
 
ANNEX II
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY
AND USE
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE
MARKETING AUTHORISATION
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL
PRODUCT
19
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat
Riom
63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription.
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING
AUTHORISATION
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs)
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal.
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Risk management plan (RMP)
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP.
An updated RMP should be submitted:
At the request of the European Medicines Agency;
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.
20

 

 

 

 
 
ANNEX III
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET
21
A. LABELLING
22
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING
CARTON
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT
Zerbaxa 1 g / 0.5 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
ceftolozane / tazobactam
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S)
Each vial contains ceftolozane sulfate equivalent to 1 g ceftolozane and tazobactam sodium equivalent
to 0.5 g tazobactam.
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS
Sodium chloride, arginine, citric acid, anhydrous
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS
Powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
10 vials
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION
Read the package leaflet before use.
For intravenous use after reconstitution and dilution.
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN
Keep out of the sight and reach of children.
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY
8. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS
Store in a refrigerator.
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
23
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF
APPROPRIATE
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local
requirements.
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/15/1032/001
13.  BATCH NUMBER
Lot
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE
Justification for not including Braille accepted.
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included.
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA
PC
SN
NN
24
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS
VIAL LABEL
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION
Zerbaxa 1 g / 0.5 g powder for concentrate 
ceftolozane / tazobactam
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION
For IV use after reconstitution and dilution
3. 
EXPIRY DATE
EXP
4. 
BATCH NUMBER
Lot
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT
6.  OTHER
25
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET
26
Package leaflet: Information for the patient
Zerbaxa 1 g / 0.5 g powder for concentrate for solution for infusion
ceftolozane / tazobactam
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains
important information for you.
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4.
What is in this leaflet
1.  What Zerbaxa is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Zerbaxa
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Zerbaxa
Possible side effects 
How to store Zerbaxa
Contents of the pack and other information
1.  What Zerbaxa is and what it is used for
Zerbaxa is a medicine used to treat a range of bacterial infections. It contains two active substances:
- 
ceftolozane, an antibiotic that belongs to the group of “cephalosporins” and which can kill
certain bacteria that can cause infection;
tazobactam, which blocks the action of certain enzymes called beta-lactamases. These enzymes
make bacteria resistant to ceftolozane by breaking down the antibiotic before it can act. By
blocking their action, tazobactam makes ceftolozane more effective at killing bacteria. 
- 
Zerbaxa is used in all age groups to treat complicated infections within the abdomen, and kidney and
urinary system.
Zerbaxa is also used in adults to treat an infection of the lungs called “pneumonia”.
2.  What you need to know before you take Zerbaxa
Do not take Zerbaxa
- 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to ceftolozane, tazobactam or any of the other ingredients of this medicine
(listed in section 6). 
if you are allergic to medicines known as “cephalosporins”. 
if you have had a severe allergic reaction (e.g., severe skin peeling; swelling of the face, hands,
feet, lips, tongue or throat; or difficulty swallowing or breathing) to certain other antibiotics
(e.g., penicillins or carbapenems).
Warnings and precautions
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Zerbaxa if you know you are, or have previously been
allergic to cephalosporins, penicillins or other antibiotics.
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you develop diarrhoea while taking Zerbaxa.
Infections caused by bacteria that are not sensitive to Zerbaxa or caused by a fungus can occur during
or following treatment with Zerbaxa. Tell your doctor if you think you may have another infection.
27
Treatment with Zerbaxa sometimes causes production of antibodies that react with your red blood
cells. If you are told that you have an abnormal blood test (called Coombs test) tell your doctor that
you are having or have recently had Zerbaxa.
Children and adolescents
This medicine should not be given to children under 18 years old to treat pneumonia because there is
not enough information on use in this age group for the treatment of this infection.
Other medicines and Zerbaxa
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken, or might take any other
medicines. 
Some medicines may interact with ceftolozane and tazobactam. These include:
- 
Probenecid (a medicine for gout). This can increase the time it takes for tazobactam to leave
your body.
Pregnancy and breast-feeding
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, or think you may be pregnant, ask your doctor or pharmacist for
advice before taking this medicine. Your doctor will advise if you should receive Zerbaxa during
pregnancy. 
If you are breast-feeding, your doctor will advise you on whether you should stop breast-feeding or
stop or avoid Zerbaxa therapy, taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the
benefit of therapy for you.
Driving and using machines
Zerbaxa may cause dizziness, which can affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Zerbaxa contains sodium
This medicine contains 230 mg sodium (main component of cooking/table salt) in each vial. This is
equivalent to 11.5% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of sodium for an adult. The
reconstituted vial with 10 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride (normal saline) for injection contains 265 mg
sodium in each vial. This is equivalent to 13.3% of the recommended maximum daily dietary intake of
sodium for an adult.
3.  How to take Zerbaxa
Your doctor or other healthcare professional will give you this medicine into one of your veins
through an infusion (a drip) lasting one hour. The dose of medicine given to you depends on whether
or not you have kidney problems.
The dose depends on the type of infection that you have, where the infection is in your body and how
serious the infection is. Your doctor will decide on the dose that you need.
Use in adults
The recommended dose of Zerbaxa is 1 g of ceftolozane and 0.5 g of tazobactam or 2 g of ceftolozane
and 1 g of tazobactam every 8 hours, which is given into one of your veins (directly into the
bloodstream).
Treatment with Zerbaxa normally lasts between 4 and 14 days, depending on the severity and location
of the infection and on how your body responds to the treatment.
Use in children and adolescents
The recommended dose of Zerbaxa is 20 mg/kg of ceftolozane and 10 mg/kg of tazobactam every
8 hours, which is given into one of your veins (directly into the bloodstream). The dose should not
exceed 1 g of ceftolozane and 0.5 g of tazobactam.
28
Treatment with Zerbaxa normally lasts between 5 and 14 days, depending on the severity and location
of the infection and on how your body responds to the treatment.
Patients with kidney problems
Your doctor may need to reduce the dose of Zerbaxa or decide how often Zerbaxa is given to you.
Your doctor may also want to test your blood to make sure you receive an appropriate dose, especially
if you have to take this medicine for a long time.
If you take more Zerbaxa than you should
As this product is given by a doctor or other healthcare professional, it is very unlikely that you will be
given too much Zerbaxa. However, if you have any concerns you should let your doctor, nurse or
pharmacist know immediately.
If you stop taking Zerbaxa
If you think you have not been given a dose of Zerbaxa, tell your doctor or other healthcare
professional immediately.
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist.
4. 
Possible side effects
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.
Tell your doctor straight away if you get these symptoms as you may need urgent medical
treatment:
- 
Sudden swelling of your lips, face, throat or tongue; a severe rash; and, swallowing or breathing
problems. These may be signs of a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) and may be life-
threatening
Diarrhoea that becomes severe or does not go away or stool that contains blood or mucus during
or after treatment with Zerbaxa. In this situation, you should not take medicines that stop or
slow bowel movement
- 
Adults treated for complicated infections within the abdomen, and kidney and urinary system
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
Headache, stomach ache, constipation, diarrhoea, nausea, vomiting, increase in liver enzymes
(from blood tests), rash, fever (high temperature), decrease in blood pressure, decrease in
potassium (from blood tests), increase in the number of certain types of blood cells known as
platelets, dizziness, anxiety, difficulty sleeping, infusion site reactions
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
Inflammation of the large intestine due to C. difficile bacteria, inflammation of the stomach,
abdominal distension, indigestion, excessive gas in stomach or bowel, obstruction of the
intestine, yeast infection in the mouth (thrush), yeast infection of female genitalia, fungal
urinary tract infection, increase in sugar (glucose) levels (from blood tests), decrease in
magnesium levels (from blood tests), decrease in phosphate levels (from blood tests), ischemic
stroke (stroke caused by reduced blood flow in brain), irritation or inflammation of a vein at
injection site, venous thrombosis (blood clot in a vein), low red blood cell counts, atrial
fibrillation (rapid or irregular heartbeat), fast heartbeat, angina pectoris (chest pain or feeling of
tightness, pressure or heaviness in chest), itchy rash or swellings on the skin, hives, Coombs test
positive (a blood test that looks for antibodies that may fight against your red blood cells),
kidney problems, kidney disease, shortness of breath
29
Additional side effects observed in children and adolescents treated for complicated infections within
the abdomen, and kidney and urinary system
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
Increased appetite, low white blood cell counts, altered taste
Adults treated for an infection of the lungs called “pneumonia”
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people):
Inflammation of the large intestine due to C. difficile bacteria, diarrhoea, vomiting, increase in
liver enzymes (from blood tests)
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people):
Infection due to C. difficile bacteria, C. difficile test positive (from stool test), Coombs test
positive (a blood test that looks for antibodies that may fight against your red blood cells)
Reporting of side effects
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of
this medicine.
5.  How to store Zerbaxa
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children.
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and vial after “EXP.” The
expiry date refers to the last day of that month.
Unopened vials: Store in a refrigerator (2 ºC – 8 ºC).
Store in the original package in order to protect from light.
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater. Any unused medicinal product or waste material
should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. These measures will help protect the
environment.
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information
What Zerbaxa contains
- 
- 
The active substances are ceftolozane and tazobactam.
Each vial contains ceftolozane sulfate equivalent to 1 g ceftolozane and tazobactam sodium
equivalent to 0.5 g tazobactam. For doses above 1 g ceftolozane and 0.5 g tazobactam, two vials
are used.
The other excipients are sodium chloride, arginine, and citric acid, anhydrous.
- 
What Zerbaxa looks like and contents of the pack
Zerbaxa is a white to slightly yellow powder for concentrate for solution for infusion (powder for
concentrate) supplied in a vial.
Zerbaxa is available in packs containing 20 mL Type I clear glass vial with stopper (bromobutyl
rubber) and flip-off seal.
Pack size of 10 vials.
30
Marketing Authorisation Holder
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Waarderweg 39
2031 BN Haarlem
The Netherlands
Manufacturer
FAREVA Mirabel
Route de Marsat
Riom
63963, Clermont-Ferrand Cedex 9
France
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing
Authorisation Holder:
België/Belgique/Belgien
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
България 
Мерк Шарп и Доум България ЕООД
Тел.: +359 2 819 3737
info-msdbg@merck.com
Česká republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme s.r.o.
Tel.: +420 233 010 111
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Danmark
MSD Danmark ApS
Tlf: +45 4482 4000
dkmail@merck.com
Lietuva
UAB Merck Sharp & Dohme
Tel.: +370 5 278 02 47
msd_lietuva@merck.com
Luxembourg/Luxemburg
MSD Belgium
Tél/Tel: +32(0)27766211
dpoc_belux@merck.com
Magyarország
MSD Pharma Hungary Kft.
Tel.: +361 888 53 00
hungary_msd@merck.com
Malta
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Tel: 8007 4433 (+356 99917558)
malta_info@merck.com
Deutschland
MSD Sharp & Dohme GmbH
Tel: 0800 673 673 673 (+49 (0) 89 4561 0)
e-mail@msd.de
Nederland
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V.
Tel: 0800 9999000 (+31 23 5153153)
medicalinfo.nl@merck.com
Eesti
Merck Sharp & Dohme OÜ
Tel.: +372 6144 200
msdeesti@merck.com
Ελλάδα
MSD Α.Φ.Β.Ε.Ε.
Τηλ: +30 210 98 97 300
dpoc_greece@merck.com
Norge
MSD (Norge) AS
Tlf: +47 32 20 73 00
msdnorge@msd.no
Österreich
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ges.m.b.H.
Tel: +43 (0) 1 26 044
dpoc_austria@merck.com
España
Merck Sharp & Dohme de España, S.A.
Tel: +34 91 321 06 00
msd_info@merck.com
Polska
MSD Polska Sp.z o.o.
Tel.: +48 22 549 51 00
msdpolska@merck.com
31
France
MSD France
Tél: + 33 (0) 1 80 46 40 40
Hrvatska
Merck Sharp & Dohme d.o.o. 
Tel: + 385 1 6611 333
croatia_info@merck.com
Portugal
Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lda
Tel: +351 21 4465700
inform_pt@merck.com
România
Merck Sharp & Dohme Romania S.R.L.
Tel: +40 21 529 29 00
msdromania@merck.com
Ireland
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 299 8700
medinfo_ireland@merck.com
Slovenija
Merck Sharp & Dohme, inovativna zdravila d.o.o.
Tel: + 386 1 5204 201
msd.slovenia@merck.com
Ísland
Vistor hf.
Sími: +354 535 7000
Ιtalia
MSD Italia S.r.l.
Tel: 800 23 99 89 (+39 06 361911)
medicalinformation.it@msd.com
Slovenská republika
Merck Sharp & Dohme, s. r. o.
Tel.: +421 2 58282010
dpoc_czechslovak@merck.com
Suomi/Finland
MSD Finland Oy
Puh/Tel: +358 (0) 9 804650
info@msd.fi
Κύπρος
Merck Sharp & Dohme Cyprus Limited
Τηλ: 800 00 673 (+357 22866700)
cyprus_info@merck.com 
Sverige
Merck Sharp & Dohme (Sweden) AB
Tel: +46 77 5700488
medicinskinfo@merck.com
Latvija
SIA Merck Sharp & Dohme Latvija
Tel: +371 67364224
msd_lv@merck.com.
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland)
Merck Sharp & Dohme Ireland (Human Health)
Limited
Tel: +353 (0)1 2998700
medinfoNI@msd.com
This leaflet was last revised in {month YYYY}.
Other sources of information
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site:
http://www.ema.europa.eu.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only:
Preparation of solutions
Each vial is for single use only.
Aseptic technique must be followed in preparing the infusion solution. 
32
Preparation of doses
The powder for concentrate for solution for infusion for each vial is reconstituted with 10 mL of water
for injections or sodium chloride 9 mg/mL (0.9%) solution for injection per vial; following
reconstitution the vial should be shaken gently to dissolve the powder. The final volume is
approximately 11.4 mL per vial. The resultant concentration is approximately 132 mg/mL (88 mg/mL
of ceftolozane and 44 mg/mL of tazobactam) per vial. 
CAUTION: THE RECONSTITUTED SOLUTION IS NOT FOR DIRECT INJECTION.
Zerbaxa solution for infusion is clear and colourless to slightly yellow.
Variations in colour within this range do not affect the potency of the product.
After reconstitution and dilution, chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for
24 hours at room temperature or 4 days at 2 to 8 ºC. The medicinal product is photosensitive and
should be protected from light when not stored in the original carton.
See section 4.2 of the Summary of Product Characteristics for recommended dose regimens for
Zerbaxa based on indication and renal function. The preparation for each dose is shown below.
Instructions for preparing adult doses in INFUSION BAG:
For preparation of the 2 g ceftolozane / 1 g tazobactam dose: Withdraw the entire contents from
two reconstituted vials (approximately 11.4 mL per vial) using a syringe and add it to an infusion bag
containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 1.5 g ceftolozane / 0.75 g tazobactam dose: Withdraw the entire contents from
one reconstituted vial (approximately 11.4 mL per vial) and 5.7 mL from a second reconstituted vial
using a syringe and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection
(normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g tazobactam dose: Withdraw the entire contents
(approximately 11.4 mL) of the reconstituted vial using a syringe and add it to an infusion bag
containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection. 
For preparation of the 500 mg ceftolozane / 250 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 5.7 mL of the
contents of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium
chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection. 
For preparation of the 300 mg ceftolozane / 150 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 3.5 mL of the
contents of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium
chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection.
For preparation of the 250 mg ceftolozane / 125 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 2.9 mL of the
contents of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium
chloride for injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection. 
For preparation of the 100 mg ceftolozane / 50 mg tazobactam dose: Withdraw 1.2 mL of the contents
of the reconstituted vial and add it to an infusion bag containing 100 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for
injection (normal saline) or 5% glucose injection. 
Instructions for preparing paediatric doses in INFUSION BAG or in INFUSION SYRINGE:
NOTE: The following procedure describes the steps to prepare 100 mL of stock solution with a final
concentration of 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam. The volume of this stock solution to
be administered to the paediatric patient will be based on calculating the appropriate dose based on the
33
patient’s weight (see section 4.2 of the Summary of Product Characteristics). Detailed steps and
calculations are provided. 
1. 
 Preparing the stock solution (100 mL of 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam):
Withdraw the entire contents (approximately 11.4 mL) of the reconstituted vial using a syringe
and add it to an infusion bag containing 89 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride for injection (normal
saline) or 5% glucose injection.
2.  Preparing the required volume of stock solution for infusion: 
a.  Calculate the appropriate amount of Zerbaxa (in mg) to deliver the required dose to
the paediatric patient. Based on this dose in mg, calculate the appropriate volume of
the 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam stock solution to be administered.
Refer to Table 1 below to confirm the calculations. Note that the table is NOT
inclusive of all possible calculated doses but may be utilised to estimate the
approximate volume to verify the calculation.
b.  Transfer an appropriately calculated volume of stock solution to an adequately sized
infusion bag or infusion syringe. Values shown in Table 1 are approximate, and it may
be necessary to round to the nearest graduation mark of an appropriately sized syringe
for smaller volumes.
Table 1: Preparation of Zerbaxa for paediatric patients (from birth* to below 18 years of age)
from the 100 mL stock solution of 10 mg/mL ceftolozane / 5 mg/mL tazobactam
Zerbaxa dose (mg/kg)  Weight (kg)
Calculated
amount of
ceftolozane
(mg)
Calculated
amount of
tazobactam
(mg)
Volume of
stock solution
to administer
to patient (mL)
20 mg/kg ceftolozane /
10 mg/kg tazobactam**
50 and greater 
1 000 
40 
30 
20 
15 
10 
5 
3 
1.5 
800 
600 
400 
300 
200 
100 
60 
30 
500 
400 
300 
200 
150 
100 
50 
30 
15 
100
80
60
40
30
20
10
6
3
*Defined as > 32 weeks gestational age and ≥ 7 days postnatal.
**Children weighing > 50 kg and with eGFR > 50 mL/min/1.73 m2 should not exceed the maximum
dose of 1 g ceftolozane / 0.5 g tazobactam.
From a microbiological point of view, the medicinal product should be used immediately upon
reconstitution. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the
responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2 to 8 ºC, unless
reconstitution/dilution has taken place in controlled and validated aseptic conditions.
One of the active ingredients, ceftolozane, may have harmful effects if it reaches the
aquatic environment. Do not throw away any unused medicinal product or waste
material via wastewater. Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be
disposed of in accordance with local requirements. These measures will help protect the
environment.
34
