MK-7625A
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.1
PAGE 49
CEFTOLOZANE/TAZOBACTAM
 PART VI:  SUMMARY  OF RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR ZERBAXA
(CEFTOLOZANE/TAZOBACTAM)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ZERBAXA. The RMP details 
important risks of ZERBAXA, and how these risks can be minimised.
ZERBAXA's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give 
essential information to healthcare professionals and patients on how ZERBAXA should be 
used. 
This summary of the RMP for ZERBAXA should be read in the context of all this 
information including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ZERBAXA's RMP.
I. 
The Medicine and What it is Used for
ZERBAXA is authorised for the treatment of complicated bacterial infections (those that are 
difficult to treat) affecting the organs inside the abdomen (belly) or the kidneys and structures 
that carry urine (the urinary tract) or the lungs (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
ceftolozane and tazobactam as the active substances and it is given by intravenous infusion.
Further information about the evaluation of ZERBAXA’s benefits can be found in 
ZERBAXA’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage: 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zerbaxa
II.
Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further
Characterise the Risks
Important risks of ZERBAXA, together with measures to minimise such risks and the
proposed studies for learning more about ZERBAXA's risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
• Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
0533XP
MK-7625A
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.1
PAGE 50
CEFTOLOZANE/TAZOBACTAM
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures.
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously 
and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of ZERBAXA are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are 
concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ZERBAXA. Potential 
risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on 
available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is 
currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
Since its approval in the EU in 2015, the safety profile for ZERBAXA has been well-
characterised.  There are no studies planned or warranted to further characterise any 
identified or potential risk that would alter the established risk-benefit profile for 
ZERBAXA. There are also no additional risk minimisation activities planned or warranted 
beyond communication of the safety profile in the SmPC and the package leaflet.  As such,
there are no important safety concerns (important identified or potential risks or missing 
information) for which prospective additional risk management is planned. Therefore, there 
are no important identified or potential risks or missing information associated with 
ZERBAXA to be addressed in the RMP.
In conclusion, continued spontaneous safety surveillance and the safety information available 
in the Product Information are considered sufficient to monitor the safety profile and to 
provide routine risk minimisation for ZERBAXA.
Table II.A.1:
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
None
None
II.B
Summary of Important Risks
The safety information for ZERBAXA is provided in the Product Information.
There are no identified risks, potential risks, or missing information in this RMP.
0533XP
 
 
MK-7625A
EU RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN, VERSION 2.1
PAGE 51
CEFTOLOZANE/TAZOBACTAM
II.C
Post-Authorisation Development Plan
II.C.1
Studies Which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of ZERBAXA.
II.C.2
Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan
There are no studies required for ZERBAXA.
0533XP
 
 
