22 March 2018 
EMEA/H/C/003772/P46   
Human Medicines Evaluation Division 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted 
according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) No 
1901/2006 
Zerbaxa  
ceftolozane / tazobactam 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/003772/P46/002 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential 
nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613  
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Rapporteur’s contact person: 
Name: Graham Searle 
Email: uk-h.cpmp@mhra.gov.uk 
Name of the Assessor: 
Name: Shiva Ramroop 
Email: uk-h.cpmp@mhra.gov.uk 
Procedure Manager: 
Name: Elisa Pedone 
Email: elisa.pedone@ema.europa.eu   
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 2/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Introduction ............................................................................................ 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Information on the development program ............................................................... 4 
2.2. Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study ............................... 4 
2.3. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.3.2. Clinical study .................................................................................................... 5 
2.3.3. Discussion on clinical aspects ............................................................................ 17 
3. Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation .......................... 18 
4. Additional clarification requested .......................................................... 18 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the development program
 .................................................................................................................. 19 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 3/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
On 15th December 2017, the MAH submitted a completed paediatric study for ceftolozane/ tazobactam, 
in accordance with Article 46 of Regulation (EC) No1901/2006, as amended. 
A short critical expert overview has also been provided. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that CXA-PEDS-13-08 [Open-label, single dose study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics 
and  safety  of  ceftolozane/  tazobactam  in  children  (0-18  years)  with  proven  or  suspected  Gram-
negative infection receiving standard antibiotic therapy] is part of a clinical development program. The 
variation  application  consisting  of  the  full  relevant  data  package  (containing  several  studies)  is 
expected to be submitted by 12/21. A line listing of all the concerned studies is annexed. 
2.2.  Information on the pharmaceutical formulation used in the study 
There  is  no  specific  paediatric  formulation  for  ceftolozane/tazobactam;  the  formulation  approved  for 
use in adults was administered in this study. A fixed ratio of 2:1 ceftolozane/tazobactam was used in 
this trial. 
Route of Administration and Dosage Form: Intravenous (IV) infusion over 60 (±10) minutes. 
Physical Description: A 1.5 g dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam lyophilized powder contains 1000 mg of 
active ceftolozane and tazobactam sodium at a quantity equivalent of 500 mg of tazobactam free acid 
when it is reconstituted and diluted for use. Inactive ingredients include sodium chloride as a stabilizer 
and L-arginine and citric acid for pH adjustment. 
To minimize the infusion  volume in younger cohorts, varying age-appropriate volumes from the  fixed 
concentration, not to exceed 15 mg/mL, of ceftolozane/ tazobactam will be administered to achieve the 
intended dose in each paediatric patient. Infusion rates will differ based on the volume of each dose in 
each patient.  
2.3.  Clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
The MAH submitted a final report for: 
• 
CXA-PEDS-13-08 Open-label, single dose study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and safety of 
ceftolozane/  tazobactam  in  children  (0-18  years)  with  proven  or  suspected  Gram-negative  infection 
receiving standard antibiotic therapy. 
Assessor’s comments:  
Ceftolozane/tazobactam  (Zerbaxa)  is  licensed  in  the  European  Union  (18th  September  2015)  for  the 
treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAI), in combination with metronidazole, as well 
as for the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections (cUTI), including pyelonephritis, in patients 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 4/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
aged 18 years and older.   
This  is  the  first  completed  paediatric  clinical  trial  of  ceftolozane/  tazobactam  and  one  of  3  deferred 
clinical  studies  in  the  agreed  paediatric  investigation  plan  (PIP).  This  PIP  was  first  agreed  in  October 
2012,  with  2  subsequent  modifications,  the  last  (EMEA-001142-PIP01-11-M02),  agreed  in  January 
2017 (P/0088/2017). This PIP is due to be completed by June 2021. There are no waivers. A positive 
opinion on the interim compliance check of completed non-clinical studies was adopted in June 2014, 
prior to filing for adult MA.  (EMEA-C2-001142-PIP01-11-M01). All concerned studies are listed in the 
Annex of this report. 
2.3.2.  Clinical study 
CXA-PEDS-13-08  
Open-label, single dose study to evaluate the pharmacokinetics and safety 
of  ceftolozane/tazobactam  in  children  (0-18  years)  with  proven  or 
suspected Gram-negative infection receiving standard antibiotic therapy 
Description 
This  was  a  Phase  1,  single-dose,  non-comparative,  open-label  trial  to  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics 
(PK) and safety of ceftolozane/tazobactam in paediatric subjects from birth (7 days postnatal) to <18 
years  receiving  concurrent  standard-of-care  antibiotic  therapy  for  treatment  of  proven  or  suspected 
gram negative infection or peri-operative prophylaxis. 
Subjects received a single age-based intravenous (IV) dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam as a 60 (±10)-
minute (min) infusion. The doses were subject to change (up to a maximum of 30 mg/kg ceftolozane 
and  15  mg/kg  tazobactam,  not  to  exceed  a  fixed  dose  of  1.5  g  ceftolozane/tazobactam)  based  upon 
interim analysis of PK and safety data. 
A data monitoring or endpoint adjudication committee was not utilized. 
Methods 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  evaluate  the  PK  of  a  single  dose  of  IV  ceftolozane/ 
tazobactam in paediatric subjects from birth to <18 years receiving standard-of-care antibiotic therapy 
for  proven  or  suspected  gram-negative  infection,  including  subjects  receiving  peri-operative 
prophylactic antibiotics. 
The  secondary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  a  single  dose  of  IV 
ceftolozane/tazobactam  in  paediatric  subjects  from  birth  to  <18  years  receiving  standard-of-care 
antibiotic  therapy  for  proven  or  suspected  gram-negative  infection,  including  subjects  receiving  peri-
operative prophylactic antibiotics. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 5/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Study design 
A  Phase  1,  Non-Comparative,  Open-Label  Study  to  Characterize  the  Pharmacokinetics  of  a  Single 
Intravenous  Dose  of  Ceftolozane/tazobactam  in  Paediatric  Patients  Receiving  Standard  of  Care 
Antibiotic Therapy for Proven or Suspected Gram-Negative Infection or for Peri-Operative Prophylaxis. 
Study population /Sample size 
A  total  of  36  subjects  (6  subjects  per  6  age  groups)  were  planned  to  be  enrolled  in  this  trial.  This 
sample size was chosen based primarily on empirical considerations and feasibility, and was considered 
sufficient to meet the trial objectives. With 6 subjects in each age group, the probability of detecting at 
least 1 AE with a true event rate of 5% was 26%. With a total of 36 subjects across all age groups, the 
probability of detecting at least 1 AE with a true event rate of 5% was 84%. 
Treatments 
The  initial  paediatric  doses  of  ceftolozane/tazobactam  were  chosen  based  on  adult  PK  data  with  the 
objective  of  achieving  the  therapeutic  exposure  levels  seen  in  healthy  adults.  Subjects  enrolled 
received  a  single  age-based  IV  dose  of  ceftolozane/tazobactam  as  a  60  (±10)-minute  (min)  infusion. 
The  age-based  doses  were  subject  to  change  (up  to  a  maximum  of  30  mg/kg  ceftolozane  and  15 
mg/kg tazobactam, not to exceed a fixed dose of 1.5 g ceftolozane/ tazobactam) based upon interim 
analyses of PK and safety data. The groups with their initial dosing regimens and proposed recruitment 
numbers are outlined below:  
•  Group 1 (N=6) ≥12 to <18 years 
  Single IV dose, 1.5 g fixed dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam (1000 mg ceftolozane and 500 
mg tazobactam).  
•  Group 2 (N=6) ≥7 to <12 years 
  Single IV dose, 18 mg/kg ceftolozane and 9 mg/kg tazobactam. 
•  Group 3 (N=6) ≥2 to <7 years 
  Single IV dose, 18 mg/kg ceftolozane and 9 mg/kg tazobactam. 
•  Group 4 (N=6) ≥3 months to <2 years 
  Single IV dose, 18 mg/kg ceftolozane and 9 mg/kg tazobactam.  
•  Group 5 (N=6) Birth (>32 weeks gestation, 7 days postnatal) to <3 months 
  Single IV dose, 12 mg/kg ceftolozane and 6 mg/kg tazobactam.  
•  Group 6 (N=6) Birth (≤32 weeks gestation, 7 days postnatal) to <3 months  
  Single IV dose, 12 mg/kg ceftolozane and 6 mg/kg tazobactam.  
Subjects participated in the trial for 6 to 12 days. Screening and/or baseline assessments to determine 
eligibility took place within 48 hours of trial treatment administration (Day 1). 
Outcomes/endpoints 
Primary endpoint: AUC and Cmax 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 6/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
The  primary  endpoints  were  area  under  the  plasma  concentration-time  curve  (AUC)  and  maximum 
concentration  (Cmax)  for  ceftolozane,  tazobactam,  and  the  tazobactam  metabolite  (M1)  as  data 
allowed. 
Secondary endpoint 
The secondary endpoint was the safety and tolerability of single doses of IV ceftolozane/tazobactam in 
paediatric  subjects  and  it  was  evaluated  through  assessments  of  adverse  events  (AEs),  physical 
examinations, vital signs, and clinical laboratory tests in the Safety population. 
Statistical Methods 
Descriptive  statistics  were  used  to  guide  decisions  as  to  the  clinical  relevance  of  findings.  No  formal 
hypothesis  testing  was  planned  or  performed.  All  statistical  analyses  were  performed  using  SAS 
statistical  software  version  9.4,  unless  otherwise  noted.  For  all  analyses,  baseline  was  defined  as  the 
most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug, unless otherwise specified. 
Plasma  PK  parameters  for  ceftolozane,  tazobactam,  and  tazobactam  M1  were  determined  using 
noncompartmental methods (WinNonlin Phoenix version 6.30). The following PK parameters were 
determined  for  all  analytes  (ceftolozane,  tazobactam,  and  M1,  except  as  noted  below)  as  allowed  by 
the data. 
•  Cmax 
• 
• 
• 
Time of maximum concentration (Tmax) 
Last quantifiable concentration (Clast) 
Time of last quantifiable concentration (Tlast) 
•  Area  under  the  plasma  concentration-time  curve  from  time  0  to  last  quantifiable  concentration 
(AUClast) 
•  Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinity (AUC0-∞) 
• 
Terminal half-life (T1/2) 
•  Volume of distribution at steady state (Vss) (ceftolozane and tazobactam only) 
• 
Plasma clearance (CL) (ceftolozane and tazobactam only) 
The  AUC  was  calculated  by  the  trapezoidal  method  using  the  linear-up/  log-down  rule.  All  predose 
below-limit-of quantification (BLQ) values in period 1 were set to zero; missing or BLQ values obtained 
after the first quantifiable concentration were treated as missing. Actual blood draw times were used to 
calculate PK parameters. 
The PK population included all subjects who received a full dose of trial treatment and provided blood 
samples  with  quantifiable  plasma  levels  at  the  Cmax  (1-hour  post  infusion  start  time  point)  and  at 
least  2  time  points  after  Cmax  (2,  4,  or  6  hours  post  infusion  time  points)  to  allow  an  estimation  of 
AUC. 
Safety  was  assessed  through  collection  of  AEs,  laboratory  evaluations  (haematology,  chemistry,  and 
coagulation), vital signs, and physical examinations. The safety evaluation was based on clinical review 
of the following safety parameters: 
• 
Incidence of AEs and serious adverse events (SAEs); 
•  AEs and SAEs by relationship to trial treatment; 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 7/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
•  AEs and SAEs by severity; 
•  Deaths; 
• 
Premature  discontinuation  from  the  trial  and  trial  treatment  due  to  an  AE,  regardless  of 
relationship to trial treatment; 
•  Clinical laboratory data; 
•  Vital signs; and 
•  Concomitant medications 
• 
The Safety population included all subjects who received any amount of trial treatment. 
Results 
Recruitment/ Number analysed 
A total of 43 subjects were enrolled; 6 (14.0%) were enrolled but not dosed, and 37 (86.0%) received 
trial  treatment  and  were  included  in  the  Safety  population.  All  37  (100.0%)  subjects  in  the  Safety 
population completed the trial; 34 of 37 were included in the PK population. No subjects were excluded 
from the analysis populations (PK or Safety) due to a protocol deviation. 
Baseline data 
Nineteen subjects (51.4%) were male and 18 (48.6%) were female, and the majority of subjects were 
white  (67.6%).  Other  than  1  subject  in  Group  4  who  was  receiving  antibiotics  for  perioperative 
prophylaxis, all subjects were receiving antibiotics for a proven or suspected gram-negative infection. 
(Table 1.) 
All  subjects  in  the  Safety  population  were  taking  at  least  1  concomitant  medication.  The  types  of 
medications  subjects  were  taking  were  typical  of  hospitalized  paediatric  subjects  with  gram-negative 
infections.  Treatment  compliance  was  not  measured.  All  subjects  received  a  single  IV  dose  of 
ceftolozane/ tazobactam on Day 1, which  was administered in a hospital or clinic. Study personnel at 
the site recorded the dosage and timing of treatment administration. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 8/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 1: Baseline Patient data.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 9/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comments: 
Thirty-seven  (37)  paediatric  patients  representing  all  the  study-defined  paediatric  age  groups  were 
enrolled.  One  (1)  subject  in  Group  4  received  antibiotics  for  perioperative  prophylaxis  and  all  other 
patients had either proven or suspected Gram negative infection. These conditions were defined within 
the study parameters. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 10/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy results 
There are no efficacy results. 
Assessor’s comments: 
This  completed  Phase  I  study  was  designed  to  assess  the  PK  and  safety  of  ceftolozane/  tazobactam, 
thus  no  assessment  or  conclusion  regarding  the  efficacy  of  ceftolozane/  tazobactam  in  the  paediatric 
population can be made. 
Safety results 
Overall,  11  subjects  (29.7%)  experienced  at  least  1  treatment  emergent  adverse  event  (TEAE).  No 
severe TEAEs or TEAEs leading to discontinuation of trial treatment were reported, and there were no 
deaths  during  the  trial.  Two  subjects  had  non-serious  treatment-related  TEAEs  which  were  mild  in 
severity  and  resolved  by  the  end  of  the  study  (1  subject  in  Group  1  with  dizziness  and  1  subject  in 
Group  3  [30/15  mg/kg  dose]  with  bradycardia  and  tachycardia).  Three  subjects  had  serious  adverse 
events  (SAEs)  (1  subject  from  Group  1  with  pneumonia,  1  subject  from  Group  2  with  infective 
pulmonary  exacerbation  of  cystic  fibrosis,  and  1  subject  from  Group  4  [30/15  mg/kg  dose]  with 
device-related  sepsis),  which  were  all  deemed  unrelated  to  trial  treatment.  In  Groups  5  or  6,  no 
subject experienced a treatment-related TEAE. However, three subjects had at least 1 adverse events 
(AE) (1 subject in Group 5 and 2 subjects in Group 6 [12/6 mg/kg dose]). Only 1 of the reported AE 
was  experienced  by  more  than  1  subject;  anaemia  was  experienced  by  1  Subject  in  Group  5  and  1 
subject in Group 6 (Table 2). Anaemia, diarrhoea, and hypokalaemia were the only AEs reported twice. 
No subjects had abnormal liver function tests that met the criteria for closely monitored events. There 
were  no  events  indicative  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  or  haemolytic  disorders,  nor  any  events 
involving  Clostridium  difficile.  No  clinically  significant  laboratory  abnormalities  or  changes  in 
electrocardiograms (ECGs) were observed after administration of ceftolozane/tazobactam. 
The  safety  profile  observed  in  the  trial  was  similar  to  the  safety  profile  observed  in  the  adult 
population, and no new safety signals were identified. Treatment with ceftolozane/tazobactam was well 
tolerated.  In  general,  adverse  events  occurred  with  low  frequency,  were  widely  distributed  across 
multiple  body  systems,  and  were  typical  of  hospitalized  paediatric  subjects  with  gram-negative 
infections. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 11/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 12/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comments: 
All  paediatric  patients  recruited  into  the  study  and  who  received  ceftolozane/  tazobactam  were 
included in the safety analysis. There were no deaths in the study and no SAEs or TEAEs leading to the 
discontinuation  of  the  trial  product.  Two  subjects  had  non-serious  TEAEs  and  3  subjects  had  SAEs 
unrelated to trial treatment.  
Changes  in  laboratory  parameters  were  recorded  in  all  patients  over  the  duration  of  the  study, 
however,  these  were  not  clinically  significant.  Regarding  closely  monitored  events,  no  paediatric 
subjects had abnormal liver function tests that met the critical study threshold for this adverse event. 
No clinically significant changes in electrocardiograms (ECGs) were noted.  
The  study  was  not  planned  to  detect  uncommon  or  rare  ceftolozane/  tazobactam  AEs;  however,  it  is 
acknowledged  that  such  paediatric-specific  adverse  events  are  unlikely  to  be  detected  in  a  trial  for 
early  paediatric  development  that  is  limited  in  size  and  duration.  Furthermore,  the  safety  profile  of 
ceftolozane/ tazobactam is also confounded by use of other concomitant antibiotics. 
Despite  these  limitations,  this  study  provides  preliminary  paediatric  safety  data  for  a  single  dose  of 
ceftolozane/ tazobactam which were similar to those observed in adults. In addition, the AEs were low 
in frequency and no safety signals of concern were reported in the paediatric study population. Thus, 
the  available  safety  data  support  further  paediatric  development.  As  such,  the  MAH’s  conclusions  on 
the safety of ceftolozane/ tazobactam in the paediatric population are acceptable.  
Pharmacokinetic results 
The PK population included all subjects who received a full dose of trial treatment and provided blood 
samples  with  quantifiable  plasma  levels  at  the  Cmax  (1-hour  post  infusion  start  time)  and  at  least  2 
time points after Cmax (2-, 4-, or 6-hour post infusion time points). Of the 37 subjects who received a 
complete dose of trial treatment, 34 were included in the PK population. The following 3 subjects were 
excluded from the PK population: 
•  1  subject  from  Group  1  with  drug  concentration  BLQ  at  the  end  of  infusion.  This  subject  had 
measurable pre-dose concentrations, suggesting a possible sample switch. 
•  1 subject from Group 5 with a site-reported infusion issue wherein drug was not completely flushed 
through the infusion line after administration. 
•  1  subject  from  Group  6  (20/10  mg/kg  dose)  with  insufficient  plasma  available  in  the  PK  samples 
for drug quantification. 
Three dose modifications occurred during the conduct of the study: 
• 
• 
The  dose  for  Groups  3  and  4  was  increased  from  18/9  mg/kg  ceftolozane/tazobactam  to  30/15 
mg/kg, following the Group 3 interim analysis. 
The  dose  for  Groups  5  and  6  was  increased  from  12/6  mg/kg  ceftolozane/tazobactam  to  20/10 
mg/kg, following the Group 4 interim analysis. 
•  A  dose  of  12/6  mg/kg  ceftolozane/tazobactam  was  implemented  for  Group  6  subjects  with  a 
baseline calculated CrCL of 20 to 49 mL/min/1.73m2. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 13/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The  plasma  PK  of  ceftolozane,  tazobactam,  and  tazobactam  M1  were  characterized  following 
administration  of  single  IV  doses  of  ceftolozane/tazobactam  to  Groups  1-6.  The  mean  ceftolozane 
concentration-time  profiles  were  generally  comparable  across  Groups  1-4,  while  the  terminal  half-life 
was  slightly  increased  in  Group  5  and  6  subjects.  After  accounting  for  weight,  ceftolozane  clearance 
(CL) was generally comparable across Groups 1-4, while CL values trended lower in Groups 5 and 6 for 
those  with  creatinine  clearance  (CrCL)  ≥50  mL/min/1.73m2.  For  Group  6  subjects  who  received  the 
dose  of  12/6  mg/kg  ceftolozane/tazobactam,  the  geometric  mean  (GM)  CL  was  approximately  2-fold 
lower, consistent with the lower CrCL function in these subjects. (Table 3.) 
Following the interim analysis in Group 3, the dose was increased from 18/9 mg/kg to 30/15 mg/kg, 
an increase of 1.7-fold, which resulted in an increase in the GM AUC (0-∞) of approximately 1.9-fold in 
Group 3, suggesting that the PK of ceftolozane is approximately dose-proportional. After accounting for 
weight,  the  ceftolozane  GM  volume  of  distribution  at  steady  state  (Vss)  ranged  from  0.274  to  0.394 
L/kg across all age groups, suggesting that the Vss was comparable across all age groups, with a slight 
trend  in  increased  Vss  in  subjects  aged  birth  (7  days  postnatal)  to  <3  months  (Groups  5  and  6 
subjects). 
Differences  in  the  mean  tazobactam  concentration-time  profiles  were  observed,  and  were  more 
pronounced  for  Groups  5  and  6;  the  comparison  of  the  profiles  was  limited  due  to  the  limited 
concentration-time data at the 6-hour time point. A comparison of the CL across Groups 1-6 generally 
suggests  a  slight  trend  of  decreasing  tazobactam  CL  in  neonates  and  infants.  The  CL  for  Group  6 
subjects who received the 12/6 mg/kg dose of ceftolozane/tazobactam was available for only 1 subject 
and was 0.076 L/h/kg. As this subject had a CrCL of 27.69 mL/min/1.73m2, it is likely that the low CL 
is due to the immature renal function of this subject. 
With  an  increase  in  dose  of  1.7-fold  following  the  Group  3  interim  analysis,  an  increase  of 
approximately 1.6-fold in the GM tazobactam AUC (0-∞) was observed in Group 3, suggesting that the 
PK  of  tazobactam  is  approximately  dose-proportional.  Tazobactam  Vss  increased  with  increasing  age. 
After  accounting  for  weight,  the  tazobactam  GM  Vss  ranged  from  0.421  to  0.740  L/kg  in  Groups  1-6 
(Group  6  subjects  who  received  the  20/10  mg/kg  dose).  The  Vss  was  available  for  only  1  subject  in 
Group  6  (12/6  mg/kg  dose)  and  was  0.338  L/kg.  These  results  point  to  variability  in  the  tazobactam 
data (Table 3). 
Not enough data points were available for an accurate assessment of tazobactam metabolite (M1) PK 
parameters.  The  arithmetic  mean  tazobactam  plasma  concentration-time  profiles  showed  an  increase 
in  tazobactam  M1  concentrations  with  time,  which  peaked  at  approximately  4  hours  post  start  of 
infusion of ceftolozane/tazobactam. Thus, the terminal elimination phase was not captured within the 
6-hour PK sampling time and AUC (0-∞) could not be determined for most subjects. Two subjects had 
predose tazobactam M1 concentrations.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 14/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table 3
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 15/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessor’s comments:  
For  ceftolozane’s  interim  analyses  an  AUC  target  of  130-175  μg*h/mL  was  used,  which  covers  the 
range of AUCs reported in adult healthy volunteers, patients with cUTI and cIAI. An AUC target of 24 
μg*h/mL was chosen for the interim analyses of tazobactam. 
Interim analyses in older children from Group 1 (ages ≥12 to <18 years) and Group 2 (ages ≥7 to <12 
years)  determined  that  the  dose  exposures  of  ceftolozane  and  tazobactam  were  similar  to  those  in 
adults  and  thus  no  adjustment  to  the  initial  dosing  was  made.  However,  it  is  noted  that  in  the  final 
analysis  for  Group  2,  geometric  mean  AUCs  (0- ∞ )  were  below  the  AUC  target  range  for  both 
ceftolozane  and  tazobactam.    In  this  group,  the  low  geometric  mean  Tazobactam  AUC  could  be 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 16/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
explained  by  incomplete  PK  sampling  in  3  patients  that  resulted  in  the  AUC  not  being  calculated  for 
these  patients.  In  contrast,  the  PK  samples  for  ceftolozane  were  sufficient  for  all  6  patients  in  this 
cohort.  From  Groups  3  to  6,  higher  dosing  adjustments  led  to  changes  in  PK  parameters  of  both 
ceftolozane  and  tazobactam  that  were  almost  dose  proportional  and  comparable  to  exposures  in 
adults.  
Ceftolozane’s  CL  and  Vss  increased  with  increasing  age,  and  a  similar  trend  was  also  observed  for 
tazobactam. However, there are variabilities with the tazobactam data.  For 16 subjects across all age 
groups,  tazobactam  concentrations  measured  at  6-hours  post  administration  were  below  the  limit  of 
quantification.  In  addition,  the  concentration  time  profiles  and  Vss  were  variable  in  the  youngest 
cohorts  (Groups  5  and  6).  Therefore,  the  assessment  of  the  tazobactam  PK  parameters  across  age 
cohorts is confounded by these factors. 
Regarding the PK of pharmacologically inactive, tazobactam metabolite (M1), the terminal elimination 
phase extended beyond the accepted 6-hour sampling window. Furthermore, 2 subjects from Group 2 
were  given  piperacillin/  tazobactam  just  over  24  hours  prior  to  enrolment  to  the  study  and  had  pre-
dose  M1  concentrations.  Both  factors  are  associated  with  the  longer  half-life  of  M1  and  as  such, 
precluded  robust  PK  assessment  of  this  metabolite.  Although  the  timing  of  piperacillin/  tazobactam 
administration (>24 hours before enrolment) in these two patients did not meet the study’s exclusion 
criteria per se, the pre-dose M1 results suggest that a longer exclusion period between administration 
of tazobactam containing antibiotics and the study drug might have been more appropriate. However, 
no pre-dose tazobactam levels were detected in these subjects to suggest that the timing of previous 
piperacillin/ tazobactam administration also affected the PK analyses of tazobactam.     
Conclusion:  
These  data  demonstrate  an  approximate  dose  proportional  increase  in  PK  of  tazobactam  and 
ceftolozane when doses were adjusted after interim analyses. There is also an observed increase in the 
CL  and  Vss  for  both  antibiotics  with  increasing  age.    With  regards  to  the  youngest  age  groups,  the 
observed  decrease  in  clearance  for  both  ceftolozane  and  tazobactam  was  expected  given  the 
immaturity of the renal system in this cohort and given that both products are cleared by the kidney.  
This  study  provides  preliminary  data  on  the  single  dose  PK  profile  of  ceftolozane/  tazobactam  in 
children  and  will  be  used  to  inform  the  paediatric  dosing  strategy  in  the  planned  (pivotal)  paediatric 
studies. Whilst it is acknowledged that there are some limitations of these data, they are sufficient to 
support  further  paediatric  development  of  this  product.  Therefore,  the  MAH’s  overall  conclusions  are 
acceptable.  
2.3.3.  Discussion on clinical aspects 
Ceftolozane/tazobactam  has  a  favourable  benefit-risk  profile  based  on  well-characterized  efficacy  and 
safety  data  in  adult  patients.  Single  doses  of  ceftolozane/tazobactam  have  now  been  studied  in 
paediatric  subjects  from  birth  (7  days  postnatal)  to  <18  years  receiving  concurrent  standard  of  care 
antibiotic  therapy  for  treatment  of  proven  or  suspected  gram-negative  infection  or  perioperative 
prophylaxis.  Study  CXA-PEDS-13-08  (P010)  evaluated  the  PK  and  safety  of  single  doses  of  IV 
ceftolozane/tazobactam  to  determine  appropriate  paediatric  dosing  that  achieves  the  efficacious  and 
safe exposure levels observed in adults. 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 17/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
From this completed Phase I study no assessment or conclusion regarding the efficacy of ceftolozane/ 
tazobactam in the paediatric population can be made. 
Ceftolozane  and  tazobactam  PK  parameters  after  a  single  dose  were  generally  comparable  across 
Groups  1-4  (ages  3  months  to  <18  years).  Subjects  in  Groups  5  and  6  had  lower  CL  than  older 
subjects,  and  this  is  likely  due  to  the  immature  renal  function  of  the  younger  subjects.  In  paediatric 
patients  aged  ≤32  weeks  gestation,  7  days  postnatal  to  <3  months  (Group  6),  those  who  received 
12/6  mg/kg  ceftolozane/tazobactam  had  the  lowest  ceftolozane  and  tazobactam  CL  amongst  all 
subjects in the trial, which is consistent with the lower CrCL in this age group. The MAH notes that the 
initial dose selection for each age group and dose changes as determined by interim analyses mitigated 
the effect of decreased CL on exposure. Thus, once dose adjustments were made for Groups 3 and 4, 
exposures were generally comparable across all age groups. 
A single dose of IV ceftolozane/tazobactam in paediatric subjects from birth (7 days postnatal) to <18 
years  of  age  was  well  tolerated.  Overall,  the  reported  adverse  events  (AE)  were  consistent  with  the 
trial population of hospitalized paediatric subjects with gram-negative infections. There were no deaths 
and no SAEs related to the study drug. In addition, no severe TEAEs or TEAEs leading to study drug or 
study  discontinuation  were  reported.  No  clinically  significant  laboratory  abnormalities  or  changes  in 
ECGs  were  observed  after  administration  of  study  drug,  and  no  safety  concerns  were  identified  with 
administration  of  ceftolozane/tazobactam  to  paediatric  subjects  in  this  trial.  The  adverse  effects 
observed  were  in  keeping  with  those  described  in  adults.  Thus,  the  MAH  concludes  no  new  safety 
concerns were identified. These conclusions are endorsed.  
The  MAH  states  that  data  from  this  study  have  been  included  in  modelling  and  simulation  studies  to 
inform the dosing strategy for the planned treatment studies for cIAI and cUTI in paediatric subjects. 
Therefore, the results of this study  support continued development of ceftolozane/ tazobactam in the 
paediatric population. This is acceptable.  
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
This  study  provides  preliminary  PK  and  safety  data  based  on  single-dose  ceftolozane/  tazobactam 
administration in children. Although there are some limitations with these data, they are adequate to 
support  further  paediatric  development  of  this  product.  However,  at  this  stage  of  paediatric 
development, these data do not fully determine the benefit: risk in the paediatric population. 
  Fulfilled: 
No  further  action  required,  however  further  data  are  expected  in  the  context  of  a  variation  prior  any 
conclusion  on  product  information  amendments  is  made.  The  MAH  should  commit  to  submit  this 
variation application by 12/21. 
4.  Additional clarification requested 
Not applicable.  
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 18/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Annex. Line listing of all the studies included in the 
development program 
The studies should be listed by chronological date of completion: 
Non-clinical studies 
Product Name: Zerbaxa 
Active substance: Ceftolozane/Tazobactam 
Study title 
Study number  Date of completion 
CX.101.PK.003   04-April-2013  
CX.101.TX.033  30-August-2013 
Date of submission of final 
study report 
Submitted  in  initial  MAA,  25-
July-2014 
Submitted  in  initial  MAA,  25-
July-2014 
CX.101.TX.038  31-March-2014 
Submitted  in  initial  MAA,  25-
July-2014 
Product Name: Zerbaxa  
Active substance: Ceftolozane/Tazobactam 
Study title 
Study number  Date of completion 
15-June-2017 
CXA-PEDS-13-
08  
MK-7625A 
PN010 
Date of submission of final 
study report 
14-December-2017 
Single dose study to assess the 
pharmacokinetics of ceftolozane 
and tazobactam in juvenile rats 
14-Day dose ranging study in 
juvenile rats to assess 
toxicological potential of 
ceftolozane in combination with 
tazobactam and to provide 
information on dose selection 
28-Day study in juvenile rats to 
assess toxicological potential of 
ceftolozane in combination with 
tazobactam 
Clinical studies 
of 
safety 
in  children 
Open-label, single dose study to 
evaluate the pharmacokinetics 
ceftolozane/ 
and 
tazobactam 
(0-18 
years)  with  proven  or  suspected 
Gram-negative 
infection receiving standard 
antibiotic therapy 
Double-blind, randomised, 
active controlled study to 
evaluate safety, tolerability and 
ceftolozane/ 
of 
efficacy 
tazobactam 
(0-18 
in  children 
years)  with  complicated  urinary 
tract infection (cUTI) 
Double-blind, randomised, 
active controlled study to 
evaluate safety, tolerability and 
of 
efficacy 
tazobactam 
in  children 
years)  with  complicated 
abdominal infection (cIAI) 
ceftolozane/ 
(0-18 
intra-
MK-7625A 
PN034 
On-going 
To be submitted 
MK-7625A 
PN035 
On-going 
To be submitted 
Assessment report for paediatric studies submitted according to Article 46 of the 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Zerbaxa 
Page 19/19 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
