Summary of risk management plan for Zercepac – 
(Trastuzumab biosimilar - HLX02) 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Zercepac. The RMP details important risks of 
Zercepac, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information will be obtained about 
Zercepac's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
Zercepac's summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet give essential 
information to healthcare professionals and patients on how Zercepac should be used.  
This summary of the RMP for Zercepac should be read in the context of all this information including 
the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which is part of the 
European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of Zercepac's RMP. 
I. The medicine and what it is used for 
Zercepac is authorised for the treatment of HER-2 positive metastatic breast cancer, early breast 
cancer and gastric cancer in adult patients:  
Breast cancer 
Metastatic breast cancer 
Zercepac is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic breast cancer 
(MBC): 
• 
as monotherapy for the treatment of those patients who have received at least two 
chemotherapy regimens for their metastatic disease. Prior chemotherapy must have included 
at least an anthracycline and a taxane unless patients are unsuitable for these treatments. 
•  Hormone receptor positive patients must also have failed hormonal therapy, unless patients 
are unsuitable for these treatments in combination with paclitaxel for the treatment of those 
patients who have not received chemotherapy for their metastatic disease and for whom an 
anthracycline is not suitable.  
• 
in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of those patients who have not received 
chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. 
• 
in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of postmenopausal patients with 
hormone-receptor positive MBC, not previously treated with trastuzumab. 
 
 
Early breast cancer 
Zercepac is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer (EBC): 
• 
• 
following surgery, chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant) and radiotherapy (if applicable). 
following adjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide, in combination with 
paclitaxel or docetaxel in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and 
carboplatin. 
• 
in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by adjuvant Zercepac therapy, for 
locally advanced (including inflammatory) disease or tumours > 2 cm in diameter. 
Zercepac should only be used in patients with metastatic or early breast cancer whose tumours have 
either HER2 overexpression or HER2 gene amplification as determined by an accurate and validated 
assay. 
Metastatic gastric cancer  
Zercepac in combination with capecitabine or 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin is indicated for the treatment 
of adult patients with HER2 positive metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or gastroesophageal 
junction who have not received prior anti-cancer treatment for their metastatic disease. Zercepac 
should only be used in patients with metastatic gastric cancer (MGC) whose tumours have HER2 
overexpression as defined by IHC2+ and a confirmatory SISH or FISH result, or by an IHC 3+ result. 
Accurate and validated assay methods should be used. 
Zercepac contains trastuzumab (HLX02) as the active substance and it is given as powder for 
concentrate for solution for infusion. One vial contains 150 mg of trastuzumab. The reconstituted 
Zercepac solution contains 21 mg/mL of trastuzumab.  
Further information about the evaluation of Zercepac’s benefits can be found in Zercepac’s EPAR, 
including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zercepac. 
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimise or further characterise the risks  
Important risks of Zercepac, together with measures to minimise such risks and the proposed studies 
for learning more about Zercepac's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
•  Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions and advice on correct use, in the package 
leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals; 
• 
• 
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging; 
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that the 
medicine is used correctly; 
• 
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or 
without prescription) can help to minimises its risks. 
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
 
 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse reactions is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action can be taken as necessary. 
These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
II.A List of important risks and missing information 
Important risks of Zercepac are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely taken. Important risks can 
be regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of 
a link with the use of Trastuzumab biosimilar (HLX02). Potential risks are concerns for which an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, but this association has 
not been established yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine); 
List of important risks and missing information  
Important identified risks 
Important potential risks 
Missing information 
•  Cardiac dysfunction 
•  Hypersensitivity 
•  Oligohydramnios 
•  Medication error (subcutaneous administration)  
•  None 
II.B Summary of important risks 
Cardiac dysfunction 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Cardiac dysfunction or failure has been commonly reported in clinical 
trials and the scientific literature, which is also reflected in the SmPC 
of the reference product. Clinical courses ranging from mild to fatal 
have been reported in association with the reference product, 
whereby higher-grade cardiac dysfunction or failure of any cause is a 
potentially life-threatening condition. This event has been classified 
as important identified risk for Zercepac based on its seriousness, 
severity and frequency of occurrence as per the proposed SmPC. 
The risk factors described for the development of trastuzumab-
induced cardiotoxicity include age >50 years, borderline LVEF before 
trastuzumab treatment, history of cardiovascular disease, 
cardiovascular risk factors such as diabetes, dyslipidaemia or 
elevated body mass index (>30), sequence in which chemotherapy 
is administered and prior treatment with anthracyclines (cumulative 
doses >300 mg/m2). 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2, 4.4 and 4.8. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
 
 
Hypersensitivity 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Hypersensitivity reactions such as shortness of breath, low or high 
blood pressure, wheezing or skin rash during or shortly after 
administration (mostly within 2-3 hours but sometimes later) have 
been very commonly reported in clinical trials and the scientific 
literature, which is also reflected in the SmPC of the reference 
medicinal product Herceptin. These reactions are usually self-limited 
or respond to standard medicines. 
However, in rare cases, life-threatening allergic reactions may occur. 
This event has been classified as important identified risk for 
Zercepac based on its seriousness, severity and frequency of 
occurrence, as per the proposed SmPC. 
No risk groups or risk factors are known. However, patients with 
dyspnoea at rest due to complications of advanced malignancy and 
comorbidities may be at increased risk of a fatal outcome in the 
event that an infusion reaction occurs. 
In general risk factors for allergic reactions include heredity, gender, 
race and age, with heredity being by far the most significant. In 
addition, environmental factors can play a role including alterations 
in exposure to infectious diseases during early childhood, 
environmental pollution, allergen levels, and dietary changes. The 
risk of hypersensitivity and anaphylaxis will be increased in those 
known to be hypersensitive to trastuzumab, murine proteins or to 
any of the excipients.  
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2, 4.3, 4.4 and 4.8. 
PL section 2, 4 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Oligohydramnios 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk groups 
Oligohydramnios and anhydramnios are severe complications, 
usually associated with abnormal foetal outcomes, such as 
intrauterine growth retardation, post-maturity syndrome, lung 
hypoplasia, soft tissue deformities, and foetal distress in labour, and 
may be fatal. Oligohydramnios has been classified as important 
identified risk for Zercepac based on its seriousness. 
No risk factors for trastuzumab-associated oligohydramnios have 
been established with certainty. In the above-mentioned literature 
review, oligohydramnios occurred only in women who were exposed 
to trastuzumab (also) during the second and/or third trimester 
(11 cases/15 pregnancies) but did not complicate any of the 
3 pregnancies exposed only during the first trimester 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2 and 4.6. 
In addition, targeted follow-up questionnaires for follow up of any 
reports of pregnancy (and outcome) to analyse any adverse events 
of foetal harm for causal factors. 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
Medication error (subcutaneous administration) 
Evidence for linking the risk 
to the medicine 
The reference medicinal product Herceptin is available both as a 
formulation for intravenous and for subcutaneous administration. 
Zercepac is only available for iv administration  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk factors and risk groups 
No specific risk factors or groups 
Risk minimisation measures  Routine risk minimization measures: 
SmPC Sections: 4.2 
SmPC includes a warning that treatment should only be initiated by 
a physician experienced in the administration of cytotoxic 
chemotherapy. The text emphasises the importance of checking the 
product label to avoid a medication (administration) error and 
reiterates information in section 3 that Zercepac is an intravenous 
formulation is therefore not intended for subcutaneous 
administration and should be administered via an intravenous 
infusion only.  
‘It is important to check the product labels to ensure that the correct 
formulation (intravenous or subcutaneous fixed dose) is being 
administered to the patient, as prescribed.’ 
Additional risk minimisation measures: 
None. 
 
 
II.C Post-authorisation development plan 
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific obligation of 
Zercepac (HLX02 trastuzumab biosimilar). 
II.C.2 Other studies in post-authorisation development plan 
There are no studies required for Zercepac (HLX02 trastuzumab biosimilar). 
