Summary of the risk management plan for Zessly (infliximab)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Zessly, a biosimilar to 
Remicade.  The  RMP  details  important  risks  of  Zessly,  how  these  risks  can  be 
minimized,  and  how  more  information  will  be  obtained  about  Zessly's  risks  and 
uncertainties (missing information).
Zessly’s summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet (PL) 
give essential information to HCPs and patients on how Zessly should be used. 
This  summary  of  the  RMP  for  Zessly  should  be  read  in  the  context  of  all  this 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of  the  evaluation  and  its  plain-
language  summary,  all  which  is  part  of  the  European  Public  Assessment  Report 
(EPAR).
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Zessly is authorized for the treatment of RA, CD (adult and pediatric), UC (adult 
and pediatric), AS, PsA, and psoriasis (see SmPC for the full indication). It contains 
infliximab  as  the  active  substance,  and  it  is  given  by  the  intravenous  route  of 
administration.
Further  information  about  the  evaluation  of  Zessly’s  benefits  can  be  found  in 
Zessly’s  EPAR,  including  in  its  plain-language  summary,  available  on  the  EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zessly
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or 
further characterize the risks
Important risks of Zessly, together with measures to minimize such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about Zessly’s risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
• Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct 
use, in the PL and SmPC addressed to patients and HCPs;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
•
• The authorized pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to 
ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient 
(e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  the  case  of  Zessly,  these  measures  are  supplemented  with  additional  risk 
minimization measures mentioned under relevant important risks, below.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously  and  regularly  analysed,  including  PSUR  assessment,  so  that 
immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine 
pharmacovigilance activities. 
If important information that may affect the safe use of Zessly is not yet available, 
it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Zessly are risks that need special risk management activities to 
further investigate or minimize the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely 
administered. Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential. Identified 
risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Zessly. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine 
is possible based on available data, but this association has not been established 
yet and needs further evaluation. Missing information refers to information on the 
safety of the medicinal product that is currently missing and needs to be collected 
(e.g. on the long-term use of the medicine).
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks 
Serious infection/sepsis
Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) breakthrough 
infection and agranulocytosis in infants with in 
utero exposure to infliximab
Demyelinating disorders
Malignancy
Important potential risks 
Colon carcinoma/dysplasia (in pediatric 
ulcerative colitis)
Missing information
None
II B: Summary of important risks
Important identified risk: Serious infection/sepsis 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Serious infection/sepsis, including TB, OIs and HBV 
reactivation, is listed in section 4.3 Contraindications, 
section 4.4 special warnings and precautions for use; 
section 4.8 Undesirable effects of the Remicade SmPC; 
and section 2 of the Remicade PL. This risk is also listed 
as an important identified risk in the RMP v19 public 
summary of the reference product Remicade. Therefore, 
serious infection/sepsis is considered to be an important 
identified risk for Zessly.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
The incidence of infection is high in people with immune 
impairment.  Patients with chronic infection or a history 
of recurrent infection, including those who use other 
immunosuppressive medications, such as MTX, are at 
greater risk of developing an OI during infliximab 
therapy. Patients who have resided in or traveled to 
regions where invasive fungal infections such as 
histoplasmosis, coccidioidomycosis, and blastomycosis 
are widespread, are also at increased risk of developing 
an OI during infliximab therapy.
Patients treated with 10 mg/kg infliximab were at a 
higher risk of serious infection when compared to the 3 
mg/kg infliximab treatment arm.
In clinical studies, the incidence of serious infections in 
infliximab-treated patients 65 years of age and older 
was greater than that seen in those under 65 years of 
age. As well, more infliximab treated children developed 
infections compared to infliximab treated adults. 
Risk factors for septic arthritis in patients with pre-
existing joint disease include advanced age, diabetes 
mellitus, the presence of joint prostheses, skin 
infections and a diagnosis of RA.
The most common risk factors to develop TB include 
conditions impairing the immune system, such as 
advanced age, HIV infection, alcohol abuse, 
malignancy, corticosteroids or other 
immunosuppressive therapy, connective tissue disease, 
renal failure, diabetes, and pregnancy.
Additional risk factors include contact with a person(s) 
with active TB infection and having been born in, lived 
in, or traveled to countries where the incidence of TB is 
high. Exposure to TB may occur through various health 
care settings (eg, hospitals and nursing homes) or high-
density institutions (eg, prisons).Risk factors for HBV 
reactivation in patients with a history of HBV infection 
include the concomitant use of medications that 
suppress the immune system (chemotherapy, 
corticosteroids, MTX, AZA, and/or TNF-α antagonist). 
Other risk factors/conditions that predispose a patient 
for HBV reactivation include AIDS, transplantation 
(especially bone marrow), and withdrawal from 
immunosuppressive therapies.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6 and 4.8
PL section 2
Legal status: Prescription only
Additional risk minimization measures:
Patient reminder card
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal detection:
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaire
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Participation in UKIBD (UK)
Important  identified  risk:  Bacillus  Calmette-Guérin  (BCG)  breakthrough 
infection  and  agranulocytosis  in  infants  with  in  utero  exposure  to 
infliximab
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
BCG breakthrough infection is listed in section 4.4 
Special warnings and precautions of the Remicade 
SmPC. Agranulocytosis in infants with in utero exposure 
is listed in section 4.6 fertility, pregnancy and latation, 
section 4.8 Undesirable effects of the Remicade SmPC, 
and in section 2 of the Remicade PL. This risk is also 
listed as an important identified risk in the RMP v19 
public summary of the reference product Remicade. 
Therefore BCG breakthrough infection and 
agranulocytosis in infants with in utero exposure to 
infliximab is considered to be an important identified 
risk for Zessly.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Infants exposed to infliximab in utero and receiving 
BCG vaccine within 6 months after birth. 
Women of childbearing potential should use adequate 
contraception to prevent pregnancy and continue its use 
for at least 6 months after the last reference product 
treatment.
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, and 4.8
PL section 2 and 4
Legal status: Prescription only
Additional risk minimization measures:
Patient reminder card (BCG only)
Important identified risk: Demyelinating disorders
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Demyelinating disorders are listed in section 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for use and section 4.8 
Undesirable effects of the Remicade SmPC and section 
2 of the Remicade PL. The risk is also listed as an 
important identified risk in the RMP v19 public summary 
of the reference product Remicade. Therefore 
demyelinating disorders is considered to be an 
important identified risk for Zessly.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
The etiology of MS and other autoimmune diseases can 
be linked to genetic and environmental factors. First-
degree relatives of MS patients are 20-40 times more 
likely to develop MS than the general population. In a 
twin study, the overall monozygotic-to-dizygotic 
concordance ratio of 3.0 reflected the heritable nature 
of MS. Further, the likely polygenic nature of heritability 
was supported by the finding that ancestry by northern 
latitude (highest risk in Celtic and Scandinavian) and 
early diagnosis were independent predictors of 
concordance among the monozygotic twins.
Environmental triggers may also be involved in the 
development of MS. A number of studies have 
suggested an association between smoking and MS. For 
example, a Norwegian cross sectional study of 22,312 
people found a higher risk of MS in smokers than non-
smokers (rate ratio 1.81; 95% Cl 1.1 2.9). Similar 
results were noted in a case control study from the UK.
Another possible risk factor for MS is the month of birth. 
A large population-based study found that the risk of 
MS is increased for those born in May and decreased for 
those born in November, suggesting that the 
gestational or neonatal environment influences the risk 
of MS later in life.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.4 and 4.8
PL section 2.2 and 4
Legal status: Prescription only
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Important identified risk: Malignancy 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Malignancy is listed in Section 4.4 warnings and 
precautions for use and section 4.8 Undesirable effects 
of the Remicade SmPC. The risk is also listed as an 
important identified risk in the RMP v19 public summary 
of the reference product Remicade. Therefore 
malignancy is considered to be an important identified 
risk for Zessly 
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Caution should be exercised when considering infliximab 
for patients with a history of malignancy, or patients 
with Ps and a medical history of extensive 
immunosuppressant therapy or prolonged PUVA 
treatment.
Caution should also be exercised when considering 
continuing treatment in subjects who develop a 
malignancy. 
Patients with COPD may be at an increased risk of 
cancer with infliximab treatment. 
Patients with UC at increased risk for dysplasia or colon 
carcinoma (e.g., patients with long-standing UC or 
primary sclerosing cholangitis), or with prior history of 
dysplasia or colon carcinoma, should be screened 
(colonoscopy, biopsy) for dysplasia at regular intervals 
before therapy and throughout their disease course. All 
reported cases of HSTCL in patients treated with 
infliximab have occurred in patients with CD or UC and 
the majority was reported in adolescent or young adult 
males. All of these patients had received treatment with 
AZA or 6 MP concomitantly with or immediately prior to 
infliximab. Cases of HSTCL have been reported in CD 
and UC patients receiving these drugs who were not 
treated with infliximab. Based on published series of 
cases, young men appear to be at a higher risk for 
HSTCL. Risk factors for HSTCL appear to be 
immunocompromised patients and patients undergoing 
solid organ transplantation.
Subjects with RA, particularly with highly active disease 
and/or chronic exposure to immunosuppressive agents, 
are at a higher risk for lymphoma disorders, even in the 
absence of TNF-￿-antagonist therapy. Epidemiological 
studies have generally shown that skin cancers are 
increased in patients with RA, and immunosuppression 
may potentiate this risk by shortening the latency 
period to expression of malignancy.
Immunosuppression is an important risk factor for 
cervical cancer; hence drugs that suppress immune 
response, such as those taken for autoimmune 
diseases, can increase cervical cancer risk. A Danish 
study observed that an increased cervical cancer risk in 
women with CD could be correlated with young age at 
diagnosis, smoking, 5-aminosalicylic acid, and 
thiopurine exposure.
The risk factors for SCC include chronic UVA and UVB 
exposure, increasing age, arsenic exposure, genetic 
predisposition, therapeutic radiation exposure, and 
immunosuppression. The risk factors for basal cell 
carcinoma include all those for SCC in addition to basal 
cell nervous syndrome. With respect to Ps patients, a 
higher risk of NMSC is seen in those with prior coal tar, 
UVB therapy, PUVA, retinoids, and cyclosporine 
therapy.
Risk factors for the development of melanomas can be 
categorized as environmental or host factors. Exposure 
to UV light, especially in patients with a fair complexion, 
history of sunburns, and poor ability to tan, is the most 
strongly correlated environmental risk factor with the 
development of melanoma. Patients with xeroderma 
pigmentosum who do not have the ability to repair UV 
light-induced DNA damage are particularly susceptible. 
Other environmental risk factors include living on or 
near the equator or higher elevations, exposure to 
petroleum products, industrial chemicals, and ionizing 
and non-ionizing radiation. Family or personal histories 
of melanoma and/or mutations in CDK N2A or CDK4 
genes are strong host risk factors. Additional host risk 
factors include the presence of 5 or more dysplastic 
nevi, large number of nevi or giant congenital nevus. 
Patients with conditions that are associated with 
immune suppression (i.e., HIV, organ transplantation) 
are at a higher risk of developing melanomas 
Risk factors associated with the development of MCC 
include exposure to UV radiation, immunosuppression, 
and possible viral etiology. MCC occurs most frequently 
among elderly white patients, and affects males (61%) 
more commonly than females (39%). The incidence of 
MCC was found to be higher in areas with a greater 
solar UVB radiation index. Immunosuppression 
increases the relative risk of MCC with an approximate 
13-fold increase in patients with HIV, and a 10-fold 
increase in solid-organ transplant patients. Patients with 
other tumors, such as squamous cell carcinoma and 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia, also have an increased 
risk of MCC.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.4, 4.8, and 5.3
PL section 2 and 4
Legal status: Prescription only
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal detection:
Specific adverse reaction follow-up questionnaire
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Participation in UKIBD (UK)
Important  potential  risk:  Colon  carcinoma/dysplasia  (in  pediatric 
ulcerative colitis)
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
As per Remicade SmPC, with current data, it is not 
known if infliximab treatment influcences the risk for 
developing dysplasia or colon cancer. However all 
patients with ulcerative colitis who are at increased risk 
for dysplasia or colon carcinoma (for example, patients 
with long-standing ulcerative colitis or primary 
sclerosing cholangitis), or who had a prior history of 
dysplasia or colon carcinoma should be screened for 
dysplasia at regular intervals before therapy and 
throughout their disease course (see section 4.4 Special 
warnings and precautions for use of the Remicade 
SmPC). As this risk is also listed as an important 
potential risk in the RMP v19 public summary of the 
reference product Remicade, colon carcinoma/dysplasia 
(in pediatric ulcerative colitis) is considered to be an 
important potential risk for Zessly.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Patients with long-standing UC or primary sclerosing 
cholangitis, or who had a prior history of dysplasia or 
colon carcinoma are at a higher risk for developing 
colon cancer or dysplasia. Other risk factors for 
development of colorectal dysplasia and cancer in 
patients with UC include extent of disease, family 
history of colorectal cancer, young age at diagnosis, 
and the presence of backwash ileitis (ileal inflammation 
in the context of UC).
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.4 and 5.3
Legal status: Prescription only
Additional risk minimization measures:
None
Additional 
pharmacovigilance 
activities
Routine pharmacovigilance activities beyond adverse 
reactions reporting and signal detection:
None
Additional pharmacovigilance activities:
Participation in UKIBD (UK) 
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of Zessly.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Study short name 
Rationale and study objectives
UKIBD (UK):
Inflammatory Bowel 
Disease (IBD) 
Registry
The UKIBD Registry provides the first ever UK-wide 
repository of anonymized IBD adult and pediatric 
patient data for prospective audit and research 
purposes. Bringing this data together for the first 
time will:
• Drive continuous improvement in patient care and 
access to care across the UK
Inform commissioning and service design
Improve our understanding of long term outcomes
•
•
• Provide local & national data in order to better 
define the pattern of ulcerative colitis and CD
• Support IBD research
