SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
This module reflects the initial scientific discussion for the approval of Zevalin. For information 
on changes after approval please refer to module 8. 
1. 
Introduction 
Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas (NHL) as a group is the most common malignant haematologic disease.  
NHL  is  the  common  name  for  a  cluster  of  related  but  individual  diseases,  which  have  neoplastic 
transformation  of  a  lymphoid  cell  as  the  common  denominator.  Eighty-  five  percent  are  B-cell 
derived, and 15% are of T-cell origin. Classification schemes have been based on histopathology and 
cytopathology,  supplemented  with  immunopathology  and  molecular  pathology.  The  use  of  the  new 
DNA-arrays  might  lead  to  a  further  refinement  in  classification.  The  International  Working 
Formulation (IWF) was standard in USA when the Zevalin studies were designed and therefore used 
for  enrolment.  Internationally  it  was  followed  by  the  REAL  classification  and  later  by  its  slightly 
modified version, the WHO classification. Translation of diagnoses within the systems is possible for 
most but not all classes.  
The so-called indolent lymphomas or low-grade lymphomas (including small lymphocytic lymphoma, 
lympho-plasmacytoid lymphomas, follicular lymphomas, MALT lymphoma) comprise about 40% of 
the  B-cell  lymphomas  with  follicular  lymphomas  being  the  most  frequent.  In  the  present  clinical 
studies of Zevalin 65-95% of the patients had follicular lymphoma. 
The diagnosis of NHL is primarily based on lymph node biopsy and immuno-pathology and will today 
often be supplemented by molecular analyses. Cytogenetic changes are characteristic for some of the 
lymphomas, e.g. t(14:18) and the Bcl-2 gene rearrangement in follicular lymphoma.  
The  NHL’s  are  disseminated  diseases  at  diagnosis,  either  stage  III  (involvement  of  lymph  node 
regions on both sides of the diaphragm) or IV (spread to extra lymphatic sites), while localized stages 
I  and II  are rare. In the present  clinical studies  around 90%  of  the  patients had stage III/IV  disease. 
Most patients with low-grade NHL are asymptomatic. Constitutional symptoms are seen in 10-15% of 
the cases. 
Even  within  a  single  histologic  NHL  entity  the  clinical  course  can  be  very  variable.  The  general 
pattern is a sequence of treatment responses and relapses, where response rates tend to diminish and 
response  durations  are  becoming  shorter  following  each  new  relapse  and  remission  induction.  For 
follicular  lymphomas  a  final  event  is  the  biological  tumour  progression,  where  the  lymphoma 
transforms to a more malignant subtype and/or involves unusual extra nodal sites. The survival is then 
usually  only a  few  months.  Prognostic  factors  have  been  identified  in  newly diagnosed  patients.  An 
international study of large cell lymphomas resulted in the International Prognostic Index  (IPI), which 
led to  a very useful and  now widely  accepted  separation into  prognostic groups. The index  has  also 
been  useful  in  low-grade  NHL.  Negative  factors  comprise  high  age  (>60),  poor  performance  status, 
advanced stage (III/IV), several extra nodal sites (> 2), high levels of LDH.  
The  treatment  of  low-grade  lymphomas  has  not  been  standardized.  Initial  therapy  can  vary  from 
observation  alone  (in  some  asymptomatic  patients  only)  to  monotherapy  with  alkylating  agents 
(probably the most used regimen) to 2-, 3- or 4-drug combinations of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, 
Adriamycin and prednisolone (with or without subsequent interferon-alfa), with overall response rates 
up to 80-90%, CR rates of 50-60% and response duration of 1-4 years. More intensive programs do 
not improve survival. Relapse treatment has also not been standardised and is depending on response 
to and response duration of initial therapy, growth pattern of the lymphoma, IPI score and symptoms. 
Repetition  of  the  initial  therapy  is  one  option.  Change  to  the  purine  analog  fludarabine  is  another 
option.  In  selected  patients  myeloablative  therapy  with  haemopoietic  stem  cell  support  is  still 
investigative due to lack of documented durable remissions.  
The  anti-CD20  chimeric  monoclonal  antibody,  rituximab,  which  has  received  Marketing 
Authorisation for treatment of relapsing patients, results in response rates of about 50% with a median 
time to progression of about 12 months in responding patients. 
1/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
Since  all  the  treatment  regimens  used  so  far  have  only  been  palliative  with  decreasing  success  rate 
with each new relapse, more effective treatment regimens are needed.  
Zevalin  contains  ibritumomab,  an  IgG1  kappa  immunoglobulin  produced  in  Chinese  hamster  ovary 
(CHO)  cells  which  reacts  specifically  with  the  CD20  antigen  found  on  the  surface  of  normal  and 
malignant  B  lymphocytes  (inc.  mature  B  cells,  activated  proliferating  B  cells  and  differentiating  B 
cells), targets of  its  cytotoxicity. Ibritumomab is  conjugated via  a  linker to the chelating  agent MX-
DTPA (tiuxetan), which securely chelates the radioisotope yttrium-90. Tiuxetan is stably bound to the 
antibody via a covalent, urea type bond. 
Ibritumomab  tiuxetan  achieves  selective  targeting  CD20+  cells,  which  are  inherently  sensitive  to 
radiation. The radionucleide  yttrium-90 (half-life  of  64  hours) emits pure  high-energy  beta radiation 
with a local tissue penetration (5 to 10 mm) and effect. 
The proposed Zevalin regimen combines the antibody-based tumour cell killing with rituximab with 
an  antibody  based  radioimmuno-therapy  and  thus  further  tumor-cell  killing,  but  with  a  different 
mechanism of action (radiation).  
2. 
Part II: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Composition.  Zevalin,  supplied  as  kit  for  radiopharmaceutical  preparation  for  intravenous  use, 
contains  four  components,  all  the  non-radioactive  ingredients  necessary  to  produce  a  single  dose  of 
[90Y] ZEVALIN.  
1 vial of ibritumomab tiuxetan 1.6 mg/ml 
1 vial of 50 mM sodium acetate  
1 vial of formulation buffer  
1 empty reaction vial 
Yttrium-90 [90Y] is not part of the kit and should be provided by the end-user. 
Composition of the 
components 
1. Ibritumomab tiuxetan 
1 
2 
3 
2. 50 mM Sodium Acetate 
1 
Name of ingredient 
Ibritumomab tiuxetan 
Sodium chloride 
Water for injections 
Sodium acetate 
(amount calculated as 
trihydrate) 
Water for injections 
Quantity pr. ml Function 
Reference to 
standards 
1.6 mg 
8.8 mg 
q.s. 
6.8 mg 
Active substance 
In house 
Isotonizing agent  Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
Solvent 
Buffering agent 
Ph.Eur. 
q.s. 
Solvent 
Ph.Eur. 
2 
3. Formulation buffer: 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
74.97 mg 
7.56 mg 
2.06 mg 
0.40 mg 
0.19 mg 
0.19 mg 
Albumin Human 
Sodium Chloride 
Sodium phosphate 
dibasic (dodecahydrate) 
Pentetic acid (DTPA) 
Potassium dihydrogen 
phosphate 
Potassium chloride 
Sodium Hydroxide 1N  q.s. 
q.s. 
Hydrochloric Acid 1N 
q.s. 
Water for injections 
Radioprotectant 
Ph.Eur. 
Isotonizing agent  Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
Buffering agent 
Chelating agent 
Buffering agent 
USP 
Ph.Eur. 
Isotonizing agent  Ph.Eur. 
Ph.Eur. 
pH adjustment 
Ph.Eur. 
pH adjustment 
Ph.Eur. 
Solvent  
2/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
Container 
The  container  is  the  same  for  all  components;  a  colourless  Type  I  glass  vial,  teflon-faced  gray 
bromobutyl rubber stopper, alu-cap, different coloured flip-off seal.  
Clinical Trial Formula 
There were no changes in composition of the intended commercial product from the phase III clinical 
trials for both ibritumomab tiuxetan and the 50mM Sodium Acetate components. For the Formulation 
Buffer  component,  there  were  two  minor  changes  to  provide  conformity  to  pharmacopoeial 
monographs.  
Data provided showed that the changes proposed  do not affect the integrity and/or specificity of the 
antibody. 
The  manufacturing  process  for  the  ibritumomab  tiuxetan  solution  has  been  changed  to  improve 
consistency. The original murine hybridoma was replaced by an ibritumomab producing CHO cell line 
during  the  initial  preclinical  and  clinical  trials.  The  ibritumomab  producing  CHO  clone  was 
manufactured by IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corp., San Diego, CA, USA (IDEC) and a master cell bank 
was established. The MCB was established and used for phase II and III clinical trials and is also used 
for the intended commercial product.  
The commercial product will be manufactured by IDEC with the fill and finish conducted by Baxter 
Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC, Bloomington, IN, USA.  
Ibritumomab tiuxetan has been shown to be comparable regardless of place of manufacture identified 
by  equivalent  molecular  weight,  amino  acid  composition,  amino  acid  sequence,  radioincorporation 
and  binding.  Post  translational  modifications  were  also  comparable  as  identified  by  equivalent 
oligosaccharide profile, compositional monosaccharide content and N- and C-terminal processing.  
The 50 mM sodium acetate bulk solution and the formulation buffer bulk solution are manufactured 
by  IDEC  Pharmaceuticals.    The  fill  and  finish  as  well  as  the  manufacture  of  the  reaction  vial  take 
place at Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions LLC, Bloomington, IN, USA. 
Production and Control of Starting Materials 
Ibritumomab  tiuxetan,  IDEC-2B8-MX-DTPA  is  defined  as  the  active  substance  in  Zevalin.  It  is 
obtained  by  chemically  linking  the  monoclonal  antibody  ibritumomab  (IDEC-2B8)  to  the  amino 
directed bifunctional chelate MX-DTPA. 
Specifications and routine tests 
A batch of antibody is defined as the product of a single inoculation step in the fermentation bioreactor 
followed  by fermentation, harvest  and  purification steps. Specifications  are  established  based  on  the 
batches produced during development and the qualification and consistency lots.  They cover all the 
important  quality  aspects.    The  current  limits  for  selected  items  will  be  assessed  for  relevance  after 
gaining more manufacturing experience. 
Development genetics 
The monoclonal antibody ibritumomab is produced by genetically engineered Chinese Hamster Ovary 
cells. 
The ibritumomab expression construct, containing a murine anti-CD20 light chain gene and a murine 
anti-CD20 heavy chain gene, has been thoroughly documented by the manufacturer and is described in 
the dossier.  
The  manufacture  of  ibritumomab  at  IDEC  Pharmaceuticals  begins  with  a  genetically  engineered 
Chinese  Hamster  Ovary  master  cell  bank  (MCB).  The  MCB  has  been  thoroughly  characterised 
according  to  current  ICH  guidelines  (Q5D).  The  MCB  was  prepared  without  the  use  of  animal-  or 
human-derived components.  
The  manufacturer  has  demonstrated  the  integrity  of  the  expression  construct  in  the  MCB  following 
extended  production  culture  according  to  current  ICH  guidelines  (Q5B).  No  changes  in  integration 
sites,  copy  number,  or  immunoglobulin  sequences  were  observed  between  MCB  and  EOP  cell. 
3/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
Furthermore,  tryptic  map  analysis  of  the  immunogloblin  gene  protein  product  further  confirmed 
genetic stability. 
Genetic stability: 
End of production cells (EOP) were characterised.  
Cell Bank System 
The cell bank system consists of a Master Cell Bank. No working cell bank has been established. The 
MCB inventory will ensure adequate supply. 
A description of the characterisation of the MCB and the testing for adventitious contaminants of the 
MCB and End of Production (EOP) has been provided. The manufacturer has performed the necessary 
studies  to  confirm  the  integrity  of  the  expression  construct  and  the  absence  of  endogenous  viruses 
according to current ICH guidelines. 
Production 
The antibody ibritumomab is manufactured by IDEC Pharmaceutical Corporation, San Diego, CA. 
Fermentation and Purification 
In vitro viral and mycoplasma testing is performed by a qualified contract laboratory. 
Flowchart of the fermentation and harvesting of ibritumomab has been provided in the dossier. 
The  purification  process is  based on  a  combination  of  chromatographic techniques, as well as  viral 
inactivation  and  removal  steps.  An  ultrafiltration/diafiltration  step  is  performed  to  concentrate  the 
antibody and perform buffer exchange. The solution is stored at 2-8 oC. 
The  presented  holding  times  between  the  respective  purification  steps  were  validated  and  are  found 
acceptable.  
Sanitation of the chromatographic columns have been satisfactorily described as well as a maximum 
number  of  cycles  have  been  proposed  on  the  basis  of  studies  performing  repeated  cycles  for  each 
chromatographic resins.  
Conjugation of the Antibody 
The  manufacture  of  bulk  ibritumomab  tiuxetan  at  IDEC  begins  with  the  chemical  reaction  of 
ibritumomab  with 
of 
diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA).  
reagent  MX-DTPA, 
heterobifunctional 
derivative 
the 
a 
An adequate description of the synthesis of MX-DTPA and specification are included in the dossier. 
A flow chart of the conjugation of the antibody, and the critical parameters of the reaction are included 
in  the  dossier.  Data  demonstrate  that  the  process  limits  specified  in  the  manufacturing  records  will 
allow for optimal radioincorporation and CD20 binding activity.  
The  conjugated  antibody,  IDEC-2B8-MX-DTPA,  is  filled  into  sterile-vented,  sterilized  dedicated 
containers  for  storage,  until  is  filled  and  finished  at  Baxter  Pharmaceutical  Solutions  LLC, 
Bloomington, IN, USA. Storage time and conditions are adequately described. 
Process Controls 
A list of in-process controls performed during the manufacture of IDEC-2B8, conjugation, and final 
filling steps are included in the submitted documentation and are found acceptable.  
Characterisation 
The antibody, ibritumomab is a 1316 amino acid murine IgG1 antibody consisting of two light chains 
of 213 residues and two heavy chains of 445 residues. The antibody contains the entire murine light 
and heavy chain variable regions and the murine gamma 1 heavy chain and kappa light chain constant 
regions. The molecular weight calculated from the primary sequence of the reduced, non-glycosylated 
form is 144 248 Daltons.  
A variety of methods were applied to confirm the primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary structure 
of IDEC-2B8 as well as its biological activity.   
4/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
The glycosylation patterns were shown to have some minor variability caused by different glycoforms. 
The  charge  microheterogenicity  was  demonstrated  to  be  as  expected  batch  to  batch  consistent  by 
the 
appropriate  chromatographic 
microheterogeneities that have been observed have no impact on the binding activity of IDEC-2B8. 
techniques.  The  applicant  has  sufficiently 
justified 
that 
A  summary  of  all  characterization  studies  including  the  obtained  results  has  been  provided  by  the 
applicant and data have shown comparability and consistency between lots. 
Study  reports  of  biological  activity  were  performed  with  antibody  obtained  from  both  the  initial 
murine hybridoma cell line and the CHO cell line. An overview on cross-reactivity with human tissues 
is provided in the Expert report on the toxico- pharmacological (non clinical) documentation. 
The active substance ibritumomab tiuxetan is obtained by reaction of the antibody with the chelator, 
MX-DTPA.  A  schematic  presentation  of  the  reaction  has  been  given.  The  consistency  of  the 
conjugation process is controlled by the relevant parameters. The applicant has committed to submit a 
report on the re-evaluation of the specification after a defined number of batches. 
Data on characterisation, comparability and consistency confirmed that the overall structure was not 
negatively affected by the conjugation reaction.  
Essentially the same methods used for characterisation of the antibody were used to characterise the 
conjugated  antibody.    The  results  showed  no  difference  between  IDEC-2B8  and  IDEC-2B8-MX-
DTPA.  The  changes  observed  were  directly  related  to  the  conjugation  ratio  and  the  isoelectric 
focusing patterns were similarly affected. 
Secondary and tertiary structure were shown not to be affected by the conjugation.  The applicant has 
sufficiently  shown  that  the  conjugation  reaction  does  not  induce  noticeable  changes  in  the 
microheterogeneties that are present in the antibody. Binding activity studies with CD20 positive cells 
demonstrated that the conjugation reaction of IDEC-2B8 with MX-DTPA is associated with a small 
loss of immunoreactivity. The binding was however consistent with the reference material. 
After radiolabelling the binding activity was not negatively impacted and the stability of the labelled 
complex in vitro was acceptable. Results of all studies are provided and found acceptable. 
Analytical validation 
Validation reports for all analytical methods applied to the antibody and the conjugated antibody are 
provided and found acceptable. 
Test results demonstrate that the batch chosen to serve as reference standard is suitable with regard to 
structural and biochemical characteristics as well as potency and purity.  
Process Validation 
The process validation demonstrated that the process is able to reduce potential impurities such as host 
cell protein, host cell DNA, reagents. It is found acceptable that test for DNA and reagents used during 
manufacturing is not carried out routinely. 
Data demonstrating the removal of residual MX-DTPA for three batches produced at full-scale have 
been submitted. The results are similar to the results of the small-scale validation. In addition, results 
of finished product release testing were all within specifications. 
Even  though  batch  results  have  shown  that  bacterial  endotoxin  is  reduced  below  the  detection  limit 
during the manufacturing process a spiking experiment was performed to demonstrate the capability of 
a  defined  chromatographic  step  to  reduce  potential  endotoxins.  The  study  showed  an  acceptable 
reduction factor. 
Excipients 
All  excipients  used  in  the  ZEVALIN  kit  except  the  pentetic  acid  (USP)  comply  with  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements. 
None  of  the  excipients  used  are  animal  or  human-derived,  with  the  exception  of  Human  Albumin, 
which is a component of the Formulation Buffer vial. 
5/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 All  routine  test  methods  utilized  for  the  evaluation  of  the  excipients  are  described  in  the 
pharmacopoeia.  
Human  albumin  is  used  as  stabiliser  in  the  formulation  buffer  to  protect  from  radiolysis.  A  20% 
human albumin solution complying with Ph.Eur. is used. A separate dossier including a plasma master 
file has been submitted in accordance with current recommendations. The expiry date of the Zevalin 
kit component "formulation buffer" will be for the time being limited by the expiry date of HSA batch 
used. 
Finished Product 
Development Pharmaceutics 
The  selected  formulation of ibritumomab tiuxetan is  ready to use  and  was chosen to  retain  potency, 
purity and protein integrity. A 0.2 µm filter is required for the administration of the finished product.  
This is stated in the SmPC text under the heading "Dosage". 
Because of the protein present  in the solution, it can not be terminally sterilised. 
The 50 mM sodium acetate component is used to adjust pH of the yttrium-90 radioisotope solution in 
order  to  facilitate  radioincorporation  with  ibritumomab  tiuxetan.  This  component  is  terminally 
sterilised. 
The  formulation  buffer  component  is  added  at  the  end  of  the  radiolabelling  reaction  to  stabilise  the 
radiolabelled product and to provide buffering capacity around  pH  6.5.  Human Albumin serves as a 
radioprotectant  from  autoradiolysis  of  the  labelled  antibody.  DTPA  is  present  to  chelate  any  trace 
amounts  of  free  yttrium-90  remaining  after  reaction,  to  enhance  rapid  excretion.  Because  of  the 
protein present in the solution it can not be terminally sterilised. 
The  empty  reaction  vial  is  included  to  allow  preparation  of  the  radiolabelled  dose.  It  can  not  be 
terminally  sterilised  as  there  is  no  liquid  present  to  perform  moist  heat  sterilisation  and  the  rubber 
stoppers and flip-off seals can not withstand irradiation or dry heat sterilisation. 
Method of Preparation 
The  manufacture  of  ibritumomab,  ibritumomab  tiuxetan  and  of  the  other  bulk  components  is 
performed  by  IDEC  Pharmaceuticals.  The  bulk  solutions  are  shipped  to  Baxter  Pharmaceutical 
Solutions, LLC, Bloomington, IN, USA, this being under contract to IDEC to manufacture the four kit 
components (fill-finish). Both IDEC Pharmaceuticals and Baxter operate under CGMPs. 
IDEC  releases  the  kit  components  to  Schering  AG,  Berlin,  Germany,  where  they  are  labelled, 
packaged, re-tested and released as a kit for radiopharmaceutical preparation to distribution in the EU. 
Schering AG, Berlin, Germany, performs packaging and EU release of the Zevalin kit. 
Manufacturing Process 
Flow charts of the manufacturing process and the filling have been submitted.  
Manufacture of the antibody and conjugation with the chelator is adequately described. Adequate in-
process  controls  are  in  place  throughout  the  manufacturing  process,  including  control  of  the  filter 
integrity of all filters prior use. The filling process uses aseptic techniques and final sterile filtration 
prior to filling into sterile, depyrogenated vials. 
The manufacture of 50 mM sodium acetate is performed using conventional techniques. The 50 mM 
sodium acetate is terminally sterilised. 
The  formulation  buffer  is  manufactured  using  conventional  aseptic  techniques  and  final  sterile 
filtration prior to filling into sterile, depyrogenated vials. 
The  empty  reaction  vial  is  manufactured  using  conventional  aseptic  techniques,  using  sterile, 
depyrogenated vials, and sterile stoppers. 
In accordance with the Guideline, radiopharmaceuticals information on the final processing required 
to produce the radioactive medical product has been provided and it is included in the SPC.  
6/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
Transportation  of  the  kit  components  to  Schering  AG  and  packaging  of  the  kit  has  been  adequately 
described. 
Validation of the Process 
The validation data support that the process will manufacture a product of consistent quality. 
Specifications and Routine Tests 
Release  and  shelf  life  specifications  for  ibritumomab  tiuxetan,  sodium  acetate,  reaction  vial  and 
formulation buffer have been provided. 
The  specifications  have  been  found  acceptable.  The  applicant  has  committed  to  evaluate  the 
specification limits for certain items after more manufacturing experience has been gained. 
Appropriate  documentation  has  been  submitted  for  finished  product  release  testing,  showing  that 
methods in use have been successfully transferred.  
Control methods 
All testing methods are provided and found acceptable.  
Analytical Validation 
Validation reports for all tests performed on ibritumomab tiuxetan, sodium acetate, formulation buffer 
and reaction vial are provided and found satisfactory.  
Reference material 
A  reference  standard  lot  was  established.  The  potency  of  the  reference  standard  is  set  at  100%  and 
assigned a specific activity of 1x103 units/mg. 
Stability and procedures for requalification/replacement of reference material have been sufficiently 
described. 
Stability 
Stability studies have been conducted in accordance with ICH guidelines.  
Based  on  the  available  data  provided,  storage  times  for  the  formulation  buffer  and  for  the  sodium 
acetate bulk solutions, until fill/finish at the contractor Baxter are acceptable. 
Stability Tests on Active substance 
Ibritumomab and ibritumomab tiuxetan 
Based  on  the  available  data  provided,  the  proposed  storage  time  for  ibritumomab  and  ibritumomab 
tiuxetan bulk substance at the conditions specified can be accepted. 
Stability Tests on the Finished Product 
On the basis of the available data, the shelf-life as provided in the SPC is acceptable 
Conjugated antibody ibritumomab tiuxetan: 
A stability protocol was conducted in accordance with ICH guidelines.  
A  shipping  simulation  study  was  conducted  and  results  show  that  IDEC-2B8-MX-DTPA  can  be 
shipped to distribution sites under ambient temperatures. 
Stability studies will continue, in accordance with the stability protocol. A commitment to submit real-
time stability results of the ongoing stability studies has been provided.  
Shelf life of the radiolabelled product: A shelf life of 8 hours for the radioactive labelled ibritumomab 
tiuxetan can be accepted. 
In the SPC it is recommended to use the product immediately after radiolabelling. 
Virological Documentation 
The tests indicated comply with the NfG “Production and quality control of monoclonal antibodies”. 
7/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
HAP testing was originally performed on the MCB using a modified HAP/MAP testing protocol based 
on the recommendations found in the “Points to Consider in the Characterisation of Cell Lines to 
Produce Biologicals”, 1993.  IDEC has since performed additional antibody production testing to 
include RAP tests.  The testing conducted is considered consistent with that recommended in the 
“Note for guidance on production and quality control of monoclonal antibodies” (Revised 1995). 
The choice for cell cultures used for in vitro testing has been adequately justified. This includes MRC-
5 and Vero cell lines routinely utilized for the detection of bovine viruses. 
Viral  validation  studies  have  been  performed  for  different  steps  of  the  manufacturing  process.  The 
model viruses were chosen for their range of physico-chemical characteristics and MuLV furthermore 
represents potential retrovirus contaminants in the bulk harvest. 
Only  steps,  which  potentially  contribute,  to  clearance  of  that  particular  class  of  viruses  were 
challenged. The studies were performed using suitable virus assays. 
The scale down parameters and critical operation parameters were conserved to ensure that the down 
scaled virus validation studies were representative of the commercial process.  
The manufacturing process has satisfactorily demonstrated to inactivate/remove a range of model 
viruses. 
Study reports for the viral validation studies are provided and found satisfactory. 
Viral clearance from chromatographic columns: 
The  ability  of  the  chromatographic  resins  to  clear  viruses  at  the  maximum  number  of  cycles  was 
confirmed with the viral validation studies performed with chromatographic resins used for a defined 
number of cycles.   
The company’s proposed maximum number of cycles for these columns is found acceptable. 
Satisfactory log reduction factors were obtained from sanitation solutions used to inactivate viruses for 
the chromatographic resins. 
Each  lot  of  pre-harvest  cell  culture  fluid  is  tested  to  ensure  the  freedom  of  adventitious  virus 
(including Minute Virus of Mice) and mycoplasmas. 
The analytical methods have been satisfactorily validated. 
Extra PCR methods for the detection of Minute Virus of Mice and Mycoplasma are performed as 
rapid analysis for the mentioned viruses.  
During the clinical trials the patients were observed for infections. There is no evidence that Zevalin 
administration can cause viral infections due to contamination of the product. 
There are no specific plans with regard to viral pharmacovigilance, which is considered acceptable. 
Conclusion 
The  Quality  documentation  is  in  general  acceptable  and  EU  guidelines  are  fulfilled.  During  the 
evaluation process, a  number  of  questions were raised regarding  specifications  limits. Most of these 
have been adequately solved, while some remaining issues will be addressed on an ongoing basis.  
3. 
Part III: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Ibritumomab  is  conjugated  via  a  linker  to  the  chelating  agent  DTPA  (tiuxetan),  which  securely 
chelates the radioisotope yttrium-90. Ibritumomab tiuxetan achieves selective targeting CD20+ cells, 
which  are  inherently  sensitive  to  radiation.  There  is  not  evidence  of  antibody  dependant  cellular 
cytotoxicity. The radionuclide yttrium-90 (half-life of 64 hours) emits pure high-energy beta radiation 
with a local tissue penetration (5 to 10 mm) and exerts the cytotoxic effect.  
• 
In vitro studies  
8/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
The in vitro immune reactivity and specificity studies both of the murine hybridoma derived antibody 
and of the CHO derived one – intended for the clinical use – showed that binding was only found to 
freshly isolated human B-cells, and revealed no species cross-reactivity. Studies where provided also 
indicating  an  equivalence  of  the  hybridoma-produced  and  the  CHO-produced  ibritumomab  with 
respect to specificity for the target antigen.  
Studies of cytotoxic effect in two CD20 positive human cell lines could not demonstrate any antibody 
dependant cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) and complement-mediated cytotoxicity.  
Apoptosis  could  not  be  induced  by  ibritumomab  in  its  monomeric  form,  but  only  after  hyper-cross-
linking via secondary antibodies.  
Further  characterisation  studies  were  made  both  with  the  CHO-derived  antibody  alone  and  with  the 
antibody-tiuxetan  conjugate.  The  CHO  derived  antibody  maintained  the  specificity  for  the  CD20 
antigen. The antibody and its conjugate showed a similar binding curve and a similar staining pattern 
in  a  number  of  different  human  tissues  (lymphoid  cells  in  bone  marrow,  lymph  nodes,  lymphoid 
nodules of the small and large intestine, thymus and tonsils and in the white/red pulp of the spleen). 
No  reactivity  was  seen  on  other  cells  such  as  epithelia,  neuro-ectodermal  structures,  mesenchymal 
tissues.  
• 
In vivo studies  
The only suitable animal model is the Cynomolgus monkey. Since there is no valid lymphoma model 
in  monkeys  a  mice  model  was  also  used  to  investigate  the  effect  of  radio-labeled  antibodies  on 
tumours  and  also  for  bio-distribution  studies  and  for  estimation  of  the  radiation  doses  to  normal 
tissues.  
Repeated  administration  in  monkeys  (7  doses  over  13  days)  of  doses  of  0.003,  0.03,  and  0.3  mg/kg 
had  only  little  effect  on  the  circulating  B-cells  and  no  other  significant  abnormalities  were  found. 
Repeated administration of higher doses (0.6 up to 10 mg/kg) with different schedules led to a distinct 
depletion of circulating B-cells with up to >50% loss when compared to pre-treatment values with a 
recovery  around  day  50.  When  pre-treatment  with  rituximab  was  used  in  these  experiments  the 
depletion  was  almost  complete,  more  prolonged  and  evident  for  all  sites  of  B-lymphocytes.  A 
saturation  of  the  B-cells  and  antibody  excess  in  plasma  was  seen  from  a  dose  of  0.6  mg/kg  and 
upward.    No  effect  was  seen  on  T-cells  and  no  adverse  effects  were  noted.  All  monkeys  developed 
monkey  anti-mouse  antibodies  (MAMA)  against  the  ibritumomab  tiuxetan.  The  clinical  preparation, 
the radioactive [90Y]-conjugate, has not been examined in the monkey. Such a study, with or without 
pre-treatment  with  rituximab,  would  have  given  valuable  information  on  the  effect  of  the  antibody 
delivered  radiation  on  the  decline  and  recovery  times  of  the  normal  B-cells  and  would  serve  as  a 
useful basis for examination of the effect in human lymphoma patients where also neoplastic B-cells 
are present. 
In the mice model (Burkitt lymphoma cell line Ramos transplanted s.c. into athymic mice), in a saline 
controlled  study  with  radio-labelled  Zevalin,  all  animal  groups  –  including  the  saline  controls  - 
showed  reduced  tumour  growth,  but  no  difference  was  seen  between  the  three  groups.  As  an 
antineoplastic effect was not demonstrated in the nude mouse model, these experiments should have 
been expanded. 
Pharmacokinetics 
The number of pharmacokinetic studies performed in animals was limited due to the lack of relevant 
animal models and due to the well documented pharmacokinetic profile of Zevalin in patients. Several 
batches of both murine and CHO-derived antibodies were used; two suppliers of yttrium-90 and two 
methods  of  purification  of  the  final  radioactive  product  were  used.  Differences  were  tested  in 
comparative  studies  and  were  generally  found  to  be  without  significant  influence  on  the  overall 
results. 
Two  groups  of cynomolgus  monkeys received  on  day 1  and  8 either  an  i.v.  dose of non-radioactive 
[89Y]  ibritumomab  tiuxetan  1.5  mg/kg    alone  (group  2  in  Table  below)  or  in  combination  with  30 
mg/kg rituximab (group 3 in Table) and the pharmacokinetic profile was evaluated following the first 
dose.  Co-treatment  with  rituximab  increases  the  serum  level  and  the  half-life  of  the  conjugate  is 
prolonged from 17 to 73 hours: 
9/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
Pharmacokinetic Parameters of [89Y] ibritumomab tiuxetan 
Cmax 
µg/mL 
38.68 
49.95 
AUC 
µg.hr/mL 
1030.17 
2561.28 
T½ 
hours 
17.19 
73.70 
CI 
mL/hr 
5.02 
1.75 
Vss 
mL 
126.41 
165.81 
Group 
2 
3 
Bio-distribution studies with the radioactive compound were carried out in mice, in which the B-cells 
cannot bind the ibritumomab antibody. Estimation of human tissue radiation doses were made on the 
basis of this model, which has some limitations since the human situation implies radiation from both 
circulating and fixed antibody-complexed B-cell compartments of both neoplastic and normal nature. 
The treatment in humans requires two steps. The first is an attempt of clearing the blood of circulating 
normal  and  malignant  B-cells  using  rituximab.  The  second  step  is  after  another  dose  of  rituximab 
followed by the radiolabelled Zevalin. At the timepoint of the Zevalin injection, the circulating normal 
or malignant B-cells should be substantially reduced, allowing targeting of the B-cell lymphomas. 
Toxicology 
In  an  early  acute  toxicity study  cynomolgus  monkeys  received  a  single  i.v.  dose  of  10  mg/kg  (  480 
times  the  suggested  clinical  dose  in  term  of  bodyweight)  of  murine  hybridoma  cell  derived 
ibritumomab  (non-conjugated).  The  only  finding  was  a  distinct  depletion  of  the  circulating  B-cells 
without full recovery at day 52 in one of the animals. 
Three  products  were  examined  in  repeated  dose  studies:  hybridoma-derived  antibody,  hybridoma-
derived  [89Y]-labeled  conjugate  and  CHO-derived  [89Y]-labeled  conjugate.  Moderate,  but  variable 
decrease  in  circulating  B-cells  was  a  consistent  finding  in  all  experiments.  Pre-treatment  with 
rituximab  30  mg/kg  together  with  the  1.5  mg/kg  of  the  conjugate  led  to  a  more  pronounced  and 
prolonged depletion of B-cells both in the circulation and in the tissues from day 2 with only a trend 
towards recovery at day 55. 
Reproductive and developmental studies were not performed since no cross-reactivity of the antibody 
with human tissues other than the B-lymphocytes was seen. The antibody is therefore not suspected to 
have any specific effect on male or female fertility. However, a damaging potential is present from the 
ionizing radiation from yttrium-90. Zevalin is contraindicated during pregnancy and lactation. Due to 
the radiation it is recommended that male patients use contraceptive measures during treatment and for 
12  months  post  treatment  (20  times  the  half-life  of  yttrium-90  plus  3  spermatogenesis  cycles). 
Likewise  women  of  childbearing  potential  should  use  contraceptive  methods  for  12  months  (SPC 
sections 4.4 & 4.6). 
Mutagenicity studies have not been performed since it is generally accepted, that it is not applicable 
for  biotechnological  products  as  monoclonal  antibodies.  However,  a  mutagenic  and  a  carcinogenic 
potential  from  the  ionizing  radiation  from  yttrium  90  cannot  be  ruled  out.    Again  the  estimated 
absorbed radiation dose to human tissues with the single use seems acceptable when the indication is 
considered. 
No  local  tolerance  adverse  effects  have  been  noted  following  i.v.  administration.  No  other  studies 
were performed. 
Risks  from  the  radiolabel:    Due  to  the  high  rate  of  incorporation  of  the  yttrium-90  (at  least  95  % 
required for therapeutic use) little free yttrium-90 is expected to occur in the formulation and it will be 
complexed  to  the  excess  DTPA  in  the  formulation  buffer  and  therefore  be  excreted  quickly  after 
administration. Since the binding of the yttrium-90 in the ibritumomab-linker complex is very stable, 
the risk of incorporation of free yttrium-90 in any tissue is low. The radiation of non-target organs will 
therefore mainly occur by the circulating labelled antibody.  Based on the mouse data described above 
the radiation dose to normal human tissue is expected to be not higher than 2000cGy for organs and 
300cGy for bone marrow. The decay product of yttrium-90, zirconium-90, is a stable isotope with low 
toxic potential. 
10/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
In part of the clinical studies (imaging/ dosimetry) labelling of ibritumomab tiuxetan is done with 5-
mCi  indium-111.  It  has  a  short  half-life,  2.8  days,  emits  gamma  radiation  and  X-rays,  and  is 
considered  a  safe  standard  drug  for  diagnostic  imaging.  The  risk  is  here  restricted  to  the  radiation 
derived  from  the  circulating  radiolabelled  antibody  and  was  by  extrapolation  from  the  mouse  data 
found to be within acceptable limits. 
Discussion on toxico-pharmacological aspects 
The  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  pharmacodynamic  studies  have  confirmed  the  specificity  for  the  CD20 
positive  human  cell  antigen  binding  while  no  reactivity  was  seen  on  other  cells  such  as  epithelia, 
neuro-ectodermal  structures,  mesenchymal  tissues.  No  effect  was  seen  on  T-cells  and  no  adverse 
effects were noted.   
There was not evidence of antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. The radionuclide 90Y (half-life of 
64 hours) emits pure high-energy beta radiation with a local tissue penetration (5 to 10 mm) and exerts 
the cytotoxic effect.  It should be noted that in the pre-clinical studies an antineoplastic effect was not 
demonstrated in the nude mouse model and that there were no studies conducted in other species with 
the  radio-labelled  ibritumomab  tiuxetan,  to  further  expand  on  the  effect  of  the  antibody  delivered 
radiation on the decline and recovery times of the normal B-cells and would serve as a useful basis for 
examination of the effect in human lymphoma patients where also non neoplastic B-cells are present. 
Some  of  the  toxicity  studies  were  conducted  using  hybridoma-derived  antibody,  hybridoma-derived 
[89Y]-labeled conjugate and CHO-derived [89Y]-labeled conjugate.  
The consistent finding in toxicity studies was a variable depletion of the circulating B-cells. No other 
positive  findings  were  observed.  As  the  radioactive  final  product  is  solidly  chelated  to  ibritumomab 
tiuxetan,  the  risk  of  incorporation  of  free  yttrium-90  in  any  tissue  is  low:  Toxicity  risks  appeared 
therefore  to  be  mostly  related  to  the  radiation  derived  from  the  circulating  radiolabelled  antibody.  
Because  of  the  radiation  toxicity  Zevalin  is  contraindicated  during  pregnancy  and  lactation  and  it  is 
recommended that male likewise women of childbearing potential use contraceptive measures during 
treatment and for 12 months post treatment (SPC sections 4.4 & 4.6). 
4. 
Part IV: Clinical aspects 
Zevalin is a recombinant monoclonal murine IgG1 kappa antibody, ibritumomab, directed against the 
B-lymphocyte  membrane  antigen  CD20,  covalently  linked  through  a  stable  thiourea  bond  to  a 
chelating  agent  tiuxetan  to  which  a  radioligand  can  be  attached.  Zevalin  is  supplied  as  a  kit  for 
radiolabelling with yttrium-90 ([90Y]-labelled Zevalin). The radioisotope is not part of the kit. 
The requested therapeutic indication is: ‘Treatment of patients with rituximab relapsed or refractory, 
CD20+ follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL)'.  
Treatment with [90Y] Zevalin is preceded by infusion with rituximab (MabThera®) in order to optimise 
bio-distribution of radiolabelled antibody by blocking or depleting CD20 binding sites, i.e. those on 
circulating B-lymphocytes and in normal or involved tissues with large number of B-cells and with 
high blood flow (such as spleen and liver). Ibritumomab and rituximab contain identical Fab 
(Fragment antigen-binding) sequences and both antibodies bind strongly and specifically to the CD20 
antigen. Rituximab, a chimeric human/murine IgG1 monoclonal antibody was licensed in the 
European Union for the treatment of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma in 1998.  
In the present application of Zevalin preceded by rituximab, the recommended treatment schedule is as 
follows; day 1 an intravenous infusion of rituximab 250 mg/m2, day 8 an intravenous infusion of 
rituximab 250 mg/m2, immediately followed by a single [90Y]- labelled Zevalin infusion. The 
recommended dose of [90Y] Zevalin is either 0.4 mCi/kg body weight (up to a maximum of 32 mCi) 
for patients with a baseline platelet count ≥ 150,000/mm3 or 0.3 mCi/kg for patients with a baseline 
platelet count between 100,000 and 150,000/mm3 (up to a maximum of 32 mCi).  
[90Y] Zevalin achieves selective targeting of radiotherapy to lymphoma cells, which are inherently 
sensitive to radiolysis. As a pure, high energy, beta-emitting isotope, yttrium-90 can deliver energy to 
the tumour. The path length of radiation, 5 mm, allows to kill tumour cells in the vicinity of the 
antibody-bound cell without direct binding of the antibody (bystander effect). These characteristics 
may be especially advantageous in the treatment of bulky or poorly vascularised tumours. However, 
11/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
the increased beta range results in energy deposition throughout a larger volume, which may reduce 
the dose to some tumour regions. The bystander effect can also cause damage to healthy cells, e.g. 
bone marrow stem cells, in the vicinity of the antibody binding cells. The half-life of yttrium-90 (2.7 
days versus 8 days for iodine-131) approximates the biological half-life of the radiolabelled antibody, 
which may minimise toxicity to non-target organs. As yttrium-90 is a pure beta emitter, it can be given 
on an outpatient basis with few radiation precautions.  
The clinical trials were performed according to GCP standards. 
Six clinical trials with a total of 306 patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell lymphoma have been 
submitted. The program comprised three dose finding, tolerability and pilot trials (106-01, 106-02 and 
106-03), one multicentre, randomised active-controlled phase III trial (106-04, pivotal study) and two 
supportive phase II trials in special populations (106-05, 106-06). Study 106-05 was conducted to 
study the efficacy and safety of the reduced dose of 0.3 mCi/kg [90Y]-Zevalin in patients with mild 
thrombocytopenia at baseline (100,000 to 149,000/mm3). Study 106-06 was conducted in patients 
refractory to standard treatment with rituximab. Response rates and duration of response to [90Y] 
Zevalin were compared to results obtained for each patient’s last chemotherapy. 
Summary table of Clinical Studies with [111In] Zevalin and [90Y] Zevalin 
Study 
Protocol 
[ref] 
106-01 
[A00004] 
Title 
Design and 
Enrolment 
Treatment of B-Cell Lymphoma with 
[90Y]-labelled Pan B Monoclonal 
Antibody with Peripheral Stem Cell 
or Autologous Bone Marrow 
Transplantation. 
Phase 1 Open-Label, 
ascending single dose 
escalation Trial;  
17 patients enrolled, 
14 treated with [90Y] Zevalin. 
106-02 
[A00003] 
A Phase I/II Clinical Trial of IDEC-
Y2B8 Given Every Six to Eight 
Weeks to Patients with B-Cell 
Lymphoma. 
Phase I Open-label, ascending 
multiple dose escalation trial;  
one patient enrolled and 
treated with 
[90Y] Zevalin. 
Treatment1 
Various treatments 
including pre-
infusion with 
ibritumomab, 
[90Y] Zevalin  
at 20-50 mCi. 
Pre-infusion with 
ibritumomab,  
[90Y] Zevalin at 10-
20 
mCi every 6-8 
weeks 
up to 4 doses. 
106-03 
[A00009, 
A00010] 
A Phase I/II Clinical Trial to Evaluate 
the Safety and Clinical Activity of 
IDEC-Y2B8 Administered to Patients  
with B-Cell Lymphoma. 
Phase I Open-label, ascending 
single-dose escalation trial. 
Phase II: Open-label fixed 
dose 
single-arm trial; 
 58 patients enrolled.2 
Various treatments 
including pre-
infusion 
with rituximab,  
[90Y] Zevalin  
at 0.2-0.4 mCi/kg. 
106-04 
[A00007] 
106-05 
[A00005] 
A randomised, Phase III Multicentre, 
Controlled Trial to Evaluate the 
Efficacy and Safety of IDEC-Y2B8 
Radioimmuno- 
therapy Compared to RituxanTM 
Immunotherapy of Relapsed or 
Refractory Low-Grade or Follicular 
B-Cell Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma. 
A Phase II, Open-Label, Multicentre 
Trial to Evaluate the Safety and 
Efficacy of IDEC-Y2B8 
Radioimmunotherapy of Relapsed or 
Refractory Low-Grade or Follicular 
Phase III Randomised, active 
controlled, open-label, fixed-
dose comparative trial;  
143 patients enrolled (70 
treated with rituximab, 73 with 
[90Y] Zevalin). 
Phase II Open-Label, 
fixed dose single-arm trial; 
30 patients enrolled. 
12/27 
Pre-infusion with 
rituximab, [90Y] 
Zevalin  
at 0.4 mCi/kg, or  
4 weekly infusions 
with rituximab at 
375 mg/m2. 
Pre-infusion with 
rituximab, [90Y] 
Zevalin  
at 0.3 mCi/kg. 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
106-06 
[A00006] 
B-Cell Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma in 
Patients with Mild 
Thrombocytopenia. 
A Phase II, Open-Label 
Nonrandomised Controlled, 
Multicentre Trial to Evaluate the 
Efficacy and Safety of IDEC-Y2B8 
Radioimmunotherapy in Patients with 
B-Cell Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma 
Who Are Refractory to Prior 
Rituximab Therapy. 
Phase II 
Nonrandomised within-patient 
controlled, open-label, fixed 
dose trial; 
 57 patients enrolled, 54 with  
follicular NHL.  
Pre-infusion with 
rituximab, [90Y] 
Zevalin  
at 0.4 mCi/kg. 
1 Imaging doses with [111In] Zevalin were also administered to some or all patients in each study.  
   Ibritumomab is a murine monoclonal antibody; rituximab is a chimeric monoclonal antibody. 
2 50 patients received [90Y] Zevalin; 6 received only [111IN] Zevalin; 2 received no treatment. 
70 of the 306 patients were randomly assigned to treatment with rituximab only (in study 106-04) and 
10/306  patients  were assigned  to  receive [111In]-labeled Zevalin (one withdrew  and 9  participated  in 
early  dosimetry  studies).  Of  the  remaining  226  patients  211  were  assigned  to  the  recommended 
treatment regimen sequence, pre-infusions with rituximab followed by a single dose of [90Y]-Zevalin, 
and these 211 are the basis for the intent-to-treat safety analysis (one patient did not receive Zevalin).  
Overall  tumour  response  rate  (ORR)  was  a  primary  efficacy  parameter  in  the  main  studies  using 
criteria that are generally accepted in evaluating response in NHL.  
However,  time-dependent  and  quality  of  life  endpoints  were  also  included  as  efficacy  parameters. 
Duration of response (DR) was calculated as the time from the first report of either a PR or a CR to the 
first report of PD. Time to disease progression (TTP) was calculated as the time from treatment start to 
the  time  of  first  report  of  PD.  TTP  was  reported  for  all  patients  as  well  as  subsets  of  patients  with 
objective  tumour  response.  The  pivotal  trial  106-04  was  not  designed  with  a  power  to  demonstrate 
differences in TTP between treatments. 
Clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacodynamics 
Flow cytometry studies were available from 195 [90Y]-Zevalin treated patients. CD19 was used as a B-
cell marker instead of CD20, which was occupied by the antibody treatment. The surface antigens of 
CD45,  CD14,  and  dual  expression  of  CD3/CD4,  CD3/CD8,  CD5/CD19,  CD10/CD19,  CD56/CD16, 
kappa/CD19  and  lambda/CD19  were  all  examined.  The  treatment  only  affected  the  B-cells  and  was 
without  effect  on  NK  cells,  T-cells  or  other  immune  cells  examined.  The  rituximab/[90Y]-Zevalin 
treatment resulted in a marked and selective B-cell depletion with a time to full recovery ranging from 
6 to 9 months.  
Preliminary observations of the cytogenetic marker for follicular lymphomas, the bcl-2 rearrangement, 
indicated conversion to bcl-2 negative status in a high proportion of patients. 
Levels  of  IgA  and  IgG  remained  within  normal  limits  whereas  IgM  levels  decreased  to  40  mg/dl 
(normal lower limit 50 mg/dl) during the first 3 months after treatment and then recovered. 
3/211  (1.4%) patients developed HAMA and one patient HACA during the studies, 4 other patients 
were positive prior to the treatment. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Two biodistribution studies (106-01 and 106-03) were conducted to optimise the biodistribution of 
[90Y]-Zevalin by administering unlabelled anti-CD20 antibodies before [90Y]-Zevalin. 
In study 106-01 treatment with [111In]-Zevalin alone led to a visualized labeling of only 10 – 20% of 
lymphomas  (visible with CT scans). Pre-administration of one dose of unlabeled ibritumomab of 
either 1 mg/kg or 2.5 mg/kg increased the imaging to 50% and >90% of known disease, respectively. 
Blocking or depletion of CD20 binding sites on circulating lymphocytes and in normal and involved 
13/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
tissues with large numbers of B-cells and with high blood flow such as spleen and liver proved a 
necessary step prior to administration of ibritumomab tiuxetan .  
In study 106-03, a phase I/II study, 58 patients with histologically confirmed relapsed or refractory B-
cell lymphoma of any histologic subtype were enrolled. Biodistribution was studied by using 
rituximab rather than ibritumomab to deplete CD20+ cells. Advantages of using rituximab are the 
presumed therapeutic activity of rituximab and the reduced probability of HAMA reactions by 
avoiding multiple exposures to murine antibody.  
Seven patients were included in the phase I, part 1 segment of this study, which was performed to 
determine the optimal dose of rituximab to be used before IDEC-In2B8 en IDEC-Y2B8 
administration. 
Blocking pretreatment on day 1 and 8 with rituximab 100mg/m2 (3 patients) or 250 mg/m2 (3 patients) 
followed by treatment with [111In]-Zevalin led to a complete imaging of known disease for both groups 
with no qualitative or quantitative differences and no accumulation of [111In]-Zevalin in normal 
organs. Since the higher dose of rituximab was supposed to have the best antineoplastic effect, this 
was selected for the infusion prior to [90Y]-Zevalin in all subsequent patients in the Zevalin program. 
Pharmacokinetic  data  were  collected  from  all  the  clinical  studies  and  only  after  the  recommended 
rituximab  pretreatment.  Since  the  amount  of  ibritumomab  antibody  injected  (about  2  mg)  did  not 
generate detectable serum levels by available assays, measurement of radioactivity from administered 
[111In]-Zevalin was used. This was found to be an acceptable surrogate because of the stability of the 
conjugate. With this method the kinetics of Zevalin was shown to fit a linear and non-compartmental 
model. 
Pharmacokinetic Results for yttrium-90 E Derived from indium-111 Activity in Blood 
Dose Group 
(mCi/kg) 
N1 
Median 
Range 
0.3 
0.2 
AUC (hours) 
Biologic T½ (hours) 
Effective T½ (hours) 
AUC (hours) 
Biologic T½ (hours) 
Effective T½ (hours) 
AUC (hours) 
Biologic T½ (hours) 
Effective T½ (hours) 
AUC (hours) 
Biologic T½ (hours) 
Effective T½ (hours) 
1 Data not available for all patients in the analysis population. 
4 
4 
4 
43
43 
43
98
98 
98
145 
145 
145 
15.49 
34.27
22.54
23.01
42.52 
25.55
27.07
47.09 
27.54
24.94
46.35
27.06
All 
0.4 
8.54 - 24.28 
18.03-60.20 
14.25-31.91 
2.59 - 53.72 
19.07-65.77 
14.69-33.27 
3.33-102.35 
22.03-140.33 
16.55-43.95 
2.59-102.35 
18.03-140.33 
14.25-43.95 
A median of 5.7% of the injected dose is eliminated in the urine over 7 days or about 1.9 mCi totals. 
Since the physical half-life of yttrium-90 is 2.7 days the environmental impact is small. 
Dosimetry data following the injection on day one of 5 mCi [111In]-Zevalin (plus rituximab 
pretreatment) were obtained from 179 patients in studies 106-03, -04, -05 and -06 and processed 
centrally. The optimum goal was to ensure that no patient received greater than 2000 cGy to normal 
organs and 300 cGy to the bone marrow.   
The predicted tumor radiation absorbed dose from [90Y]-Zevalin was calculated for 57 tumors in 38 of 
the 179 patients and estimated to be a median of 1480 cG ( range 61-24,274) and the estimated median 
dose factor was 60 cG/mCi ( 3-778). 
The central dosimetry data indicate that radiation dose delivered to normal organs and marrow by 
[90Y] Zevalin even at the recommended dose of 0.4 mCi/kg are significantly below acceptable upper 
limits.  
14/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant side effects of the [90Y]-Zevalin treatment were severe granulocytopenia and 
thrombocytopenia, despite the fact that the bone marrow received a relatively small median dose of 
60-70 cG. The correlation between myelotoxicity and bone marrow absorbed radiation dose was 
examined by comparing two groups of patients receiving 0.3 mCi/kg or 0.4 mCi/kg and by correlating 
the single patient absorbed dose (range 6.5 to 220 cG) to either nadirs of thrombocytes and 
granulocytes or to days to hematologic recovery. Surprisingly, no significant correlations could be 
demonstrated. 
The conclusion of the biodistribution and dosimetry studies was that in the intended study population 
individual patient dosimetry would be unnecessary since the estimated absorbed radiation doses are 
substantially below recognized upper safety limits; variability in excretion is insignificant and 
individual dosimetry results are not predictive of treatment toxicity.  
Clinical efficacy  
Dose-response studies  
Study 106-1  
This phase I exploratory study had several objectives: to evaluate safety and tolerance of escalating 
doses of [90Y]-Zevalin, to establish the MTD of [90Y]-Zevalin (with stem cell rescue as back-up), to 
examine the effect of pre-treatment with murine ibritumomab, to examine PK/PD, dosimetry and 
tumour uptake of [111In]-Zevalin and to compare delivered dose and measured effect.  
17 patients, all refractory to standard treatment, were included (12 with SL or follicular lymphoma, 4 
intermediate grade NHL and one NHL of undefined type).  
The bio distribution and dosimetry aspects of these studies have been described in the previous 
section. 
The MTD was 50 mCi [90Y]-Zevalin with myelosuppression being the dose limiting toxicity. 
For the 14 patients who received [90Y]-Zevalin in cycle 1 the response rate was 64% (28% CR) and 
median time to progression was 9.3 months. 
Study 106-2 
A third dose finding study, 106-02 was terminated for administrative reasons after enrolment of one 
single patient. This study was designed to test a multiple low-dose treatment scheme for [90Y] Zevalin 
instead of the single-dose administration recommended in this MAA. This study is only mentioned for 
completeness.  
Study 106-03  
A phase I –II study to examine the optimal pre-treatment with rituximab and the safety and toxicity of 
escalating doses of [90Y]-Zevalin with rituximab pre-treatment. Overall 58 patients were enrolled. The 
51 patients eligible for an intention-to-treat analysis had relapsed or refractory B-cell lymphoma (3 
with SL, 33 with follicular lymphoma and 15 with other types of NHL). Seven patients were included 
for the study of rituximab doses only. 
Doses of 0.2, 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5 mCi/kg were planned, but escalation was stopped at 0.4 mCi/kg, where 
8/30 experienced grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia (9/30).  0.4 mCi/kg was therefore defined 
as the MTD with rituximab pretreatment and a total dose of 32 mCi for an 80 kg person was 
considered the upper limit.  
Baseline platelet counts (considered a surrogate for the marrow damage of the previous therapy and 
for bone marrow involvement) appeared to predict for hematological toxicity and the findings led to 
the choice of a reduced dose, 0.3 mCi/kg, for patients with platelet counts 100.000 – 150.000/mm3. 
Grading of bone marrow infiltration in 4 steps from 0 to 25% (patients with larger involvement were 
excluded) correlated to the thrombocytopenia. 
The  main  efficacy  end  point  was  the  response  rate  evaluated  in  relation  to  [90Y]-Zevalin  doses  and 
response was seen at all doses: 
15/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
Tumour Response Rates for All Enrolled Patients in Study 106-03 
0.2 mCi/kg 
0.3 md/kg 
0.4 mCi/kg 
Total 
Response1 
(N=5) 
Pts (%) 
(N=16) 
Pts (%) 
ORR (CR+PR) 
CR 
PR 
1 Sponsor's assignment of tumor response
2 (40%) 
1 (20%) 
1 (20%) 
12 (75%) 
8 (50%)
4 (25%)
(N=30) 
Pts (%) 
20 (67%) 
4 (13%)
16 (53%) 
(N=51) 
Pts (%) 
34 (67%)
13 (25%)
21 (41%)
The overall response rate in patients resistant to any prior therapy was 50%. The response rate was 
higher in low-grade lymphomas (28/34, 82%) than in intermediate grade lymphomas (6/14, 43%). 
As far as the time-related end point, median TTP for the 34 responders was 12.7 months, in the CR 
patients 23.6+ months. Duration of response varied across doses between 10.8 and 14.4 months. 
Table 1. 
Kaplan-Meier Median TTP and Duration of Response (DR) by Dose in Months 
TTP (Responders) 
0.2 mCi/kg 
0.3 mCi/kg 
0.4 mCi/kg 
12.5 
13.3 
15.4 
Source: Appendix A.I, A.2 
DR 
10.8 
11.7 
14.4 
TTP(CR) 
12.6 
14.4 
28.3 - 36.4+* 
•Indicates range; median not predicted by Kaplan-Meier because three patients still in 
remission  
Efficacy studies 
Selection criteria for the studies 106-04 and 106-05 mostly overlapped: 
•  Patients were required to have histologically confirmed, relapsed or refractory, low-grade or 
follicular B-cell NHL, or CD20+, B-cell NHL transformed from low-grade to intermediate grade. 
•  Patients were required to have bidimensionally measurable disease, with at least one lesion ≥ 2 cm 
in one dimension. 
•  Patients were required to have progressive or symptomatic disease requiring therapy. 
•  Patients were required to have WHO performance status of 0, 1, 2, and a life expectancy of at least 
3 months. 
•  Patients were excluded if they had received prior myeloablative therapy with stem cell support, or 
external beam radiation to > 25% of active marrow, or if they had neutrophil counts < 1,500/mm3, 
or > 25% marrow involvement of NHL, or abnormal liver function or abnormal renal function. 
•  Patients were excluded if they had CLL, or if total circulating lymphocyte counts were > 
5,000/mm3, or if they had CNS lymphoma, HIV or AIDS-related NHL, or if they had lymphoma-
positive pleural or peritoneal invasion or effusion/ascites, or if they had received prior anti-CD20 
therapy, including rituximab, or if they were positive in tests for HAMA. 
An additional exclusion criteria for study 106-04 was a platelet count < 150,000/mm3. 
An additional requirement in study 106-05 was a mild thrombocytopenia, defined as a platelet count 
of 100,000 to 149,000/mm3. 
16/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In study 106-06, patients were required to have follicular lymphoma. Another requirement was that 
they had received treatment with rituximab at 375 mg/m2 once weekly for 4 weeks, and either not 
responded to their most recent rituximab treatment with a CR or PR, or relapsed with disease 
progression within 6 months of first rituximab infusion. The other selection criteria were identical as 
in study 106-04. 
In tables the demographic data and baseline disease status are presented respectively for patients 
enrolled in studies 106-04, 106-05 and 106-06.  
In the protocol design of study 106-04 it is stated that follow-up evaluations were to be carried out at 
three month intervals for the first year following IDEC-Y2B8 or rituximab treatment, and at six 
months intervals thereafter, or until progression of the patient’s disease necessitated intervention with 
another anti-cancer therapy. The follow-up period for a patient who demonstrated a clinical response 
to the study treatment was maximally four years. The overall duration of the study is therefore 
approximately five years from the time the first patient was enrolled in the study to the time the last 
patient completed follow-up. Similar follow-up and study duration designs are applied in study 106-05 
and 106-06.  
Demographic data for patients in studies 106-04, 106-05, and 106-06 
Study 
106-04 
(N = 143) 
106-05 
106-06 
(N = 30) 
(N = 57) 
[90Y] Zevalin
Rituximab 
(N = 73) 
(N = 70) 
73 
60.0 
29.0 
80.0 
70 
57.0 
36.0 
78.0 
30 
61.0 
29.0 
85.0 
57 
54.0 
34.0 
73.0 
38 (52.1%) 
35 (50.0%) 
12 (40.0%) 
29 (50.9%) 
35 (47.9%) 
35 (50.0%) 
18 (60.0%) 
28 (49,1%) 
45 (61.6%) 
41 (58.6%) 
14 (46,7%) 
35 (61,4%) 
28 (38.4%) 
29 (41.4%) 
16 (53.3%) 
22 (38,6%) 
Age (Years) 
N 
Median 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Gender 
Female 
Male 
Weight Group 
< 80 kg 
≥80 kg 
Baseline disease status for patients in studies 106-04, 106-05, and 106-06 
Study 
106-04 
(N = 143) 
106-05 
106-06 
(N = 30) 
(N = 57) 
[90Y] Zevalin 
Rituximab 
(N = 73) 
(N = 70) 
Disease Stage at Study Entry 
I/II 
III/IV 
8 (11.0%) 
6 (8.6%) 
3 (10.0%) 
4 (7.0%) 
65 (89.0%) 
64 (91.4%) 
27 (90.0%) 
51 (89.5%) 
17/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unknown 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2 (3.5%) 
Pathology Report Histology Type 
A 
Follicular 
Transformed 
Other 
Bone Marrow Involvement 
0% 
0.1 - 5% 
5 - 20% 
≥ 20% 
Splenomegaly 
Yes 
Extranodal Disease 
0, 1 
≥ 2 
Bulky Disease 
< 5 cm 
5 - < 7 cm 
7 - < 10 cm 
≥ 10 cm 
WHO Performance Status 
0, 1 
≥ 2 
Unknown 
Number of Prior Regimes 
Median 
Range 
IPI Risk Group 
Low (=0-1) 
9 (12.3%) 
8 (11.4%) 
2 (6.7%) 
2 (3.5%) 
55 (75.3%) 
58 (82.9%) 
25 (83.3%) 
54 (94.7%) 
9 (12.3%) 
4 (5.7%) 
3 (10.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
1 (1.8%) 
42 (57.5%) 
46 (65.7%) 
10 (33.3%) 
39 (68.4%) 
3 (4.1%) 
5 (7.1%) 
0 
3 (5.3%) 
20 (27.4%) 
15 (21.4%) 
12 (40.0%) 
12 (21.1%) 
8 (11.0%) 
4 (5.7%) 
8 (26.7%) 
3 (5.3%) 
7 (9.6%) 
3 (4.3%) 
7 (23.3%) 
7 (12.3%) 
60 (82.2%) 
61 (87.1%) 
24 (80.0%) 
47 (82.5%) 
13 (17.8%) 
9 (12.9%) 
6 (20.0%) 
10 (17.5%) 
40 (54.8%) 
39 (55.7%) 
16 (53.3%) 
15 (26.3%) 
18 (24.7%) 
13 (18.6%) 
9 (30.0%) 
17 (29.8%) 
9 (12.3%) 
13 (18.6%) 
3 (10.0%) 
14 (24.6%) 
6 (8.2%) 
5 (7.1%) 
2 (6.7%) 
11 (19.3%) 
72 (98.6%) 
68 (97.1%) 
29 (96.7%) 
54 (94,7%) 
1 (1.4%) 
2 (2.9%) 
1 (3.3%) 
3 (5.3%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
0 (0.0%) 
2.0 
2.0 
2.0 
4.0 
(1.0 - 6.0) 
(1.0 - 5.0) 
(1.0 - 9.0) 
(1.0 - 9.0) 
25 (34.2%) 
32 (45.7%) 
10 (33.3%) 
25 (43.9%) 
Low / Intermediate (=2) 
38 (52.1%) 
23 (32.9%) 
10 (33.3%) 
12 (21.1%) 
Intermediate / High (=3) 
5 (6.8%) 
7 (10.0%) 
6 (20.0%) 
7 (12.3%) 
High (=4-5) 
Unknown 
Efficacy endpoints 
3 (4.1%) 
2 (2.9%) 
2 (6.7%) 
4 (7.0%) 
2 (2.7%) 
6 (8.6%) 
2 (6.7%) 
9 (15.8%) 
ORR (CR plus CCR plus PR) was the primary efficacy parameter in all-clinical studies. CR rates 
include CCR rates in this report. Response was defined by the reduction in the overall size of 
measured lesions. All responses assigned by the investigator were subsequently verified by IDEC, 
18/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
based upon the reported lesion dimensions. In the phase III study 106-04 and the phase II study 106-
06 response was re-evaluated by an independent panel of radiologists and oncologists. These 
clinicians conducted a third party, blinded evaluation of CT scans for all patients who were classified 
as responders and for patients with stable disease exhibiting at least a 40% reduction in total tumour 
size. This LEXCOR evaluation, when performed, was conclusive. 
Secondary efficacy parameters comprised:  
• 
time to response, defined as the time from treatment start to the time of the first reported 
confirmation of response.  
•  DR, calculated as the time from the first report of either a PR or a CR to the first report of PD. 
•  TTP, calculated as the time from treatment start to the time of first report of PD.  
•  Time to next anti-cancer treatment, calculated as the time from treatment start to the time of the 
first administration of any subsequent treatment for NHL.  
•  quality of life determined by a FACT-G quality of life analysis performed at baseline and at 13 
weeks after the start of treatment, and evaluation of B-symptoms and disease-related signs and 
symptoms, most importantly tumour pain. 
Overall survival was not included as a study objective due to the expected long survival in indolent 
lymphomas. 
Study 106-04   
This was a prospective, randomised controlled phase III clinical study comparing the efficacy and 
safety of [90Y]-Zevalin/rituximab with rituximab alone. 
The study was designed with 80% power to detect a 25% difference between treatment groups in the 
overall response rate, with a two-sided alpha level of 0.05; it was deliberately not powered to detect a 
statistical difference in TTP between [90Y] Zevalin and rituximab. The protocol stated, “The target 
median TTP and response duration time for the Zevalin group will be either equivalent to or better 
than that of the rituximab group”. Equivalence in TTP was to be declared if the difference in the 
median TTP between the two treatments was less than 1.5 months.  
The treatment in the Zevalin arm consisted of a pre-infusion of rituximab at 250 mg/m2 followed by an 
injection of 5 mCi of [111In]-Zevalin for dosimetry/imaging. 6-8 days later, after the completion of the 
dosimetry analyses, the patients received a second infusion of rituximab 250 mg/m2 immediately 
followed by iv injection of [90Y]-Zevalin at 0.4 mCi/kg. Patients randomised to treatment with 
rituximab received four weekly infusions of rituximab at 375 mg/kg. The follow-up period of the 
study was 4 years. 
Patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade or follicular (IWF A-D) or transformed from low grade 
to intermediate grade histology (IWF E-G) CD20-positive B-cell NHL requiring treatment as by 
defined criteria were included. Bone marrow involvement should be less than 25% and no prior 
ABMT should have been administered.  
Tumor response was assessed by conventional methods. Responses were also analyzed according to 
the more recently published International Workshop Criteria (IWRC), which only vary slightly except 
that there is no minimum duration in the CR/PR definition and CCR (clinical complete remission) is 
named CRu (u for unconfirmed). An independent panel of radiologists and oncologists (termed 
LEXCOR for Lymphoma Expert Confirmation Of Response) also evaluated tumor response. This 
panel was ”blinded” to treatment assignment and investigators evaluation of response. 
Seventy-three patients were allocated to the Zevalin treatment and 70 to the rituximab treatment. 
There were no significant differences in the demographic data for the two groups. 
The treatment results were updated as of October 1, 2002. The response rates for the ITT population 
are shown in the table below, they were calculated by LEXCOR both according to the protocol 
definitions and according to IWRC. 
Overall Response Rates in the Phase III 106-04 Study 
19/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
Protocol-Defined 
International Workshop  
Response Criteria
Zevalin  Rituximab  p-value* 
Response Criteria
Zevalin  Rituximab p-value* 
ORR (%) 
CR (%) 
73 
18 
47 
11 
0.002 
0.326 
CCR/CRu 
(%)
Source: Integrated Summary of Safety and Efficacy 
4 
3 
- 
80 
30 
4 
56 
16 
4 
0.002 
0.040 
- 
*Adjusted p-values generated by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test by pathology report histology 
type 
The median time to progression ( TTP) for all patients was 10.6 months for the Zevalin group (0.8 – 
49.0+) and 10.1 months (0.7 – 51.3) for rituximab (NS, p= 0.540). 
 In the subgroup of patients with follicular lymphomas the corresponding figures were 15.0 months 
versus 10.2 months for rituximab (p=0.203). 
 For the Zevalin patients achieving a CR or CCR the median TTP is 24.7 months in the Zevalin group 
versus 13.2 months in the rituximab group ( p=o.764).  
The TTP was defined a secondary endpoint of efficacy in the protocol and the objective was to 
demonstrate equivalence. The study was not powered to demonstrate superiority.  
The estimated duration of response (DR) was 13.9 months for the Zevalin group (01.0- 47.6+) and for 
the rituximab group 11.8  (1.2- 49.7+) months (p= 0.555). The DR in patients with follicular 
lymphomas was 16.7 months versus 11.2 for the rituximab group (p=0.925). 
The proportion of patients with ongoing responses in relation to observed patients was calculated at 6, 
9 and 12 months and the percentages were 62, 46 and 34 for Zevalin-treated patients and 46, 34 and 23 
for rituximab-treated patients. The differences were statistically significant at 6, 9 and 12 months but 
not at the later time points.  
Time to next lymphoma therapy (TTNT) was 17.6 months versus 12.4 months in the rituximab group 
(p=0.221) 
Overall survival was not included as a study objective due to the expected long survival in indolent 
lymphomas. In the October 2002 update more than 67% of the patients in both groups were still 
censored. The median cannot yet be determined for the Zevalin group and is estimated to be 48.8 
months in the rituximab group. The same figures are true for follicular lymphoma patients. 
Quality of life: FACT-G analysis 
Eighty-one patients completed the FACT-G survey at baseline and at week 12 post-treatment. In the 
[90Y] Zevalin group (n=45) a statistically significant increase in FACT-G score between baseline and 
week 12 was observed. The mean scores in the rituximab group (n=36) improved but were not 
significantly different.  
B-symptoms and tumour related pain 
So-called B-symptoms (tumour-related fever, night sweats, weight loss) occurred infrequently in both 
groups (n=11 in the Zevalin arm, n=12 in the rituximab arm). These symptoms resolved or improved 
in most patients. No difference in alleviation of B-symptoms was found between the treatment groups. 
Pain was present in 20/73 patients in the Zevalin arm, which resolved or improved in 17 patients. In 
the rituximab arm 19/70 patients experienced pain, which resolved or improved in 12 patients. No 
significant difference between the two treatment groups was found. 
Response  rate  and  TTP  was  examined  in  relation  to  baseline  characteristics  and  prognostic  factors. 
Some  of  the  subgroups  have  too  small  numbers,  but  with  this  reservation  it  seems  that  the  Zevalin 
results  with  respect  to  response  rates  are  largely  independent  of  age,  gender,  stage,  splenomegaly, 
extranodal  disease,  bulky  disease  (except  >  10  cm),  years  elapsed  since  diagnosis,  number  of  prior 
regimens (except > 4) and prior radiotherapy. In the histology classes follicular lymphomas seemed to 
respond better than the IWF group A and the transformed lymphomas.  
20/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
63/143 patients had positive bcl-2 status in peripheral blood at baseline. In patients with bcl-2 follow-
up  data,  17/21  (81%)  converted  to  negative  status  in  the  Zevalin-group  versus  11/15  (73%)  in  the 
rituximab-group. 
Dosimetry  data  in  73  patients  revealed  radiation  doses  within  the  planned  ranges.  There  was  no 
correlation between dosimetric figures and response or hematologic toxicity. 
The conclusions of the final analyses (except for survival) of the study thus confirm the superiority of  
the Zevalin regimen with respect to response rate, but although the numerical values are improved in 
all time related parameters ( TTP, DR, TTNT) none of the differences are statistically significant. The 
survival analysis still has more than 67% of the patients censored, in the other time-related analyses 
the censored figures are below 20%. 
Study 106-05 
A single arm multicenter phase II study examining the safety and efficacy of the [90Y]-Zevalin 
regimen in a reduced dose (0.3 mCi /kg of [90Y]-Zevalin) in 30 patients with relapsed or refractory 
follicular lymphoma and with mild thrombocytopenia (platelets 100.000 – 149.000/mm3). 
 The overall response rate as evaluated by the sponsor was 66.7%, by the investigator 76.7% and 
according to IWC 83.3%.  
The CR rates were 33.3 – 36.7%.  
The estimated duration of remission was 11.8+ months (3.6 – 17.4 months) and the TTP for 
responding patients was 12.6+ months (4.9-18.6). The TTP for all patients was 9.3+ months. 
It is noteworthy that the response rate remains the same as in study 106-04, despite the reduction in 
Zevalin dose. 
Study 106-06 
A single arm multicentre phase II study using the patients own previous treatment results as control in 
evaluating the efficacy of [90Y]-Zevalin in rituximab refractory patients. The study population 
consisted of 54 heavily pre-treated (median 4 prior regimens) patients with follicular lymphoma. 3 
additional non-follicular patients were included for safety data collection. 
The population was defined by lack of response (CR or PR) to the conventional rituximab regimen 
(375 mg/m2  weekly times 4) and now with progressive disease or initial response and relapse within 6 
months. Treatment regimen and endpoints were identical to studies 106-04 & 05.  
The response rate in 54 ITT patients with follicular NHL ranged from 59.3% (LEXCOR evaluation) to 
74.1 % (IWRC), and the CR% ranged from 3.7% (LEXCOR) to 14.8 % (IWRC).  
The ORR was compared to the response seen following the patients’ previous rituximab treatment and 
was found statistically improved (59.3% vs. 31.5%, p=0.002).  
19/37 patients (51.4%) who did not respond at all to their previous rituximab now responded to [90Y]-
Zevalin/rituximab, while 13/17 (76.5%) patients, who were short-term responders ( <6 months) to 
rituximab now achieved CR or PR following Zevalin.  
Likewise, 8/17 (47.1%) of the patients who did not respond to their last chemotherapy, now responded 
to [90Y]-Zevalin. 
With data from the October 2002 follow-up, the median TTP for all patients is 6.8 months (1.1-50.9) 
and for responders 8.7 months (1.7-50.9 months). Less than 20% are now censored. Median duration 
of remission (DR) was 6.4 months (0.5-49.9+) with 17.5% censored. 
The DR is statistically longer than that resulting from the patients’ most recent prior rituximab therapy 
(6.4 vs. 4.0 months, p<0.001) and is similar to that from the patients’ most recent chemotherapy. 
Disease-related symptoms resolved or improved in 17/22 patients, worsened in one and were 
unchanged in 4. 
Clinical safety 
Since the Zevalin regimen consists of a combination of 2 doses of rituximab  and one dose of [90Y]-
Zevalin  it  seems  necessary  to  evaluate  the  safety  of  each  of  the  components.  Administration  of  0.4 
21/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
mCi/kg of [90Y]-Zevalin does lead to a significant yttrium-90 radiation dose which can be expected to 
lead to the standard radiation effects particularly on dividing cells. Since the radiation source is bound 
to the B-cell antibodies, and therefore to B-cells, the main radiation effect can be expected to occur in 
lymphomas, bone marrow, lymphoid tissues and organs containing lymphoid cells.  
The ”cold” Zevalin antibody +chelator in animal experiments only led to a dose-dependant and 
moderate B-cell depletion and no general pharmacologic effects were observed. The chimeric 
mouse/human CD20 antibody rituximab has a more significant B-cell depleting effect due to its more 
pronounced lytic action (ADCC, CDC and apoptosis) and in clinical trials it has produced many 
infusion related side effects.  
The randomised phase III trial 106-04 does offer an opportunity to compare the side effects of the 
rituximab/[90Y]-Zevalin regimen to those seen after rituximab.  
The overall incidence of AE (except for hematologic toxicity) was similar between the 
Zevalin/rituximab-pretreatment group and the rituximab group both during treatment (98.6 vs. 95.7 %) 
and during follow-up (34.2% vs. 27.1%). No patient had treatment discontinued due to an AE.  
The most frequently reported events in the study are characteristic of rituximab and occur with 
comparable frequency in each group. Only grade 1 and 2 respiratory symptoms are significantly more 
frequent in the Zevalin group and grade 1 and 2 nausea, vomiting and anorexia also seem marginally 
more frequent. The most frequently reported AE in the follow-up period was in both groups asthenia. 
Grade 3 or 4 AE were seen infrequently with no significant differences between the 2 groups of 
treatment. 9 deaths in the Zevalin group were all due to progressive disease, none related to treatment. 
7 of the 9 had received additional treatment for their disease. In the rituximab group 5/7 deaths were 
due to disease progression, one was due to pancreatic cancer and one was due to sepsis following 
administration of additional chemotherapy for progressive disease. 5 other patients had received 
additional lymphoma therapy prior to death. 
Adverse Events Related to Treatment or of Unknown Relationship in ≥ 5% of 
Patients: Study 106-04 (Treatment Period) 
Any Adverse Event2 
Body as a Whole
Asthenia 
Chills 
Throat Irritation 
Fever 
Headache 
Pain 
Flushing 
Abdominal Pain 
Chest Pain 
Back Pain 
Cardiovascular System 
Hypotension 
Digestive System
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Anorexia 
Diarrhea
Hemic and Lymphatic System3 
Ecchymosis
Metabolic And Nutritional Disorders 
Angioedema 
Peripheral Edema
Musculoskeletal System 
[90Y] Zevalin  Rituximab 
N=73 
N (%) 
63 (86.3)
50 (68.5)
29 (39.7)
13(17.8)
13(17.8)
10(13.7)
9(12.3) 
7 (9.6)
6 (8.2)
6 (8.2)
4 (5.5)
1 (1.4)
11 (15.1)
6(8.2) 
28 (38.4)
24 (32.9)
10(13.7)
6(8.2) 
2 (2.7)
10(13.7)
5 (6.8)
12(16.4)
6 (8.2)
5 (6.8)
12(16.4)
N=70 
N (%) 
62 (88.6) 
50(71.4)
23 (32.9) 
20 (28,6) 
10(14.3)
11 (15.7) 
11 (15.7) 
5(7.1) 
4(5.7) 
3(4.3) 
2 (2.9)
4 (5.7)
11 (15.7) 
7(10.0) 
17 (24.3) 
10(14.3)
4 (5.7)
1 (1.4)
4(5.7)
3 (4.3)
0(0.0) 
12(17.1)
11 (15.7) 
0 (0.0)
6 (8.6)
p-value1
0.803
0.719
1.000
0.075
0.079
1.000
0.209
22/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Arthralgia 
Myalgia 
Nervous System 
Dizziness 
Respiratory System 
Increased Cough 
Infection 
Bronchospasm 
Rhinitis 
Skin and Appendages 
Rash 
Pruritus 
8(11.0) 
4 (5.5)
14(19.2)
8(11.0) 
21 (28.8)
8(11.0) 
5 (6.8)
4 (5.5)
3(4.1) 
19(26.0)
8(11.0) 
6 (8.2) 
3 (4.3)
4 (5,7)
10(14.3)
3(4.3) 
10(14.3)
1(1.4) 
1 (1.4)
1 (1.4)
5(7.1) 
19(27.1)
7(10.0) 
10(14.3) 
0.505
0.043
1.000
Note: Treatment period is the time interval from first infusion (rituximab) to 12 weeks 
after [90Y] Zevalin 
1p-value generated by Fisher's exact two-tailed test. 
2The category "Any Adverse Events" includes all patients with ≥ 5% Adverse Events, 
but excludes neutropenia, leukopenia, thrombocytopenia, and anemia. 
3For hematological toxicity see chapter 2.5.5 "Hematological Toxicity". 
Thus, the major difference between the 2 regimens related to the more significant but transient 
haematologic toxicity.  
In the Zevalin group there was a 32% incidence of Grade 4 neutropenia (vs. 0 in the rituximab group), 
a 5.5 % incidence of thrombocytopenia (vs. 0 in the rituximab group) and a 2.7% incidence of Grade 4 
anaemia (vs. 0 in the rituximab group). Median nadir counts for Zevalin patients versus rituximab 
patients were for neutrophils 0.9 vs. 2.9 x 103/mm3 , for platelets 41.0 vs. 188.5 x 103/mm3  and for 
hemoglobin 10.8 vs. 12.9 g/dL  showing the more intense myelosuppressive effects of the Zevalin 
regimen.  
The nadirs occurred much later for the Zevalin group than with rituximab: 63 vs. 27 days for 
neutrophils, 54 vs. 28 days for platelets and 70 vs. 25 days for hemoglobin.  
The recovery from nadir to pre-defined values took 2 weeks for Zevalin patients and longer, 3-4 
weeks, for rituximab patients. Eight patients received one or more hemopoietic growth factors.  
B-lymphocyte depletion in peripheral blood was an expected pharmacodynamic result. The recovery 
was somewhat slower in the rituximab group than in the Zevalin treated patients ( 12 months to reach 
the lower normal limit versus 7 months)  
Based on limited experience, Zevalin treatment did not seem to compromise patients’ ability to receive 
subsequent aggressive therapy.  
Infections were significantly more frequent in the Zevalin group: 30/73 vs. 13/70 during the treatment 
period, but not different in the follow-up period (8 vs.8).  
The infections were mainly of Grade 1-2 as shown in Table below: 
Incidence of Infection in by Grade During Treatment for Zevalin 
Patients  (N=73) 
Adverse Event 
All 
Any Infection
Bacterial 
Infection
Urinary Tract Infection 
Lymphangitis
Sepsis
Fungal 
Infection
Moniliasis
Grade
1
2 
12
13
2
0
1
0
2
)
0
1 
0
0
0
0
23/27 
3 
5
0
1 
0
1
0
0
4 
0
0
0 
0
0
0
0
Total 
30(41.1)
2(2.7)
2 (2.7) 
1(1.4)
1(1 4)
2 (2 7)
1 (1 4)
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral Moniliasis
Not Otherwise Specified 
Bronchitis
Cold Syndrome
Conjunctivitis
Flu Syndrome
Infection
Urinary Tract Infection 
Neutropenia
Sinusitis
Stomatitis
Viral 
Gastroenteritis
Herpes Zoster
Source: Appendix D.95  
1
1
1
0
0
6
1
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
1
1
4
1 
0
3
0
1
1
0
0
0
0
0
1
2 
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0 
0
0
0
0
0
1(1.4)
1(1 4)
2(2.7)
1(1.4)
1(1.4)
11(151)
4(5.5) 
1(1.4)
3(4 1)
1 (1.4)
1(1.4)
1(1 4)
Note: Patient is counted under the worst grade. This breakdown is not 
additive because some patients experienced more than one type of 
infection. 
Pooled analysis of safety data from the 4 clinical studies 106-03, 106-04, 106-05 and 106-06, a total of 
211 Zevalin treated patients, were presented in a number of tables in the application. The results from 
the 3 studies did not deviate from the Zevalin results from the 106-04 study. Only a few notes will be 
given here. 
Overall incidence of infections in the treatment period was 37%. The majority was grade 1 or 2, 3.8% 
were grade 3 and 1.4% were grade 4. Infection led to hospitalisation in 16 (7.6%). Sepsis was reported 
for 3 patients. 17 patients (8.1%) experienced infection during the follow-up period, 1.9% were grade 
3 and 0.5 % were grade 4. 
The company presents safety data from study 106-98, which in USA was open for patients not eligible 
for other Zevalin studies. Relapsed/refractory patients with follicular or transformed B-cell NHL were 
treated with one course of Zevalin. Among 449 patients 25% had grade 4 neutropenia and 10% grade 
4 thrombocytopenia. A total of 12.2% were recorded as having SAE. 
A summary of safety events (March 1 2001- April 9, 2002) in 660 patients treated with Zevalin radio 
immunotherapy was submitted. Events during the reporting period were predominantly grade 1 and 2 
asthenia, chills and fever. The grade 3-4 AE’s in study 106-98, 8%, were predominantly infectious and 
hematologic. For studies 03, 04, 05 and 06 no cases were reported in the period. 
For studies 03, 04, 05, 06 the Company committed to closely monitor the long-term safety aspects of 
immunogenicity and secondary neoplasias: 
280 patients have so far been tested for HAMA. 6 patients or 2.1% had positive tests, two at baseline. 
At present only two patients continue to have positive tests. 
4 patients (1.4%) had positive tests for HACA, 3 of these at baseline. Two patients continue to test 
positive. 
The incidence of MDS and AML is monitored in all Zevalin radio immunotherapy studies. 
Cumulatively 9 patients of 655 have been diagnosed: two in study 106-03, one in each of 106-04 and 
106-05, two in 106-06 and three in study 106-98. All have been heavily pretreated and whether the 
secondary neoplasias are related to the previous alkylating agent therapy or the Zevalin regimen can 
not be decided. Two patients had pre-existing morphologic or cytogenetic abnormalities of the bone 
marrow. The annualised rate based on calculation of the number of events per person-year from the 
first infusion of rituximab is 0.79% (1144.7 person-years) and from the date of diagnosis is 0.23% 
(3906.3 person-years). This rate is similar to that described in published reports of MDS/AML in 
NHL. 
24/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
Overall conclusions, benefit/risk assessment and recommendation 
Quality 
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
During the evaluation process, a number of questions were raised regarding specifications limits. Most 
of these have been adequately solved, while some remaining issues will be addressed on an ongoing 
basis. 
Overall, viral safety and batch to batch consistency of the product is satisfactorily documented and the 
relevant test will be performed according to the specifications. 
Preclinical pharmacology and toxicology 
Overall, the primary pharmacodynamic studies have confirmed the specificity for the CD20 positive 
human  cell  antigen  binding  of  ibritumomab  while  no  reactivity was  seen  on  other  cells  as  epithelia, 
neuro-ectodermal  structures,  mesenchymal  tissues.  No  effect  was  seen  on  T-cells  and  no  adverse 
effects were noted.   
There was no evidence of antibody dependent cellular cytotoxicity. The radionuclide yttrium-90 (half-
life of 64 hours) emits pure high-energy beta radiation with a local tissue penetration (5 to 10 mm) and 
exerts the cytotoxic effect.  
It should be noted that in the pre-clinical studies an antineoplastic effect was not demonstrated in the 
nude mouse model and that there were no studies conducted in other species with the radio-labelled 
ibritumomab  tiuxetan,  to  further  expand  on  the  effect  of  the  antibody  delivered  radiation  on  the 
decline and recovery times of the normal B-cells and would serve as a useful basis for examination of 
the effect in human lymphoma patients where also non neoplastic B-cells are present. 
Nevertheless, in light of the pre-clinical PD and PK studies considered jointly with clinical data it is 
considered  that  the  mechanism  of  action  and  concept  of  therapeutic  plausibility  is  established  and 
there is no need to submit additional preclinical studies. 
The consistent finding in toxicity studies was a variable depletion of the circulating B-cells. No other 
positive toxicity findings were observed. Toxicity risks appeared to be mostly related to the radiation 
derived from the circulating radiolabelled antibody.  Because of the radiation toxicity Zevalin is 
contraindicated during pregnancy and lactation and it is recommended that male likewise women of 
childbearing potential use contraceptive measures during treatment and for 12 months post treatment 
(SPC sections 4.4 & 4.6). 
Efficacy 
[90Y]-Zevalin represents an innovative and potentially valuable radioimmuno- treatment approach for 
follicular B-cell lymphomas. The applicant has carried out a series of clinical phase I-II trials and one 
phase III trial, which together demonstrate that the [90Y]-Zevalin regimen as described 
• 
is tolerable 
•  does deliver a predicted radiation dose 
•  has  pronounced  antineoplastic  activity  in  follicular  B-cell  lymphomas  with  a  50  –  70% 
response rate, which seems independent of previous treatment and of a number of prognostic 
factors 
•  demonstrates  superiority  over  rituximab  in  a  randomised  comparative  trial  with  respect  to 
response  rate  (  76%  vs.  47  %  response),  but  not  with  respect  to  TTP  or  DR.  Fraction  of 
patients in remission at 6, 9 and 12 months was statistically higher, but TTP and DR showed 
only a numerically but not statistically significant  improvement and there was thus no proof 
of a translation into a clinical benefit ( study106-04) 
25/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
• 
at a 25% reduced dose demonstrates a high response rate ( 66 -83%) in a population of heavily 
pre-treated follicular lymphoma patients with moderate thrombocytopenia (106-05) 
•  demonstrates a high response rate ( 59-74%) in an end stage patient population refractory to 
rituximab  and  chemotherapy  with  a  duration  of  remission  significantly  longer  than  that 
following the previous rituximab treatment (study 106-06)  
With  respect  to  the  pivotal  randomised  study  106-04  the  statistical  power  of  the  study  with  only  55 
and 58 patients in each of the two arms is limiting for the analysis of differences in time dependent 
parameters and one is left with the open question whether the definite proof of efficacy only is lacking 
because of insufficient powering of the trial (the consistency of the trends would speak in favour of 
this  hypothesis)  or  whether  the  two  regimens  are  of  about  the  same  efficacy  with  respect  to  the 
decisive  time  dependent  parameters  (  the  almost  identical  but  preliminary  survival  curves  seem  to 
speak in favour of this hypothesis). 
In light of the weaknesses of the phase III pivotal trial, and taking into account the results of this study 
the CPMP concluded that the indication needed to be restricted to patients with rituximab relapsed or 
refractory CD20+ follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). 
In study 106-06 in rituximab refractory patients 
• 
the overall response rate was 59.3% (LEXCOR) to 74.1 % (IWRC) 
•  19/37 (51.4%) patients who did not respond to their last rituximab treatment now responded to 
the [90Y]-Zevalin-rituximab combination. 
•  47.1% of the patients  who did  not  respond  to their  last chemotherapy now responded to  the 
Zevalin combination.  
•  median duration of response was 6.4 months ( 0.5 – 49.9+ months) 
Safety 
Compared to rituximab alone the typical additional toxicities associated with Zevalin are of 3 types: 
gastrointestinal, respiratory and haematologic.  
The gastrointestinal side effects nausea, vomiting and anorexia were mild and connected to the 
administration of the radiation dose.  
The respiratory symptoms, mainly cough, infection and bronchospasm were also mild and did not 
form a treatment obstacle.  
The main problem is the haematologic toxicity, which with the late occurring nadirs seems to be 
caused by a radiation effect on the stem cells. The stem cell effects seem to be transient as judged 
from the recovery and as judged from the ability of the patients to receive subsequent therapy.  
A prolonged neutropenia and lymphocytopenia  would normally be associated with a marked increase 
in the infection rate. This was also the case during the treatment period, but not in the follow-up 
period. 
The Company has committed to a long term follow-up of late complications as secondary neoplasias, 
and it is comforting that with the October 2002 update in hand no increase has so far been observed as 
compared to other published NHL series. 
Benefit/risk assessment 
[90Y]-Zevalin represents an innovative and valuable radioimmuno- treatment approach for follicular B-
cell  lymphomas.  The applicant has  carried  out a series  of clinical  phase I-II trials and  one  phase III 
trial, which together demonstrate that the [90Y]-Zevalin regimen as described 
• 
is tolerable 
•  does deliver a predicted radiation dose 
•  has  pronounced  antineoplastic  activity  in  follicular  B-cell  lymphomas  with  a  50  –  70% 
response rate, which seems independent of previous treatment and of a number of prognostic 
factors 
26/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
•  demonstrates  superiority  over  rituximab  in  a  randomised  comparative  trial  with  respect  to 
response  rate  (  76%  vs.  47  %  response),  but  not  with  respect  to  TTP  or  DR.  Fraction  of 
patients in remission at 6, 9 and 12 months was statistically higher, but TTP and DR showed 
only a numerically but not statistically significant  improvement and there was thus no proof 
of a translation into a clinical benefit ( study106-04) 
• 
at a 25% reduced dose demonstrates a high response rate ( 66 -83%) in a population of heavily 
pre-treated follicular lymphoma patients with moderate thrombocytopenia (study 106-05) 
•  demonstrates a high response rate ( 59-74%) in an end stage patient population refractory to 
rituximab  and  chemotherapy  with  a  duration  of  remission  significantly  longer  than  that 
following the previous rituximab treatment (study 106-06)  
In  a  heavily  pre-treated  patient  population  with  end-stage  follicular  lymphoma  refractory  also  to 
rituximab the 59-74% chance of achieving a complete or partial response is of potential benefit. Since 
Zevalin as compared to the patients last rituximab treatment also significantly prolongs the duration of 
remission  (with  the  limitations  of  the  comparative  methods  used  in  a  phase  II  trial)  and  since  the 
toxicity for these patients seems to having been acceptable, the benefit/risk is favourable. 
In light of the weaknesses of the phase III pivotal trial, and taking into account the results of this study 
the CPMP concluded that the indication needed to be restricted to patients with follicular lymphomas 
who did not respond satisfactorily to their last rituximab treatment (population included in study 106-
06).   
Recommendation 
”Based  on  the  CPMP  review  of  data  on  quality,  safety  and  efficacy,  the  CPMP  considered  by 
consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Zevalin in the treatment of patients with rituximab-relapsed 
or  refractory  CD20+  follicular  B-cell  non-Hodgkin's  lymphoma  (NHL)  was  favorable  and  therefore 
recommended the granting of the marketing authorization under exceptional circumstances.” 
27/27 
EMEA 2005 
 
 
