European Medicines Agency 
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
ZEVALIN 
International non-proprietary name/Common name:  
ibritumomab tiuxetan   
Procedure No.EMEA/H/C/000547/II/0018 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2008. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  
Introduction 
Ibritumomab  tiuxetan  is  a  recombinant  murine  IgG1  kappa  monoclonal  antibody  specific  for  the  B-
cell antigen CD20. Ibritumomab tiuxetan targets the antigen CD20 which is located on the surface of 
malignant  and  normal  B-lymphocytes  .  During  B-cell  maturation,  CD20  is  first  expressed  in  the 
midstage  of  B-lymphoblast  (pre-B-cell),  and  is  lost  during  the  final  stage  of  B  cell  maturation  to 
plasma  cells.  It  is  not  shed  from  the  cell  surface  and  does  not  internalise  on  antibody  binding.  The 
conjugated antibody has an apparent affinity constant for the CD20 antigen of approximately 17 nM. 
The binding pattern is very restricted, with no cross-reactivity to other leukocytes or to other types of 
human tissue. 
[90Y]-radiolabeled Zevalin binds specifically to B-cells, including CD20-expressing malignant cells. 
The isotope yttrium-90 is a pure β-emitter and has a mean path length of about 5 mm. This results in 
the ability to kill both targeted and neighbouring cells. 
Rituximab pre-treatment is necessary to clear circulating B-cells, enabling Zevalin to deliver radiation 
more  specifically  to  the  lymphomas.  Rituximab  is  administered  in  a  reduced  dose  when  compared 
with the approved monotherapy. 
Zevalin  has  been  granted  approval  under  exceptional  circumstances  by  the  EU  Commission  on 
January 16, 2004. The [90Y]-radiolabeled Zevalin is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
rituximab relapsed or refractory CD20+ follicular B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). 
The safety and efficacy of the Zevalin therapeutic regimen were evaluated in two multi-center trials 
enrolling a total of 197 subjects. The Zevalin therapeutic regimen was administered in two steps. The 
efficacy and toxicity of a variation of the Zevalin therapeutic regimen employing a reduced activity of 
[90Y]-Zevalin  was  further  defined  in  a  third  study  enrolling  a  total  of  30  patients  who  had  mild 
thrombocytopenia (platelet count 100 to 149 x 109/L). 
The  scope  of  this  variation  is  extension  of  the  indication.  It  is  proposed  to  add  the  following  to  the 
currently approved indication: “The [90Y]-radiolabeled Zevalin is indicated as consolidation therapy 
after remission induction in previously untreated patients with follicular lymphoma. 
1.2 
Clinical aspects 
The  basis  of  the  application  is  the  clinical  study  304820  which  was  performed  as  EU  post-approval 
obligation in 1st line consolidation of indolent NHL This study was performed in patients with Stage 
III  or  IV  follicular  NHL  who  received  Zevalin  versus  no  further  treatment  after  having  achieved 
partial  or  complete  remission  after  remission-induction  chemotherapy.  Primary  objective  was  a 
difference in progression-free survival (PFS). Prior to study start, the study design was approved by 
the CHMP via EU Scientific Advice. The MAH has provided a copy of this advice together with the 
minutes of the presubmission meetings with the Danish and the Dutch authority. 
The submission of study 304820 within this application fulfills  the obligation yhe remaining specific 
obligation SOB020 linked to the initial authorisation of Zevalin.  
Information on the safety of Zevalin is provided with regard to the clinical study 304820, but also as 
related to Zevalin as marketed product. The safety information from the clinical study 304820 is put 
into perspective to the information as obtained from earlier Zevalin trials that led to approval and to 
postmarketing  information.  These  earlier  trials  are  not  submitted  again,  but  would  be  available  on 
request. 
Main study 
The clinical efficacy is based on the results of one multicenter randomized prospective phase III trial 
(304820) investigating the efficacy and safety of a single course of [90Y]-ibritumomab tiuxetan given 
at a dose of 15 MBq/kg (0.4 mCi/kg, maximum 1200 MBq or 32 mCi) to 414 patients with stage III or 
IV  follicular  non-Hodgkin’s  lymphoma  who  had  achieved  a  PR  or  CR  after  first  line  chemotherapy 
with  either  single  agent  or  combination  chemotherapies.  Overall  208  patients  were  randomized  to 
Zevalin and 206 patients were randomized to no further treatment. 
Page 2 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Methods 
The following criteria were used to evaluate patients for inclusion in the study: 
1.  Histologically  confirmed  (according  to  the  REAL/WHO  classification)  CD20  positive  follicular 
(grade 1 or 2) non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma, stage III or IV at timepoint of diagnosis 
2. Patients with a CR or PR (according to the “International workshop to standardize response criteria 
for non-Hodgkin´s lymphomas”) after first line chemotherapy, which should have been given as the 
immediate prior front line therapy before beginning study drug treatment 
3. No less than 6 weeks and no more than 12 weeks since last doses of chemotherapy or chemotherapy 
and interferon (in case of combination therapy) 
4. Age 18 years or older 
5. World Health Organization (WHO) performance status of 0 to 2 
6. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of 1.5 x 10 9/L or higher 
7. Hemoglobin (Hb) of 9 g/dl (90 g/l) or higher 
8. Platelet count of 150 x 10 9/L or higher 
9. Less than 25% bone marrow involvement (measurement of bone marrow biopsy) 
10. Life expectancy of at least 3 months 
11. Written informed consent obtained 
The following criteria were used for the exclusion of patients from the study: 
1. Any other anticancer treatment for NHL except the preceding first-line chemotherapy 
2. Prior radiation therapy 
3. Prior myeloablative therapy 
4. Patients who did not recover from the toxic effects of the first-line therapy 
5. Any other malignancy or history of prior malignancy except non-melanoma skin tumors or stage 0 
(in situ) cervical carcinoma within the past ten years [see also below “protocol amendment 6”] 
6. Presence of symptomatic CNS lymphoma 
7. Patients with known HIV positivity 
8.  Patients  with  known  seropositivity  for  HCV,  HbsAG  or  other  active  infection  uncontrolled  by 
treatment 
9. Patients with pleural effusion or ascites 
10. Patients with abnormal liver function: total bilirubin > 1.5 x ULN or ALAT > 2.5 x ULN 
11. Patients with abnormal renal function: serum creatinine > 2.5 x ULN 
12. IgG < 3 g/l 
13. Presence of anti-murine antibody (HAMA) reactivity 
14. Known hypersensitivity to murine antibodies or proteins 
15.  Immunotherapy  during  the  preceding  6  months  (including  antibodies,  interleukins,  interferon 
maintenance - combination of first-line chemotherapy with interferon or 
rituximab was allowed) [see also below “protocol amendment 6”] 
16.  Female  patients  who  were  pregnant  or  breast  feeding,  or  adults  of  reproductive  potential  not 
employing an effective method of birth control during study treatment and for at least 
12  months  thereafter.  (Women  of  childbearing  potential  must  have  had  a  negative  serum  pregnancy 
test at study entry) 
17.  Concurrent  severe  and/or  uncontrolled  medical  disease  (e.g.  uncontrolled  diabetes,  congestive 
heart  failure,  myocardial  infarction  within  6  months  prior  to  the  study,  unstable  and  uncontrolled 
hypertension, chronic renal disease, or active uncontrolled infection) which could have compromised 
participation in the study 
18. Patients who received any investigational drugs less than 4 weeks before entry in this study or who 
had not yet recovered from the toxic effects of such therapy 
19. Patients who underwent surgery within 4 weeks of entering the study or patients who had not yet 
recovered from the side-effects of such treatment 
20.  Patients  with  a  history  of  psychiatric  illness  or  condition  which  could  have  interfered  with  their 
ability to understand the requirements of the study (this included alcoholism/drug addiction) 
21. Patients who were unwilling or unable to comply with the protocol 
Page 3 of 15 
 
 
 
In Protocol Amendment 6 (21 Jan 2004) Exclusion criterion 15 was modified allowing patients who 
had received immunotherapy with rituximab to be included in the study. This modification was added 
after new results in the literature showed that CVP in combination with rituximab prolonged time to 
progression in patients with follicular non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Since this was the same indication as 
in the present trial, it was considered appropriate to include patients with rituximab pretreatment. 
Primary and secondary efficacy variables of study 304820 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  for  study  304820  was  progression  free  survival  (PFS).  Secondary 
efficacy variables included overall survival, improvement in complete response rate, improvement in 
molecular response rate, and health related quality of life (HRQL). 
The overall PFS was analyzed for all patients in the Zevalin and control group. The main subgroups 
for the primary efficacy variable included analysis of PFS according to: 
•  First-line  treatment  strategy  (“Immediate  treatment”  and  with  “Wait  and  See”  treatment 
strategies) 
•  Response to first-line treatment 
•  Specific type of first-line treatment. 
Results 
Dataset and patient disposition 
An overview of the analysis sets in study 304820 is presented in the Table below 
Of  the  208  patients  who  were  randomized  to  Zevalin  treatment  3  patients  never  received  [90Y]- 
ibritumomab  tiuxetan  treatment  and  therefore  were  allocated  to  the  control  group  for  the  safety 
analysis.  Of  these  three  patients,  2  patients  discontinued  study  treatment  due  to  adverse  events  (1 
patient  due  to  CTC  grade  3  neutropenia,  and  1  patient  due  to  throat  swelling  and  chills  during  the 
Week 1 rituximab infusion, also considered as being a protocol deviation), and 1 patient discontinued 
due to other reasons (this patient received only one dose of rituximab and no further treatment due to 
dosimetry  results).  These  three  patients  were  added  to  the  206  patients  that  were  randomized  to  the 
control group. 
Page 4 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline characteristics of the study population 
Overall the patients were well matched with respect to Ann Arbor stage at baseline. Over two thirds of 
the  patients  in  both  groups  were  Ann  Arbor  stage  IV;  66.3%  in  the  control  group  and  63.7%  in  the 
Zevalin  group.  Approximately  one-third  of  the  patients  in  both  groups  were  Ann  Arbor  stage  III; 
30.7%  in  the  control  group  and  35.3% in  the  Zevalin  group.  The  Zevalin  and Control patients  were 
comparable with regard to: age (mean of 53.2 and 52.1 years respectively). There were slightly more 
female  patients  compared  with  male  patients  in  the  study  (209  female  compared  with  200  male 
patients); 52.5% of the Zevalin patients (107 patients) were female and 47.5% (97 patients) were male. 
The control group was more equally distributed between male and female patients with 49.8% female 
(102 patients) and 50.2% male patients (103 patients). 
A  treatment  group  comparison  with  regard  to  first-line  treatment  is  presented  in  the  table 
below: 
Response to first-line treatment 
Patients’  actual  responses  to  first-line  treatment  were  different  from  the  response  used  for 
randomization because corrections were made after central assessment. 
According to the central evaluation of response, 89 patients who were originally randomized as having 
a  PR  were  later  categorized  as  having  a  CR/CRu  (CR  unconfirmed),  and  31  patients  originally 
randomized  as  having  CR  were  later  categorized  as  having  a  PR.  In  addition,  4  patients  originally 
randomized  as  PR  were  later  categorized  as  being  in  stable  disease.  One  further  patient  originally 
randomized as PR later seen as not assessable during central assessment. This resulted in an overall 
discrepancy  between  response  as  randomized  and  actual  response  in  the  SAF  population  of 
approximately 30%. 
The frequency of actual responses to first-line treatment stratified by treatment group for the FAS is 
shown in table below. 
Page 5 of 15 
 
 
 
 
The  frequency  of  CR/CRu  after  first-line  treatment  were  higher  after  CHOP,  CHOP-like  treatment, 
and  fludarabine  treatment  in  patients  randomized  to  the  control  group;  47.5%  for  the  control  versus 
37.9% for Zevalin after CHOP; 74.2% for the control group versus 56.6% in the Zevalin group after 
CHOP-like  treatment;  72.7%  for  the  control  group  versus  54.6%  for  the  Zevalin  patients  after 
Fludarabine. 
The  CR/CRu  rate  was  higher  after  treatment  with  CVP/COP,  chlorambucil,  and  rituximab 
combination  therapy  for  patients  randomized  to  Zevalin:  58.5%  for  Zevalin  versus  45.2%  for  the 
control  group  after  CVP/COP  treatment;  35%  for  Zevalin  versus  31.6%  for  the  control  group  after 
chlorambucil; 75% for Zevalin and 61.3% for the control group after rituximab combination treatment. 
Efficacy Results 
PFS 
With a median follow-up of two years and a maximum follow-up of 5.3 years after study treatment, 
the  median  progression  free  survival  (PFS)  increased  from  13.5  months  (control)  to  37  months 
(Zevalin; p<0.0001; HR 0.465 according to the primary analysis). For patient subgroups in PR or CR 
after  induction,  the  median  PFS  was  6.3  versus  29.7  months  (p<0.0001;  HR  0.304)  and  29.9  versus 
54.6 months  (p=0.015; HR 0.613), for the control  and Zevalin groups respectively. Figure 1 depicts 
the  Kaplan-Maier  plot  for  the  analysis  of  the  primary  objective,  and  a  short  summary  of  the  main 
analyses is provided in Table 1. 
Page 6 of 15 
 
 
 
The  study  was  not  powered  to detect  significant  differences  between  subgroups  with  regard  to  PFS. 
Nevertheless,  the  effect  of  Zevalin  consolidation  was  so  marked,  that  statistically  significant 
differences could be calculated across almost all subgroups when comparing treatment arms for first-
line treatment strategy (“Immediate” treatment and “Wait and See” strategy) or response to first-line 
treatment  (PR  and  CR).  When  comparing  the  differences  in  PFS  according  to  specific  first-line 
induction chemotherapy, significant effects were seen in patients who received CHOP, CVP/CVP, or 
Chlorambucil.  With  CHOP-like  treatment  borderline  significance  was  seen.  Favorable  trends  were 
observed in patients who received fludarabine and rituximab containing therapies. 
It is noteworthy that Zevalin consolidation therapy significantly prolonged PFS even in the subgroup 
of  patients  who  achieved  a  CR  after  first-line  induction  treatment  suggesting  that  Zevalin 
consolidation has a role in eliminating residual disease and thereby enhances PFS outcomes also for 
patients with very low tumor burden. 
Zevalin patients who were PCR negative or positive for the BCL-2 gene rearrangement at the start of 
treatment had a notably longer median PFS than the corresponding control group patients; 1091 days 
versus 546 days for BCL-2 negative patients (p-value for log-rank test 0.0008) and 1260 days versus 
370  days  for  BCL-2  positive  patients  (p-value  for  log-rank  test  less  than  0.0001)  for  Zevalin  and 
control patients respectively. The hazard ratios were in favor of Zevalin treatment with 0.561 (2-sided 
95%-CI:  0.398;  0.792)  for  BCL-2  negative  patients,  and  0.336  (2-sided  95%  CI:  0.219;  0.515)  for 
BCl-2 positive patients. 
Response to treatment 
87.4%  of  the  Zevalin  patients  achieved  a  CR/CRu  as  best  response  at  any  time  during  the  study 
compared with 53.3% of the patients in the control group. The control group had a higher frequency of 
PR compared with the Zevalin group with 18.9% versus 10.1% respectively. 
Page 7 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
A treatment group comparison for best response to treatment at any time during the study for the FAS 
is presented in table below. 
The  Zevalin  patients  consistently  showed  a  notably  higher  frequency  of  CR/CRu  reported  as  best 
response during the study than the control group regardless of the type of first-line therapy received 
with  CRs  ranging  from  84.6%  to  100%  for  the  Zevalin  group  and  31.6%  to  71.0%  for  the  control 
group. 
77.2% of the Zevalin patients (95% CI: 67.80%; 85.00%) and 17.5% of the control patients (95% CI: 
10.60%; 26.60%) achieved a CR or CRu after having entered the study with a response different from 
a  CR  or  CRu.  The  Zevalin  group  had  proportionately  more  patients  than  the  control  group  who 
improved to CR or CRu after randomization regardless of the type of firstline treatment administered. 
Molecular response rate was defined as the percentage of patients who became PCR negative for the 
Bcl-2 rearrangement after [90Y]-ibritumomab tiuxetan treatment. This was determined from samples 
of peripheral blood and bone marrow biopsies. Patients were defined as Bcl2-PCR positive, in case of 
at 
least  one  positive  assessment  after  randomization:  Patients  who  had  assessments  post 
randomization,  but  were  not  defined  as  positive  were  defined  as  negative.  The  Zevalin  group  had  a 
higher proportion of patients who became Bcl2-PCR negative in blood and bone marrow samples after 
randomization  compared  with  the  control  group;  in  blood  96.8%  Bcl2-PCR  negative  for  Zevalin 
versus  44.7%  for  the  control  group;  in  bone  marrow  75.9%  Bcl2-  PCR  negative  for  Zevalin  versus 
38.9% for the control. 
The  Zevalin  group  patients  had  a  significantly  longer  time  to  subsequent  treatment  than  the  control 
group with 1854 days compared with 993 days for the control group (p-value for the logrank test was 
<0.0001). 
No conclusions can be drawn with regard to improvement in overall survival after Zevalin treatment 
since the median had not yet been reached in either group due to the low number of deaths; 6 out of 
208 in the Zevalin group and 5 out of 206 in the control group. 
Patients randomized to Zevalin treatment had a median follow-up time of 822 days compared with 536 
days for the control group. 
There were no notable treatment group differences with respect to changes in the Euro-QOL overall 
scores or the Visual analogue scale (VAS) by timepoint or in terms of changes from baseline. This was 
also true for the analysis of subgroups by gender, age, and firstline treatment. There were no notable 
treatment group differences with respect to changes in the absolute EORTC QLQ-C30C scores either 
by  timepoint  or  in  terms  of  changes  from  baseline  for  the  following  scores:  Global  health  status, 
Physical  functioning,  Role  functioning,  Emotional  functioning,  Cognitive  functioning,  Social 
functioning,  Nausea  and  vomiting,  Pain,  Dyspnea,  Insomnia,  Appetite  loss,  Constipation,  Diarrhea,  
Page 8 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and Financial difficulties. This was also true for the analysis by subgroups for gender, age, and first-
line treatment. 
Clinical studies in special populations 
None performed. 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
Not applicable 
Conclusion on Efficacy 
Zevalin has been shown to be effective in significantly prolonging remission-free survival in patients 
with follicular lymphomas who achieved a response (CR or PR) after first-line chemotherapy. With a 
median  follow-up  of  two  years  and  a  maximum  follow-up  of  5.3  years  after  study  treatment,  the 
median progression free survival (PFS) increased from 13.5 months (control) to 37 months (Zevalin; 
p<0.0001; HR 0.465 according to the primary analysis). After consolidation treatment with Zevalin the 
overall complete response increased from 51.4% to 87.4% (75.8% CR and 11.6% CRu). The PR to CR 
conversion  rates  with  Zevalin  consolidation  were  of  the  same  magnitude  regardless  of  the  first-line 
treatment  administered,  which  included  less  potent  regimens  such  as  chlorambucil  single  agent 
treatment.  The  conversion  rates  to  CR  as  well  as  the  final  CR  rates  were  similar  in  the  CHOP  and 
CVP/COP pretreated patients; these were the largest pre-treatment groups. 
After Zevalin treatment a high proportion of patients changed from Bcl-2 positive to Bcl-2 negative in 
blood  and  bone  marrow  samples  (96.8%  in  blood  and  75.9%  in  bone  marrow  became  Bcl-2  PCR 
negative). 
These  results  are  clearly  positive  and  clinically  relevant  adding  further  information  to  the  efficacy 
database for Zevalin as requested by the CHMP. 
Standard of care for patients with follicular lymphoma now includes combination chemotherapy plus 
rituximab, and therefore the protocol amendment is understandable. However, the amendment makes 
it  difficult  to  assess  the  benefit  of  Zevalin  consolidation  in  responding  patients  where  some  have 
received B-cell depleting therapy prior to consolidation and others not. The background chemotherapy 
is heterogenous and includes CHOP or CHOP-like, CVP/COP and monotherapy with chlorambucil or 
fludarabine. Relatively few patients received rituximab as add-on the chemotherapy. 
Unfortunately,  Zevalin  consolidation  has  not  been  used  in  combination  with  the  now  accepted 
standard  of  care,  chemotherapy  +  rituximab,  and  therefore  the  SPC  information  must  reflect  the 
insufficient knowledge of the efficacy of Zevalin in rituximab pretreated patients.  
1.3 
Clinical safety 
The  Summary  of  Clinical  Safety  is  based  on  the  results  of  one  multicenter  randomized  prospective 
phase  III  trial  (304820)  that  included  414  patients  (208  patients  randomized  to  Zevalin  and  206 
randomized to no further treatment). The study was designed to determine the efficacy and safety of a 
single  course  of  [90Y]-ibritumomab  tiuxetan  given  at  a  dose  of  15  MBq/kg  (0.4  mCi/kg,  maximum 
1200 MBq or 32 mCi) in patients with stage III or IV follicular non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma who had 
achieved  a  PR  or  CR  after  first  line  chemotherapy  with  either  single  agent  or  combination 
chemotherapies. 
Page 9 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patient exposure 
Adverse events 
In  study  304820  adverse  events  (AEs)  were  reported  as  either  non-hematological  orhematological. 
Table 6 summarizes the overall frequencies of these AEs in each treatment group. 
Overall 98.5% of the Zevalin patients (201 out of 204 patients) were reported to have had an AEof any 
kind during the study compared with 80.5% (165 out of 205 patients) of the control group; 95.1% of 
the Zevalin patients had non-hematological (non-hemotoxic) AEs compared with 80% of the control 
group; 72.5% of the Zevalin patients had hematological (hemotoxic)AEs compared with 14.6% of the 
control group. 
A  treatment  group  comparison  of  the  frequency  of  non-hematological  AEs  during  the  study  is 
presented in Table 7. Most of the AEs reported occurred more frequently in the Zevalin group than in 
the untreated control group. The most frequently reported AEs by SOC (those AEs that occurred in at 
least 20% of either treatment group) were: Infections and Infestations reported in 60.8% of the Zevalin 
group and 38% of the control group; General Disorders and Administration Site Reactions reported in 
58.3% of the Zevalin group and 30.2% of the control group; Gastrointestinal Disorders in 46.6% of the 
Zevalin group and 24.9% of the control; Musculoskeletal and Connective Tissue Disorders in 46.6% 
of the Zevalin group and 33.2% of the control group; Skin and Subcutaneous Disorders in 36.8% of 
the Zevalin group and 16.1% of the control group; Respiratory, Thoracic, and Mediastinal Disorders in 
32.4% of the Zevalin group and 16.6% of the control group; Nervous System Disorders in 28.9% of 
the Zevalin group and 22.4% of the control group. 
Page 10 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
119 patients in the Zevalin group (58.3%) had AEs that were related to the study treatment compared 
with 1 patient (0.5%) in the control group. Some of the more frequently reported treatment related AEs 
reported for the Zevalin group involved General disorders and administration site reactions (36.3%), 
gastrointestinal  disorders  (19.1%),  Infections  and  infestations  (15.7%),  and  Skin  and  subcutaneous 
tissue disorders (12.7%). None of the control patients were reported to have treatment related AEs for 
these system organ classes. 
The majority of non-hematological AEs reported during the study were of CTC grade 1 or 2 intensity 
with approximately 65% of the AEs in the Zevalin group and 60% in the control group. CTC grade 3 
or 4 non-hematological AEs occurred at a frequency of 28.9% in the Zevalin group and 19.1% in the 
control group. 
CTC  grade  3  non-hematological  AEs  were  reported  for  48  Zevalin  patients  and  27  control  patients 
while CTC grade 4 AEs were documented for 12 patients in each treatment group. Notable treatment 
group  differences  with  respect  to  CTC  grade  3  AEs  were  seen  with  respect  to  Gastrointestinal 
disorders (8 patients in the Zevalin group compared with 2 in the control group),General disorders and 
administration site conditions (10 patients in the Zevalin group compared with 1 in the control group), 
Infections  and  infestations  (14  patients  in  the  Zevalin  group  versus  5  in  the  control  group;  2  CTC 
grade  4  infections  with  Zevalin  versus  none  in  the  control  group),  Respiratory  and  mediastinal 
disorders (6 patients in the Zevalin group versus 1 in the control group), and Vascular disorders (10 
patients in the Zevalin group versus 3 in the control group). 
Page 11 of 15 
 
 
Five patients had CTC grade 3 pyrexia which was considered to be treatment related (3 of these cases 
were SAEs); all of the patients were reported to have recovered. One patient had CTC grade 4 pyrexia 
that was considered unrelated to study treatment (not a SAE). CTC grade 3 or 4 pyrexia was also more 
common in the Zevalin group with 6 patients versus none in the controlgroup.  
16 patients in the Zevalin group had CTC grade 3 infections compared with 5 patients in the control 
group. CTC grade 4 infections were reported for 2 Zevalin patients (both patients had CTC grade  4 
neutropenic sepsis, one of these patients also had CTC grade 3 oral candidiasis). Nine of these patients 
had  infections  that  were  considered  treatment  related.  All  of  these  patients  were  reported  to  have 
recovered from these incidents of infection. The rate of infections requiring hospitalization was 7.4%. 
A  treatment  group  comparison  of  the  worst  hematological  toxicity  reported  during  the  study  for 
platelets, neutrophils and hemoglobin is presented in Table 13. 
For all patients in the Zevalin group, lymphocyte counts were the earliest to reach nadir at a median of 
33  days  after  starting  treatment  followed  by  platelet  counts  at  a  median  of  49  days,  leukocytes  at  a 
median of 56 days, hemoglobin values at a median of 69 days, and total neutrophils at a median of 61 
days. 
In  this  study  a  patient  was  considered  to  have  recovered  from  hematological  values  of  CTCgrade  2 
toxicity or higher when these values returned to CTC grade 1 or CTC grade 0. 
For the patients who recovered in the Zevalin group, platelet counts were the quickest to recover at a 
median of 14 days, followed by neutrophil counts at a median of 15 days, leukocytes at a median of at 
21  days,  and  lymphocytes  at  a  median  of  42  days.  The  median  time  to  nadir  for  hemoglobin  was  0 
days indicating that there was no notable change in these values for Zevalin patients who recovered. 
Almost  one-third  (31.7%)  of  the  patients  with  CTC  grade  3  and  all  4  patients  with  CTC  grade  4 
thrombocytopenia  received  platelet  infusion.  Altogether  11%  of  the  patients  with  CTC  grade  3  and 
50% of the patients with CTC grade 4 neutropenia received growth factors. Three patients with CTC 
grade 3 and 1 patient with CTC grade 4 anemia received red blood cell transfusions. 
Of the 82 patients with CTC grade 3 neutropenia, 44 patients (54%) were reported to have developed 
infections at any time during the study; 23 of these 82 patients (28 %) developed infections within the 
14  week  safety period;  only 3  of  the  82  patients  had  CTC  grade  3  infections  (no  grade  4  infections 
were reported). 
Of the 54 patients with CTC grade 4 neutropenia, 41 patients (76%) were reported to have developed 
infections at any time during the study; 21 of these 54 patients (39%) developed infections during the 
14  week  safety  period;  10  of  the  54  patients  developed  infections  of  CTC  grade  3  or  4  intensity  (9 
patients with CTC grade 3 and one patient with grade 4). All of these patients were reported to have 
recovered. 
Page 12 of 15 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
During  study  304820  there  was  one  death  reported  in  the  control  group.  This  patient  developed 
metastases of the meninges and was reported to have died about one month after entering the study. 
During the observation period, 4 deaths were reported in the control group and 6 deaths in the Zevalin 
group. Three of the deaths in the control group were due to disease progression and one was due to 
AEs (sepsis). Three deaths in the Zevalin group were due to disease progression and 3 deaths were due 
to other reasons; one death due to acute sepsis after neutropenia following subsequent chemotherapy, 
one death due to pancreatic carcinoma, and one death due to acutemyeloblastic leukemia. 
Of the 76 Zevalin patients with SAEs, 53 patients had at least one SAE that was considered to be study 
treatment related; none of the control patients’ SAEs were treatment related. All except one of the 53 
patients  had  at  least  one  report  involving  hematologic  toxicities  such  as  neutropenia,  leukopenia, 
lymphopenia,  thrombocytopenia,  or  anemia.  Hematologic  toxicity  is  a  known  side-effect  of  Zevalin 
treatment.  
Laboratory findings 
There were no notable or consistent treatment group differences with regard to high, low, or normal 
values at any timepoint during the study with regard to levels of  alkaline phosphatase, ASAT/GOT, 
ALAT/GPT, total bilirubin, LDH, c-reactive protein, total protein, albumin, glucose, urea, creatinine, 
uric  acid,  potassium,  sodium,  calcium,  and  chloride  with  the  majority  of  the  patients  (75%  to  over 
90%) in both groups showing normal values. 
Safety in special populations 
No specific studies performed. 
In  a  clinical  trial  in  which  Zevalin  was  administered  as  consolidation  after  prior  first  line 
chemotherapy,  a  higher  frequency  of  severe  and  prolonged  neutropenia  and  thrombocytopenia  was 
observed in patients who had received Zevalin within 4 months after a combination chemotherapy of 
fludarabine with mitoxantrone and/or cyclophosphamide compared to those patients who had received 
any other chemotherapy. Hence, the risk of hematological toxicity may be increased when Zevalin is 
administered shortly (< 4 months) after fludarabine containing regimens. 
Conclusion on safety 
From  the  safety  data  base  for  the  approved  indication,  it  is  known  that  the  primary  toxicity  is 
reversible myelosuppression, which typically developed by weeks 4 to 6, reached a nadir at weeks 7 to 
9, with recovery within 1 to 4 weeks. 
Myelotoxicity is also the most prominent toxicity when Zevalin is used as consolidation after standard 
chemotherapy  regimens  for  follicular  lymphomas.  The  overall  frequency  of  CTC  grade  3  or  4 
neutropenia  was  comparable  to  previous  results;  in  the  present  study,  CTC  grade  3  and  grade  4 
neutropenia was  reported  in  40.2%  and  26.5%  of  the  patients.  58.8  %  of  the patients  in  the  Zevalin 
group  developed  CTC  grade  3 
thrombocytopenia;  only  2  %  developed  CTC  grade  4 
thrombocytopenia.  However,  the  time  to  marrow  recovery  may  be  slightly  prolonged  in  the 
consolidation setting as compared to monotherapy for refractory patients. 
This toxicity is serious but manageable.   
Page 13 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk Management Plan 
The risk management plan (RMP) is summarized in the following table: 
Safety concern 
Severe neutropenia and 
subsequent infection 
Proposed pharmacovigilance 
activities 
Proposed risk minimization 
activities 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC (“Special Warnings”): 
Severe thrombocytopenia 
and subsequent bleeding 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC (“Undesirable effects”): 
SPC (“Dosage and method of 
administration”): 
SPC (“Special warnings”): 
SPC (“Undesirable effects”): 
Carninogenicity (secondary 
malignancies, including 
AML/MDS) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC (“Undesirable effects”): 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
Congenital anormaly 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
SPC (“Contraindication”): 
Enhanced pharmacovigilance 
SPC (“Pregnancy and lactation”): 
SPC (“Undesirable effects”): 
Benefit – Risk assessment 
The results from the submitted randomized prospective phase III trial (304820) are clearly positive and 
clinically relevant adding further information to the efficacy database for the product as requested by 
the CHMP in the context of the specific obligations for the Marketing Authorisation for Zevalin.. 
Zevalin has been shown to be effective in significantly prolonging remission-free survival in patients 
with follicular lymphomas who achieved a response (CR or PR) after first-line chemotherapy. With a 
median  follow-up  of  two  years  and  a  maximum  follow-up  of  5.3  years  after  study  treatment,  the 
median progression free survival (PFS) increased from 13.5 months (control) to 37 months (Zevalin; 
p<0.0001; HR 0.465 according to the primary analysis). After consolidation treatment with Zevalin the 
overall complete response increased from 51.4% to 87.4% (75.8% CR and 11.6% CRu). The PR to CR 
conversion  rates  with  Zevalin  consolidation  were  of  the  same  magnitude  regardless  of  the  first-line 
treatment  administered,  which  included  less  potent  regimens  such  as  chlorambucil  single  agent 
treatment.  The  conversion  rates  to  CR  as  well  as  the  final  CR  rates  were  similar  in  the  CHOP  and 
CVP/COP pretreated patients; these were the largest pre-treatment groups. 
After Zevalin treatment a high proportion of patients changed from Bcl-2 positive to Bcl-2 negative in 
blood  and  bone  marrow  samples  (96.8%  in  blood  and  75.9%  in  bone  marrow  became  Bcl-2  PCR 
negative). 
The benefit of adding Zevalin to a rituximab containing regimen is currently unknown. The rituximab 
naïve  and  rituximab  pre-treated  patients  in  the  submitted  randomized  prospective  phase  III  trial 
(304820)  should  have  been  considered  as  separate  groups,  and  the  results  in  terms  assessment  of 
primary  endpoint  should  be  analyzed  separately  (and  power  calculations  should  be  (have  been) 
amended accordingly). Only a small proportion of patients (N=59) in the submitted trial had received 
rituximab-chemotherapy combinations.  The submitted trial was not designed to address that question. 
Page 14 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It may be that adding Zevalin to rituximab pretreated patients will not add further to clinical benefit or 
that safety profile is different for these more immunocompromised patients.  
Although  it  is  agreed  that  achievement  of  CR  is  associated  with  longer  duration  of  response,  the 
benefit/risk ratio of adding Zevalin to the now-standard rituximab-chemotherapy regimens cannot be 
addressed with the currently submitted data. 
The submitted additional abstract data (Jankowitz; J Clin Oncol 2007, 25: 18S; 8005) (Shipley and et 
al;  JCO  2005;  23:  16S:  6577)  suggest  that  the  complete  remission  rate  (the  primary  endpoint)  was 
increased was increased when 90Y ibritumomab was added to the schedule, however, the data do not 
allow  assessment  of  benefit-  and  (longer  term)  risk  in  these  patients.  Both  studies  were  non 
randomized  phase  II  studies  (thus  lacking  a  control  arm)  and  results  were  only  reported  in  abstract 
form. Furthermore, in both studies no standard chemotherapy regimens for the target population with 
follicular NHL was used (only 3 courses of R-CHOP and 4 weekly courses of rituximab followed by 3 
courses of R-CHOP respectively). Moreover, no effects on PFS and overall survival were addressed 
requiring longer term follow up.  
Therefore,  the  therapeutic  indication  is  worded  as  follows:  The  [90Y]-radiolabelled  Zevalin  is 
indicated  as  consolidation  therapy  after  remission  induction  in  previously  untreated  patients  with 
follicular  lymphoma.  The  benefit  of  Zevalin  following  rituximab  in  combination  with  chemotherapy 
has not been established.  
Myelotoxicity  is  the  most  prominent  toxicity  when  Zevalin  is  used  as  consolidation  after  standard 
chemotherapy  regimens  for  follicular  lymphomas.  The  overall  frequency  of  CTC  grade  3  or  4 
neutropenia  was  comparable  to  previous  results;  in  the  present  study,  CTC  grade  3  and  grade  4 
neutropenia was  reported  in  40.2%  and  26.5%  of  the  patients.  58.8  %  of  the patients  in  the  Zevalin 
thrombocytopenia;  only  2  %  developed  CTC  grade  4 
group  developed  CTC  grade  3 
thrombocytopenia.  However,  the  time  to  marrow  recovery  may  be  slightly  prolonged  in  the 
consolidation setting as compared to monotherapy for refractory patients. This toxicity is serious but 
manageable and reversible.   
The  prolongation  in  PFS  as  compared  to  an  acceptable  safety  profile  for  an  anticancer  medicinal 
product indicates a positive risk-benefit balance. 
However, Zevalin consolidation has not been used in combination with the now accepted standard of 
care,  chemotherapy  +  rituximab,  and  therefore  the  SPC  information  must  reflect  the  insufficient 
knowledge of the efficacy of Zevalin consolidation in rituximab pretreated patients.  
The  MAH  will  monitor  late  occurring  events  such  (opportunistic)  infections  including  progressive 
multifocal  leukoencephalopathy  (PML)  and  malignancies  (haematologic  and  non-haematologic)  in 
subsequent PSURs. 
II.  CONCLUSION 
On  19  March  2008  the  CHMP  considered  this  Type  II  variation  to  be  acceptable  and  agreed  on  the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II  and  Package 
Leaflet.  
Page 15 of 15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
