PROCEDURAL STEPS TAKEN AND SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION AFTER 
AUTHORISATION 
For procedures finalised after 1 September 2000 please refer to module 8B. 
•  On 24 November 1999 the CPMP issued a notification to the Commission relating to changes in 
the Package Leaflet and Labelling not connected to the Summary of Product Characteristics. The 
European Commission amended the Decision on 15 February 2000. 
•  On  19  January  2000,  recognising  that  respiratory  symptoms  are  an  important  part  of  the 
hypersensitivity  reactions  (HSR)  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  requested  an  update  of  the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  and  Package  Leaflet  through  an  Urgent  Safety  Restriction 
(USR)  procedure  in  accordance  with  article  1(2)  of  Commission  Regulation  (EC)  No.  542/95  as 
amended. 
The  scope  of  the  procedure  was  to  introduce  and  highlight  information  regarding  respiratory 
symptoms associated with HSR. It has been recognised that these patients may initially be thought 
of  as  having  respiratory  disease  of  other  origin.  As  a  consequence  new  warnings  have  been 
introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (sections  4.4  and  4.8),  the  labelling  (alert 
card)  and  in  the  Package  Leaflet.  These  new  warnings  are  aimed  for  physicians  and  patients  to 
better recognise these HSR with respiratory symptoms.  
On 4 February 2000, the MAH submitted an application for a Type II variation in accordance with 
Commission Regulation (EC) No. 542/95. The scope of the variation was to update the Summary 
of  Product  Characteristics  (SPC),  and  as  a  consequence  the  Labelling  and  Package  Leaflet 
following  new  information  provisionally  introduced  through  the  above  USR  and  following  the 
availability  of  new  interaction  data  of  abacavir  with  methadone,  and  other  new  safety  data.  The 
CPMP considered the changes related to the variation acceptable and issued on 25 May 2000 the 
Opinion on the Type II variation. The respective Commission Decision was issued on 22 February 
2001. 
•  On 10 August 2000, the Marketing Authorisation Holder requested an update of the Summary of 
Product  Characteristics,  Package  Leaflet  and  Labelling  through  an  Urgent  Safety  Restriction 
procedure in accordance with article 1(2) of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 542/95 as amended. 
This  was  due  to  reports  of  hypersensitivity  reactions  occurring  when  therapy  with  Ziagen  was 
restarted following a break in therapy. 
The scope of the Urgent Safety restriction was to provide information to prescribers and patients 
regarding  the  recognition  of  hypersensitivity  reactions,  their  occurrence  after  interruption  of 
therapy and the management of restarting. As a consequence new warnings have been introduced 
in the Summary of Product Characteristics (sections 4.4 and 4.8), the Labelling (alert card) and in 
the Package Leaflet.  
1/1 
©EMEA 2005 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
