London, 05 October 2005 
Product name: Ziagen 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/252/R/25 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 68 
E-mail: mail@emea.eu.int     http://www.emea.eu.int 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
On July 1999, a Marketing Authorisation was granted for Ziagen Tablets and Oral solution with the 
currently approved dose of one 300 mg tablet orally twice daily in adolescents and adults and 8mg/ kg 
orally  twice  daily  up  to  a  maximum  of  600mg/day  (300mg/  dose)  in  paediatric  patients.  The  active 
molecule, abacavir, is a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor. 
The current indication of Ziagen is the following:  
Ziagen 
Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection.  
indicated 
is 
in  antiretroviral  combination 
therapy 
for 
the 
treatment  of  Human 
The  demonstration  of  the  benefit  of  Ziagen  is  mainly  based  on  results  of  studies  performed  in 
treatment-naïve patients on combination therapy with lamivudine and zidovudine. 
And the current posologies are as follow: 
Ziagen should be prescribed by physicians experienced in the management of HIV infection.  
Adults and adolescents over 12 years: the recommended dose of Ziagen is 300 mg (one tablet) twice 
daily. 
Children  from  three  months  to  12  years:  the  recommended  dose  is  8 mg/kg  twice  daily  up  to  a 
maximum of 600 mg daily. 
Children  less  than  three  months:  the  data  available  on  the  use  of  Ziagen  in  this  age  group  are  very 
limited. 
Ziagen can be taken with or without food. 
Ziagen is available as an oral solution for use in children and for those patients for whom the tablets 
are inappropriate. 
Renal  impairment:  No  dosage  adjustment  of  Ziagen  is  necessary  in  patients  with  renal  dysfunction. 
However, Ziagen should be avoided in patients with end-stage renal disease. 
Hepatic impairment: Abacavir is primarily metabolised by the liver. No dose recommendation can be 
made in patients with mild hepatic impairment. No data are available in patients with moderate hepatic 
impairment,  therefore  the  use  of  abacavir  is  not  recommended  unless  judged  necessary.  In  patients 
with mild and moderate hepatic impairment close monitoring is required, and if feasible, monitoring of 
abacavir  plasma  levels  is  recommended.  Abacavir  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  severe  hepatic 
impairment. 
Elderly: No pharmacokinetic data is currently available in patients over 65 years of age. 
2.  Marketing Authorisation History 
Ziagen  was  first  authorised  in  the  USA  on  17  December  1998  and  in  Europe  on  8  July  1999.  In 
Europe, Ziagen has been marketed in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, 
Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom and Norway 
during the reporting period. It is approved in a total of 91 countries and has been launched in a total of 
31 countries worldwide. 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
2/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
Documentation submitted 
•  Renewal Application Form 
•  Summary of Product Characteristics, Package Leaflet and Labelling in all official languages of the 
EU and Norway and Iceland 
Information about the quality and clinical experts 
•  Mock-ups and Specimen 
• 
•  Quality overall Summary 
•  Clinical Overview 
•  TSE Compliance 
•  13th Periodic Safety Update Report (covering the period 1 July – 31 December 2003). 
4.  Regulatory actions 
Subsequently to the granting of the Marketing Authorisation, the following changes were approved: 
•  On 24 November 1999 the CPMP issued a notification to the Commission relating to changes in 
the Package Leaflet (PL) and Labelling not connected to the Summary of Product Characteristics 
(SPC). The European Commission amended the Decision on 15 February 2000. 
•  On  19  January  2000,  recognising  that  respiratory  symptoms  are  an  important  part  of  the 
hypersensitivity reactions  (HSR) the Marketing Authorisation  Holder requested  an  update  of the 
Summary  of  Product  Characteristics  (SPC)  and  Package  Leaflet  (PL)  through  an  Urgent  Safety 
Restriction (USR) procedure in accordance with article 1(2) of Commission Regulation (EC) No. 
542/95 as amended. 
The  scope  of  the  procedure  was  to  introduce  and  highlight  information  regarding  respiratory 
symptoms associated with HSR. It has been recognised that these patients may initially be thought 
of  as  having  respiratory  disease  of  other  origin.  As  a  consequence  new  warnings  have  been 
introduced in the SPC (sections 4.4 and 4.8), the labelling (alert card) and in the PL. These new 
warnings  are  aimed  for  physicians  and  patients  to  better  recognise  these  HSR  with  respiratory 
symptoms.  
•  On 4 February 2000, the MAH submitted an application for a Type II variation in accordance with 
Commission Regulation (EC) No. 542/95. The scope of the variation was to update the SPC and 
as  a  consequence  the  Labelling  and  PL  following  new  information  provisionally  introduced 
through  the  above  USR  and  following  the  availability  of  new  interaction  data  of  abacavir  with 
methadone, and other new safety data. The CPMP considered the changes related to the variation 
acceptable  and  issued  on  25  May  2000  the  Opinion  on  the  Type  II  variation.  The  respective 
Commission Decision was issued on 22 February 2001. 
•  On  10  August  2000,  the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  requested  an  update  of  the  SPC, 
Labelling and PL and through an USR procedure in accordance with article 1(2) of Commission 
Regulation  (EC)  No.  542/95  as  amended.  This  was  due  to  reports  of  hypersensitivity  reactions 
occurring when therapy with Ziagen was restarted following a break in therapy. 
The  scope  of  the  USR  was  to  provide  information  to  prescribers  and  patients  regarding  the 
recognition  of  hypersensitivity  reactions,  their  occurrence  after  interruption  of  therapy  and  the 
management  of  restarting.  As  a  consequence  new  warnings  have  been  introduced  in  the  SPC 
(sections 4.4 and 4.8), the Labelling (alert card) and in the PL.  
•  On  8  September  2000,  the  MAH  submitted  an  application  for  a  Type  II  variation  in  accordance 
with Commission Regulation (EC) No. 542/95. The scope of the variation was to update the SPC, 
and  as  a  consequence  the  Labelling  and  PL  following  new  information  provisionally  introduced 
through  the  above  USR  and  following  the  CPMP  assessment  of  the  clinical  follow-up  measure 
relating to the 48 week results of study CNAA B3005. The CPMP considered the changes related 
to the variation acceptable and issued on  19 October 2000 the Opinion on the Type II variation. 
The respective Commission Decision was issued on 22 February 2001. 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
3/15 
 
 
 
 
 
•  On 14 December 2000, the MAH submitted an application for extension of shelf-life as foreseen 
at  time  of  authorisation.  On  19  January  2001  the  EMEA  approved  the  variation.  The  respective 
Commission Decision was issued on 26 March 2001. 
•  On 12 January 2001, the MAH submitted an application for an extension of indication to include 
HIV-infected paediatric patients aged 3 months up to 18 years. The CPMP considered the changes 
related  to  the  variation  acceptable  and  issued  on  27  June  2001  the  Opinion  on  the  Type  II 
variation. The respective Commission Decision was issued 24 October 2001. 
•  On 12 January 2001, the MAH submitted an application for a Type II variation to update of SPC 
and PL, following changes requested by the CPMP following the adoption of a class labelling for 
nucleoside analogues in September 2000, changes requested by the CPMP in May 2001 following 
the  assessment  of  safety  follow-up  measures  and  changes  proposed  by  the  Marketing 
Authorisation  Holder  following  the  availability  of  new  safety  data.  The  changes  include  a  new 
recommendation for an adjusted dose of abacavir in patients with mild hepatic impairment, contra-
indications  in  patients  with  moderate  and  severe  hepatic  impairment,  changes  related  to  the 
hypersensitivity reaction and a statement about the findings in preclinical carcinogenicity studies 
with  abacavir  in  mice  and  rats.  The  CPMP  considered  the  changes  related  to  the  variation 
acceptable  and  issued  on  27  June  2001  the  Opinion  on  the  type  II  variation.  The  respective 
Commission Decision was issued 24 October 2001. 
•  On 11 September 2001, an application for a Type I variation was submitted for minor change of 
manufacturing process of  the active substance and a change in specification of starting material/ 
intermediate  used  in  manufacturing  of  the  active  substance.  On  9  January  2001  the  EMEA 
approved the variation. The respective Commission Decision was issued 23 October 2001. 
•  On 11 September 2001, an application for a Type I variation was submitted to make a change in 
test  procedure  for  starting  material/intermediate  used  in  manufacturing  of  active  substance.  On 
9 January  2001  the  EMEA  approved  the  variation.  The  respective  Commission  Decision  was 
issued 23 October 2001. 
•  On  15  May  2002,  the  MAH  submitted  an  application  for  a  Type  II  variation  to  update  the  SPC 
further to the revised class labelling relating to lactic acidosis,  to update symptoms and signs of 
hypersensitivity reaction  in section  4.4  (“Special  warnings and special  precautions for use”)  and 
4.8  (“Undesirable  effects”),  inclusion  of  skin  and  subcutaneous  tissue  disorders  as  undesirable 
effects not associated with hypersensitivity reactions in section 4.8, and related relevant sections 
of  PL,  following  the  assessment  of  the  Periodic  Safety  Update  Reports  (PSUR)  7  &  8  covering 
July 2000 to December 2000 and January 2001 to June 2001, respectively as well as new safety 
reports  on  skin  disorders.  Furthermore,  the  MAH  proposed  some  minor  changes  in  the  SPC  in 
order to bring the text in line with the latest QRD/ EMEA templates. In addition, the list of local 
representatives  has  been  revised.  The  CPMP  considered  the  changes  related  to  the  variation 
acceptable  and  issued  on  25  July  2002  the  Opinion  on  the  type  II  variation.  The  respective 
Commission Decision was issued 28 October 2002. 
•  On 13 June 2002 an application for a Type I variation was submitted for a change in or addition of 
manufacturer(s)  of  active  substance.  On  2  July  2002  the  EMEA  approved  the  variation.  The 
respective Commission Decision was issued 11 July 2002. 
•  On  13  June  2002  an  application  for  a  Type  I  variation  was  submitted  for  a  minor  change  of 
manufacturing process of the active substance. On 2 July 2002 the EMEA approved the variation. 
The respective Commission Decision was issued 11 July 2002. 
•  On  13  June  2002  an  application  for  a  Type  I  variation  was  submitted  to  make  a  change  in  the 
batch size of active substance. On 2 July 2002 the EMEA approved the variation. The respective 
Commission Decision was issued 11 July 2002. 
•  On 13 June 2002 an application for a Type I variation was submitted to make a change in a test 
procedure for starting material/intermediate used in manufacturing of active substance. On 2 July 
2002 the EMEA approved the variation. The respective Commission Decision was issued 11 July 
2002. 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
4/15 
 
•  On  9  January  2003  an  application  for  a  Type  I  variation  was  submitted  to  make  a  change  in  or 
addition  of  manufacturing  site(s)  for  part  or  all  of  the  manufacturing  process.  On  14  February 
2003  the  EMEA  approved  the  variation.  The  respective  Commission  Decision  was  issued 
26 February 2003. 
•  On 9 January 2003 an application for a Type I variation was submitted for a change in or addition 
of  manufacturing  site(s)  for  part  or  all  of  the  manufacturing  process.  On  25  February  2003  the 
EMEA approved the variation. The respective Commission Decision was issued 8 April 2003. 
•  On 9 January 2003 an application for a Type I variation was submitted to make a change in the 
qualitative composition of immediate packaging material. On 19 March 2003 the EMEA approved 
the variation. The respective Commission Decision was issued 26 March 2003. 
•  On 9 January 2003 an application for a Type I variation was submitted to make a change in test 
procedures of the medicinal product. On 14 February 2003 the EMEA approved the variation. The 
respective Commission Decision was issued 26 February 2003. 
•  On 12 February 2003, the MAH submitted an application for a Type II variation to update the SPC 
to  include  the  class  labelling  on  Lipodystrophy  in  sections  4.4  (“Special  warnings  and  special 
precautions for use”) and 4.8 (“Undesirable effects”). Relevant changes are equally proposed for 
the PL.  Additionally, the  contact  details  of the  local representatives for  Finland, Greece,  Ireland 
and Spain have been updated in Section 6 of the PL. The CPMP considered the changes related to 
the  variation  acceptable  and issued  on  19 March  2003 the Opinion on the type II variation.  The 
respective Commission Decision was issued 14 July 2003. 
•  On 17 July 2003, the MAH submitted an application for a Type II variation to update sections 4.2 
“Posology and method of administration”, 4.4 "Special warnings and special precautions of use" 
and  5.2  "Pharmacokinetic  properties"  of  the  SPC  to  implement  the  class  labelling  on  liver 
impairment  adopted  by  the  CPMP  for  all  anti-retroviral  medicinal  products  in  April  2003.  The 
section 2 of the PL is amended accordingly. Furthermore, the MAH has taken this opportunity to 
update the section 4.8 “Undesirable effects” of the SPC by repositioning words on skin reactions. 
Furthermore,  the  MAH  updated  the  PL,  section  4,  to  revise  the  wording  on  lipodystrophy  as 
adopted  by  the  CPMP  in  March  2003  and  amended  the  address  of  the  Luxembourg  local 
representative. The CPMP considered the changes related to the variation acceptable and issued on 
20 November 2003 the Opinion on the type II variation. The respective Commission Decision was 
issued 30 January 2004. 
•  On 23 October 2003, an application for a Type IA variation was submitted for a change in BR/QC 
testing  -  repl./add.  of  batch  control/testing  site.  On  29  October  2003  the  EMEA  approved  the 
variation.  
•  On 15 January 2004, an application for a Type IB variation was submitted to make a minor change 
in the manufacturing process of the active substance. On 13 February 2004 the EMEA approved 
the variation.  
•  On 4 February 2003, an application for a Type IA variation was made for a submission of TSE Ph. 
Eur. certificate for exc. - approved/new manufacturer. On 10 February 2004 the EMEA approved 
the variation.  
•  On 1 March 2004, the MAH submitted an application for a Type II variation to update section 4.4 
(Special  warnings  and  Special  precaution  for  use)  of  the  SPC  and  section  2  of  the  PL  under 
subheading  “Pregnancy  of  Ziagen  300  mg  film  coated  tablets  and  20  mg/ml  oral  solution,  to 
implement  the  class  labelling  for  nucleoside/nucleotide  reverse  transcriptase  inhibitors  (NRTIs) 
regarding mitochondrial toxicity in children with in utero and post natal exposure, as adopted by 
the CPMP in November 2003. In addition the MAH completed the list of local representatives in 
the  PL  to  include  the  10  accession  countries  and  changed  the  format  according  to  the  latest 
EMEA/QRD template. The CPMP considered the changes related to the variation acceptable and 
issued on 22 April 2004 the Opinion on the type II variation  
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
5/15 
 
 
5.  Quality 
The  Marketing  Authorisation  Holder  has  confirmed  that  the  quality,  with  respect  to  the  method  of 
preparation  and  control,  has  been  regularly  updated  by  variations  to  take  account  of  technical  and 
scientific progress in accordance with article 9a of directive 65/65/EEC and that the product conforms 
to current CPMP quality guidelines.  
All the relevant sites of manufacture and testing have undergone GMP inspection from an EU Member 
State  competent  authority  and  documentation  has  been  supplied  to  confirm  this.  The  sites  are 
satisfactory. 
The  Company  has  provided  a  summary  on  follow-up  as  indicated  in  the  table  below.  All  follow-up 
measures have been completed. 
Ziagen Follow up measures: 
Date 
requested 
Activity 
•  Chemical, Pharmaceutical and Biological Aspects: 
Date Submitted 
Status 
25/03/1999 
•  Addition of a non routine test for TLC to the finished 
27/05/1999, D991210 
product  specification.  
Complete 
27/09/1999 
25/03/1999 
•  Real-time stability data to be provided, by 28/02/2000 
28/02/2000, D2000-
0497 
Complete 
29/05/2000 
13/11/2001 
• 
• 
The synthetic flowcharts for Avecia and Lonza should 
be completed to include solvents and reagents. 
In  the  two  diagrams,  an  enzymatic  resolution  step  is 
mentioned. The Company should specify in each case 
if the enzymatic material used is from animal origin or 
if animal materials are used to prepare it. In the case of 
an  affirmative  answer,  the  Company  should  validate 
the viral and TSE safety by relevant data. 
23/01/2002, D2002-
0249 
Complete, 
10/06/2002 
23/01/2002, D2002-
0249 
Complete, 
10/06/2002 
The  currently  authorised  specifications  for  the  active  substance  and  the  finished  product  and 
qualitative and quantitative composition are identical to those in the original Marketing Authorisation 
Application approved on 8 July 1999 for Ziagen tablets and oral solution. 
The CPMP concluded that no specific concern has been raised in terms of quality for Ziagen tablets 
and oral solution. 
6.  Clinical Efficacy 
A type II variation EMEA/H/C/252/II/20 supporting the introduction of a 600 mg (two tablets) once 
daily  dosing  regimen  for  Ziagen  tablets  in  adults  and  adolescents  over  12  years  is  currently  being 
assessed  by  the  CPMP  (opinion  expected  in  July  2004).  Outstanding  issues  have  been  raised  by  the 
CPMP  in  April  2004  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  non-inferiority  demonstration  between  Ziagen 
once and twice daily regimens. 
The abstract  for Study CNA30024 performed with abacavir  and  lamivudine  administered as a twice 
daily regimen has been provided with the renewal dossier. The MAH will submit the full study report 
of this study for assessment in the frame of the above variation procedure. 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
6/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Design of Study CNA30024 is described below: 
Title of the study 
Randomised,  Double-blind, Controlled,  Multicenter  Trial  Comparing  the  Efficacy  and  Safety of  Abacavir BID 
versus  Zidovudine  when  Combined  with  Lamivudine  BID  and  Efavirenz  for  Treatment  of  HIV-1  Infection  in 
Antiretroviral Therapy Naïve Adults 
Phase 
III 
Duration of treatment  
48 weeks  
Treatment 
•  Abacavir (300 mg twice daily) + zidovudine placebo (BID) + lamivudine (150mg twice daily) + efavirenz 
(600 mg OAD) 
•  Abacavir placebo (BID) + Zidovudine (300mg twice daily) + lamivudine (150mg twice daily) + efavirenz 
(600 mg OAD) 
SWITCH : 
Subjects  who  permanently  discontinued  randomised  (assigned)  study  drugs  (ABC  or  ZDV)  due  to  an 
adverse  event  were  permitted  to  substitute  other  licensed  antiretroviral  drugs  and  continue  in  the  study;  for 
analysis  purposes,  these  subjects  were  considered  treatment  failures  at  the  time  of  switch.  Subjects  could 
substitute  other  licensed  antiretrovirals  for  background  (non-assigned)  study  drugs  (3TC  or  EFV)  due  to  an 
adverse  event  and  continue  on  the  study.  A  switch  of  background  study  drugs  was  not  considered  a  treatment 
failure, however, an intensification of study treatment by the addition of a fourth active antiretroviral agent would 
be defined as a treatment failure 
HIV1  infected  patients  ≥18  years  of  age  who  were  ART-NAÏVE  (less  than  7  days  of  any  prior  approved  or 
experimental  antiretroviral  therapy)  with    HIV-1  RNA  level  >400  copies/ml  and  a  CD4+  cell  count  >50 
cells/mm3 on at least one occasion within 21 days of study entry. 
Primary objective  
to compare the efficacy of abacavir (ABC) based therapy to zidovudine (ZDV) based therapy by determining the 
proportion of subjects (ITT exposed population) with plasma HIV-1 RNA ≤50 copies/ml through 48 weeks and 
adjusted  by  the  randomisation  strata  (screening  plasma  HIV-1  RNA  ≤100,000  copies/ml  vs  >100,000 
copies/ml) 
Secondary objectives  
comparison  of  safety,  as-treated  antiviral  efficacy,  time  to  loss  of  virologic  response  (TLOVR),  cumulative 
antiviral efficacy, immunologic effects, disease progression rates, rash/hypersensitivity reaction (HSR) rates, and 
viral resistance development between the two treatment groups. 
628 subjects with a 1:1 randomisation stratified by screening HIV- 1 RNA would provide 85% power to assess 
the  non-inferiority  of  ABC  compared  to  ZDV  at  the  two-sided  0.05  level  of  significance.  This  calculation 
assumed  identical  50%  success  rates  in  the  treatment  arms.  Non-inferiority  was  defined  as  a  95%  confidence 
interval adjusted for randomisation strata that excluded differences as large as 12% in the direction of inferiority 
of the ABC + 3TC + EFV treatment arm. If non-inferiority was established, then superiority of the ABC + 3TC 
+EFV arm was tested. 
Population 
Objectives  
Statistical methods 
Number of patients 
654 randomised – 649 ITT exposed (ABC+3TC+EFV N=324; ZDV+3TC+EFV N=325) 
The results for the primary efficacy endpoint are given below: 
Statistical Evaluation of Non-inferiority of Virological Response at Week 48 Based on Plasma HIV-1 RNA <50 
copies/ml using the TLOVR algorithm (ITT-Exposed Population - CNA30024) 
Strata 
Stratified 
<100,000 copies/ ml 
>100,000 copies/ ml 
Unstratified 
Total 
ABC + 3TC + EFV 
N=324 
n (%) 
ZDV + 3TC + EFV 
N=325 
n (%) 
Point 
Estimate 
142/198 (72%) 
84/126 (67%) 
140/199 (70%) 
84/126 (67%) 
226/324 (70%) 
224/325 (69%) 
0.8 
0.8 
95% 
Confidence 
Interval 
-6.3, 7.9 
-6.3, 7.9 
As  set  in  the  protocol,  the  stepwise  hypothesis  test  of  superiority  was  performed  and  the  null 
hypothesis  was  not  rejected  (p=0.8176).  Results  of  the  ITT  analysis  are  compatible  with  a  non-
inferiority demonstration based on a 12% margin. Therefore, the abacavir BID containing regimen can 
be  considered  as  non-inferior  to  the  zidovudine  regimen.  The  non-inferiority  is  still  demonstrated 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
7/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
when  considering  the  difficult-to-treat  population  with  a  high  viral  load  >  100  000  copies/ml  at 
baseline. 
The CPMP concluded that these results would deserve to be included in the SPC of Ziagen. Indeed, 
whereas  the  clinical  development  of  Ziagen  was  mainly  performed  in  combination  with  zidovudine 
and lamivudine, this study provides further efficacy/ safety data within a different triple combination. 
Therefore, the MAH was requested to take the opportunity of the ongoing type II variation to update 
section 5.1 (“Pharmacodynamic properties”) of the SPC of Ziagen with results of study CNA30024. 
Conclusion on Clinical Efficacy 
Ziagen is still considered as a valuable tool in the therapeutic management of HIV infected patients. 
7.  Clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  of  abacavir  has  been  regularly  reviewed  through  periodic  safety  update  reports 
(PSURs). Since the approval of abacavir in the European Union on 8 July 1999, 13 PSURs have been 
completed covering safety data up to 31 December 2003. The worldwide estimated cumulative patient 
exposure  to  abacavir  (Ziagen  &  Trizivir)  since  first  marketing  approval  is  estimated  to  be 
approximately 508,958 patient-years of treatment. 
Changes to safety information in the Abacavir SPC between 8 July 1999 and 31 December 2003  
The main changes in the SPC related to safety are listed below: 
SPC Sections 
Description of Main Safety-Related Changes 
HSR SPC Sections 
4.4  
4.8  
Addition  of  “abnormal  chest  X-ray  findings  (predominantly  infiltrates,  which 
can  be  localized”)  to  the  description  of  respiratory  symptoms  associated  with 
HSR 
Addition of “respiratory failure” and “adult respiratory distress syndrome” to 
the description of HSR 
Addition of “myolysis” as a rare symptom of HSR 
Addition  of  “hepatic  failure”  to  highlight  the  potentially  severity  of  hepatic 
reactions in HSR 
Signs and  symptoms  of  HSR were  reformatted according to  body system and 
those occurring in at least 10% of patients were highlighted in bold 
Addition of a statement to indicate that rash and gastrointestinal manifestations 
of HSR are more frequently reported in children compared to adults 
4.4 and 4.8 
HSR incidence estimate based on clinical trial data updated from 3 to 4%. 
Addition of respiratory events to the description of HSR 
Addition of information on HSR following a therapy interruption 
4.3  
The statement on abacavir HSR was strengthened by including cross-references 
to sections 4.4 and 4.8 
Non-HSR SPC sections 
 4.2, 4.4, 5.2 
On  the  basis  of  pharmacokinetic  data  in  hepatically  impaired  patients,  no 
recommendations on dosage reduction in these patients are possible. Due to the 
potential  high  levels  of  exposure  in  some  patients,  close  monitoring  in  this 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
8/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.2, 4.4 
population is recommended. 
 4.4 
Due to the potential high levels of exposure in some patients, close monitoring 
in this population is recommended. 
Warning  statement  on  moderate/severe  hepatic  impairment  was  updated  to 
reflect  that  abacavir  is  contraindicated  in  severe  hepatic  impairment  whilst  in 
moderate  hepatic  impairment,  abacavir  is  not  recommended  unless  judged 
necessary and requires close monitoring 
The NRTI class statement on lactic acidosis for abacavir was strengthened by 
inclusion  of  a  boxed  warning  and  provides  more  detailed  information  on 
(i) identification  of  possible  symptoms  of  lactic  acidosis  to  facilitate  early 
diagnosis, (ii) its prognosis (ii) how it may occur with pancreatitis, liver failure 
or  renal  failure  (iii)  time  to  onset  and  (iv)  at  risk  populations  e.g.  those  with 
hepatic steatosis or those co-infected with hepatitis C receiving alpha interferon 
and ribavarin 
Class  warning  concerning  antiretroviral  use  in  patients  with  underlying  liver 
disease including hepatitis B/C co-infection. 
4.4 and 4.8 
Antiretroviral class statement concerning lipodystrophy 
 4.8  
Addition of “pancreatitis” as a rare adverse event 
Addition of “rash (without systemic symptoms)” as a common adverse event 
Addition  of  “erythema  multiforme,  Stevens  Johnson  syndrome  and  toxic 
epidermal necrolysis” as very rare adverse events 
The  Undesirable  Effects  section  was  reformatted  according  to  MedDRA 
system  organ  class.  CIOMS  frequency  categories  were  assigned  for  abacavir 
associated adverse events 
Statements  on  findings  from  embryo-foetal  toxicity  in  rats  were  moved  from 
the Pregnancy section to the Preclinical safety section 
Wording regarding lack of information on the tumourigenic risk of abacavir in 
animals was replaced by a new statement detailing the results from preclinical 
carcinogenicity studies with abacavir in mice and rats 
4.6 and 5.3 
 5.3  
Regulatory Actions related to the clinical safety 
January  2000:  Urgent  Safety  Restriction  and  ‘Dear  Healthcare  Professional’  letter  concerning 
respiratory events. Some patients were initially thought to have an infectious respiratory disease with 
regard  to respiratory  symptoms they developed, and this  may have resulted in the re-introduction  of 
abacavir or continued abacavir therapy, leading to more severe HSR or death. 
August 2000: Urgent Safety Restriction and ‘Dear Healthcare Professional’ letter concerning updated 
information on the management of HSR and including new recommendations:  
•  Patients who re-start abacavir having experience of one or none of the common HSR symptoms 
should do so in a setting where medical assistance is readily available. 
•  Abacavir should be discontinued if HSR cannot be ruled out, even if other diagnoses are possible 
e.g. respiratory disease, flu-like illness, gastroenteritis or reactions to other medicines.  
July 2003: ‘Dear Healthcare Professional’ letter concerning early virologic non-response in patients 
receiving the triple nucleoside therapy regimen lamivudine/tenofovir/abacavir. 
Hypersensitivity reaction to Abacavir 
Hypersensitivity  reaction  (HSR)  is  the  most  important  safety  issue  for  abacavir,  leading  to  specific 
monitoring and analysis: 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
9/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Abacavir Monthly  Listing of possible  HSR and cases with  a fatal outcome  were submitted  until 
31 August 2000. 
•  Six-monthly  updates  on  activities  and  investigations  on  the  hypersensitivity  reaction  to  abacavir 
have  been  regularly  reviewed.  The  last  update  (data  up  to  27  February  2004)  is  currently  being 
reviewed. 
•  Analysis of HSR cases through PSURs. 
Cumulative data to 31 December 2003 
Ziagen 
Trizivir 
2,912 
889 
2,023 
24 
176 
4 
Total HSR cases 
HSR cases-
spontaneous 
HSR cases-Clinical 
trials 
HSR cases where 
death is possible 
associated with HSR 
HSR cases involving a 
positive rechallenge 
HSR cases involving a 
positive rechallenge 
after interruption of 
therapy for non HSR 
reasons 
569 
276 
293 
6 
24 
4 
Abacavir-
Lamivudine 
FDC 
31 
0 
31 
0 
0 
0 
All ABC-containing 
products 
3,512 
1,165 
2,347 
30 
(22 spontaneous 
8 clinical trials) 
200 
8 
The  MAH  has  proactively  undertaken  a  number  of  risk  management  activities  and  investigations  to 
improve  the  management  of  HSR  including  an  extensive  education  programme  for  prescribers  and 
patients, and a pharmacogenetic programme to identify patients at risk for this reaction.  
Evolution of the definition of HSR 
A  broad  understanding  of  abacavir  HSR  has  been  acquired  from  clinical  trials,  spontaneous  adverse 
event  reports  and  non-clinical  research  activities.  Consequently  the  definition  of  HSR  has  evolved 
with understanding and characterisation of this syndrome. Several changes have been instituted over 
the  years  to  facilitate  diagnosis,  data  collection,  and  management  of  HSR.  Since  early  1999  GSK 
clinical  trials  have  included  a  specific  case  report  form  (CRF)  module  which  encourages  clinical 
investigators  to  capture  pertinent  data  on  HSR.  The  HSR  case  definition  was  expanded  to  include 
respiratory signs and symptoms.  
Clinical description of HSR 
The signs and symptoms of HSR are closely monitored in clinical trials and PSURs to ensure that the 
current  description  of  HSR  in  the  abacavir  SPC  and  the  patient  Alert  Card  that  is  provided  with 
abacavir-containing products, are accurate and up to date. 
Time to onset of HSR 
The symptoms of HSR usually manifest within the first 6 weeks after commencing therapy. HSR cases 
with a time to onset greater than 6 weeks are regularly assessed in PSURs, but to date these represent a 
low proportion of the total dataset, and these cases often do not have the characteristic features of HSR 
or are confounded by other factors. 
Rechallenge 
The  MAH  has  proactively  taken  steps  to  ensure  that  prescribers  and  patients  are  fully  aware  of  the 
issues concerning rechallenge, via updates to the SPC, Package Leaflet and Alert Card and through an 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
10/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
educational programme.  Within GSK, a rigorous assessment of all suspected HSR rechallenge cases 
is conducted on an ongoing basis and follow-up information is sought to identify the possible reasons 
for restarting abacavir after an interruption of therapy.   
With  the  launch  of  new  abacavir  containing  products  such  as  Trizivir,  the  potential  for  the  risk  of 
inadvertent  rechallenge  with  Trizivir  due  to  lack  of  awareness  that  Trizivir  contains  abacavir,  was 
recognised.  The  SPC,  Package  Leaflet  and  Alert  Card  and  the  educational  programme  for  abacavir 
were  therefore  updated  to  ensure  that  patients  and  prescribers  were  aware  of  this  risk  so  that  re-
challenge with any abacavir-containing product could be avoided. GSK has set up an epidemiological 
programme to examine differences in the risk of HSR (including rechallenge) with Trizivir relative to 
abacavir.  
The overall HSR rechallenge reporting rate for abacavir within the time period covering 1 July 1999 to 
31 December 2003 is approximately 1.6 per 10,000 patient years.  
Therapy interruption 
Analysis  of  post  marketing  safety  data  revealed  infrequent  reports  of  rapid  onset,  life-threatening 
HSR,  after  re-starting  abacavir  or  Trizivir  in  patients  who  had  only  one  of  the  key  HSR  symptoms 
prior  to  therapy  interruption.  On  very  rare  occasions,  HSR  was  reported  in  patients  who  restarted 
therapy  and  had  no  apparent  preceding  HSR  symptoms.  The  potential  risk  of  HSR  following 
interruption in abacavir dosing is now highlighted in the SPC, Package Leaflet and Alert Card and in 
the abacavir educational programme. 
HSR cases with a fatal outcome 
Cases  in  which  a  fatal  outcome  was  possibly  related  to  HSR  are  closely  monitored  and  actively 
followed-up,  and  a  cumulative  assessment  of  deaths  possibly  due  to  HSR  is  also  presented  in  each 
PSUR.  Approximately  one  third  of  spontaneous  reports  of  HSR-related  deaths  have  involved  a 
rechallenge. The overall reporting rate of deaths possibly due to HSR within the time period covering 
1 July 1999 to 31 December 2003 for abacavir is approximately 0.4 per 100,000 patient years. 
The number and the reporting rate of possible HSR have fluctuated from 1 July 1999 to 31 December 
2003.  The  number  of  HSR-associated  deaths  has  remained  low,  despite  a  substantial  increase  in  the 
number of patients exposed to abacavir containing products during this period. 
Incidence of HSR 
First estimated incidence of HSR reported in the SPC, based on clinical studies, was 4%. In a recent 
analysis  conducted  on  the  largest  and  most  robust  dataset  of  over  8,000  subjects  recruited  from 
34 clinical trials, the overall incidence of HSR was estimated to be approximately 5%.  The MAH has 
been requested to update the SPC and Package Leaflet accordingly within the  frame of this renewal 
procedure.  Changes  in  the  estimated  incidence  of  HSR  over  time  are  closely  monitored.  Since  the 
launch  of  abacavir  a  number  of  steps  have  taken  place  to  manage  the  potential  risk  of  HSR  and 
improve data collection, but these actions may also have influenced the rates of reporting of HSR. The 
case definition was expanded to include respiratory symptoms. Since early 1999, investigators in GSK 
clinical trials have been asked to report all HSR cases in an expedited fashion and as serious adverse 
events.  In  addition  they  have  completed  a  specific  case  report  form  (CRF)  module  which  captures 
detailed  information  on  each  HSR  case.  These  changes,  together  with  an  extensive  and  ongoing 
educational  programme,  have  contributed  to  an  increased  awareness  of  HSR  amongst  study 
investigators, prescribers and patients. In addition investigators and prescribers are also encouraged to 
take a conservative approach to the diagnosis and management of potential HSR cases and to consider 
HSR in any patient with fever, rash, respiratory or gastrointestinal symptoms.  
Risk factors for HSR 
The current abacavir SPC states that “Risk factors which could predict the occurrence or severity of 
abacavir HSR have not been identified”.  
GSK has undertaken an extensive and comprehensive programme to investigate possible risk factors 
for  HSR. Reduced risk to patients  may be achieved  by identifying patient groups at higher or  lower 
risk  of  HSR  to  abacavir.    Such  understanding  may  be  gained  through  identifying  possible  genetic 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
11/15 
 
 
 
 
determinants  of  HSR  reactions,  by  analysis  of  data  pooled  from  a  number  of  clinical  studies,  or  by 
epidemiology  studies.    Progress  made  in  the  various  ongoing  studies  concerning  identification  of 
possible risk factors (clinical and genetic) has been regularly reviewed. 
Retrospective analysis of clinical trial data to identify potential risk factors for HSR  (submitted as an 
EU Follow-up measure in August 2003). A total of 8038 subjects receiving abacavir were included of 
which  403  cases  developed  suspected  HSR.  Identified  prognostic  factors  for  Abacavir  HSR  were 
ethnic origin, gender, baseline CDC classification or treatment status at ABC initiation. 
Prospective, observational study of subjects taking abacavir and the occurrence of HSR based on the 
CHORUS  database  (full  report  submitted  in  the  6  month  HSR  update).  Based  on  this  analysis, 
potential risk factors included previous hepatitis B or C infection and female gender.  Age, race, CD4 
lymphocyte  count,  HIV-1  RNA  viral  load,  prior  AIDS  diagnosis,  prior  antiretroviral  therapy,  prior 
abacavir use, prior or current non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor use, elevated alanine and 
aspartate  aminotransferases,  and  alkaline  phosphatase,  concurrent  use  of 
trimethoprim-
sulfamethoxazole,  tobacco  use,  alcohol  use,  abnormal  white  blood  cell  or  haemoglobin  levels,  prior 
allergy  history,  or  use  of  abacavir  during  influenza  season  were  not  associated  with  abacavir  HSR. 
Additional studies are required to confirm these findings. 
Pharmacogenetic/Pharmacogenomic  studies:  GSK  has  an  ongoing  research  programme  to  identify 
possible  genetic  markers  associated  with  abacavir  HSR.  An  overview  of  the  progress  made  in  the 
various ongoing studies is provided in the 6 monthly HSR updates. 
Two  retrospective,  case  control  studies  (CNA30027  and  CNA30032)  were  conducted  to  compare 
genetic polymorphisms in HIV infected subjects who developed abacavir HSR with those who did not 
(submitted  as  an  EU  Follow-up  measure  in  August  2003).  In  summary,  the  first  phase  of  the  GSK 
genetic research has been completed and preliminary data has shown that HLA-B5701 may be a useful 
marker in Caucasian males and females. However, HLA-B5701 is not predictive of the risk of HSR in 
all ethnic groups. Furthermore, no  other  genetic  markers  have  been found which identify patients  at 
risk  of  HSR  in  all  ethnic  groups  and  both  genders.  Work  is  ongoing  to  identify  a  combination  of 
markers with the appropriate sensitivity and specificity that will accurately identify patients at risk of 
HSR across diverse patient populations. 
HSR Pharmacovigilance and Risk Management Activities  
Information  on  clinical,  genetic  and  epidemiological  HSR  studies  has  been  submitted  to  the  EMEA 
through the 6-monthly HSR updates. 
Non-clinical research activities relating to HSR 
A  series  of  non-clinical  studies  directed  towards  understanding  the  basic  mechanism  of  HSR  have 
been  conducted  or  are  ongoing.  Full  details  of  these  studies  are  presented  in  the  6  monthly  HSR 
updates.  
Results from in vitro, in vivo and ex vivo studies have been reported in the 6 monthly HSR updates and 
PSURs. The  immunogen  and its immunological  presentation remain  unknown,  although  preliminary 
ex  vivo  experiments  suggest  that  HSR  may  be  consistent  with  Class  I  immune  restricted  immune 
responses. The pharmacogenetic studies mentioned previously may also provide information to assist 
in the identification of a pathophysiological mechanism for HSR.   
Safety Reviews 
Lactic acidosis 
A review of lactic acidosis in pregnant patients was conducted for all GSK NRTIs at the request of the 
CPMP (January 2001). No changes to the SPC were made as a result of this safety assessment. 
In September 2001, CPMP requested all manufacturers of NRTIs to provide an analysis of reports of 
lactic acidosis and  neuromuscular weakness, and symptoms  mimicking the  Guillain-Barre  syndrome 
(GBS) without signs of lactic acidosis. A response was submitted in November 2001, and the CPMP 
concluded  that  there  was  insufficient  evidence  to  show  that  abacavir  was  causally  associated  with 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
12/15 
 
 
 
 
GBS-like  symptoms  with  or  without  lactic  acidosis,  but  requested  that  a  warning  be  introduced  and 
that “motor weakness” be included as a possible symptom of lactic acidosis.  
Bone Disorders 
A  review  of  bone  disorders  including  osteonecrosis  and  osteoporosis  was  submitted  in  September 
2000. No changes to the SPC were recommended on the basis of this analysis. An updated cumulative 
review (to 31 December 2003) has been recently conducted at the request of CPMP and is presented in 
the  latest  safety  update.  Currently,  there  is  still  insufficient  evidence  to  demonstrate  a  causal 
relationship between abacavir and bone disorders, and hence no update to the SPC is warranted. 
Disorders of Glucose Metabolism 
A  cumulative  review  of  blood  glucose  disorders  in  association  with  abacavir  was  conducted  up  to 
31 May 2003. No changes to the SPC were recommended on the basis of this analysis.  
Suicide/Depression 
A  cumulative  review  of  suicide  or  depression  in  association  with  abacavir  was  conducted  up  to 
30 April 2003. Based on this review, it was concluded that there was insufficient evidence to support 
the inclusion of depression or suicidal behaviour to the abacavir SPC. 
Psychotic Symptoms 
A cumulative review of psychotic symptoms (up to 31 May 2003) was completed further to the receipt 
of  a  published  case  report  of  psychosis  involving  abacavir.  No  change  to  the  abacavir  SPC  was 
recommended on the basis of this analysis. 
Mitochondrial toxicity 
The Pharmacovigilance Working Party sent a list of questions to Marketing Authorisation Holders in 
October  2001  with  a  request  to  review  the  risk  of  potential  mitochondrial  toxicity  in  children 
following  in  utero/post-natal  exposure  for  all  NRTIs.  An  overall  joint  assessment  report  for  NRTIs 
was discussed at the June 2003 PhVWP and CPMP meetings where it was proposed to implement a 
class label in section 4.4 (“Special warnings and special precautions for use”) of the SPCs for NRTIs. 
In November 2003 a class statement was finalised and implemented for all NRTIs, including abacavir. 
GSK  is  currently  supporting  a  number  of  studies,  and  is  discussing  potential  further  collaborative 
research  efforts  to  explore  potential  consequences  (short  and  long-term)  of  in  utero  exposure  to 
NRTIs. 
Safety in patients with hepatic impairment and/or co-infection with hepatitis B/C 
Following discussions of the Ad-hoc Group of Experts on Anti-HIV Medicinal Products in November 
2001, the CPMP adopted a list of questions on 17 January 2002 that were required to be addressed by 
the  Marketing  Authorisation  Holders  for  all  antiretroviral  products.  These  questions  related  to  the 
safety and pharmacokinetic profile of antiretrovirals in patients with impaired liver function and/or co-
infection with hepatitis B or C. Following review of data, the CPMP proposed the inclusion of a class 
labelling regarding treatment of patients with liver impairment or hepatitis B or C virus co-infection 
for  all  antiretrovirals.  A  class  statement  has  been  included  in  section  4.4  (“Special  warnings  and 
special precautions for use) of the abacavir SPC. In addition section  4.2  (“Posology  and method of 
administration”),  was  updated  to  clarify  abacavir  dosing  in  patients  with  hepatic  impairment  and 
additional data were added to section 5.2 (“Pharmacokinetic properties”).   
Lipodystrophy and Lipid abnormalities 
A  review  of  lipodystrophy  in  association  with  antiretroviral  therapy  was  submitted  in  May  2002  in 
response to a request from the EMEA. On 21 November 2002, the CPMP endorsed a recommendation 
from the Pharmacovigilance Working Party to include a class labelling relating to lipodystrophy in the 
SPCs for all antiretroviral medicinal products. The Ziagen SPC was updated accordingly. 
Conclusion on PSUR covering the period from 1 July 2003 to 31 December 2003 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
13/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No new safety issues concerning abacavir HSR have arisen during the period of this PSUR. The latest 
incidence estimate of HSR from clinical trial data is 5%. No new major safety findings regarding non-
HSR events have been identified during this period. 
A  total  of  265  reports  (143  serious)  for  Ziagen  (123  reports),  Trizivir  (135  reports)  and  the  not  yet 
marketed  fixed  dose  combination  tablet  containing  abacavir  and  lamivudine  (7  clinical  trial  reports) 
were received from 1 July 2003 to 31 December 2003. 
The immune system remains the system order class that accounted for the majority of adverse event 
reports.  
A  total  of  118  HSR  cases  were  identified  (47  Ziagen,  66  Trizivir,  5  Abacavir-Lamivudine  FDC), 
representing  45%  of  all  adverse  events  reports  included  in  this  safety  update.  The  decrease  in 
percentage of HSR cases compared to all reported adverse events is maintained during the period of 
this PSUR. The HSR symptoms distribution has not changed during this period with fever, rash and 
gastrointestinal symptoms as most common. However review of cumulative data highlights some HSR 
symptoms unlisted in the  SPC (and for some of these unlisted in  the CRF  module) including rigors, 
fatigue, asthenia, and pharyngolaryngeal pain. The relevance of these events for HSR diagnosis should 
be discussed in the next PSUR.  The number of HSR with a time to onset greater than six weeks has 
decreased during this period (6% compared to 12% in the last PSUR). These cases remain uncommon 
but close monitoring should be maintained. In the next PSURs, the MAH should give the number of 
cases  for  both  reporting  period  and  cumulative  periods.  The  trend  of  an  increased  number  of  HSR 
cases  without  rash  and  fever  was  maintained  during  this  period,  even  though  these  cases  remain 
uncommon. However, several cases were not enough documented to definitely exclude occurrence of 
rash/and fever. Described symptoms reported in these cases are known as key symptoms of HSR, and 
do not raise any new safety issues. Cases of positive HSR rechallenge remained rare during this period 
(6/118). 
Cardiovascular  events,  particularly  ECG  abnormalities  (ST  segment  changes  and  T  wave  changes), 
myositis, events possibly related to an immune reconstitution syndrome, cases of eye disorders (with 
cumulative  review),  particularly  visual  acuity  reduced  and  skin  pigmentation  disorders  should  be  
discussed in the next PSUR. 
A number  of  switch  studies  have demonstrated that replacing stavudine  with  abacavir  may improve 
body fat disorders and related metabolic effects. However, at this time no conclusions can be drawn 
from data reporting in PSURs on the risk of lipodystrophy and lipid disorders with Ziagen and Trizivir 
compared with the other antiretroviral drugs. 
Adverse events in co-infected patients with hepatitis B or C represent 10% of all the reported adverse 
events  during  the  6-month  period  (decrease  compared  to  the  previous  PSUR).  Hepatic  events 
associated with HSR and reported in this population should continue to be particularly monitored even 
if  the  reported  cases  do  not  raise  any  new  safety  issue  or  increased  hepatotoxicity  in  patients  with 
underlying liver disease or co-infection with HBV/HCV who experience HSR to abacavir. 
The  MAH  should  continue  to  monitor:  blood  and  lymphatic  events,  glucose  metabolism  disorders, 
lipids  abnormalities,  lipodystrophy,  psychiatric  symptoms,  lactic  acidosis,  hyperlactaemia,  hepatic 
events,  pancreatitis,  respiratory  events,  renal  disorders,  serious  skin  reactions,  musculoskeletal 
disorders, pregnancy. 
In  the  next  PSURs,  the  MAH  should  provide  all  publications  mentioned,  including  those  where  the 
ADRs are reported. 
Conclusion on clinical safety 
The  most  important  safety  issue  with  abacavir  is  the  risk  of  hypersensitivity  reaction  (occurring  in 
approximately 5% of patients in clinical trials). At this time, the HSR to abacavir is well characterised 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
14/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with a defined period of greatest risk. Overall, HSR is currently well managed in clinical practice. The 
number of life-threatening or fatal reactions remains small despite a large increase in the number of 
patients treated with abacavir-containing products since marketing approval. Risks related to this event 
have  been  managed  by  regularly  updating  of  the  SPC,  Package  Leaflet  and  Patient’s  Alert  Card,  by 
recommendations  on  its  appropriate  management,  and  by  an  educational  programme  addressed  to 
patients and prescribers.  
No new major safety issues have emerged during this five-year period.  
As  a  consequence  of  the  ADRs  which  require  monitoring,  the  CPMP  decided  that  the  MAH  should 
continue to submit 6-monthly PSURs for Ziagen. 
8.  Benefit/risk assessment and conclusion 
No new safety concern has been raised. Ziagen is still considered as a valuable tool in the therapeutic 
management of HIV infected patients. Therefore, the benefit/risk is still considered favorable. 
As  requested  by  the  CPMP,  the  MAH  took  the  opportunity  of  the  renewal  to  strengthen  the  advice 
regarding  use  of  Ziagen  during  lactation  in  the  SPC  and  to  increase  the  mentioned  incidence  of 
hypersensitivity reactions in the SPC and Package Leaflet from 4 to 5%. 
V.  OVERALL CONCLUSIONS 
Based on the CHMP review of the available information, the CHMP is of the opinion that the quality, 
the  safety  and  the  efficacy  of  this  medicinal  product  continues  to  be  adequately  and  sufficiently 
demonstrated and therefore, considers by consensus that the benefit/risk profile of Ziagen continues to 
be favourable.  
The  Committee  for  Medicinal  Products  for  Human  Use  recommends  therefore  the  renewal  of  the 
Marketing  Authorisation  for  Ziagen,  subject  to  the  follow-up  measures  undertaken  by  the  MAH  
(see Annex 5 of this Assessment report).  
Changes to the Community Marketing Authorisation 
The renewal requires amendments to the terms of the Community Marketing Authorisation (Annex I, 
II and IIIAB). 
Ziagen-H-252-R-25-AR 
15/15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
