ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each capsule contains 150 mcg of indacaterol (as acetate), 63 mcg of glycopyrronium bromide 
equivalent to 50 mcg of glycopyrronium and 160 mcg of mometasone furoate. 
Each delivered dose (the dose that leaves the mouthpiece of the inhaler) contains 114 mcg of 
indacaterol (as acetate), 58 mcg of glycopyrronium bromide equivalent to 46 mcg of glycopyrronium 
and 136 mcg of mometasone furoate. 
Excipient(s) with known effect 
Each capsule contains 25 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule (inhalation powder). 
Capsules with green transparent cap and uncoloured transparent body containing a white powder, with 
the product code “IGM150-50-160” printed in black above two black bars on the body and with the 
product logo printed in black and surrounded by a black bar on the cap. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Zimbus Breezhaler is indicated as a maintenance treatment of asthma in adult patients not adequately 
controlled with a maintenance combination of a long-acting beta2-agonist and a high dose of an 
inhaled corticosteroid who experienced one or more asthma exacerbations in the previous year. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
The recommended dose is one capsule to be inhaled once daily. 
The maximum recommended dose is 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily. 
Treatment should be administered at the same time of the day each day. It can be administered 
irrespective of the time of the day. If a dose is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible. Patients 
should be instructed not to take more than one dose in a day. 
Special populations 
Elderly population 
No dose adjustment is required in elderly patients (65 years of age or older) (see section 5.2). 
Renal impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild to moderate renal impairment. Caution should be 
observed in patients with severe renal impairment or end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis (see 
sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustment is required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment. No data are 
available for the use of the medicinal product in patients with severe hepatic impairment, therefore it 
should be used in these patients only if the expected benefit outweighs the potential risk (see 
section 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of Zimbus Breezhaler in paediatric patients below 18 years of age have not 
been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
For inhalation use only. The capsules must not be swallowed. 
The capsules must be administered only using the inhaler provided (see section 6.6) with each new 
prescription. 
Patients should be instructed on how to administer the medicinal product correctly. Patients who do 
not experience improvement in breathing should be asked if they are swallowing the medicinal 
product rather than inhaling it. 
The capsules must only be removed from the blister immediately before use. 
After inhalation, patients should rinse their mouth with water without swallowing (see sections 4.4 and 
6.6). 
For instructions on use of the medicinal product before administration, see section 6.6. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information for patients using a sensor for Zimbus Breezhaler 
The pack may contain an electronic sensor to be attached to the base of the inhaler. 
The sensor and App are not required for administration of the medicinal product to the patient. The 
sensor and App do not control or interfere with delivery of the medicinal product using the inhaler. 
The prescribing physician may discuss with the patient whether the use of the sensor and App is 
appropriate. 
For detailed instructions on how to use the sensor and the App, see the Instructions for Use provided 
in the sensor pack and the App. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Deterioration of disease 
This medicinal product should not be used to treat acute asthma symptoms, including acute episodes 
of bronchospasm, for which a short-acting bronchodilator is required. Increasing use of short-acting 
bronchodilators to relieve symptoms indicates deterioration of control and patients should be reviewed 
by a physician. 
Patients should not stop treatment without physician supervision since symptoms may recur after 
discontinuation. 
It is recommended that treatment with this medicinal product should not be stopped abruptly. If 
patients find the treatment ineffective, they should continue treatment but must seek medical attention. 
Increasing use of reliever bronchodilators indicates a worsening of the underlying condition and 
warrants a reassessment of the therapy. Sudden and progressive deterioration in the symptoms of 
asthma is potentially life-threatening and the patient should undergo urgent medical assessment. 
Hypersensitivity 
Immediate hypersensitivity reactions have been observed after administration of this medicinal 
product. If signs suggesting allergic reactions occur, in particular angioedema (including difficulties in 
breathing or swallowing, swelling of the tongue, lips and face), urticaria or skin rash, treatment should 
be discontinued immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 
Paradoxical bronchospasm 
As with other inhalation therapy, administration of this medicinal product may result in paradoxical 
bronchospasm, which can be life-threatening. If this occurs, treatment should be discontinued 
immediately and alternative therapy instituted. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardiovascular effects 
Like other medicinal products containing beta2-adrenergic agonists, this medicinal product may 
produce a clinically significant cardiovascular effect in some patients as measured by increases in 
pulse rate, blood pressure, and/or symptoms. If such effects occur, treatment may need to be 
discontinued. 
This medicinal product should be used with caution in patients with cardiovascular disorders 
(coronary artery disease, acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrhythmias, hypertension), convulsive 
disorders or thyrotoxicosis, and in patients who are unusually responsive to beta2-adrenergic agonists. 
Patients with unstable ischaemic heart disease, a history of myocardial infarction in last 12 months, 
New York Heart Association (NYHA) class III/IV left ventricular failure, arrhythmia, uncontrolled 
hypertension, cerebrovascular disease, history of long QT syndrome and patients being treated with 
medicinal products known to prolong QTc were excluded from studies in the 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate clinical development programme. Thus safety 
outcomes in these populations are considered unknown. 
While beta2-adrenergic agonists have been reported to produce electrocardiographic (ECG) changes, 
such as flattening of the T wave, prolongation of QT interval and ST segment depression, the clinical 
significance of these findings is unknown. 
Long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists (LABA) or LABA-containing combination products such as 
Zimbus Breezhaler should therefore be used with caution in patients with known or suspected 
prolongation of the QT interval or who are being treated with medicinal products affecting the QT 
interval. 
Hypokalaemia with beta agonists 
Beta2-adrenergic agonists may produce significant hypokalaemia in some patients, which has the 
potential to produce adverse cardiovascular effects. The decrease in serum potassium is usually 
transient, not requiring supplementation. In patients with severe asthma, hypokalaemia may be 
potentiated by hypoxia and concomitant treatment, which may increase the susceptibility to cardiac 
arrhythmias (see section 4.5). 
Clinically relevant hypokalaemia has not been observed in clinical studies of 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate at the recommended therapeutic dose. 
Hyperglycaemia 
Inhalation of high doses of beta2-adrenergic agonists and corticosteroids may produce increases in 
plasma glucose. Upon initiation of treatment, plasma glucose should be monitored more closely in 
diabetic patients. 
This medicinal product has not been investigated in patients with Type I diabetes mellitus or 
uncontrolled Type II diabetes mellitus. 
Anticholinergic effect related to glycopyrronium 
Like other anticholinergic medicinal products, this medicinal product should be used with caution in 
patients with narrow-angle glaucoma or urinary retention. 
Patients should be advised about signs and symptoms of acute narrow-angle glaucoma and should be 
instructed to stop treatment and to contact their doctor immediately should any of these signs or 
symptoms develop. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with severe renal impairment 
For patients with severe renal impairment (estimated glomerular filtration rate below 
30 ml/min/1.73 m2), including those with end-stage renal disease requiring dialysis, caution should be 
observed (see sections 4.2 and 5.2). 
Prevention of oropharyngeal infections 
In order to reduce the risk of oropharyngeal candida infection, patients should be advised to rinse their 
mouth or gargle with water without swallowing it or brush their teeth after inhaling the prescribed 
dose. 
Systemic effects of corticosteroids 
Systemic effects of inhaled corticosteroids may occur, particularly at high doses prescribed for 
prolonged periods. These effects are much less likely to occur than with oral corticosteroids and may 
vary in individual patients and between different corticosteroid preparations. 
Possible systemic effects may include Cushing’s syndrome, Cushingoid features, adrenal suppression, 
growth retardation in children and adolescents, decrease in bone mineral density, cataracts, glaucoma, 
and, more rarely, a range of psychological or behavioural effects including psychomotor hyperactivity, 
sleep disorders, anxiety, depression or aggression (particularly in children). It is therefore important 
that the dose of inhaled corticosteroid is titrated to the lowest dose at which effective control of asthma 
is maintained. 
Visual disturbance may be reported with systemic and topical (including intranasal, inhaled and 
intraocular) corticosteroid use. Patients presenting with symptoms such as blurred vision or other 
visual disturbances should be considered for referral to an ophthalmologist for evaluation of possible 
causes of visual disturbances, which may include cataract, glaucoma or rare diseases such as central 
serous chorioretinopathy (CSCR) which have been reported after use of systemic and topical 
corticosteroids. 
This medicinal product should be administered with caution in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis or 
in patients with chronic or untreated infections. 
Excipients 
This medicinal product contains lactose. Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose 
intolerance, total lactase deficiency or glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal 
product. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No specific interaction studies were conducted with indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate. 
Information on the potential for interactions is based on the potential for each of the monotherapy 
components. 
Medicinal products known to prolong the QTc interval 
Like other medicinal products containing a beta2-adrenergic agonist, this medicinal product should be 
administered with caution to patients being treated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, tricyclic 
antidepressants, or medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval, as any effect of these on the 
QT interval may be potentiated. Medicinal products known to prolong the QT interval may increase 
the risk of ventricular arrhythmia (see sections 4.4 and 5.1). 
Hypokalaemic treatment 
Concomitant hypokalaemic treatment with methylxanthine derivatives, steroids, or 
non-potassium-sparing diuretics may potentiate the possible hypokalaemic effect of beta2-adrenergic 
agonists (see section 4.4). 
Beta-adrenergic blockers 
Beta-adrenergic blockers may weaken or antagonise the effect of beta2-adrenergic agonists. Therefore, 
this medicinal product should not be given together with beta-adrenergic blockers unless there are 
compelling reasons for their use. Where required, cardioselective beta-adrenergic blockers should be 
preferred, although they should be administered with caution. 
Interaction with CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein inhibitors 
Inhibition of CYP3A4 and P-glycoprotein (P-gp) has no impact on the safety of therapeutic doses of 
Zimbus Breezhaler. 
Inhibition of the key contributors of indacaterol clearance (CYP3A4 and P-gp) or mometasone furoate 
clearance (CYP3A4) raises the systemic exposure of indacaterol or mometasone furoate up to 
two-fold. 
Due to the very low plasma concentration achieved after inhaled dosing, clinically significant 
interactions with mometasone furoate are unlikely. However, there may be a potential for increased 
systemic exposure to mometasone furoate when strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g. ketoconazole, 
itraconazole, nelfinavir, ritonavir, cobicistat) are co-administered. 
Cimetidine or other inhibitors of organic cation transport 
In a clinical study in healthy volunteers, cimetidine, an inhibitor of organic cation transport which is 
thought to contribute to the renal excretion of glycopyrronium, increased total exposure (AUC) to 
glycopyrronium by 22% and decreased renal clearance by 23%. Based on the magnitude of these 
changes, no clinically relevant drug interaction is expected when glycopyrronium is co-administered 
with cimetidine or other inhibitors of the organic cation transport. 
Other long-acting antimuscarinics and long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists 
The co-administration of this medicinal product with other medicinal products containing long-acting 
muscarinic antagonists or long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonists has not been studied and is not 
recommended as it may potentiate adverse reactions (see sections 4.8 and 4.9). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are insufficient data from the use of Zimbus Breezhaler or its individual components 
(indacaterol, glycopyrronium and mometasone furoate) in pregnant women to determine whether there 
is a risk. 
Indacaterol and glycopyrronium were not teratogenic in rats and rabbits following subcutaneous or 
inhalation administration, respectively (see section 5.3). In animal reproduction studies with pregnant 
mice, rats and rabbits, mometasone furoate caused increased foetal malformations and decreased foetal 
survival and growth. 
Like other medicinal products containing beta2-adrenergic agonists, indacaterol may inhibit labour due 
to a relaxant effect on uterine smooth muscle. 
This medicinal product should only be used during pregnancy if the expected benefit to the patient 
justifies the potential risk to the foetus. 
Breast-feeding 
There is no information available on the presence of indacaterol, glycopyrronium or mometasone 
furoate in human milk, on the effects on a breast-fed infant, or on the effects on milk production. 
Other inhaled corticosteroids similar to mometasone furoate are transferred into human milk. 
Indacaterol, glycopyrronium and mometasone furoate have been detected in the milk of lactating rats. 
Glycopyrronium reached up to 10-fold higher concentrations in the milk of lactating rats than in the 
blood of the dam after intravenous administration. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from therapy, 
taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
Reproduction studies and other data in animals did not indicate a concern regarding fertility in either 
males or females. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
This medicinal product has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most common adverse reactions over 52 weeks were asthma (exacerbation) (41.8%), 
nasopharyngitis (10.9%), upper respiratory tract infection (5.6%) and headache (4.2%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse drug reactions (ADRs) are listed by MedDRA system organ class (Table 1). The frequency of 
the ADRs is based on the IRIDIUM study. Within each system organ class, the adverse drug reactions 
are ranked by frequency, with the most frequent reactions first. Within each frequency grouping, 
adverse drug reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness. In addition, the corresponding 
frequency category for each adverse drug reaction is based on the following convention (CIOMS III): 
very common (≥1/10); common (≥1/100 to <1/10); uncommon (≥1/1 000 to <1/100); rare (≥1/10 000 
to <1/1 000); very rare (<1/10 000). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Nasopharyngitis 
Upper respiratory tract 
infection 
Candidiasis*1 
Urinary tract infection*2 
Hypersensitivity*3 
Hyperglycaemia*4 
Headache*5 
Cataract 
Tachycardia*6 
Asthma (exacerbation) 
Oropharyngeal pain*7 
Cough 
Dysphonia 
Gastroenteritis*8 
Dry mouth*9 
Rash*10 
Pruritus*11 
Musculoskeletal pain*12 
Muscle spasms 
Dysuria 
Pyrexia 
Frequency 
category 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Very common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Renal and urinary disorders 
General disorders and administration site 
conditions 
*  Indicates grouping of preferred terms (PTs): 
1 Oral candidiasis, oropharyngeal candidiasis. 
2 Asymptomatic bacteriuria, bacteriuria, cystitis, urethritis, urinary tract infection, urinary tract infection viral. 
3 Drug eruption, drug hypersensitivity, hypersensitivity, rash, rash pruritic, urticaria. 
4 Blood glucose increased, hyperglycaemia. 
5 Headache, tension headache. 
6 Sinus tachycardia, supraventricular tachycardia, tachycardia. 
7 Odynophagia, oropharyngeal discomfort, oropharyngeal pain, throat irritation. 
8 Chronic gastritis, enteritis, gastritis, gastroenteritis, gastrointestinal inflammation. 
9 Dry mouth, dry throat. 
10 Drug eruption, rash, rash papular, rash pruritic. 
11 Eye pruritus, pruritus, pruritus genital. 
12 Back pain, musculoskeletal chest pain, musculoskeletal pain, myalgia, neck pain. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
General supportive measures and symptomatic treatment should be initiated in cases of suspected 
overdose. 
An overdose will likely produce signs, symptoms or adverse effects associated with the 
pharmacological actions of the individual components (e.g. tachycardia, tremor, palpitations, 
headache, nausea, vomiting, drowsiness, ventricular arrhythmias, metabolic acidosis, hypokalaemia, 
hyperglycaemia, increased intraocular pressure [causing pain, vision disturbances or reddening of the 
eye], constipation or difficulties in voiding, suppression of hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis 
function). 
Use of cardioselective beta blockers may be considered for treating beta2-adrenergic effects, but only 
under the supervision of a physician and with extreme caution, since the use of beta2-adrenergic 
blockers may provoke bronchospasm. In serious cases, patients should be hospitalised. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for obstructive airway diseases, adrenergics in combination with 
anticholinergics incl. triple combinations with corticosteroids. ATC code: R03AL12 
Mechanism of action 
This medicinal product is a combination of indacaterol, a long-acting beta2-adrenergic agonist 
(LABA), glycopyrronium, a long-acting muscarinic receptor antagonist (LAMA) and mometasone 
furoate, an inhaled synthetic corticosteroid (ICS). 
Indacaterol 
The pharmacological effects of beta2-adrenoceptor agonists, including indacaterol, are at least in part 
attributable to increased cyclic-3’, 5’-adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) levels, which cause 
relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle. 
When inhaled, indacaterol acts locally in the lung as a bronchodilator. Indacaterol is a partial agonist 
at the human beta2-adrenergic receptor with nanomolar potency. In isolated human bronchus, 
indacaterol has a rapid onset of action and a long duration of action. 
Although beta2-adrenergic receptors are the predominant adrenergic receptors in bronchial smooth 
muscle and beta1-receptors are the predominant receptors in the human heart, there are also 
beta2-adrenergic receptors in the human heart comprising 10% to 50% of the total adrenergic 
receptors. 
Glycopyrronium 
Glycopyrronium works by blocking the bronchoconstrictor action of acetylcholine on airway smooth 
muscle cells, thereby dilating the airways. Glycopyrronium bromide is a high-affinity muscarinic 
receptor antagonist. It demonstrated 4- to 5-fold selectivity for the human M3 and M1 receptors over 
the human M2 receptor in competition binding studies. It has a rapid onset of action, as evidenced by 
observed receptor association/dissociation kinetic parameters and by the onset of action after 
inhalation in clinical studies. The long duration of action can be partly attributed to sustained drug 
concentrations in the lungs, as reflected by the prolonged terminal elimination half-life of 
glycopyrronium after inhalation via the inhaler in contrast to the half-life after intravenous 
administration (see section 5.2). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mometasone furoate 
Mometasone furoate is a synthetic corticosteroid with high affinity for glucocorticoid receptors and 
local anti-inflammatory properties. In vitro, mometasone furoate inhibits the release of leukotrienes 
from leukocytes of allergic patients. In cell culture, mometasone furoate demonstrated high potency in 
inhibition of synthesis and release of IL-1, IL-5, IL-6 and TNF-alpha. It is also a potent inhibitor of 
leukotriene production and of the production of the Th2 cytokines IL-4 and IL-5 from human CD4+ 
T-cells. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The pharmacodynamic response profile of this medicinal product is characterised by rapid onset of 
action within 5 minutes after dosing and sustained effect over the whole 24-hour dosing interval. 
The pharmacodynamic response profile is further characterised by increased mean peak forced 
expiratory volume in the first second (FEV1) of 172 ml following 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily compared to 
salmeterol/fluticasone 50 mcg/500 mcg twice daily. 
No tachyphylaxis to the lung function benefits of Zimbus Breezhaler was observed over time. 
QTc interval 
The effect of this medicinal product on the QTc interval has not been evaluated in a thorough QT 
(TQT) study. For mometasone furoate, no QTc prolonging properties are known. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Comparison of Zimbus Breezhaler to fixed combinations of LABA/ICS 
The safety and efficacy of Zimbus Breezhaler in adult patients with persistent asthma was evaluated in 
the phase III randomised, double-blind study (IRIDIUM). The IRIDIUM study was a 52-week study 
evaluating Zimbus Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/68 mcg once daily (N=620) and 
114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily (N=619) compared to indacaterol/mometasone furoate 
125 mcg/127.5 mcg once daily (N=617) and 125 mcg/260 mcg once daily (N=618), respectively. A 
third active control arm included subjects treated with salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 
50 mcg/500 mcg twice daily (N=618). All subjects were required to have symptomatic asthma 
(ACQ-7 score ≥1.5) and were on asthma maintenance therapy using a medium or high dose inhaled 
synthetic corticosteroid (ICS) and LABA combination therapy for at least 3 months prior to study 
entry. The mean age was 52.2 years. At screening, 99.9% of patients reported a history of exacerbation 
in the past year. At study entry, the most common asthma medications reported were medium dose of 
ICS in combination with a LABA (62.6%) and high dose of ICS in combination with a LABA 
(36.7%). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The primary objective of the study was to demonstrate superiority of either Zimbus Breezhaler 
114 mcg/46 mcg/68 mcg once daily over indacaterol/mometasone furoate 125 mcg/127.5 mcg once 
daily or Zimbus Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily over indacaterol/mometasone furoate 
125 mcg/260 mcg once daily in terms of trough FEV1 at week 26. 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily demonstrated statistically significant 
improvements in trough FEV1 at week 26 compared to indacaterol/mometasone furoate at 
corresponding dose. Clinically meaningful improvements in lung function (change from baseline 
trough FEV1 at week 26, morning and evening peak expiratory flow) were also observed compared to 
salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50 mcg/500 mcg twice daily. Findings at week 52 were consistent 
with week 26 (see Table 2). 
All treatment groups showed clinically relevant improvements from baseline in ACQ-7 at week 26, 
however no statistically significant differences between groups were observed. The mean change from 
baseline in ACQ-7 at week 26 (key secondary endpoint) and week 52 was around -1 for all treatment 
groups. The ACQ-7 responder rates (defined as a change decrease in score of ≥0.5) at different time 
points are described in Table 2. 
Exacerbations were a secondary endpoint (not part of confirmatory testing strategy). Zimbus 
Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily demonstrated a reduction in the annual rate of 
exacerbations compared to salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50 mcg/500 mcg twice daily and 
indacaterol/mometasone furoate 125 mcg/260 mcg once daily (see Table 2). 
Results for the most clinically relevant endpoints are described in Table 2. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2  Results of primary and secondary endpoints in IRIDIUM study at weeks 26 and 52 
Endpoint 
Lung function 
4 
Trough FEV1
Treatment 
difference 
P value 
(95% CI) 
Time point/ 
Duration 
Week 26 
(Primary 
endpoint) 
Week 52 
Zimbus Breezhaler1 vs IND/MF2  Zimbus Breezhaler1 vs SAL/FP3 
65 ml 
<0.001 
(31, 99) 
86 ml 
<0.001 
(51, 120) 
119 ml 
<0.001 
(85, 154) 
145 ml 
<0.001 
(111, 180) 
Week 4 
Week 12 
Week 26 
Week 52* 
Week 52* 
17.5 l/min 
(12.3, 22.8) 
18.7 l/min 
(13.4, 24.1) 
29.5 l/min 
(24.2, 34.7) 
34.8 l/min 
(29.5, 40.1) 
Mean morning peak expiratory flow (PEF) 
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI) 
Mean evening peak expiratory flow (PEF) 
Treatment 
difference 
(95% CI) 
Symptoms 
ACQ responders (percentage of patients achieving minimal clinical important difference (MCID) from 
baseline with ACQ ≥0.5) 
Percentage 
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
Percentage 
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
Percentage 
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
Percentage 
Odds ratio 
(95% CI) 
Annualised rate of asthma exacerbations 
Moderate or severe exacerbations 
AR 
RR** 
(95% CI) 
Severe exacerbations 
AR 
RR** 
(95% CI) 
* 
** 
1 
2 
66% vs 53% 
1.72 
(1.35, 2.20) 
68% vs 61% 
1.35 
(1.05, 1.73) 
71% vs 67% 
1.21 
(0.93, 1.57) 
79% vs 73% 
1.41 
(1.06, 1.86) 
66% vs 63% 
1.21 
(0.94, 1.54) 
68% vs 67% 
1.11 
(0.86, 1.42) 
71% vs 74% 
0.92 
(0.70, 1.20) 
79% vs 78% 
1.10 
(0.83, 1.47) 
Mean value for the treatment duration. 
RR <1.00 favours indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate. 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg od. 
IND/MF: indacaterol/mometasone furoate high dose: 125 mcg/260 mcg od. 
Mometasone furoate 136 mcg in Zimbus Breezhaler is comparable to mometasone furoate 260 mcg in 
indacaterol/mometasone furoate. 
SAL/FP: salmeterol/fluticasone propionate high dose: 50 mcg/500 mcg bid (content dose). 
Trough FEV1: the mean of the two FEV1 values measured at 23 hours 15 min and 23 hours 45 min 
after the evening dose. 
0.26 vs 0.45 
0.58 
(0.45, 0.73) 
0.46 vs 0.72 
0.64 
(0.52, 0.78) 
0.26 vs 0.33 
0.78 
(0.61, 1.00) 
0.46 vs 0.54 
0.85 
(0.68, 1.04) 
Week 52 
Week 52 
Week 52 
Week 52 
Week 52 
3 
4 
Primary endpoint (trough FEV1 at week 26) and key secondary endpoint (ACQ-7 score at week 26) were part 
of confirmatory testing strategy and thus controlled for multiplicity. All other endpoints were not part of 
confirmatory testing strategy. 
RR = rate ratio, AR = annualised rate 
od = once daily, bid = twice daily 
13 
 
 
Comparison of Zimbus Breezhaler to the concurrent open-label administration of 
salmeterol/fluticasone + tiotropium 
A randomised, partially-blinded, active-treatment-controlled, non-inferiority study (ARGON) 
comparing Zimbus Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg once daily (N=476) and 
114 mcg/46 mcg/68 mcg once daily (N=474) to the concurrent administration of 
salmeterol/fluticasone propionate 50 mcg/500 mcg twice daily + tiotropium 5 mcg once daily (N=475) 
over 24 weeks of treatment was conducted. 
Zimbus Breezhaler demonstrated non-inferiority to salmeterol/fluticasone + tiotropium for the primary 
endpoint (change from baseline for Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire [AQLQ-S]), in previously 
symptomatic patients on ICS and LABA therapy with a difference of 0.073 (one-sided lower 97.5% 
confidence limit [CL]: -0.027). 
Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in 
asthma (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Following inhalation of Zimbus Breezhaler, the median time to reach peak plasma concentrations of 
indacaterol, glycopyrronium and mometasone furoate was approximately 15 minutes, 5 minutes and 
1 hour, respectively. 
Based on the in vitro performance data, the dose of each of the monotherapy components delivered to 
the lung is expected to be similar for the indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate combination 
and the monotherapy products. Steady-state plasma exposure to indacaterol, glycopyrronium and 
mometasone furoate after inhalation of the combination was similar to the systemic exposure after 
inhalation of indacaterol maleate, glycopyrronium or mometasone furoate as monotherapy products. 
Following inhalation of the combination, the absolute bioavailability was estimated to be about 45% 
for indacaterol, 40% for glycopyrronium and less than 10% for mometasone furoate. 
Indacaterol 
Indacaterol concentrations increased with repeated once-daily administration. Steady-state was 
achieved within 12 to 14 days. The mean accumulation ratio of indacaterol, i.e. AUC over the 24-h 
dosing interval on day 14 compared to day 1, was in the range of 2.9 to 3.8 for once-daily inhaled 
doses between 60 and 480 mcg (delivered dose). Systemic exposure results from a composite of 
pulmonary and gastrointestinal absorption; about 75% of systemic exposure was from pulmonary 
absorption and about 25% from gastrointestinal absorption. 
Glycopyrronium 
About 90% of systemic exposure following inhalation is due to lung absorption and 10% is due to 
gastrointestinal absorption. The absolute bioavailability of orally administered glycopyrronium was 
estimated to be about 5%. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mometasone furoate 
Mometasone furoate concentrations increased with repeated once-daily administration via the 
Breezhaler inhaler. Steady state was achieved after 12 days. The mean accumulation ratio of 
mometasone furoate, i.e. AUC over the 24-h dosing interval on day 14 compared to day 1, was in the 
range of 1.28 to 1.40 for once-daily inhaled doses between 68 and 136 mcg as part of the 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate combination. 
Following oral administration of mometasone furoate, the absolute oral systemic bioavailability of 
mometasone furoate was estimated to be very low (<2%). 
Distribution 
Indacaterol 
After intravenous infusion the volume of distribution (Vz) of indacaterol was 2 361 to 2 557 litres, 
indicating an extensive distribution. The in vitro human serum and plasma protein binding were 94.1 
to 95.3% and 95.1 to 96.2%, respectively. 
Glycopyrronium 
After intravenous dosing, the steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) of glycopyrronium was 83 litres 
and the volume of distribution in the terminal phase (Vz) was 376 litres. The apparent volume of 
distribution in the terminal phase following inhalation (Vz/F) was 7 310 litres, which reflects the much 
slower elimination after inhalation. The in vitro human plasma protein binding of glycopyrronium was 
38% to 41% at concentrations of 1 to 10 ng/ml. These concentrations were at least 6-fold higher than 
the steady-state mean peak levels achieved in plasma for a 44 mcg once-daily dosing regimen. 
Mometasone furoate 
After intravenous bolus administration, the Vd is 332 litres. The in vitro protein binding for 
mometasone furoate is high, 98% to 99% in concentration range of 5 to 500 ng/ml. 
Biotransformation 
Indacaterol 
After oral administration of radiolabelled indacaterol in a human ADME (absorption, distribution, 
metabolism, excretion) study, unchanged indacaterol was the main component in serum, accounting 
for about one third of total drug-related AUC over 24 hours. A hydroxylated derivative was the most 
prominent metabolite in serum. Phenolic O-glucuronides of indacaterol and hydroxylated indacaterol 
were further prominent metabolites. A diastereomer of the hydroxylated derivative, an N-glucuronide 
of indacaterol, and C- and N-dealkylated products were further metabolites identified. 
In vitro investigations indicated that UGT1A1 was the only UGT isoform that metabolised indacaterol 
to the phenolic O-glucuronide. The oxidative metabolites were found in incubations with recombinant 
CYP1A1, CYP2D6 and CYP3A4. CYP3A4 is concluded to be the predominant isoenzyme responsible 
for hydroxylation of indacaterol. In vitro investigations further indicated that indacaterol is a 
low-affinity substrate for the efflux pump P-gp. 
In vitro the UGT1A1 isoform is a major contributor to the metabolic clearance of indacaterol. 
However, as shown in a clinical study in populations with different UGT1A1 genotypes, systemic 
exposure to indacaterol is not significantly affected by the UGT1A1-genotype. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glycopyrronium 
In vitro metabolism studies showed consistent metabolic pathways for glycopyrronium bromide 
between animals and humans. No human-specific metabolites were found. Hydroxylation resulting in 
a variety of mono- and bis-hydroxylated metabolites and direct hydrolysis resulting in the formation of 
a carboxylic acid derivative (M9) were seen. 
In vitro investigations showed that multiple CYP isoenzymes contribute to the oxidative 
biotransformation of glycopyrronium. The hydrolysis to M9 is likely to be catalysed by members of 
the cholinesterase family. 
After inhalation, systemic exposure to M9 was on average in the same order of magnitude as the 
exposure to the parent drug. Since in vitro studies did not show lung metabolism and M9 was of minor 
importance in the circulation (about 4% of parent drug Cmax and AUC) after intravenous 
administration, it is assumed that M9 is formed from the swallowed dose fraction of orally inhaled 
glycopyrronium bromide by pre-systemic hydrolysis and/or via first-pass metabolism. After inhalation 
as well as after intravenous administration, only minimal amounts of M9 were found in the urine (i.e. 
≤0.5% of dose). Glucuronide and/or sulfate conjugates of glycopyrronium were found in urine of 
humans after repeated inhalation, accounting for about 3% of the dose. 
In vitro inhibition studies demonstrated that glycopyrronium bromide has no relevant capacity to 
inhibit CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1 or CYP3A4/5, the 
efflux transporters MDR1, MRP2 or MXR, and the uptake transporters OATP1B1, OATP1B3, OAT1, 
OAT3, OCT1 or OCT2. In vitro enzyme induction studies did not indicate a clinically relevant 
induction by glycopyrronium bromide for any of the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes tested as well as 
for UGT1A1 and the transporters MDR1 and MRP2. 
Mometasone furoate 
The portion of an inhaled mometasone furoate dose that is swallowed and absorbed in the 
gastrointestinal tract undergoes extensive metabolism to multiple metabolites. There are no major 
metabolites detectable in plasma. In human liver microsomes, mometasone furoate is metabolised by 
CYP3A4. 
Elimination 
Indacaterol 
In clinical studies which included urine collection, the amount of indacaterol excreted unchanged via 
urine was generally lower than 2% of the dose. Renal clearance of indacaterol was, on average, 
between 0.46 and 1.20 litres/hour. Compared with the serum clearance of indacaterol of 18.8 to 
23.3 litres/hour, it is evident that renal clearance plays a minor role (about 2 to 6% of systemic 
clearance) in the elimination of systemically available indacaterol. 
In a human ADME study in which indacaterol was given orally, the faecal route of excretion was 
dominant over the urinary route. Indacaterol was excreted into human faeces primarily as unchanged 
parent substance (54% of the dose) and, to a lesser extent, hydroxylated indacaterol metabolites (23% 
of the dose). Mass balance was complete, with ≥90% of the dose recovered in the excreta. 
Indacaterol serum concentrations declined in a multi-phasic manner with an average terminal half-life 
ranging from 45.5 to 126 hours. The effective half-life, calculated from the accumulation of 
indacaterol after repeated dosing, ranged from 40 to 52 hours, which is consistent with the observed 
time to steady state of approximately 12 to 14 days. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Glycopyrronium 
After intravenous administration of [3H]-labelled glycopyrronium bromide to humans, the mean 
urinary excretion of radioactivity in 48 hours amounted to 85% of the dose. A further 5% of the dose 
was found in the bile. Thus, mass balance was almost complete. 
Renal elimination of parent drug accounts for about 60 to 70% of total clearance of systemically 
available glycopyrronium whereas non-renal clearance processes account for about 30 to 40%. Biliary 
clearance contributes to the non-renal clearance, but the majority of non-renal clearance is thought to 
be due to metabolism. 
Mean renal clearance of glycopyrronium was in the range of 17.4 and 24.4 litres/hour. Active tubular 
secretion contributes to the renal elimination of glycopyrronium. Up to 20% of the dose was found in 
urine as parent drug. 
Glycopyrronium plasma concentrations declined in a multi-phasic manner. The mean terminal 
elimination half-life was much longer after inhalation (33 to 57 hours) than after intravenous 
(6.2 hours) and oral (2.8 hours) administration. The elimination pattern suggests a sustained lung 
absorption and/or transfer of glycopyrronium into the systemic circulation at and beyond 24 h after 
inhalation. 
Mometasone furoate 
After intravenous bolus administration, mometasone furoate has a terminal elimination T½ of 
approximately 4.5 hours. A radiolabelled, orally inhaled dose is excreted mainly in the faeces (74%) 
and to a lesser extent in the urine (8%). 
Interactions 
Concomitant administration of orally inhaled indacaterol, glycopyrronium and mometasone furoate 
under steady-state conditions did not affect the pharmacokinetics of any of the active substances. 
Special populations 
A population pharmacokinetic analysis in patients with asthma after inhalation of Zimbus Breezhaler 
indicated no significant effect of age, gender, body weight, smoking status, baseline estimated 
glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and FEV1 at baseline on the systemic exposure to indacaterol, 
glycopyrronium or mometasone furoate. 
Patients with renal impairment 
The effect of renal impairment on the pharmacokinetics of indacaterol, glycopyrronium and 
mometasone furoate has not been evaluated in dedicated studies with Zimbus Breezhaler. In a 
population pharmacokinetic analysis, estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) was not a 
statistically significant covariate for systemic exposure of indacaterol, glycopyrronium and 
mometasone furoate following administration of Zimbus Breezhaler in patients with asthma. 
Due to the very low contribution of the urinary pathway to the total body elimination of indacaterol 
and mometasone furoate, the effects of renal impairment on their systemic exposure have not been 
investigated (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Renal impairment has an impact on the systemic exposure to glycopyrronium administered as a 
monotherapy. A moderate mean increase in total systemic exposure (AUClast) of up to 1.4-fold was 
seen in subjects with mild and moderate renal impairment and up to 2.2-fold in subjects with severe 
renal impairment and end-stage renal disease. Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of 
glycopyrronium in asthma patients following Zimbus Breezhaler administration, AUC0-24h increased 
by 27% or decreased by 19% for patients with an absolute GFR of 58 or 143 ml/min, respectively, 
compared to a patient with an absolute GFR of 93 ml/min. Based on a population pharmacokinetic 
analysis of glycopyrronium in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease patients with mild and moderate 
renal impairment (eGFR ≥30 ml/min/1.73 m2), glycopyrronium can be used at the recommended dose. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
The effect of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of indacaterol, glycopyrronium and 
mometasone furoate has not been evaluated in subjects with hepatic impairment following 
administration of Zimbus Breezhaler. However, studies have been conducted with the monotherapy 
components indacaterol and mometasone furoate (see section 4.2). 
Indacaterol 
Patients with mild and moderate hepatic impairment showed no relevant changes in Cmax or AUC of 
indacaterol, nor did protein binding differ between mild and moderate hepatic impaired subjects and 
their healthy controls. Studies in subjects with severe hepatic impairment were not performed. 
Glycopyrronium 
Clinical studies in patients with hepatic impairment have not been conducted. Glycopyrronium is 
cleared predominantly from the systemic circulation by renal excretion. Impairment of the hepatic 
metabolism of glycopyrronium is not thought to result in a clinically relevant increase in systemic 
exposure. 
Mometasone furoate 
A study evaluating the administration of a single inhaled dose of 400 mcg mometasone furoate by dry 
powder inhaler to subjects with mild (n=4), moderate (n=4), and severe (n=4) hepatic impairment 
resulted in only 1 or 2 subjects in each group having detectable peak plasma concentrations of 
mometasone furoate (ranging from 50 to 105 pcg/ml). The observed peak plasma concentrations 
appear to increase with severity of hepatic impairment; however, the numbers of detectable levels 
(assay lower limit of quantification was 50 pcg/ml) were few. 
Other special populations 
There were no major differences in total systemic exposure (AUC) for indacaterol, glycopyrronium or 
mometasone furoate between Japanese and Caucasian subjects. Insufficient pharmacokinetic data are 
available for other ethnicities or races. Total systemic exposure (AUC) for glycopyrronium may be up 
to 1.8-fold higher in asthma patients with low body weight (35 kg) and up to 2.5-fold higher in asthma 
patients with low body weight (35 kg) and low absolute GFR (45 ml/min). 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
No animal studies were performed with the combination of indacaterol, glycopyrronium and 
mometasone furoate. The non-clinical assessments of each monotherapy and of 
indacaterol/mometasone and indacaterol/glycopyrronium combination products are presented below: 
Indacaterol 
Effects on the cardiovascular system attributable to the beta2-agonistic properties of indacaterol 
included tachycardia, arrhythmias and myocardial lesions in dogs. Mild irritation of the nasal cavity 
and larynx was seen in rodents. 
Genotoxicity studies did not reveal any mutagenic or clastogenic potential. 
Carcinogenicity was assessed in a two-year rat study and a six-month transgenic mouse study. 
Increased incidences of benign ovarian leiomyoma and focal hyperplasia of ovarian smooth muscle in 
rats were consistent with similar findings reported for other beta2-adrenergic agonists. No evidence of 
carcinogenicity was seen in mice. 
All these findings occurred at exposures sufficiently in excess of those anticipated in humans. 
Following subcutaneous administration in a rabbit study, adverse effects of indacaterol with respect to 
pregnancy and embryonal/foetal development could only be demonstrated at doses more than 500-fold 
those achieved following daily inhalation of 150 mcg in humans (based on AUC0-24 h). 
Although indacaterol did not affect general reproductive performance in a rat fertility study, a decrease 
in the number of pregnant F1 offspring was observed in the peri- and post-natal developmental rat 
study at an exposure 14-fold higher than in humans treated with indacaterol. Indacaterol was not 
embryotoxic or teratogenic in rats or rabbits. 
Glycopyrronium 
Effects attributable to the muscarinic receptor antagonist properties of glycopyrronium included mild 
to moderate increases in heart rate in dogs, lens opacities in rats and reversible changes associated 
with reduced glandular secretions in rats and dogs. Mild irritancy or adaptive changes in the 
respiratory tract were seen in rats. All these findings occurred at exposures sufficiently in excess of 
those anticipated in humans. 
Genotoxicity studies did not reveal any mutagenic or clastogenic potential for glycopyrronium. 
Carcinogenicity studies in transgenic mice using oral administration and in rats using inhalation 
administration revealed no evidence of carcinogenicity. 
Glycopyrronium was not teratogenic in rats or rabbits following inhalation administration. 
Glycopyrronium and its metabolites did not significantly cross the placental barrier of pregnant mice, 
rabbits and dogs. Published data for glycopyrronium in animals do not indicate any reproductive 
toxicity issues. Fertility and pre- and post-natal development were not affected in rats. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mometasone furoate 
All observed effects are typical of the glucocorticoid class of compounds and are related to 
exaggerated pharmacological effects of glucocorticoids. 
Mometasone furoate showed no genotoxic activity in a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo tests. 
In carcinogenicity studies in mice and rats, inhaled mometasone furoate demonstrated no statistically 
significant increase in the incidence of tumours. 
Like other glucocorticoids, mometasone furoate is a teratogen in rodents and rabbits. Effects noted 
were umbilical hernia in rats, cleft palate in mice and gallbladder agenesis, umbilical hernia and flexed 
front paws in rabbits. There were also reductions in maternal body weight gains, effects on foetal 
growth (lower foetal body weight and/or delayed ossification) in rats, rabbits and mice, and reduced 
offspring survival in mice. In studies of reproductive function, subcutaneous mometasone furoate at 
15 mcg/kg prolonged gestation and difficult labour occurred, with a reduction in offspring survival 
and body weight. 
Environmental risk assessment studies have shown that mometasone may pose a risk to surface water 
(see section 6.6). 
Indacaterol and glycopyrronium combination 
Findings during the nonclinical safety studies of indacaterol/glycopyrronium were consistent with the 
known pharmacological effects of the indacaterol or glycopyrronium monotherapy components. 
The effect on heart rate for indacaterol/glycopyrronium was increased in magnitude and duration 
compared with the changes observed for each monotherapy component alone. 
Shortening of electrocardiograph intervals and decreased systolic and diastolic blood pressure were 
also apparent. Indacaterol administered to dogs alone or in the indacaterol/glycopyrronium 
combination was associated with a similar incidence of myocardial lesions. 
Indacaterol and mometasone furoate combination 
The findings during the 13-week inhalation toxicity studies were predominantly attributable to the 
mometasone furoate and were typical pharmacological effects of glucocorticoids. Increased heart rates 
associated with indacaterol were apparent in dogs after administration of indacaterol/mometasone 
furoate or indacaterol alone. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Lactose monohydrate 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Hypromellose 
Printing ink 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
30 months. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
Inhaler body and cap are made from acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, push buttons are made from 
methyl metacrylate acrylonitrile butadiene styrene. Needles and springs are made from stainless steel. 
PA/Alu/PVC – Alu perforated unit-dose blister. Each blister contains 10 hard capsules. 
Single pack containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 90 x 1 hard capsules, together with 1 inhaler. 
Pack containing 30 x 1 hard capsules, together with 1 inhaler and 1 sensor. 
Multipacks containing 150 (15 packs of 10 x 1) hard capsules and 15 inhalers. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
The inhaler provided with each new prescription should be used. The inhaler in each pack should be 
disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
This medicinal product may pose a risk to the environment (see section 5.3). 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for handling and use 
Please read the full Instructions for Use before using the Zimbus Breezhaler. 
Insert 
Pierce and release 
Inhale deeply 
Check capsule is empty 
1 
2 
3 
Check 
Step 1a: 
Pull off cap 
Step 1b: 
Open inhaler 
Step 2a: 
Pierce capsule once 
Hold the inhaler upright. 
Pierce capsule by firmly 
pressing both side 
buttons at the same time. 
You should hear a noise 
as the capsule is pierced. 
Only pierce the capsule 
once. 
Step 3a: 
Breathe out fully 
Do not blow into the 
inhaler. 
Check capsule is empty 
Open the inhaler to see if 
any powder is left in the 
capsule. 
If there is powder left in 
the capsule: 
•  Close the inhaler. 
•  Repeat steps 3a to 3d. 
Powder 
remaining 
Empty 
Step 3b: 
Inhale medicine deeply 
Hold the inhaler as 
shown in the picture. 
Place the mouthpiece in 
your mouth and close 
your lips firmly around 
it. 
Do not press the side 
buttons. 
Step 2b: 
Release side buttons 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1c: 
Remove capsule 
Separate one of the 
blisters from the blister 
card. 
Peel open the blister and 
remove the capsule. 
Do not push the capsule 
through the foil. 
Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
Breathe in quickly and as 
deeply as you can. 
During inhalation you 
will hear a whirring 
noise. 
You may taste the 
medicine as you inhale. 
Step 3c: 
Hold breath 
Hold your breath for up 
to 5 seconds. 
Step 3d: 
Rinse mouth 
Rinse your mouth with 
water after each dose and 
spit it out. 
Remove empty capsule 
Put the empty capsule in 
your household waste. 
Close the inhaler and 
replace the cap. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1d: 
Insert capsule 
Never place a capsule 
directly into the 
mouthpiece. 
Step 1e: 
Close inhaler 
Important Information 
•  Zimbus Breezhaler 
capsules must always be 
stored in the blister card 
and only removed 
immediately before use. 
•  Do not push the capsule 
through the foil to 
remove it from the 
blister. 
•  Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
•  Do not use the Zimbus 
Breezhaler capsules with 
any other inhaler. 
•  Do not use the Zimbus 
Breezhaler inhaler to 
take any other capsule 
medicine. 
•  Never place the capsule 
into your mouth or the 
mouthpiece of the 
inhaler. 
•  Do not press the side 
buttons more than once. 
•  Do not blow into the 
mouthpiece. 
•  Do not press the side 
buttons while inhaling 
through the mouthpiece. 
•  Do not handle capsules 
with wet hands. 
•  Never wash your inhaler 
with water. 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Zimbus Breezhaler Inhaler pack contains: 
One Zimbus Breezhaler inhaler 
• 
• 
One or more blister cards, each containing 
10 Zimbus Breezhaler capsules to be used in 
the inhaler 
Mouthpiece 
Capsule 
chamber 
Screen 
Cap 
Base 
Side 
buttons 
Blister 
Inhaler 
Inhaler base 
Blister card 
Cleaning the inhaler 
Wipe the mouthpiece 
inside and outside with a 
clean, dry, lint-free cloth to 
remove any powder 
residue. Keep the inhaler 
dry. Never wash your 
inhaler with water. 
Disposing of the inhaler 
after use 
Each inhaler should be 
disposed of after all 
capsules have been used. 
Ask your pharmacist how 
to dispose of medicines 
and inhalers that are no 
longer required. 
Frequently Asked 
Questions 
Why didn’t the inhaler 
make a noise when I 
inhaled? 
The capsule may be stuck 
in the capsule chamber. If 
this happens, carefully 
loosen the capsule by 
tapping the base of the 
inhaler. Inhale the 
medicine again by 
repeating steps 3a to 3d. 
What should I do if there 
is powder left inside the 
capsule? 
You have not received 
enough of your medicine. 
Close the inhaler and 
repeat steps 3a to 3d. 
I coughed after inhaling 
– does this matter? 
This may happen. As long 
as the capsule is empty 
you have received enough 
of your medicine. 
I felt small pieces of the 
capsule on my tongue – 
does this matter? 
This can happen. It is not 
harmful. The chances of 
the capsule breaking into 
small pieces will be 
increased if the capsule is 
pierced more than once. 
For detailed instructions on use of the sensor and the App, see the Instructions for Use provided in the 
sensor pack and the App. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1440/001-005 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
03 July 2020 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturers responsible for batch release 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance 
activities and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each delivered dose contains 114 micrograms indacaterol (as acetate), 46 micrograms glycopyrronium 
(equivalent to 58 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide) and 136 micrograms mometasone furoate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and magnesium stearate. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
10 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
90 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Inhalation use 
Treatment for 90 days. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1440/001 
EU/1/20/1440/002 
EU/1/20/1440/004 
10 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
90 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zimbus Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SENSOR 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each delivered dose contains 114 micrograms indacaterol (as acetate), 46 micrograms glycopyrronium 
(equivalent to 58 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide) and 136 micrograms mometasone furoate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and magnesium stearate. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler + 1 sensor 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1440/003 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler + 1 sensor 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zimbus Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SENSOR 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each delivered dose contains 114 micrograms indacaterol (as acetate), 46 micrograms glycopyrronium 
(equivalent to 58 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide) and 136 micrograms mometasone furoate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and magnesium stearate. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1440/003 
30 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler + 1 sensor 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zimbus Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON OF MULTIPACK (INCLUDING BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each delivered dose contains 114 micrograms indacaterol (as acetate), 46 micrograms glycopyrronium 
(equivalent to 58 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide) and 136 micrograms mometasone furoate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and magnesium stearate. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
Multipack: 150 (15 packs of 10 x 1) capsules + 15 inhalers 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1440/005 
150 (15 packs of 10 x 1) capsules + 15 inhalers 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zimbus Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK (WITHOUT BLUE BOX) 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each delivered dose contains 114 micrograms indacaterol (as acetate), 46 micrograms glycopyrronium 
(equivalent to 58 micrograms glycopyrronium bromide) and 136 micrograms mometasone furoate. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains lactose and magnesium stearate. See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Inhalation powder, hard capsule 
10 x 1 capsules + 1 inhaler. Component of a multipack. Not to be sold separately. 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
For use only with the inhaler provided in the pack. 
Do not swallow capsules. 
Inhalation use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
The inhaler in each pack should be disposed of after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store in the original package in order to protect from light and moisture. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/20/1440/005 
150 (15 packs of 10 x 1) capsules + 15 inhalers 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zimbus Breezhaler 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER LID OF 
• 
• 
• 
OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SENSOR, AND 
INTERMEDIATE CARTON OF MULTIPACK 
1. 
OTHER 
1 
2 
3 
Check  
Insert 
Pierce and release 
Inhale deeply 
Check capsule is empty 
Read the leaflet before use. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
INNER LID OF OUTER CARTON OF UNIT PACK CONTAINING SENSOR 
1. 
OTHER 
Please read the package leaflet in the Zimbus Breezhaler pack and the instructions for use provided in 
the sensor pack. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTERS 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 mcg/46 mcg/136 mcg inhalation powder 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
Inhalation use only 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Zimbus Breezhaler 114 micrograms/46 micrograms/136 micrograms inhalation powder, hard 
capsules 
indacaterol/glycopyrronium/mometasone furoate 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet: 
1.  What Zimbus Breezhaler is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Zimbus Breezhaler 
How to use Zimbus Breezhaler 
3. 
Possible side effects 
4. 
How to store Zimbus Breezhaler 
5. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
Instructions for use of Zimbus Breezhaler inhaler 
1.  What Zimbus Breezhaler is and what it is used for 
What Zimbus Breezhaler is and how it works 
Zimbus Breezhaler contains three active substances: 
- 
- 
- 
indacaterol 
glycopyrronium 
mometasone furoate 
Indacaterol and glycopyrronium belong to a group of medicines called bronchodilators. They work in 
different ways to relax the muscles of the small airways in the lungs. This helps to open the airways 
and makes it easier for air to get in and out of the lungs. When they are taken regularly, they help the 
small airways to remain open. 
Mometasone furoate belongs to a group of medicines called corticosteroids (or steroids). 
Corticosteroids reduce the swelling and irritation (inflammation) in the small airways in the lungs and 
so gradually ease breathing problems. Corticosteroids also help to prevent attacks of asthma. 
What Zimbus Breezhaler is used for 
Zimbus Breezhaler is used regularly as treatment for asthma in adults. 
Asthma is a serious, long-term lung disease where the muscles around the smaller airways become 
tight (bronchoconstriction) and inflamed. Symptoms come and go and include shortness of breath, 
wheezing, chest tightness and cough. 
You should use Zimbus Breezhaler every day and not only when you have breathing problems or other 
symptoms of asthma. This will ensure that it controls your asthma properly. Do not use this medicine 
to relieve a sudden attack of breathlessness or wheezing. 
If you have any questions about how Zimbus Breezhaler works or why this medicine has been 
prescribed for you, ask your doctor. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.  What you need to know before you use Zimbus Breezhaler 
Follow all the doctor’s instructions carefully. 
Do not use Zimbus Breezhaler 
- 
if you are allergic to indacaterol, glycopyrronium, mometasone furoate, or any of the other 
ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). If you think you may be allergic, ask your 
doctor for advice. 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before using Zimbus Breezhaler if any of the following 
applies to you: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you have heart problems, including an irregular or fast heartbeat. 
if you have thyroid gland problems. 
if you have ever been told you have diabetes or high blood sugar. 
if you suffer from seizures or fits. 
if you have severe kidney problems. 
if you have severe liver problems. 
if you have a low level of potassium in your blood. 
if you have an eye problem called angle-closure glaucoma. 
if you have difficulty passing urine. 
if you have tuberculosis (TB) of the lung, or any long standing or untreated infections. 
During treatment with Zimbus Breezhaler 
Stop using this medicine and get medical help immediately if you have any of the following: 
- 
tightness of the chest, coughing, wheezing or breathlessness immediately after using Zimbus 
Breezhaler (signs the medicine is unexpectedly tightening the airways, known as paradoxical 
bronchospasm). 
difficulty breathing or swallowing, swelling of the tongue, lips or face, skin rash, itching and 
hives (signs of allergic reaction). 
eye pain or discomfort, temporary blurring of vision, visual haloes (seeing bright circles around 
lights) or coloured images in association with red eyes (signs of an attack of angle-closure 
glaucoma). 
- 
- 
Children and adolescents 
Do not give this medicine to children or adolescents (below the age of 18 years) because it has not 
been studied in this age group. 
Other medicines and Zimbus Breezhaler 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using, have recently used or might use any other medicines. 
In particular, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are using: 
- 
medicines that decrease the level of potassium in your blood. These include diuretics (which 
increase urine production and can be used to treat high blood pressure, e.g. 
hydrochlorothiazide), other bronchodilators such as methylxanthines used for breathing 
problems (e.g. theophylline) or corticosteroids (e.g. prednisolone). 
tricyclic antidepressants or monoamine oxidase inhibitors (medicines used in the treatment of 
depression). 
any medicines that may be similar to Zimbus Breezhaler (contain similar active substances); 
using them together may increase the risk of possible side effects. 
medicines called beta blockers used to treat high blood pressure or other heart problems (e.g. 
propranolol) or to treat glaucoma (e.g. timolol). 
ketoconazole or itraconazole (medicines used to treat fungal infections). 
ritonavir, nelfinavir or cobicistat (medicines used to treat HIV infection). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask 
your doctor for advice before taking this medicine. Your doctor will discuss with you whether you can 
use Zimbus Breezhaler. 
Driving and using machines 
It is unlikely that this medicine will affect your ability to drive and use machines. 
Zimbus Breezhaler contains lactose 
This medicine contains about 25 mg of lactose per capsule. If you have been told by your doctor that 
you have an intolerance to some sugars, speak with your doctor before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to use Zimbus Breezhaler 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
How much Zimbus Breezhaler to inhale 
The usual dose is to inhale the content of one capsule each day. You only need to use the medicine 
once a day. Do not use more than your doctor tells you to use. 
You should use Zimbus Breezhaler every day, even when your asthma is not troubling you. 
When to inhale Zimbus Breezhaler 
Inhale Zimbus Breezhaler at the same time each day. This will help control your symptoms throughout 
the day and night. It will also help you to remember to use it. 
How to inhale Zimbus Breezhaler 
- 
- 
Zimbus Breezhaler is for inhalation use. 
In this pack, you will find an inhaler and capsules that contain the medicine. The inhaler enables 
you to inhale the medicine in the capsule. Only use the capsules with the inhaler provided in this 
pack. The capsules should remain in the blister until you need to use them. 
Peel the backing away from the blister to open it, do not push the capsule through the foil. 
When you start a new pack, use the new inhaler supplied in this new pack. 
Dispose of the inhaler in each pack after all capsules in that pack have been used. 
Do not swallow the capsules. 
Please read the instructions for use on the other side of this leaflet for more information 
on how to use the inhaler. 
If your pack contains a sensor for Zimbus Breezhaler 
- 
The sensor and App are not required in order for you to take your medicine. The sensor does not 
need to be connected to the App when taking your medicine. 
Your doctor will decide whether use of the sensor and App is appropriate for you. 
The electronic sensor for Zimbus Breezhaler is to be attached to the base of the Zimbus 
Breezhaler inhaler. 
The sensor confirms that you have used the Zimbus Breezhaler inhaler by recording and 
monitoring its actuations and the whirring noise of the spinning capsule during inhalation but it 
will not monitor whether you have received the dose of your medicine. 
The sensor is to be used with the Propeller App on your smart phone or another suitable device. 
The sensor links with the Propeller App via Bluetooth. 
Please read the instructions for use provided in the sensor pack and the App for more 
information on how to use the sensor for Zimbus Breezhaler and the App. 
After all Zimbus Breezhaler capsules in a pack have been used, move the sensor to the new 
inhaler in the next Zimbus Breezhaler pack. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If your symptoms do not improve 
If your asthma is not getting better or if it gets worse after you have started using Zimbus Breezhaler, 
talk to your doctor. 
If you use more Zimbus Breezhaler than you should 
If you accidently inhale too much of this medicine, contact your doctor or hospital for advice 
immediately. You may need medical attention. 
If you forget to use Zimbus Breezhaler 
If you forget to inhale a dose at the usual time, inhale one as soon as possible on that day. Then inhale 
the next dose at the usual time on the next day. Do not inhale two doses on the same day. 
If you stop using Zimbus Breezhaler 
Do not stop using Zimbus Breezhaler unless your doctor tells you to. Your asthma symptoms may 
come back if you stop using it. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Some side effects could be serious 
Stop using Zimbus Breezhaler and get medical help immediately if you have any of the following: 
Common: may affect up to 1 in every 10 people 
- 
difficulty breathing or swallowing, swelling of the tongue, lips or face, skin rash, itching and 
hives (signs of allergic reaction). 
Other side effects 
Other side effects include the following listed below. If these side effects become severe, please tell 
your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
Very common: may affect more than 1 in 10 people 
- 
- 
- 
sore throat 
runny nose 
sudden difficulty breathing and feeling of tightness in chest with wheezing or coughing 
Common: may affect up to 1 in every 10 people 
- 
oral thrush (sign of candidiasis). After you have finished taking your dose, rinse your mouth 
with water or a mouthwash solution and then spit this out. This will help to prevent thrush. 
a frequent urge to urinate and pain or burning when urinating (signs of urinary tract infection) 
headache 
fast heart beat 
cough 
voice alteration (hoarseness) 
diarrhoea, abdominal cramps, nausea, and vomiting (gastroenteritis) 
pain in muscles, bones or joints (signs of musculoskeletal pain) 
muscle spasm 
fever 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Uncommon: may affect up to 1 in every 100 people 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
dry mouth 
rash 
high level of sugar in the blood 
skin itching 
difficulty and pain when passing urine (signs of dysuria) 
clouding of the lens of your eyes (signs of cataract) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Zimbus Breezhaler 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and blister after 
“EXP”. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Do not store above 30°C. 
Store the capsules in the original blister, in order to protect from light and moisture, and do not 
remove until immediately before use. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist 
how to throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the 
environment. 
If your pack contains an electronic sensor for Enerzair Breezhaler, see the Instructions for Use 
provided in the sensor pack for detailed instructions on how to store and when to discard it. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Zimbus Breezhaler contains 
- 
The active substances are indacaterol (as acetate), glycopyrronium (as bromide) and 
mometasone furoate. Each capsule contains 150 micrograms of indacaterol (as acetate), 
63 micrograms of glycopyrronium bromide (equivalent to 50 micrograms of glycopyrronium) 
and 160 micrograms of mometasone furoate. Each delivered dose (the dose that leaves the 
mouthpiece of the inhaler) contains 114 micrograms of indacaterol (as acetate), 58 micrograms 
of glycopyrronium bromide (equivalent to 46 micrograms of glycopyrronium) and 
136 micrograms of mometasone furoate. 
The other ingredients are lactose monohydrate and magnesium stearate (see “Zimbus Breezhaler 
contains lactose” in section 2). 
- 
What Zimbus Breezhaler looks like and contents of the pack 
In this pack, you will find an inhaler together with capsules in blisters. Some packs also contain a 
sensor device. The capsules are transparent and contain a white powder. They have a black product 
code “IGM150-50-160” printed above two black bars on the body with a logo printed in black and 
surrounded by a black bar on the cap. 
The following pack sizes are available: 
Single pack containing 10 x 1, 30 x 1 or 90 x 1 hard capsules, together with 1 inhaler. 
Pack containing 30 x 1 hard capsules, together with 1 inhaler and 1 sensor. 
Multipacks comprising 15 cartons, each containing 10 x 1 hard capsules together with 1 inhaler. 
Not all pack sizes may be available in your country. 
49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Novartis Europharm Limited 
Vista Building 
Elm Park, Merrion Road 
Dublin 4 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Novartis Farmacéutica, S.A. 
Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes, 764 
08013 Barcelona 
Spain 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Roonstraße 25 
D-90429 Nuremberg 
Germany 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
България 
Novartis Bulgaria EOOD 
Тел: +359 2 489 98 28 
Česká republika 
Novartis s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 225 775 111 
Danmark 
Novartis Healthcare A/S 
Tlf: +45 39 16 84 00 
Deutschland 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +49 911 273 0 
Eesti 
SIA Novartis Baltics Eesti filiaal 
Tel: +372 66 30 810 
Ελλάδα 
Novartis (Hellas) A.E.B.E. 
Τηλ: +30 210 281 17 12 
España 
Laboratorios Gebro Pharma, S.A. 
Tel: +34 93 205 86 86 
France 
Novartis Pharma S.A.S. 
Tél: +33 1 55 47 66 00 
Lietuva 
SIA Novartis Baltics Lietuvos filialas 
Tel: +370 5 269 16 50 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Novartis Pharma N.V. 
Tél/Tel: +32 2 246 16 11 
Magyarország 
Novartis Hungária Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 457 65 00 
Malta 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +356 2122 2872 
Nederland 
Novartis Pharma B.V. 
Tel: +31 88 04 52 111 
Norge 
Novartis Norge AS 
Tlf: +47 23 05 20 00 
Österreich 
Novartis Pharma GmbH 
Tel: +43 1 86 6570 
Polska 
Novartis Poland Sp. z o.o. 
Tel.: +48 22 375 4888 
Portugal 
Laboratório Medinfar - Produtos Farmacêuticos, S.A. 
Tel: +351 21 499 7400 
50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hrvatska 
Novartis Hrvatska d.o.o. 
Tel. +385 1 6274 220 
Ireland 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +353 1 260 12 55 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Sími: +354 535 7000 
Italia 
Novartis Farma S.p.A. 
Tel: +39 02 96 54 1 
România 
Novartis Pharma Services Romania SRL 
Tel: +40 21 31299 01 
Slovenija 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Tel: +386 1 300 75 50 
Slovenská republika 
Novartis Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: +421 2 5542 5439 
Suomi/Finland 
Novartis Finland Oy 
Puh/Tel: +358 (0)10 6133 200 
Κύπρος 
Novartis Pharma Services Inc. 
Τηλ: +357 22 690 690 
Sverige 
Novartis Sverige AB 
Tel: +46 8 732 32 00 
Latvija 
SIA Novartis Baltics 
Tel: +371 67 887 070 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Novartis Ireland Limited 
Tel: +44 1276 698370 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
51 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instructions for Use of Zimbus Breezhaler 
Please read full instructions for use of Zimbus Breezhaler inhaler before use. 
Insert 
Pierce and release 
Inhale deeply 
Check capsule is empty 
1 
2 
3 
Check 
Step 1a: 
Pull off cap 
Step 1b: 
Open inhaler 
Step 2a: 
Pierce capsule once 
Hold the inhaler upright. 
Pierce capsule by firmly 
pressing both side 
buttons at the same time. 
You should hear a noise 
as the capsule is pierced. 
Only pierce the capsule 
once. 
Step 3a: 
Breathe out fully 
Do not blow into the 
inhaler. 
Check capsule is empty 
Open the inhaler to see if 
any powder is left in the 
capsule. 
If there is powder left in 
the capsule: 
•  Close the inhaler. 
•  Repeat steps 3a to 3d. 
Powder 
remaining 
Empty 
Step 3b: 
Inhale medicine deeply 
Hold the inhaler as 
shown in the picture. 
Place the mouthpiece in 
your mouth and close 
your lips firmly around 
it. 
Do not press the side 
buttons. 
Step 2b: 
Release side buttons 
52 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1c: 
Remove capsule 
Separate one of the 
blisters from the blister 
card. 
Peel open the blister and 
remove the capsule. 
Do not push the capsule 
through the foil. 
Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
Breathe in quickly and as 
deeply as you can. 
During inhalation you 
will hear a whirring 
noise. 
You may taste the 
medicine as you inhale. 
Step 3c: 
Hold breath 
Hold your breath for up 
to 5 seconds. 
Step 3d: 
Rinse mouth 
Rinse your mouth with 
water after each dose and 
spit it out. 
Remove empty capsule 
Put the empty capsule in 
your household waste. 
Close the inhaler and 
replace the cap. 
53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 1d: 
Insert capsule 
Never place a capsule 
directly into the 
mouthpiece. 
Step 1e: 
Close inhaler 
Important Information 
•  Zimbus Breezhaler 
capsules must always be 
stored in the blister card 
and only removed 
immediately before use. 
•  Do not push the capsule 
through the foil to 
remove it from the 
blister. 
•  Do not swallow the 
capsule. 
•  Do not use the Zimbus 
Breezhaler capsules with 
any other inhaler. 
•  Do not use the Zimbus 
Breezhaler inhaler to 
take any other capsule 
medicine. 
•  Never place the capsule 
into your mouth or the 
mouthpiece of the 
inhaler. 
•  Do not press the side 
buttons more than once. 
•  Do not blow into the 
mouthpiece. 
•  Do not press the side 
buttons while inhaling 
through the mouthpiece. 
•  Do not handle capsules 
with wet hands. 
• Never wash your inhaler 
with water. 
54 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Your Zimbus Breezhaler Inhaler pack contains: 
• 
One Zimbus Breezhaler inhaler 
• 
One or more blister cards, each containing 
10 Zimbus Breezhaler capsules to be used in 
the inhaler 
Mouthpiece 
Capsule 
chamber 
Screen 
Cap 
Base 
Side 
buttons 
Blister 
Inhaler 
Inhaler base 
Blister card 
Frequently Asked 
Questions 
Why didn’t the inhaler 
make a noise when I 
inhaled? 
The capsule may be stuck 
in the capsule chamber. If 
this happens, carefully 
loosen the capsule by 
tapping the base of the 
inhaler. Inhale the 
medicine again by 
repeating steps 3a to 3d. 
What should I do if there 
is powder left inside the 
capsule? 
You have not received 
enough of your medicine. 
Close the inhaler and 
repeat steps 3a to 3d. 
I coughed after inhaling 
– does this matter? 
This may happen. As long 
as the capsule is empty 
you have received enough 
of your medicine. 
I felt small pieces of the 
capsule on my tongue – 
does this matter? 
This can happen. It is not 
harmful. The chances of 
the capsule breaking into 
small pieces will be 
increased if the capsule is 
pierced more than once. 
Cleaning the inhaler 
Wipe the mouthpiece 
inside and outside with a 
clean, dry, lint-free cloth to 
remove any powder 
residue. Keep the inhaler 
dry. Never wash your 
inhaler with water. 
Disposing of the inhaler 
after use 
Each inhaler should be 
disposed of after all 
capsules have been used. 
Ask your pharmacist how 
to dispose of medicines 
and inhalers that are no 
longer required. 
55 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
