Summary of the risk management plan for Zimbus® Breezhaler® (Indacaterol 
acetate, Glycopyrronium bromide and Mometasone furoate)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for Zimbus® Breezhaler®. The RMP 
details important risks of Zimbus Breezhaler how these risks can be minimized, and how 
more information will be obtained about Zimbus Breezhaler's risks.
Zimbus Breezhaler’s  summary  of  product  characteristics  (SmPC)  and  its  package  leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how  Zimbus
Breezhaler should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for Zimbus Breezhaler should be read in the context of all the 
information  including  the  assessment  report  of the  evaluation  and  its  plain-language 
summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in  updates  of 
Zimbus Breezhaler’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Zimbus Breezhaler  is  authorized  for  maintenance  treatment  of  asthma  in  adult  patients 
(see SmPC for the full indication). It contains indacaterol acetate, glycopyrronium bromide 
and mometasone furoate as the active substance and it is given by the inhalation of the 
content of one capsule once daily using the Breezhaler inhaler (Concept 1). 
Further information about the evaluation of Zimbus Breezhaler’s benefits can be found in 
Zimbus Breezhaler’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA 
website, under the medicine’s webpage:
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/medicines/human/EPAR/zimbus-breezhaler
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to minimize or further 
characterize the risks
Important risks of Zimbus Breezhaler, together with measures to minimize such risks and 
the proposed studies for learning more about Zimbus Breezhaler risks, are outlined below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the 



package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals;
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure 
that the medicine is used correctly;
The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the patient (e.g. with 
or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is  collected 
continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so that immediate action 
can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
II.A: List of important risks and missing information
Important risks of Zimbus Breezhaler are risks that need special risk management activities 
to  further  investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal  product  can  be  safely 
administered.  Important risks  can be  regarded as identified or potential. Identified risks 
are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of Zimbus Breezhaler. 
Potential risks are concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible 
based on available data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further 
evaluation.
Table 1
List of important risks and missing information
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified risks
Important potential risks
Missing information
None
Serious cardiovascular events
None
II B: Summary of important risks
The  safety  information  in  the  proposed  Product  Information  is  aligned  to  the  reference 
medicinal product.
Table 2
Important potential risk: Serious cardiovascular events
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine
Current evidence is based on the mechanism of action 
considerations and class effect information. A causal 
association with QVM149 has not been established due to 
lack of adequate statistical or medical evidence of causality in 
the QVM149 program.
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Patients with preexisting CCV disease or other CCV risk 
factors.
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures:
SmPC section 4.4.
Package leaflet: Section 2
Additional risk minimization measures: None
II C: Post-authorization development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorization
There  are  no  studies  which  are  conditions  of  the  marketing  authorization  or  specific 
obligation of Zimbus Breezhaler.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
There are no studies required for Zimbus Breezhaler.
