5 February 2015 
EMA/85104/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP)  
Zinforo 
(ceftaroline fosamil) 
EMEA/H/C/002252/P46 012 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Invented name of the medicinal product: 
INN (or common name) of the active 
substance(s):  
Zinforo 
Ceftaroline fosamil 
MAH: 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
AZ 
cSSTI and CAP  
Pharmaceutical form(s) and strength(s):  600 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 2/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
The present paediatric data is submitted by the MAH in accordance with article 46 of Regulation EC No 
1901/2006. 
This  submission  for  Ceftaroline,  in  the  treatment  of  cSSTI  and  CAP,  relates  to  the  submission  of  the 
results  from  the  clinical  study  P903-31  /  D3720C00007  (randomised,  observer-blinded  study  to 
evaluate the safety and tolerability of ceftaroline versus ceftriaxone 
in  paediatric  patients,  ages  2  months  to  <  18  years,  with  CAP  requiring  hospitalization)  which  is  a 
completed study from the EU Risk Management Plan and Paediatric Investigation Plan. 
The  full  benefit  and  risk  profile  in  the  paediatric  population  will  be  evaluated  when  the  additional 
studies in this plan have been completed. Paediatric patient exposure will continue to be specified as 
missing information in the EU Risk Management Plan until the completion of the paediatric studies. In 
view of this no changes to the SPC and proposed at this stage. 
The  overall  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Zinforo  is  not  affected  by  this  new  information  and  therefore 
does  not  require  taking  further  regulatory  action  on  the  marketing  authorization  for  Zinforo  at  this 
stage. 
About the product 
Ceftaroline fosamil is the prodrug of ceftaroline and is rapidly converted to microbiologically active drug 
after intravenous (iv) administration. Ceftaroline, inhibits bacterial cell growth by interfering  with cell 
wall  biosynthesis.  Ceftaroline  has  high  affinity  for  PBP2a  and  is  highly  potent  against  resistant 
staphylococci.  Ceftaroline  has  also  been  shown  to  bind  with  high  affinity  to  PBPs  in  S.  pneumoniae 
including modified forms of PBP2x which are common in penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae (PRSP). 
Ceftaroline is approved for treatment of adult patients with cSSTI and CAP in the EU since August 2012. 
The recommended dosing regimen is 600 mg (reduced to 400 mg for patients with creatinine clearance 
<30 to ≤50 mL/min) administered as a 60-minute infusion every 12 hours (q12h) for 5 to 14 days for 
cSSTI and 5 to 7 days for CAP. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The MAH stated that this study is a stand-alone study. 
2. Scientific discussion 
2.1 Clinical 
As  part  of  the  EU-RMP  and  PIP,  the  MAH  conducted  the  clinical  study  P903-31  /  D3720C00007  (A 
randomised,  observer-blinded  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  ceftaroline  versus 
ceftriaxone in paediatric patients, ages 2 months to < 18 years, with CAP requiring hospitalization). 
The study is described briefly below (for further details please refer to the full CSR). 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 3/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study D3720C00007 
Study design 
This  was  a  Phase  2/3  multicenter,  randomized,  observer-blinded,  active-controlled  study  to  evaluate 
the  safety,  tolerability,  PK,  and  efficacy  of  ceftaroline  versus  ceftriaxone  in  pediatric  subjects  aged  2 
months to < 18 years with CABP requiring hospitalization.  
Subjects were stratified by age cohort and region and were randomly assigned to treatment in a 3:1 
ratio, ceftaroline fosamil to ceftriaxone. The following age cohorts were defined: 
Cohort 1: children from 12 years to < 18 years 
Cohort 2: children from 6 years to < 12 years 
Cohort 3: children from 24 months to < 6 years 
Cohort 4: young infants/toddlers from 2 months to < 24 months 
A minimum of 7 intravenous (IV) doses was required for subjects randomized to ceftaroline fosamil. A 
switch to open label oral study drug (amoxicillin clavulanate) was allowed on or after Study Day 4 if a 
subject met the protocol-specified criteria. 
Study site and dates 
The  study  was  conducted  by  Cerexa,  US  between  14/01/2013  and  10/04/2014.  The  study  had 
appropriate ethics approval and was performed according to GCP. Fifty sites were enrolled but only 34 
actually enrolled patients for the study. 
Study Objectives 
Primary 
-To  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  ceftaroline  versus  ceftriaxone  in  pediatric  subjects,  ages  2 
months to < 18 years, with community-acquired bacterial pneumonia (CABP) requiring hospitalization 
Secondary 
-To  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  ceftaroline  versus  ceftriaxone  in  pediatric  subjects  with  CABP  requiring 
hospitalization 
-To  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  ceftaroline  in  pediatric  subjects  ages  2  months  to  <  18 
years with CABP requiring hospitalization (This analysis is reported separately) 
Study population 
Male  and  female  subjects  2  months  to  <  18  years  of  age;  CABP  (meeting  the  protocol-specified 
criteria) requiring hospitalization and IV antibacterial therapy; acute onset or worsening within 5 days 
before randomization of at least 2 clinical signs or symptoms of CABP (ie, cough, tachypnea, dyspnea, 
grunting,  sputum  production,  chest  pain,  cyanosis,  evidence  of  pneumonia  with  parenchymal 
consolidation, increased work of breathing) and at least 1 of the following: organism consistent with a 
typical respiratory pathogen identified or isolated  from  a respiratory or blood  culture, leukocytosis, > 
15% immature white blood cells, leukopenia or hypoxemia. 
Study medications 
Investigational Product, Dose, and Mode of Administration: 
IV ceftaroline fosamil infused over 60 (± 10) minutes every 8 hours (q8h [± 1 hour]) as follows: 
Children ≥ 6 months: ceftaroline fosamil 12 mg/kg for subjects weighing ≤ 33 kg or 400 mg 
for subjects weighing > 33 kg 
Children < 6 months: ceftaroline fosamil 8 mg/kg 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 4/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference Therapy, Dosage, and Mode of Administration:  
IV  ceftriaxone  at  a  total  daily  dose  of  75  mg/kg/day  up  to  a  maximum  of  4  g/day,  given  in  equally 
divided doses, each infused over 30 (± 10) minutes every 12 hours (q12h [± 2 hours]).  
Optional Oral Switch, Dose and Mode of Administration:  
Amoxicillin  clavulanate  was  the  drug  specified  to  be  administered  for  the  optional  oral  therapy.  A 
recommended total daily dose of up to 90 mg/kg/day amoxicillin clavulanate was to be divided equally 
q12h. 
Duration of Treatment  
Total duration of study drug therapy was 5 to 14 days, inclusive; a minimum of 3 days (7 infusions for 
subjects randomized to ceftaroline fosamil) of IV study drug therapy was required. The total duration 
of subject participation was expected to be 26 to 50 days, inclusive. 
Criteria for Evaluation 
Efficacy: 
-Clinical  response  (defined  as  improvement  in  at  least  two  and  worsening  of  none  of  the 
following symptoms compared to baseline: Cough, Dyspnea, Sputum production, Chest pain, Chills or 
rigors, Feeling of warmth/feverish, Exercise intolerance or lethargy) at Study Day 4 by subject and by 
baseline pathogen in the MITT and the mMITT populations 
-Clinical  stability  (defined by  having  met  all  of  the  following  criteria:  Afebrile (temperature  ≤ 
38.0°C  by  any  measurement  method),  Age-appropriate  normal  pulse  and  respiratory  rates,  Oxygen 
saturation  ≥  92%  on  room  air,  Worsening  of  none  of  the  following  symptoms  relative  to  baseline: 
cough,  dyspnea,chest  pain,  sputum  production,  chills  or  rigors,  feeling  of  warmth  /  feverish,  and 
exercise intolerance or lethargy) at Study Day 4 by subject and by baseline pathogen in the MITT and 
mMITT populations 
-Clinical  outcome  at  End  of  IV  Study  Drug  (EOIV),  End  of  Therapy  (EOT),  and  Test-of-Cure 
(TOC) in the MITT and CE populations 
-Clinical  and  microbiological  outcomes  by  subject  and  by  baseline  pathogen  at  TOC  in  the 
mMITT and ME populations 
-Clinical relapse at Late Follow-up (LFU) in the MITT Population 
-Emergent infections in the mMITT Population 
-30-day all-cause mortality in the MITT Population 
Safety:  
Adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), deaths, and discontinuations due to AEs; 
clinical laboratory parameters; vital signs measurements 
Statistical methods 
The following study populations were defined: 
-ITT  Population:  all  randomized  subjects  with  study  drug  assignment  designated  according  to  initial 
randomization,  regardless  of  whether  subjects  receive  study  drug  according  to  the  randomization 
schedule, or receive a different drug from that to which they were randomized 
-Safety Population: all randomized subjects who received any amount of study drug 
-MITT Population: all randomized subjects who receive any amount of IV study drug and who have a 
confirmed diagnosis of CABP. 
-CE  Population:  a  subset  of  the  MITT  Population  and  will  include  subjects  who  meet  minimal  disease 
criteria for CABP and all evaluability criteria as specified in the Statistical Analysis Plan. 
-mMITT  Population:  a  subset  of  the  MITT  Population,  including  subjects  for  whom  at  least  1  typical 
bacterial pathogen had been identified from an adequate microbiological specimen at baseline 
-ME Population: all subjects who met the criteria for both the CE and mMITT populations. 
-PK Population: all randomized subjects who received a known amount of ceftaroline fosamil and who 
had  had  at  least  1  PK  sample  collected  (excluding  those  who  received  blood  or  blood  component 
transfusions within 24 hours before any PK sample was drawn) 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 5/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy: Efficacy response was analyzed using the MITT, CE, mMITT, and ME populations. Proportions 
of  subjects  with  favorable  efficacy  responses  were  displayed  by  treatment  group,  both  overall  and 
within  each  age  cohort.  The  difference  between  treatment  groups  in  efficacy  response  rates  was 
calculated, along with 95% confidence intervals (CI) for both the within-group response rates and the 
between-group difference for each efficacy response. 
Safety:  Safety  parameters  (AEs,  SAEs,  deaths,  clinical  laboratory  parameters,  and  vital  signs 
measurements) were summarized for the Safety Population. 
Study monitoring 
An external Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) was established to review safety data from this 
study,  and  other  ongoing  pediatric  studies  of  ceftaroline  fosamil,  at  prespecified  intervals  to  ensure 
safety of all subjects enrolled. 
Results 
Study Disposition 
Subjects  were  stratified  by  region  and  age  cohort.  A  total  of  161  subjects  were  randomized  3:1  to 
receive  study  drug  (122  subjects  to  ceftaroline  fosamil  and  39  subjects  to  ceftriaxone)  (ITT 
Population). All but 1 subject were treated with study drug and were included in the Safety Population. 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 6/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographics and Baseline Characteristics 
The  majority  of  subjects  were  white,  with  a  mean  age  of  4.19  years  (range  10  weeks  through  17 
years).  Demographics  and  baseline  characteristics  were  generally  balanced  between  the  2  treatment 
groups. The majority of subjects had normal renal  function, and no subjects had moderate or severe 
renal impairment. 
Efficacy 
-The clinical response and stability at Study Day 4 were similar between the 2 treatment groups in the 
MITT  Population:  69.2%  and  66.7%  of  subjects  were  responders  and  34.6%  and  36.1%  of  subjects 
were clinically stable in the ceftaroline and ceftriaxone groups, respectively. 
-Clinical cure rates at the TOC visit were high for both the ceftaroline and ceftriaxone treatment groups 
in  both  the  MITT  (87.9%  and  88.9%,  respectively)  and  CE  populations  (91.8%  and  88.9%, 
respectively).  Similar  results  in  clinical  outcomes  were  seen  at  the  EOIV  and  EOT  assessments.  No 
subjects had relapse in either treatment group at the LFU assessment. 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 7/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Microbiological  outcomes  by  subject  and  by  baseline  pathogen  at  TOC  in  the  mMITT  Population 
showed a favorable microbiological response (presumed eradication or eradication) for most subjects in 
both treatment groups (79.2% and 77.8% in the ceftaroline and ceftriaxone groups, respectively). 
Safety results 
Study drug exposure was similar between the ceftaroline and ceftriaxone groups. The median duration 
of  IV  treatment  was  5.0  and  6.0  days,  respectively.  More  than  half  of  the  subjects  switched  to  oral 
study drug; the median duration of oral study drug treatment was 6 days in both the ceftaroline and 
ceftriaxone groups. 
Similar percentages of subjects in each treatment group reported at least 1 TEAE. (45.5% and 46.2% 
in the ceftaroline and ceftriaxone groups, respectively). The incidence of SAEs was low. Seven subjects 
reported SAEs, with the overall percentage in each group low (5% in the ceftaroline group and 2.6% in 
the  ceftriaxone  group).  No  SAEs  were  related  to  study  drug.  Two  subjects  in  the  ceftaroline  group 
discontinued IV study drug due to an AE. No deaths were reported during the study. 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 8/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No  trends  were  seen  in  changes  from  baseline  for  clinical  laboratory  parameters.  The  incidence  of 
potentially clinically significant laboratory abnormalities was low and no subject met potential Hy's law 
criteria.  Mean  changes  over  time  in  vital  signs  measurements  were  similar  between  both  treatment 
groups and consistent with improvement in the underlying infection over the course of the study. 
Applicant’s Conclusion 
Safety  data  indicate  that  treatment  of  pediatric  subjects  with  CABP  with  ceftaroline  fosamil  was  well 
tolerated.  The  clinical  outcomes  in  the  ceftaroline  treatment  group  were  comparable  to  those  in  the 
ceftriaxone treatment group. 
2.3 Discussion  
The  study  was  designed  to  primarily  look  at  safety  and  tolerability  of  ceftaroline  in  the  mentioned 
doses in patients with CABP requiring hospitalisation. Ceftriaxone was selected as an active comparator 
agent for its microbiological spectrum of activity, effectiveness as treatment for CABP, its widespread 
global  use,  and  acceptance  as  a  therapy  for  CABP  based  on  expert  opinion  and  national  adult  CAP 
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 9/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
guidelines.  The  switch  to  oral  therapy  at  the  investigator’s  discretion  is  based  on  normal  clinical 
practice. 
In the study there were no unexpected safety issues, the tolerability was good and efficacy was similar 
to the comparator. Although PK results will be reported separately, it appears the choice of doses for 
the various cohorts was appropriate based on the efficacy seen. 
In  addition  to  this  study,  further  studies  are  planned  as  part  of  PIP.  Therefore  no  further  action  is 
proposed at this stage. 
2.4 
Changes to the product information 
The MAH proposed no changes to the Product Information, which is acceptable at this stage as further 
paediatric studies are planned.  
3. Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  newly  completed  study  which  evaluates  the  safety  and  tolerability  of 
ceftaroline versus ceftriaxone in paediatric patients, ages 2 months to < 18 years, with CAP requiring 
hospitalization,  it  is  considered  that  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  ceftaroline  in  this  population  is 
acceptable and no unexpected concerns have been identified. 
Therefore this does not change the benefit/risk balance.  
3.  Rapporteur’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
The  benefit/risk  balance  remains  positive  in  the  approved  indications  at  present.  A  final  decision 
regarding any change to the product literature related to the paediatric population  will be taken upon 
completion of all the clinical studies planned in this population under the PIP.  
EMA/85104/2015 
Page 10/10 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
