26 February 2015 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Zinforo 
(Ceftaroline fosamil) 
Procedure no.: EMA/H/C/002252/P46/013 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: AZ 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies 
submitted according to Article 46 of the Regulation (EC) 
No 1901/2006 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all commercially confidential information deleted 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Administrative information 
Invented name of the medicinal product: 
Zinforo 
INN (or common name) of the active 
Ceftaroline fosamil 
substance(s):  
MAH: 
AZ 
Currently approved Indication(s) 
cSSTI and CAP  
Pharmaceutical form(s) and strength(s):  600 mg powder for concentrate for solution for infusion 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 2/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
The present paediatric data is submitted by the MAH in accordance with article 46 of Regulation EC No 
1901/2006. 
This  submission  for  Ceftaroline,  in  the  treatment  of  cSSTI  and  CAP,  relates  to  the  submission  of  the 
results  from  the  clinical  study  P903-23  D3720C00004  (A  Multicenter,  Randomized,  Observer-Blinded, 
Active-Controlled  Study  to  Evaluate  the  Safety,  Tolerability,  Efficacy,  and  Pharmacokinetics  of 
Ceftaroline  Versus  Comparator  in  Paediatric  Subjects  With  Acute  Bacterial  Skin  and  Skin  Structure 
Infections). 
The  full  benefit  and  risk  profile  in  the  paediatric  population  will  be  evaluated  when  the  additional 
studies  in  the  PIP  have  been  completed.  Paediatric  patient  exposure  will  continue  to  be  specified  as 
missing information in the EU Risk Management Plan until the completion of the paediatric studies. In 
view of this no changes to the SPC and proposed at this stage. 
The  overall  benefit  to  risk  balance  for  Zinforo  is  not  affected  by  this  new  information  and  therefore 
does  not  require  taking  further  regulatory  action  on  the  marketing  authorization  for  Zinforo  at  this 
stage. 
About the product 
Ceftaroline fosamil is the prodrug of ceftaroline and is rapidly converted to microbiologically active drug 
after  intravenous  (iv)  administration.  Ceftaroline,  inhibits  bacterial  cell  growth  by  interfering  with  cell 
wall  biosynthesis.  Ceftaroline  has  high  affinity  for  PBP2a  and  is  highly  potent  against  resistant 
staphylococci.  Ceftaroline  has  also  been  shown  to  bind  with  high  affinity  to  PBPs  in  S.  pneumoniae 
including modified forms of PBP2x which are common in penicillin-resistant S. pneumoniae (PRSP). 
Ceftaroline is approved for treatment of adult patients with cSSTI and CAP in the EU since August 2012. 
The recommended dosing regimen is 600 mg (reduced to 400 mg for patients with creatinine clearance 
<30 to ≤50 mL/min) administered as a 60-minute infusion every 12 hours (q12h) for 5 to 14 days for 
cSSTI and 5 to 7 days for CAP. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Information on the development program 
The  MAH  stated  that  this  study  is  a  randomised,  observer-blinded  study  to  evaluate  the  safety  and 
tolerability of ceftaroline versus active comparator in paediatric patients, ages 2 months to < 18 years, 
with ABSSI including patients with infection due to methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) 
and  is  a  completed  study  from  the  EU  Pharmacovigilance  Plan  and  the  Paediatric  Investigation  Plan 
(PIP Study 3). 
2.2.  Clinical 
As  part  of  the  EU-RMP  and  PIP,  the  MAH  conducted  the  clinical  study.  The  study  is  described  briefly 
below (for further details please refer to the full CSR). 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 3/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study D3720C00004 
Study design 
This  was  a  phase  2/3  multicenter,  randomized,  observer-blinded,  active-controlled,  parallel-group 
study  to  evaluate  the  efficacy,  safety,  and  PK  of  intravenous  (IV)  ceftaroline  versus  IV  comparator 
(vancomycin or cefazolin with or without aztreonam) in paediatric subjects from the ages of 2 months 
to  <  18  years  with  ABSSSI.  Aztreonam  was  available  for  administration,  if  required,  during  IV 
treatment  with  comparator,  if  an  infection  involving  a  Gram-negative  pathogen  was  identified  or 
suspected. 
Subjects were stratified by age cohort and region and were randomly assigned to treatment in a 2:1 
ratio, ceftaroline fosamil to comparator. The following age cohorts were defined: 
Cohort 1: children from 12 years to < 18 years 
Cohort 2: children from 6 years to < 12 years 
Cohort 3: children from 24 months to < 6 years 
Cohort 4: young infants/toddlers from 2 months to < 24 months 
A minimum of 7 intravenous (IV) doses was required for subjects randomized to ceftaroline fosamil. A 
switch to open label oral study drug (cephalexin [preferred oral switch], clindamycin, or linezolid) was 
allowed  on  or  after  Study  Day  4  if  a  subject  met  the  protocol-specified  criteria.  The  total  duration  of 
study drug therapy (IV and oral, or IV alone) was 5 to 21 days.  
Subjects with ABSSSI presenting to the hospital or acute care facility were to receive their first dose of 
antimicrobial therapy within a medically appropriate time frame. Study Day 1 was defined as the first 
day  of  IV  study  drug  administration,  and  subsequent  study  days  were  defined  by  the  number  of 
consecutive  calendar  days  thereafter.  The  End-of-Intravenous  Study  Drug  (EOIV)  visit  assessments 
were performed within 24 hours after administration of the last dose of IV study drug, and before oral 
switch, if applicable. The End-of Therapy (EOT) visit assessments were performed within 48 hours after 
the last dose of oral study drug. The Test-of-Cure (TOC) visit assessments were performed 8 - 15 days 
after the final dose of study drug (IV or oral, whichever was given last), and the Late-Follow-up (LFU) 
visit  assessments were  performed  21  -  35  days  after  the  last  dose  of  study  drug  (IV  or  oral).  At  the 
time  of  premature  discontinuation  of  study  drug  or  early  withdrawal  from  study  during  IV  or  oral 
therapy  (eg,  Study  Days  4  to  ≤  14),  EOIV  (if  on  IV  study  drug)  or  EOT  (if  on  oral  study  drug) 
assessments  were  to  be  performed  on  the  day  of  premature  discontinuation  of  study  drug  or 
withdrawal from study. 
Study site and dates 
The  study  was  conducted  by  Cerexa,  US  between  21/08/2012  and  13/05/2014.  The  study  had 
appropriate ethics approval and was performed according to GCP. Seventy one sites were enrolled but 
only 38 actually enrolled patients for the study. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 4/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study Objectives 
Primary 
-To  evaluate  the  safety  and  tolerability  of  ceftaroline  versus  vancomycin  or  cefazolin  with  or  without 
aztreonam in paediatric patients, ages 2 months to <18 years, with cSSTI.  
Secondary 
-To  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  ceftaroline  versus  vancomycin  or  cefazolin  with  or  without  aztreonam  in 
paediatric patients, ages 2 months to <18 years, with cSSTI. 
-To  evaluate  the  pharmacokinetics  (PK)  of  ceftaroline  in  these  subjects  (This  analysis  is  reported 
separately). 
Study population 
Male  and  female  subjects  2  months  to  <  18  years  of  age;  ABSSSI  with  measurable  margins  of 
erythema  (ie,  cellulitis),  edema,  or  induration,  that  included  deeper  (subdermal  tissue,  including 
subcutaneous  fat)  and/or  extensive  soft  tissue  involvement  (eg,  deep  and  extensive  cellulitis, 
erysipelas,  or  major  abscess),  or  required  significant  therapeutic  surgical  intervention  (ie,  a  major 
invasive  therapeutic  procedure  that  did  not  include  commonly  performed  minor  procedures  such  as 
suture removal, superficial debridement of devitalized tissue, or routine wound care, eg, abscess or an 
infected  wound  [postoperative  surgical  or  traumatic])  and  at  least  1  of  the  following  local  signs  and 
symptoms of acute infection (present for < 10 days): purulent or seropurulent drainage or discharge, 
induration/edema, fluctuance, or heat or localized warmth. 
Study medications 
Investigational Product, Dose, and Mode of Administration: 
IV ceftaroline fosamil infused over 60 (± 10) minutes every 8 hours (q8h [± 1 hour]) as follows: 
Children ≥ 6 months: ceftaroline fosamil 12 mg/kg for subjects weighing  ≤ 33 kg or 400 mg 
for subjects weighing > 33 kg 
Children < 6 months: ceftaroline fosamil 8 mg/kg 
Reference Therapy, Dosage, and Mode of Administration:  
IV  vancomycin  15  mg/kg  every  6  hours  (q6h)  (±  1  hour)  infused  over  at  least  60  minutes  (or  at  a 
maximum of 10 mg/min, whichever was longer) or  
IV cefazolin 75 mg/kg/day divided q8h (± 1 hour) infused over 60 (± 10) minutes.  
Subjects receiving comparator could receive optional IV aztreonam 30 mg/kg q8h (± 1 hour) infused 
over  60  (±  10)  minutes,  at  any  time  during  IV  therapy  if  an  infection  involving  a  Gram-negative 
pathogen was identified or suspected. 
Optional Oral Switch, Dose and Mode of Administration:  
Subjects may have been switched from IV to open-label oral study drug (cephalexin at 25 mg/kg q6h 
[preferred switch], clindamycin 10 mg/kg q8h, or linezolid [600 mg every 12 hours (q12h) [Cohort 1] 
or 10 mg/kg q8h [Cohorts 2, 3, and 4]) on or after Study Day 4. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 5/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Duration of Treatment  
Total duration of study drug therapy (IV and oral, or IV alone) was 5 to 14 days; a minimum of 3 days 
(7 infusions for subjects randomized to ceftaroline fosamil) of IV study drug therapy was required. The 
total duration of subject participation was expected to be 26 to 50 days. 
Criteria for Evaluation 
Efficacy: 
Clinical  response  at  Study  Day  3  in  the  MITT  Population  according  to  the  following 
definitions: 
○ Definition 1: ≥ 20% reduction from baseline in total infection area (length × width) 
○ Definition 2: cessation of spread relative to baseline as measured by total infection area (ie, 
the total infection area on Study Day 3 was less than or equal to that at baseline) 
○  Definition  3:  cessation  of  spread  relative  to  baseline  as  measured  by  length  and  width, 
separately  (ie,  both  length  and  width  on  Study  Day  3  was  less  than  or  equal  to  their  respective 
measurements  at  baseline),  AND  temperature  was  <  37.6°C  on  Study  Day  3,  irrespective  of 
temperature collection method and baseline temperature 
Clinical outcome at End-of-Intravenous Study Drug (EOIV), End-of-Therapy (EOT), and Test-
of-Cure (TOC) in the MITT and CE populations 
Clinical  and  microbiological  outcomes by subject and by baseline pathogen at TOC in the 
mMITT and ME populations 
Clinical relapse at Late-Follow-up (LFU) in the MITT Population 
Emergent infections in the mMITT Population 
Safety:  
Adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), deaths, and discontinuations due to AEs; 
clinical laboratory parameters; vital signs measurements 
Statistical methods 
The following study populations were defined: 
ITT Population: all randomized subjects 
Safety Population: all randomized subjects who received any amount of IV study drug 
MITT  Population:  all  randomized  subjects  who  receive  any  amount  of  IV  study  drug  and  who  had  a 
confirmed diagnosis of ABSSSI 
CE Population: a subset of the MITT Population and included subjects who met minimal disease criteria 
for ABSSSI and all evaluability criteria 
mMITT Population: a subset of the MITT Population and included subjects for whom at least 1 typical 
bacterial  pathogen  was  identified  from  a  blood  culture  or  from  an  appropriate  microbiological  tissue 
specimen of the primary ABSSSI at baseline 
ME Population: all subjects who met the criteria for both the CE and mMITT populations. 
Pharmacokinetic  (PK)  Population:  a  subset  of  the  Safety  Population  and  included  all  randomized 
subjects who  received  a  known  amount  of  ceftaroline  fosamil  and  who  had  had  at  least  1  PK  sample 
collected (excluding those who received blood or blood component transfusions within 24 hours before 
any PK sample was drawn) 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 6/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Efficacy: The study was not powered for comparative inferential analysis, and no efficacy endpoint was 
identified as primary. Efficacy response was analyzed using the MITT, CE, mMITT, and ME populations. 
Proportions  of  subjects  with  favourable  efficacy  responses  were  displayed  by  treatment  group,  both 
overall and within each age cohort. The difference between treatment groups in efficacy response rates 
was calculated, along with 95% confidence intervals (CI) for both the within-group response rates and 
the between-group difference for each efficacy response. 
Safety:  Safety  parameters  (AEs,  SAEs,  deaths,  clinical  laboratory  parameters,  and  vital  signs 
measurements) were summarized for the Safety Population. 
Study monitoring 
An external Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) was established to review safety data from this 
study,  and  other  ongoing  paediatric  studies  of  ceftaroline  fosamil,  at  prespecified  intervals  to  ensure 
safety of all subjects enrolled. 
Results 
Study Disposition 
163 subjects were randomized (2:1) to receive study drug (110 subjects to ceftaroline fosamil and 53 
subjects  to  comparator)  (ITT  Population),  and  159  subjects  received  IV  study  drug).  The  2:1 
randomization  scheme  was  appropriately  maintained  for  all  age  cohorts  and  all  regions  that  enrolled 
subjects. The highest enrollment by age cohort (52 subjects) was in Cohort 2 (ie, children from 6 years 
to < 12 years); the remaining cohorts each enrolled between 35 - 39 subjects. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 7/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Demographics and Baseline Characteristics 
The majority of subjects in the MITT Population were male (55.3%), white (87.4%), with a mean age 
of 7 years (range 9 weeks - 17 years). Demographic characteristics were generally similar across the 2 
treatment groups. With the exception of Cohort 2, the age cohorts were evenly distributed within each 
treatment  group.  Both  treatment  groups  had  the  highest  percentage  of  enrolment  in  Cohort  2.  The 
majority of subjects had normal or mildly impaired renal function. Staphylococcus aureus was the most 
common pathogen identified (40.2% of subjects in the ceftaroline group and 42.3% of subjects in the 
comparator group), and the majority of S. aureus pathogens were methicillin-sensitive. 
Efficacy 
-The  clinical  response  rates  at  Study  Day  3  were,  by  all  3  definitions  of  response,  high  and  similar 
between the 2 treatment  groups for the MITT population: (Definition 1: 85.0% vs. 84.6%; Definition 
2: 91.6% vs. 90.4%; and Definition 3: 80.4% vs. 75.0%). 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 8/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Clinical  cure  rates  at  TOC  were  high  and  similar  for  both  the  ceftaroline  and  comparator  groups  for 
both the MITT (94.4% and 86.5%, respectively) and CE populations (100% and 97.8%, respectively). 
Similar results in clinical outcomes were also observed at the EOIV and EOT assessments. No subject 
in either treatment group had a relapse at the LFU assessment. 
-Microbiological  outcomes  by  subject  and  by  baseline  pathogens  at  TOC  assessments  for  the  mMITT 
Population  showed  a  favorable  microbiological  outcome  (eradication  or  presumed  eradication)  for  the 
majority (94.2% in the ceftaroline group and 81.8% in the comparator group) of subjects. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 9/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety results 
-Study  drug  exposure  was  similar  between  the  ceftaroline  and  comparator  treatment  groups.  The 
median duration of IV treatment was 5.0 days in both treatment groups. More than half of the subjects 
switched to oral study drug and the median duration of exposure to study drug (IV and oral combined) 
was 10 days in both treatment groups. 
-Similar percentages of subjects in each treatment group reported at least one treatment-emergent AE 
(48%  vs.  43%).  Few  SAEs  were  reported,  with  6  SAEs  reported  for  5  subjects  (4  [3.8%]  subjects  in 
the  ceftaroline  group,  and  one  [1.9%]  subject  in  comparator  group).  Two  of  the  SAEs  (Clostridium 
difficile colitis and hypersensitivity) in the ceftaroline group and no SAEs in the comparator group were 
considered  related  to  IV  study  drug  treatment.  Two  subjects  (1.8%)  in  the  ceftaroline  group 
discontinued IV study drug due to an SAE (drug hypersensitivity and osteomyelitis, one subject each).  
-No deaths were reported during this study. 
-No trends were seen in shifts from baseline for clinical laboratory parameters. The rates of occurrence 
of  potentially  clinically  significant  (PCS)  hematology,  chemistry,  and  other  laboratory  parameter 
abnormalities  were  low.  The  Coombs  test  seroconversion  rate  was  17.2%  and  was  as  expected  for 
subjects in the ceftaroline group, and no cases of hemolytic anemia occurred. No subject met Hy’s law 
laboratory criteria that were applied to the paediatric population in the study. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 10/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-Mean changes over time in vital signs measurements, were similar between both treatments. 
Applicant’s Conclusion 
Safety  data  indicate  that  treatment  of  paediatric  subjects  with  ceftaroline  fosamil  was  well  tolerated. 
The clinical outcomes in the ceftaroline treatment group were comparable to those in the comparator 
treatment group. 
2.3.  Discussion  
This phase 2/3 study was conducted to address the FDA paediatric PMR (PMR 1692-003) and the EMA 
PIP  commitment  (PIP  Study  3)  to  perform  a  randomized  comparison  of  ceftaroline  fosamil  and 
comparators in paediatric subjects with ABSSSI, including subjects with infection caused by MRSA. 
The ceftaroline fosamil dose regimen of 12 mg/kg (up to 400 mg for children weighing > 33 kg) q8h as 
a  60-minute  infusion  for  children  6  months  and  older  and  8  mg/kg  q8h  as  a  60-minute  infusion  for 
subjects younger than 6 months was predicted to result in ceftaroline free drug % T > MIC values that 
were  similar  to  or  greater  than  median  model-derived  values  for  adult  patients  dosed  with  the 
currently approved dose of 600 mg q12h. Based on the simulations for this dose regimen, > 90% of 
patients 2 months to < 18 years of age were predicted to achieve PK/pharmacodynamic (PD) targets in 
plasma associated with 1-log kill of S. aureus and S. pneumoniae in the murine thigh infection model 
(36% and 44% T > MIC, respectively) for organisms with MIC values up to 1 mg/L for S. aureus and 
0.5 mg/L for S. pneumoniae. The high PK/PD target attainment was expected to result in efficacy for 
paediatric patients comparable to that demonstrated for ceftaroline in adult patients with ABSSSI and 
CABP. The median Cmax and AUC values in children with normal renal function 2 months to < 18 years 
of age dosed with 12 mg/kg (up to 400 mg) q8h were predicted to be up to approximately 12% and 
38% greater, respectively, than the median Cmax and AUC values in adults dosed with 600 mg q12h. 
The  comparators  and  their  dosing  regimens  were  based  on  their  approved  indications,  clinical 
guidelines, and local prescribing preferences. 
In  general,  demographics  were  balanced  between  treatment  groups.  In  the  study  there  were  no 
unexpected  safety  issues,  the  tolerability  was  acceptable  and  efficacy  was  similar  to  the  comparator. 
Although PK results will be reported separately, it appears the choice of doses for the various cohorts 
was appropriate based on the efficacy seen. These doses are slightly different to those utilised in study 
P024  in  paediatric  patients  with  CAP.  The  MAH  should  comment  on  this  during  review  of  the  final 
paediatric submission. 
Study enrolment met minimum target numbers of subjects in each cohort. Overall, demographics were 
generally  balanced  between  the  2  treatment  groups  with  baseline  clinical  signs  and  symptoms  of 
ABSSSI as anticipated for this study population. 
The overall clinical response to treatment with ceftaroline fosamil at Study Day 3 was generally similar 
to that of comparator in the MITT Population. Clinical cure rates at TOC in the MITT and CE populations 
were  high  and  similar  between  both  treatment  groups.  No  subject  in  either  treatment  group  had 
relapse at the LFU assessment. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 11/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  safety  data  indicate  that  ceftaroline  fosamil  was  safe  and  well  tolerated when  administered  for 3 
up to 14 days. The occurrence of TEAEs was similar between the 2 treatment groups.  Mean values and 
changes  from  baseline  over  time  for  vital  signs  measurements  were  similar  between  both  treatment 
groups. 
In  addition  to  this  study,  further  paediatric  studies  are  planned  as  part  of  PIP.  Therefore  no  further 
action is proposed at this stage. 
2.4.  Changes to the product information 
The MAH proposed no changes to the Product Information, which is acceptable at this stage as further 
paediatric studies are planned.  
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk balance 
Based  on  the  results  of  the  newly  completed  study  which  evaluates  the  safety  and  tolerability  of 
ceftaroline versus active comparator in paediatric patients, aged 2 months to < 18 years, with ABSSI, 
it  is  considered  that  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  ceftaroline  in  this  population  is  acceptable  and  no 
unexpected concerns have been identified. 
Therefore this does not change the benefit/risk balance.  
4.  CHMP’s overall conclusion and recommendation 
Overall conclusion 
The  benefit/risk  balance  remains  positive  in  the  approved  indications  at  present.  A  final  decision 
regarding any change to the product literature related to the paediatric population will be taken upon 
completion  of  all  the  clinical  studies  planned  in  this  population  under  the  PIP.  The  MAH  should 
comment on the different dosing regimens for ABSSI and CAP used in paediatric patients during review 
of the final paediatric submission. 
CHMP assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
EMA/CHMP/134514/2015 
Page 12/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
