SUMMARY OF THE RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN 
Summary of risk management plan for ZINFORO 
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ZINFORO.  The RMP details 
important risks of ZINFORO, how these risks can be minimised, and how more information 
will be obtained about ZINFORO's risks and uncertainties (missing information). 
ZINFORO's SmPC and its package leaflet give essential information to healthcare 
professionals and patients on how ZINFORO should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for ZINFORO should be read in the context of all this information 
including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-language summary, all which 
is part of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR).  
Important new concerns or changes to the current ones will be included in updates of 
ZINFORO's RMP. 
I. The Medicine and What It Is Used For 
ZINFORO is authorised for complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI) and 
community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) in neonates, infants, children, adolescents and adults.  
It contains ceftaroline fosamil as the active substance and it is given by infusion. 
Further information about the evaluation of ZINFORO’s benefits can be found in 
ZINFORO's EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the EMA website, 
under the medicine’s webpage  
http://www.ema.europa.eu/ema/index.jsp?curl=pages/medicines/human/medicines/002252/h
uman_med_001584.jsp&mid=WC0b01ac058001d124 
II. Risks Associated With the Medicine and Activities to Minimise or Further
Characterise the Risks 
Important risks of ZINFORO, together with measures to minimise such risks and the 
proposed studies for learning more about ZINFORO's risks, are outlined below. 
Measures to minimise the risks identified for medicinal products can be: 
• Specific Information, such as warnings, precautions, and advice on correct use, in the
package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and healthcare professionals
•
Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
• The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen so to ensure that
the medicine is used correctly;
• The medicine’s legal status — the way a medicine is supplied to the public (e.g. with or
without prescription) can help to minimise its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimisation measures. 
In addition to these measures, information about adverse events is collected continuously and 
regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment, so that immediate action can be taken as 
necessary. These measures constitute routine pharmacovigilance activities.  
If important information that may affect the safe use of ZINFORO is not yet available, it is 
listed under ‘missing information’ below. 
II.A. List of Important Risks and Missing Information
Important risks of ZINFORO are risks that need special risk management activities to further 
investigate or minimise the risk, so that the medicinal product can be safely administered. 
Important risks can be regarded as identified or potential.  Identified risks are concerns for 
which there is sufficient proof of a link with the use of ZINFORO.  Potential risks are 
concerns for which an association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available 
data, but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation.  Missing 
information refers to information on the safety of the medicinal product that is currently 
missing and needs to be collected (eg, on the long-term use of the medicine). The MAH 
proposes to remove missing information (Immunocompromised population, Lactation, 
Paediatric population exposure, Pre-existing seizure disorder, Pre-existing significant hepatic 
disease, Pregnancy exposure, Efficacy in MRSA CAP) from the list of safety concerns. 
Table 1.  List of Important Risks and Missing Information 
Important identified risks  None 
Important potential risks  Bacterial resistance development 
Missing information 
Convulsions/seizures 
Drug induced liver injury 
Haemolytic anaemia 
Renal impairment (including potential drug interactions with nephrotoxic agents) 
Potential for off-label use 
Immunocompromised population 
Lactation 
Paediatric population exposure 
Pre-existing seizure disorder 
Pre-existing significant hepatic disease 
Pregnancy exposure 
Efficacy in MRSA CAPNone 
CAP = Community-acquired pneumonia; MRSA = Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 
Strikethrough text: missing information removed from the list of safety concerns. 
II.B. Summary of Important Risks
There are no important identified risks for ceftaroline.  Important potential risks are presented 
below.  Missing information listed below is proposed for removal in this RMP: 
•
Immunocompromised population
•  Lactation 
•  Paediatric population exposure 
•  Pre-existing seizure disorder 
•  Pre-existing significant hepatic disease 
•  Pregnancy exposure 
•  Efficacy in MRSA CAP 
There is no missing information for ceftaroline fosamil. 
Table 2. 
Important Potential Risk – Bacterial Resistance Development 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Bacterial resistance development has been observed in nonclinical studies, and 
reports indicative of bacterial resistance development have been received in the post-
marketing setting. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Factors that may contribute to the development of resistance include inadequate 
infection control measures, high antibiotic use in a specific geographic area per unit 
time, increased use for prophylaxis, increased use for empiric polymicrobial therapy, 
greater severity of illness of hospitalised patients, more severely 
immunocompromised patients, devices and procedures, agricultural use of 
antimicrobials, social factors, international travel, and evolution of pathogens.  
Evidence suggests that a causal relationship exists between antimicrobial usage and 
antimicrobial resistance (e.g., hospitals with high antibiotic use have high rates of 
resistance; changes in antimicrobial usage in such settings are often accompanied by 
changes in resistance patterns and an increased duration of antimicrobial exposure is 
accompanied by an increased risk of colonisation with resistant organisms).1 
Routine RMMs: the risk is communicated through the label in SmPC Section (4.1 
Therapeutic indications) and Section 5.1 (Pharmacodynamic properties) 
No additional RMMs. 
RMM = Risk minimisation measure; SmPC = Summary of product characteristics. 
Table 3. 
Important Potential Risk – Convulsions/Seizures 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Convulsions/seizures is a recognised class effect and it has been observed in 
nonclinical studies; reports indicative of convulsions/seizures have been received in 
clinical trials and in the post-marketing setting. 
Risk factors include advanced age, history of head trauma or neurologic disease, 
stroke, brain tumours, renal failure or genetic predisposition.  Abnormal 
neurological status, defined as abnormal neurological examination, abnormal CT 
brain scan, remote symptomatic aetiology or neurological deficits from birth, is 
considered one of the most important risk factors for recurrence of seizure.  Seizures 
have also been reported with use of a number of antimicrobial agents, including 
penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems and fluoroquinolones.  A review study on 
antibiotic-induced convulsions suggested that risk factors for antibiotic-induced 
seizures include renal insufficiency, pre-existing CNS disease (including seizure 
disorder), cardiopulmonary bypass, sepsis and endocarditis.2 
 
Table 3. 
Important Potential Risk – Convulsions/Seizures 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
RMMs: the risk is communicated through the label in SmPC Section 4.4 (Special 
warnings and precautions for use) 
No additional RMMs. 
CNS = Central nervous system; CT = Computed tomography; RMM = Risk minimisation measure; SmPC = Summary of 
product characteristics. 
Table 4. 
Important Potential Risk – Drug-Induced Liver Injury 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
DILI is a recognised class effect and it has been observed nonclinical studies; 
reports indicative of DILI have been received in clinical studies and in the post-
marketing setting. 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
History of alcohol use, pre-existing liver disease, concomitant use of other 
hepatotoxic drugs and infections. 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Routine RMMs: the risk is communicated through the label in SmPC Section 4.8 
(Undesirable effects) 
No additional RMMs. 
DILI = Drug induced liver injury; RMM = Risk minimisation measure; SmPC = Summary of product characteristics. 
Table 5. 
Important Potential Risk – Haemolytic Anaemia 
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Haemolytic anaemia is a recognised class effect and it has been observed nonclinical 
studies; reports indicative of haemolytic anaemia have been received in clinical 
studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
Risk factors include autoimmune disease, haematologic neoplasm, 
immunodeficiency disease, family history of haemolytic disease, and recent viral 
infections. 
RMMs: SmPC Section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use) and Section 
4.8 (Undesirable effects) 
No additional RMMs. 
RMM = Risk minimisation measure; SmPC = Summary of product characteristics. 
Table 6. 
Important Potential Risk – Renal Impairment (Including Potential Drug 
Interactions with Nephrotoxic Agents) 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Renal impairment is a recognised class effect and it has been observed 
nonclinical studies; reports indicative of renal impairment have been received in 
clinical studies and in the post-marketing setting. 
 
 
 
Table 6. 
Important Potential Risk – Renal Impairment (Including Potential Drug 
Interactions with Nephrotoxic Agents) 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
Risk factors include: advanced age, severe life-threatening systemic infections, 
circulatory, respiratory and renal compromise, trauma, history of diabetes 
mellitus, hypertension, heart failure, hepatic disease and concomitant 
nephrotoxic drugs. 
Clinical use of second- and third-generation cephalosporins has not produced 
clear evidence of significant nephrotoxicity.  Decreases in glomerular filtration 
rate of about 10 mL/minute were seen after ceftazidime treatment courses 
ranging from 4-31 days.  For many other cephalosporins comparable data are 
lacking.3 
Drug interactions that may potentially increase the risk of nephrotoxicity cited in 
the literature mainly relate to the use of older 1st generation cephalosporins (ie, 
cephaloridine and cefalotin) with either loop diuretics such as furosemide or 
aminoglycosides.3 
Conflicting data exist concerning the effect of furosemide on the PK of 
cephalosporins.3 
An increase in aminoglycoside nephrotoxicity has only been documented with 
cefalotin and cephaloridine.3 
Routine RMMs: the risk is communicated through the label in SmPC Section 4.2 
(Posology and method of administration), Section 4.8 (Undesirable effects), and 
Section 5.2 (Pharmacokinetic properties) 
No additional RMMs. 
PK = Pharmacokinetics; RMM = Risk minimisation measure; SmPC = Summary of product characteristics. 
Table 7. 
Important Potential Risk – Potential for off-label use 
Evidence for linking the 
risk to the medicine 
Risk factors and risk 
groups 
Risk minimisation 
measures 
AMR data was used to identify off-label activities in tigecycline. There is no 
literature evaluating any off-label use that would be relevant here.  Reports 
indicative of off-label use have been received in the post-marketing setting. 
Patients with infections who are unresponsive and/or resistant to conventional 
antibiotic therapy or patients with life-threatening infections where no alternative 
therapy exists. 
RMMs: the risk is communicated through the label in SmPC Section 4.1 
(Therapeutic indications) and Section 4.2 (Posology and method of 
administration) 
No additional RMMs. 
AMR = Arlington Medical Resources; PK = Pharmacokinetics; RMM = Risk minimisation measure; SmPC = Summary 
of product characteristics. 
II.C. Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
II.C.1. Studies which are Conditions of the Marketing Authorisation 
There are no studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation or specific 
obligation of ZINFORO. 
II.C.2. Other Studies in Post-Authorisation Development Plan 
There are no on-going or planned category 1-2-3 studies for ceftaroline.
 
 
Stein GE. Antimicrobial resistance in the hospital setting: Impact, trends, and infection 
1 
control measures. Pharmacotherapy 2005;25(10 Pt 2):44S-54S. 
2 
Wallace KL. Antibiotic-induced convulsions. Crit Care Clin 1997;13(4):741-62. 
Aronson JK. Meyler’s side effects of drugs: The international encyclopedia of adverse drug 
3 
reactions and interactions. 15th ed. Oxford (UK): Elsevier; 2006. Cephalosporins. p. 688-701. 
Furosemide. p. 1454-60. 
