EMA/201086/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004136 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zinplava 
bezlotoxumab 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zinplava. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Zinplava. 
For practical information about using Zinplava, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Zinplava and what is it used for? 
Zinplava is a medicine used in adults who have infections due to bacteria called Clostridium difficile 
that cause severe diarrhoea. It is used to prevent future episodes of diarrhoea in patients who are 
taking antibiotics to treat their C. difficile infection and who are at high risk of the infection coming 
back. 
How is Zinplava used? 
Zinplava is available as a concentrate to be made into a solution for infusion (drip) into a vein. It is 
given as a single infusion lasting around 1 hour. The recommended dose is 10 mg per kilogram 
bodyweight.  
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. For further information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Zinplava work? 
C. difficile bacteria produce toxins that damage the lining of the gut causing diarrhoea which may be 
severe. After an initial infection, some dormant forms of the bacteria (spores) may persist in the body 
and eventually produce further toxins, causing the symptoms to return. Bezlotoxumab is a monoclonal 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
antibody (a type of protein) that has been designed to attach to these toxins, blocking their action, 
thereby preventing further damage and diarrhoea from occurring. 
What benefits of Zinplava have been shown in studies? 
Zinplava given during antibiotic treatment was shown to be more effective than placebo (a dummy 
treatment) at preventing a new episode of diarrhoea caused by C. difficile infection in 2 main studies 
involving a total of 2,655 patients. A new episode of diarrhoea was defined as 3 or more loose stools in 
24 or fewer hours.  
In the first study, 17% of patients given Zinplava (67 out of 386) had a new episode of diarrhoea in 
the 12 weeks after treatment compared with 28% of patients given placebo (109 out of 395). In the 
second study, figures were 16% (62 out of 395) for Zinplava and 26% (97 out of 378) for placebo. The 
effect was mainly seen in patients at higher risk of C. difficile infection coming back (such as older 
patients or those with a weakened immune system). 
What are the risks associated with Zinplava? 
The most common side effects with Zinplava (seen in more than 4 in 100 patients) are nausea (feeling 
sick), diarrhoea, fever and headache. Similar effects have been seen in patients on placebo. 
For the full list of all side effects and restrictions with Zinplava, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zinplava approved? 
Zinplava has been shown to be effective at preventing recurrence of C. difficile infection, particularly in 
patients at high risk of the infection coming back (which occurs in about 15 to 35% of cases and is 
particularly difficult to treat). Zinplava is generally well tolerated with side effects similar to those 
observed in patients on placebo. 
The Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) therefore decided that 
Zinplava’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zinplava? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zinplava have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Zinplava 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zinplava on 18 January 2017. 
The full EPAR for Zinplava can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Zinplava, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 01-2017. 
Zinplava  
EMA/201086/2017 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
