EMA/216210/2016 
EMEA/H/C/001213 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zoely 
nomegestrol acetate / estradiol 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zoely. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Zoely. 
What is Zoely? 
Zoely is a medicine available as 24 white ‘active’ tablets that contain the active substances 
nomegestrol acetate (2.5 mg) and estradiol (1.5 mg), and four yellow ‘inactive’ (placebo) tablets that 
do not contain any active substance.  
What is Zoely used for? 
Zoely is a contraceptive pill. The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Zoely used? 
One tablet a day is taken for as long as contraception is required, starting with an active tablet on the 
first day of the cycle. Zoely comes in blisters containing 28 tablets (24 white tablets followed by 4 
yellow tablets), which are taken in sequence using stickers to identify the days of the week for each 
tablet. 
How does Zoely work? 
Zoely is a combined contraceptive pill that contains two active substances, nomegestrol acetate (a 
progestogen) and estradiol (an oestrogen). Estradiol is the same as a hormone naturally produced by 
the ovaries during a menstrual cycle. Nomegestrol acetate is derived from the hormone called 
progesterone which is also produced by the ovaries during a menstrual cycle. Zoely works by changing 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
the body’s hormonal balance to prevent ovulation, by altering the cervical mucus and by thinning the 
endometrium (the lining of the womb). 
How has Zoely been studied? 
Zoely was investigated in two main studies involving a total of 4,433 women aged 18 to 50 years old. 
The participants were given either Zoely or another contraceptive pill containing drospirenone and 
ethinyl estradiol for one year (13 menstrual cycles). The main measure of effectiveness was the 
number of women aged 18 to 35 who became pregnant during or shortly after treatment, expressed in 
terms of a pregnancy rate using the ‘Pearl Index’. The Pearl Index is a standard way of measuring the 
effectiveness of contraceptives, which measures how many unwanted pregnancies occur in 100 
women-years (corresponding to 1,300 menstrual cycles). A lower Pearl Index represents a lower 
chance of getting pregnant.  
No clinical study data on Zoely are available in adolescents under 18 years old.  
What benefit has Zoely shown during the studies? 
In women aged 18 to 35, the Pearl Index was around 0.4 with Zoely and 0.8 with the comparator 
medicine in the first study, and around 1.2 with Zoely and 1.9 with the comparator medicine in the 
second study. 
What is the risk associated with Zoely? 
The most frequent side effects with Zoely (seen in more than 1 user in 10) are acne and changes to 
menstrual periods (e.g. absence or irregularity). For the full list of all side effects reported with Zoely, 
see the package leaflet. 
Zoely must not be used when a woman has, or has had, blood clots in the veins or arteries or when a 
woman has some of the risk factors for blood clots. It should not be used in women who have 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas), severe liver problems, liver tumours or a history of liver 
tumours, certain types of cancer, or abnormal bleeding from the genital area whose cause has not 
been diagnosed. For the full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why has Zoely been approved? 
The CHMP decided that the benefits of Zoely are greater than its risks and recommended that it be 
given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zoely? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Zoely is used as safely as possible. Based 
on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet for Zoely, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company will perform a study to further investigate the risk of blood clots. 
Zoely  
EMA/216210/2016  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Zoely 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zoely on 27 July 2011. 
The full EPAR for Zoely can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Zoely, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 04-2016. 
Zoely  
EMA/216210/2016  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
