21 March 2013 
EMA/721048/2013   
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Zoely 
International non-proprietary name: nomegestrol / estradiol 
Procedure No.  EMEA/H/C/001213/PSU/005 
Period covered by the PSUR:  27 January 2012 to 26 July 2012 
Scientific conclusions and grounds recommending the variation to 
the terms of the Marketing Authorisation 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8613 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for Zoely, the scientific conclusions of 
PRAC are as follows:  
During the reporting period of the PSUR, 7 cases of venous thromboembolic events have been reported 
in post-marketing (5 cases were serious) with a favourable relationship with nomegestrol/estradiol. 
The role of nomegestrol/estradiol in the occurrence of these 7 cases is considered as “possible” by the 
PRAC. It has to be highlighted that all women who experienced VTE under nomegestrol/estradiol 
presented risk factor of thromboembolic event, especially in a relatively advanced age. In order to 
know if this consideration is a consequence of a preferential prescription of this new Combined Oral 
Contraceptive containing 17β-estradiol to women of advanced age, the MAH is requested to provide in 
the next PSUR a distribution of the exposed patients by age.  
Venous Thromboembolic Events are already considered as a therapeutic class effect with Combined 
Oral Contraceptive and appear in the SmPC of nomegestrol/estradiol under section 4.4. VTE are 
unlisted under section 4.8. Based on this review of the safety data, VTE cases with 
nomegestrol/estradiol have now been reported. The MAH is requested to amend the section 4.8 of the 
SmPC and the package leaflet of nomegestrol/estradiol. 
Moreover, three cases of hypersensitivity reactions with nomegestrol/estradiol have been reported 
during the reporting period of the PSUR. The PRAC considers the responsibility of 
nomegestrol/estradiol as possible in the occurrence of these cases. Therefore, the MAH is asked to 
amend section 4.8 of the SmPC and to continue to closely monitor this issue. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds recommending the variation to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for Zoely, the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product containing the active substance nomegestrol/estradiol is favourable 
subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the Marketing Authorisation should be varied.eh 
Zoely  
EMA/721048/2013 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
