Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of 
the marketing authorisation(s) 
Annex I 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for estradiol / nomegestrol acetate, 
the scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on the risks from clinical trials, the literature and in view of a plausible mechanism 
of action, as well as previous PSUSA outcomes, the PRAC considers a causal relationship for the drug-
drug  interaction  between  estradiol  /  nomegestrol  acetate  and  glecaprevir/pibrentasvir  is  at  least  a 
reasonable  possibility.  The  PRAC  concluded  that  the  sections  4.4.  and  4.5  of  the  SmPC  of  product 
information of products containing estradiol / nomegestrol acetate should be amended accordingly. 
In addition, in view of a literature data, a plausible mechanism of actions and previous PSUSA outcomes, 
the PRAC considers a causal relationship between estradiol / nomegestrol acetate and the exacerbation 
of symptoms of hereditary and acquired angioedema is at least a reasonable possibility. 
The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing estradiol / nomegestrol acetate 
should be amended accordingly. 
Update  of  section  4.4  of  the  SmPC  to  add  warnings  on  the  drug-drug 
interaction  with 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir in the case of patients suffering from hepatitis C, as well as on the exacerbation 
of symptoms of hereditary and acquired angioedema.  
Update of section 4.5 of the SmPC with details on the drug-drug interaction with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir. 
The Package leaflet is updated accordingly. 
   The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for estradiol / nomegestrol acetate the CHMP is of the opinion 
that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing estradiol / nomegestrol acetate is 
unchanged subject to the proposed changes to the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
