13 July 2022 
EMA/773938/2022 
Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee (PRAC) 
Assessment report 
Referral under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from 
pharmacovigilance data 
INN: nomegestrol-containing products and chlormadinone-containing 
products 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1510 
Zoely EMEA/H/A-31/1510/C/1213/60 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
Table of contents ......................................................................................... 2 
1. Information on the procedure ................................................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Introduction......................................................................................................... 3 
2.1.1. Meningioma ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Risk of meningioma in association with CMA or NOMAC use ....................................... 6 
2.2.1. Pharmacoepidemiological studies by EPI-PHARE group (Nguyen et al. 2021) ............. 7 
2.2.2. Literature review ............................................................................................. 11 
2.2.3. Other post-marketing safety data ...................................................................... 13 
2.2.4. Discussion ...................................................................................................... 17 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 19 
4. Summary of new activities and measures ............................................. 20 
4.1. Risk management .............................................................................................. 20 
4.1.1. Safety concerns ............................................................................................... 21 
4.1.2. Risk minimisation measures .............................................................................. 21 
4.1.3. Pharmacovigilance activities .............................................................................. 22 
4.2. Direct healthcare professional communication and communication plan..................... 23 
5. Grounds for Recommendation ............................................................... 23 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data ....................... 29 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 2/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Information on the procedure 
Meningioma is a rare brain tumour which forms from the meninges. Although most meningiomas are 
benign tumours, their intracranial location may lead to serious and potentially lethal consequences. 
Women are approximately twice likely to develop it as men, suggesting a role of sexual hormones in 
the physiopathology. 
The risk of meningioma associated with nomegestrol acetate (NOMAC) use is known since 2018. 
Indeed, this risk was then discussed during the PSUSA assessment (PSUSA/00002181/201801) 
covering nomegestrol monotherapy-containing products and added to the product information (PI). In 
the meantime, some publications reported case reports of meningioma regression after nomegestrol 
discontinuation suggesting a hormonal/progestin role of the drug in the growth of these tumours. 
Additionally, the risk was discussed during the PSUSA assessment of nomegestrol in combination with 
estradiol (PSUSA/00002182/201801) leading to changes to the PI to recommend close monitoring of 
meningiomas when used as hormone replacement therapy (HRT). The PI of Zoely was amended to 
reflect this risk. 
For chlormadinone acetate (CMA)-containing medicinal products, an increase of case reports of 
meningiomas was observed in France in 2019 and further risk minimisation measures (RMMs) were 
implemented at national level, including amendments of the PI of all chlormadinone 5 and 10 mg 
containing products to reflect the risk of meningioma.  
To further clarify the relationship between both chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate and the 
risk of meningioma, two pharmacoepidemiological studies have been conducted by the French group, 
EPI-PHARE (Nguyen et al. 2021), based on data from SNDS (Système national des données de santé - 
French National Health Data System). Results suggested an increased risk of meningiomas depending 
on dose and duration of treatment with nomegestrol acetate or chlormadinone acetate.  
On 22 September 2021, the French national competent authority (Agence nationale de sécurité du 
médicament et des produits de santé, ANSM) therefore triggered a referral under Article 31 of Directive 
2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data, and requested the PRAC to assess the impact of 
the above concerns on the benefit-risk balance of nomegestrol acetate-containing products and 
chlormadinone acetate-containing products and to issue a recommendation on whether the relevant 
marketing authorisations should be maintained, varied, suspended or revoked. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Nomegestrol acetate and chlormadinone acetate are both progestin derivatives with anti-gonadotropic 
effects. Both progestins have additional antiestrogenic but also antiandrogenic activity. Their 
antiandrogenic activity has been shown to be 30% (CMA) and 90% (NOMAC) compared to cyproterone 
acetate (CPA) that was set as the reference antiandrogenic progestin with a 100% antiandrogenic 
activity in castrated, androgen-treated rats (Kuhl 2005). 
CMA is the acetate salt form of chlormadinone, a synthetic progestin with anti-androgenic and anti-
gonadotropic effects. CMA is authorised as monotherapy and in combination therapy with estrogens. 
NOMAC is the acetate salt form of nomegestrol, a 19-norprogesterone derivative with high biological 
activity at the progesterone receptor, a weak anti-androgenic effect, and no effects on estrogen, 
glucocorticoid, or mineralocorticoid receptors. Products containing NOMAC are authorised as 
monotherapy and in combination therapy with estradiol hemihydrate. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 3/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Chlormadinone acetate 2 mg, 5 mg and 10 mg tablets 
Approved indications for CMA-containing products differ between the different strengths and between 
the different countries in which these products are authorised. Overall, CMA in monotherapy is 
approved for gynaecological disorders related to progesterone insufficiency and particularly those 
observed in the premenopausal period (menstrual irregularities, premenstrual syndrome, mastodynia, 
etc.), functional haemorrhages and fibroid menorrhagia, artificial cycle in combination with an 
oestrogen and for CMA 2 mg only - progestogen challenge test. 
Chlormadinone acetate 1-2 mg in combination with ethinylestradiol 0.03-0.05 mg, tablets 
and film-coated tablets 
In combination, CMA 1-2 mg and ethinylestradiol (EE) 0.03 mg is authorised for hormonal 
contraception. In addition, in two Member states (CZ, SK), this combination is authorised for treatment 
of moderate papulopustular acne in women for whom hormonal contraception with CMA/EE acetate is 
indicated.  
CMA 1-2 mg/EE 0.05 mg combination is indicated for:  
-  hormonal contraceptive product (ovulation inhibitor) for women in whom breakthrough bleeding 
that is not tolerated still occurs after several cycles of taking a combination preparation with 35 μg 
ethinylestradiol or less.  
- 
It is also used in women for the treatment of 
o  acne 
o 
rapidly greasing hair, often with increased hair loss (seborrhoea oleosa) 
o  hair loss that is caused by male hormones (androgenic alopecia) 
o  abnormal facial and body hair growth (hirsutism) 
Nomegestrol acetate 5 mg tablets  
NOMAC 5 mg in monotherapy is approved in the following indications: 
- In women before menopause, nomegestrol is indicated for menstrual disorders associated with 
insufficient or no secretion of progesterone, especially in cases of: 
-  menstrual cycle disorders: oligomenorrhea, polymenorrhea, spaniomenorrhea, amenorrhea 
(after etiological assessment) 
- 
functional genital haemorrhages: metrorrhagia, menorrhagia, including those following 
fibroids; 
- 
functional symptoms preceding menstruation or occurring during menstruation: dysmenorrhea 
essential, premenstrual syndrome, cyclic mastodynia. 
- Endometrial hyperplasia (PT only) 
- In postmenopausal women: as replacement therapy, in combination with an estrogen. 
NOMAC was also available in dosage 3.75 mg in France, however marketing was discontinued in 
December 2021. 
Nomegestrol acetate 2.5 mg/ estradiol hemihydrate 1.5 mg film-coated tablets (Zoely) 
NOMAC 2.5 mg in combination with estradiol is approved via centralised procedure for oral 
contraception.  
Nomegestrol acetate 3.75 mg/ estradiol hemihydrate 1.5 mg tablets (Naemis) 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 4/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOMAC 3.75 mg in combination with estradiol is approved as Hormone Replacement Therapy (HRT) for 
oestrogen deficiency symptoms in women at least 6 months since last menses.  
2.1.1.  Meningioma 
Meningioma is the most common primary tumour of the central nervous system (CNS) comprising 36% 
of all tumours and 53% of non-malignant primary CNS tumours in the United States of America (USA). 
The risk of meningioma sharply increases with an average annual age-specific incidence rate of 
1.44/100,000 persons between 20-34 years of age to 41.8/100,000 persons between the age of 75-84 
(see figure below) and are 2.3 times more common in females compared to males. Interestingly, the 
incidence of meningioma is significantly higher (p-values < 0.0001) in women of African origin 
compared to Caucasian women, however, the underlying reason remains unknown (Ostrom et al. 
2016). 
Figure 1 - Average annual age-adjusted incidence rates for meningioma (based on data from 
Ostrom et al. 2016) 
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
,
0
0
0
0
0
1
/
e
t
a
r
e
c
n
e
d
i
c
n
i
s
Y
P
53.37
41.8
28.16
16.09
0.14
0.34
1.44
10.22
5.39
postmenopausal increased 
background risk
i
a
m
o
g
n
n
e
m
i
According to the current World Health Organisation (WHO) classification system of tumours of the CNS 
(5th edition) 2021, meningioma is primarily subdivided into 3 grades (I-III) depending on histological 
and cytological criteria. Overall, benign meningioma grade I that are usually slow-growing and non-
metastatic, represent around 80% of all meningioma, while grade II atypical meningioma occur in 
around 15-20% and grade III anaplastic meningioma are described in 1-3% of all meningioma cases. 
Meningioma derives from the meninges and can occur as spinal (12%) or intracranial tumours (around 
88%).  
According to the recently updated European Association of Neurooncology (EANO) Guideline 
(Goldbrunner et al. 2021), incidentally detected meningioma without symptoms or in older patients or 
both, should be managed with a “watch and scan” strategy, while in case of a necessary treatment, 
surgery is the first choice. In case of rapid meningioma growths, a resection according to Simpson 
grade I should be achieved accompanied by a follow-up interval of 6 months to 5 years and annually 
thereafter. For a Simpson grade IV-V resection radiotherapy should be conducted. For WHO grade II 
tumours, the EANO Guideline recommends a radical surgery followed by fractioned radiotherapy due to 
the high risk of recurrence and systemic metastasis. Pharmacological treatment is not established for 
these kinds of tumours. According to Hollaczek and colleagues (2019), the 5-year survival rate was 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 5/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
86.7% in patients ≥75 years of age and 98.5% in those aged ≤54 years strongly depending on the 
meningioma grade. According to Ostrom and colleagues (2016), the 10-year survival rate is 77.7% for 
younger patients (20-44 years) decreasing with increased age.  
Genetic and other risk factors: 
According to the recent WHO classification of tumours of the central nervous system 2021, several 
genes/molecular patterns are known to be altered in case of meningioma: NF2, AKT1, TRAF7, SMO, 
PIK3CA; KLF4, SMARCE1, BAP1 in subtypes; H3K27me3; TERT promoter, CDKN2A/B in CNS WHO 
grade 3. The most prominent one is the existence of neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF), a hereditary 
condition that increases the risk of meningioma. Approximately one-half of patients with NF2 show 
meningioma occurrence and multiple meningioma are common (Goutagny et al. 2010). External risk 
factors such as ionizing radiation especially those of the head and neck have been described (Buerki et 
al. 2018; Wiemels et al. 2010; Umansky et al. 2008). Some less well-established risk factors are still 
under discussion such as obesity, head trauma in the past and cell phone use among others, thus a 
certain level of background risk in the general population is possible.  
Hormonal influence and receptor expression: 
Hormonal factors are intensively discussed as risk factors for the occurrence of meningioma due to the 
higher prevalence in women compared to men. High levels of progesterone receptor expression and 
lower levels of androgen or estrogen receptors have been detected by several authors especially for 
WHO grade I meningioma (e.g. Korhonen et al. 2010; Hsu et al. 1997). Additionally, in-vitro studies 
have shown a growth-promoting effect of progestins on meningioma tissue but the progesterone-
antagonist mifepristone failed in demonstrating a growth inhibition (Yongli et al. 2015). One recently 
published study by Peyre et al. (2018) detected more multiple meningioma in women treated for a 
long time (mean 15 years) with progestins compared with a meningioma control group (48% vs. 5%, p 
< 10-12), and also more often located at the skull base (64% vs. 50%, p= 0.03). The authors proposed 
a shift in mutational landscape due to a higher frequency of PIK3CA mutations (p < 10-8) and TRAF7 
mutations (p < 0.001) following progestin-treatment compared with the control population of 
meningioma. Further on, PIK3CA-mutant and progestin-induced meningiomas were associated with 
younger age in the whole population (51 years versus 57 years, p= 0.015 and 48 years versus 58 
years, p < 5 x 10-5). It is of interest that the skull base is a preferred location for meningioma growth 
after progestin-treatment and the expression of progesterone receptors in the skull base arachnoid 
tissue is higher than in other tissues. However, with regard to the limitations of the study by Peyre et 
al. (2018), e.g. the low patient number and retrospective design, the role of progestins in 
tumorigenesis of meningioma remains unknown.  
2.2.  Risk of meningioma in association with CMA or NOMAC use 
No cases of meningioma could be identified in clinical trials performed with CMA or NOMAC-containing 
medicinal products. The absence of meningioma cases might be understood in light of the rarity of the 
event, the size and duration of the clinical trials and the fact that meningiomas are normally very 
slowly growing. 
As part of this review, the PRAC considered all available data in relation to the risk of meningiomas 
with CMA or NOMAC-containing products, including pharmacoepidemiological data, data from 
spontaneous reporting and from the literature. A summary of the most relevant information is included 
below. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 6/30 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.1.  Pharmacoepidemiological studies by EPI-PHARE group (Nguyen et 
al. 2021) 
To further clarify the relationship between both chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate and the 
risk of meningioma, two pharmacoepidemiological studies have been conducted by the French Health 
Insurance (CNAM)- EPI-PHARE group (Nguyen et al. 2021), based on data from SNDS (Système 
national des données de santé - French National Health Data System). The primary objective of the 
two retrospective cohort studies was to evaluate the real-life impact of: 
(i) Prolonged use of CMA and risk of intracranial meningioma in women;  
or 
(ii) Prolonged use of NOMAC and risk of intracranial meningioma in women.  
In addition, the studies pursued the following secondary study objectives: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
to evaluate the dose-effect relationship, 
to define the course of the risk of meningioma after discontinuation of CMA/NOMAC, 
to identify the specific characteristics of meningiomas associated with CMA/NOMAC, 
to measure the effective CMA/NOMAC discontinuation rate after meningioma treatment, and 
to estimate the number of meningiomas treated by surgery or radiotherapy attributable to the 
use of CMA/NOMAC in France between 2007 and 2018. 
The event of interest was neurosurgical resection, decompression or radiotherapy for one or more 
intracranial meningiomas. 
To estimate the association between prolonged intake of CMA or NOMAC and the risk of intracranial 
meningioma, both studies used administrative health data from the SNDS linked with hospitalisation 
data from the PMSI (programme de médicalisation des systèmes d’information). The identified source 
populations are representative for the female French population aged between 10 and 70 years who 
started treatment with (i) CMA or (ii) NOMAC between 2006 until 31st December 2018, as the SNDS 
covers around 99% of the French population – which in itself represents one of the largest population 
in the European Union. 
Both cohort studies compared the group of “exposed” women with a group of “very slightly exposed” 
women (control group): 
i. 
For CMA, women were considered to be “exposed” if they had received a cumulative dose 
greater than 360 mg during the first six months following initial exposure. The control group 
was dispensed a maximum cumulative dose of 360 mg CMA or less (i.e. equal to three or fewer 
standard packs of twelve 10 mg tablets during the first six months of exposure). 828,499 
patients were included in the main study, including 469,976 (56.7%) in the “exposed” group 
and 358,523 (43.3%) in the control group. 
ii. 
For NOMAC, women were considered to be “exposed” if they had received a cumulative dose 
greater than 150 mg during the first six months of exposure. The comparator group consisted 
of “very slightly exposed” women in whom the cumulative exposure reached a maximum of 
150 milligrams NOMAC or less (i.e. equal to a maximum of three standard packs of ten 5 mg 
tablets during the first six months of exposure). 1,060,779 patients were included in the main 
cohort including 535,115 (50.4%) in the “exposed” group and 525,664 (49.6%) in the control 
group. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 7/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Consequently, the control groups consisted of women who discontinued treatment fairly soon or, in the 
case of CMA, received low-dose therapies. Women in the control group taking low doses of CMA were 
excluded from the study if they continued the treatment after the first six months. Therefore, the 
control group only retained women who had actually discontinued treatment. 
Women with previous hospital diagnoses of neurofibromatosis type 2 and/or known history of 
meningioma with any hospital diagnosis prior start of follow-up (starting 6 months after the first 
dispensing) were excluded in both studies. Previous exposure to certain progestins was considered as 
an additional exclusion criterion. In the SNDS study on CMA, further exclusion criteria were any 
dispensing of cyproterone acetate or nomegestrol acetate prior start of follow-up, whereas the SNDS 
study on NOMAC additionally excluded women exposed to cyproterone acetate or chlormadinone 
acetate.  
The study design of both studies is shortly outlined in the figure below (see Figure 2). 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 8/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Schematic representation of the study design (modified from the cyproterone 
acetate referral, procedure EMEA/H/A-31/1488) 
Analysis and Results 
The primary analysis features a Cox proportional hazard model to compare the incidence of (surgically 
or radiologically treated) meningioma in the “exposed” cohort with the “slightly exposed” control 
group. Results were adjusted for age, which was treated as a time-dependent variable. Age was closely 
linked with the risk of meningioma, whereas other potential confounders - such as co-prescription of 
estrogens – showed no association and were therefore not included in the model. Besides age, 
cumulative dose was also considered as a time-dependent variable and stratified analyses were 
conducted to check the impact of dose-dependent effects. 
With regard to CMA-treatment, Nguyen and colleagues found that prolonged exposure to 
chlormadinone acetate was associated with a risk increase for intracranial meningioma (aHR 4.4, 95% 
CI: 3.4-5.8). Reporting by strata of cumulative dose point to a positive dose-effect relationship, as the 
risk for intracranial meningioma increased with higher cumulative CMA dose, see Table 1 below. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 9/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Incidence, relative risk and adjusted hazard ratio of meningioma according to 
exposure to chlormadinone acetate 
With regard to NOMAC-treatment, Nguyen and colleagues observed that prolonged exposure to 
nomegestrol acetate was also associated with a risk increase for intracranial meningioma (aHR 4.5, 
95% CI: 3.5-5.7) – a strong dose-dependent association was observed in addition. Stratified analyses 
showed that the risk for intracranial meningioma increased with higher cumulative NOMAC dose; the 
increased risk was over 12-fold beyond cumulative exposure of 6 grams (see Table 2 below). 
Table 3: Incidence, relative risk and adjusted hazard ratio of meningioma according to 
exposure to nomegestrol acetate 
Conducted complementary analyses of prevalent users, already exposed in 2006, showed even higher 
risk estimates. For the CMA prevalent cohort, the authors attributed 44.9 cases/100,000 person-years, 
which corresponds to an age-adjusted HR of 9.9 (95% CI: 6.8-14.4). In comparison, for the NOMAC 
prevalent cohort, the authors attributed 73.7 cases/100,000 person-years, which corresponds to a HR 
of 13.0 (95% CI: 10.1-16.7). Consistent with the results of the primary analysis, a strong dose-
dependent association was also observed among prevalent users. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 10/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment discontinuation of CMA or NOMAC was associated with a risk reduction for intracranial 
meningioma in both, incident and prevalent users. For incident users, the risk of meningioma in the 
group who discontinued use of CMA for at least one year, without resuming treatment, decreased to an 
adjusted hazard ratio of 1.4 (95% CI: 1.1-1.7), whereas the risk of meningioma after discontinuing 
exposure to NOMAC was no longer greater than the risk of the control group (aHR: 1.0, 95% CI: 0.8-
1.3). Data from stratified analyses showed that the magnitude of the risk reduction was dependent on 
the dose taken before discontinuation - the higher the cumulative dose, the lower the risk reduction. 
This observation was in line with the results from the prevalent users – expected to be exposed on 
average with a higher dose than incident users. In prevalent users, adjusted hazard ratios of 1.8 (95% 
CI: 1.3-2.7) and 1.5 (95% CI: 1.1-1.9) were observed for former users of CMA or NOMAC, 
respectively. 
To identify a possible pattern of common sites for meningiomas, the authors focused on different 
anatomical sites in the skull. The absolute and relative risks of meningioma in the various anatomical 
regions of the brain differed considerably according to the type and level of exposure. No clear similar 
risk pattern could be observed when comparing risk estimates of CMA or NOMAC. However, the 
internal third of the middle skull base affecting the spheno-orbital region seemed to be particularly 
affected by both compounds – CMA and NOMAC – with a 7.5- and 12.5-fold excess risk, respectively. 
Further analyses conducted by the study authors have shown that the use of antiepileptic drugs, 
known to be associated with further risks such as teratogenicity, in the second year following the initial 
hospitalisation was significantly higher in the CMA exposed group compared with the control group 
(43.5% vs 26.4%). Comparable results have been detected for NOMAC: antiepileptic drug treatment 
continued for more than one year after surgery for more than 38.3% of patients exposed to NOMAC 
compared with 24.3 % in the control group. 
While the estimated background incidence of symptomatic meningioma is only 7/100,000 person-
years, the observed meningioma risk is rather high. Consequently, the number of symptomatic 
meningiomas attributable to CMA exposure has been estimated to average 34 cases per year and 60 
cases for NOMAC in France. A major concern was the observation that 39.6 and 45.9% resumed CMA 
and NOMAC intake during the year following neurosurgery or radiotherapy, respectively. 
Some study limitations such as lack of stratified analyses by indication and treatment duration; 
observed study time; potential influence of detection bias by more extensive monitoring; potential risk 
factors acting as potential confounding variables; and missing information on non-reimbursed 
medicinal products were raised in the context of this referral procedure. While the limitations were 
acknowledged and assessed, these were considered not to have an impact on the level and magnitude 
of the risk observed as described above. 
2.2.2.  Literature review 
A literature review of the risk of meningioma in relation to progestins use, conducted by the MAHs, 
identified several recent publications, the most relevant of which are summarised below: 
Graillon et al. 2021: this publication describes meningiomas in 53 patients who used progestins, 
mostly CPA, NOMAC or CMA at high doses with a mean duration of 17.5 years. Dechallenge was mostly 
positive, with differences between these three progestins. For low dose progestins no meningioma was 
reported. Overall, higher progestin dosage, longer duration of therapy and additional 
pharmacodynamics effects of different progestins (anti-androgenic effects) are considered risk factors. 
Malaize et al. 2021: the study retrospectively included 71 adult women who had at least one 
meningioma in the context of progestin intake. Data was collected from 1995 to 2018 and 125 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 11/30 
 
 
 
 
 
progestin-associated meningiomas were found. CPA was administered in 47 cases (66.2%), CMA in 14 
cases (19.7%), NOMAC in 7 cases (9.9%), and a combination of progestin treatments in 3 cases 
(4.2%). In this study, progestin treatment was an approved indication only in 27.0%. After 
meningioma was diagnosed in patients, the management of progestin treatment was known for 68 
patients (95.8%). Progestin was withdrawn in 80.9%. Furthermore, progestin treatment 
discontinuation has grown over time with promising results in terms of efficacy and safety. Magnetic 
Resonance Imaging (MRI) follow-up demonstrated a regression in 29.6%, a stability in 68.5% and an 
ongoing growth in 1.9% of cases. 
Apra et al. 2020: this publication concerns Spheno-Orbital Osteomeningiomas (SOOM). The patients 
were treated with different progestins with a median duration of 10 years. An association with 
progestin receptor expression is suggested. It should be noted that in this study, the dose of CMA was 
5-10 mg and the dose of NOMAC was 5 mg as mono-components. An association with meningioma 
with lower dosage of these progestins cannot be derived from this study. 
A retrospective study by Devalckeneer et al. (2021) included 69 patients treated with CPA and 
NOMAC (mean exposure 16 years) and CMA (ca. 10 years). Progestins were used at high dosages in all 
cases (CPA >50 mg, NOMAC 5 mg, CMA 5-10 mg daily). CPA at high dose was associated with 
meningioma. The authors conclude that a relationship between meningiomas and CMA or NOMAC 
remains unclear. Nevertheless, the authors recommend the following steps for the prescription of CMA 
and NOMAC (presumably in relation to dosages used in this study): 
•  Obtain reference MRI before starting the treatment then 5 years after its start if patient 
remains asymptomatic. Obtain MRI if any symptoms appear; after this cut-off of 5 years 
and in absence of meningioma diagnosis, systematic MRI every 2 years. 
• 
If medical achievable, choose non continuous and counterbalanced regimens over 
continuous progestin alone treatment. 
Two other publications (Wiemels et al. 2010 and Ogasawara et al. 2021) describe the 
epidemiology of meningiomas, but do not concern progestins as associated drugs. 
AbiJaoude et al. 2021: this publication reports sustained growth of intraosseous hormone-associated 
meningiomas after cessation of progestin therapy. In one report a 51-year-old woman developed 
plaques meningiomas during treatment with nomegestrol for metrorrhagia. TTO was 30 years, and 
after discontinuation and surgical removal there was a recurrence of the tumour. In the second report 
a 57-year-old woman developed plaques meningiomas during treatment with NOMAC. The woman, 
who had endometriosis, had been receiving NOMAC for 15 years. The second case remains 
inconclusive. After discontinuation of NOMAC only a small tumour regression was observed after many 
years. 
Salle L, Salle H. 2020: this publication describes a 48-year-old woman, who developed meningioma 
of the skull base while receiving contraception with NOMAC. The information is limited for a causality 
assessment, although a causal relationship remains possible. 
Passeri et al. 2019: this publication describes spontaneous regression of meningiomas after 
interruption of NOMAC. Patients were diagnosed with meningioma at different time intervals or 
prolonged use of NOMAC or having switched from another prolonged use drug to NOMAC which 
aggravate the disease. The event was resolved/resolving after interruption of NOMAC. The three cases 
described by the authors have limited information on patient’s anamnesis, concomitant disease and 
medication, however, a causal association due to long-term treatment with NOMAC cannot be excluded 
in these cases. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 12/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Champagne et al. 2019:  this publication describes the progression (but not the emergence) of the 
tumour related to NOMAC, with positive dechallenge. According to WHO criteria, the causality with the 
progression of the tumour is probable. 
Shimizu et al. 2008: this publication describes spontaneous regression of an asymptomatic 
meningioma associated with discontinuation of progesterone agonist administration. The article 
describes a 80-year-old male who was diagnosed with meningioma after long-term treatment with 
CMA for benign prostatic hypertrophy. The therapy was continued further 9 months with no symptoms 
or progression. Thereafter, CMA was withdrawn and after 2 years, the tumour revealed remarkable 
regression (positive dechallange). The causality is probable. 
Peyre et al. 2018: the authors describe the vulnerability of certain meningeal cells and mutations to 
hormone-induced tumorigenesis. However, a specific causality assessment for CMA or NOMAC is not 
possible since only one (of 40) woman with previous CMA-treatment was retrospectively involved. 
Telugu et al. 2020: this publication describes estrogen and progesterone receptor in meningiomas 
(immunohistochemical analysis). The authors found no statistically significant relationship between the 
positivity of progesterone receptor in gender, location, tumour grade, and various histological 
subtypes. 
Another French population-based case control study was recently published to assess the risk of 
intracranial meningioma with three potent progestogens (CPA ≥25 mg/day, NOMAC 3.75–5 mg/day and 
CMA 2–10 mg/day) using health insurance data from the SNDS (Hoisnard et al. 2022). In this study, 
the authors analysed cases that underwent surgery for intracranial meningioma in France from 2009 to 
2018. Cases were matched to five control subjects for sex, year of birth and area of residence. 
Progestogen exposure was defined as progestogen use within the year before surgery for cases or the 
same date for their controls. In total, 25,216 cases were included (75% women, median age 58 
years). Progestogen exposure was noted for 9.9% of cases (2497/25,216) and 1.9% (2382/126,080) 
of controls, with an odds ratio (OR) of 6.7 (95% CI 6.3–7.1). The risk increased from CMA (OR 3.3, 
95% CI 3.3-3.6) to NOMAC (OR 4.7, 95% CI 4.3-5.1) to CPA (OR 18.3, 95% CI 16.0-21.1). 
2.2.3.  Other post-marketing safety data 
2.2.3.1.  Data submitted by the marketing authorisation holders of CMA and NOMAC 
Chlormadinone acetate: 
The MAHs with MAs containing CMA identified case reports from post-marketing sources (literature 
articles and spontaneous reports from HCPs (healthcare professionals) and consumers) and presented 
evaluations of their causal association. 
For low dose CMA (2 mg) monotherapy only a few case reports have been retrieved by the respective 
MAH and most of them are confounded by CPA treatment in the patient’s history. However, a medically 
confirmed case from DE describes the occurrence of meningioma during hormone replacement therapy 
(HRT) with the addition of chlormadinone acetate in a 52-year old female patient who received CMA (2 
mg) for HRT (dose, frequency and treatment duration not reported). Patient’s medical history included 
long time HRT. Further information is lacking but a causal association cannot be excluded. 
For combination products with low-dose CMA/EE in the contraception indication, the MAHs did not 
identify any case report.  
The majority of post marketing cases were provided for the originator product. In total, 5 970 cases 
reporting 10 680 adverse drug reactions were retrieved with the originator product for CMA in 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 13/30 
 
 
 
 
 
combination with EE, however no case reported occurrence of meningioma. Furthermore, all MAHs with 
the combination product CMA/EE agreed that no safety information on the risk of meningioma was 
found for the combination product. 
For high-dose CMA therapy (5 mg and 10 mg) Sanofi identified 316 cases in the global MAH’s database 
as shown in Table 3. 
Table 3 Number of meningioma cases with chlormadinone per age group, indication and 
dosing (modified from the figures provided by the MAH Sanofi) 
Age group (years) 
Number of cases  
18-30 
30-40 
40-50 
50-60 
60-65 
>65 
Missing 
Indication 
Contraception (off-label) 
Endometriosis  
Menopause/HRT 
Uterine fibroid/leiomyoma 
Heavy menstrual bleeding 
Intermenstrual bleeding  
Dysmenorrhoea 
Other (including ovarian cyst, breast pain etc.) 
Missing 
Daily Dose 
5 mg 
10 mg 
25 mg 
5-10 mg 
5-25 mg 
Missing 
2 
38 
162 
79 
8 
13 
13 
Number of cases 
82 
59 
13 
10 
10 
9 
8 
82 
52 
Number of cases 
8 
100 
1 
4 
1 
201 
As outlined in the table 3 above, most cases describe CMA-use for contraception (off-label) and the 
treatment of endometriosis. Most cases belong to women between 40-50 years of age. 273 case 
reports have a compatible chronology with a time to onset between 10-15 years and a treatment 
duration of (in most cases 10 mg CMA) between 5-10 years followed by 10-15 years. All the cases 
were unsolicited with the majority (>92%) reported by health authority. The MAH retrieved 23 cases 
with a positive dechallenge and 91 cases with a negative dechallenge, while in other case reports, 
dechallenge is unknown. The outcome was flagged as “recovering/recovered” in 47 cases, recovered 
with sequelae in 37 cases and not recovered in 207 cases. None of the cases reported fatal outcome. 
The fact that most case reports are highlighted as “not recovered” at the time of the report, is in line 
with the data identified within the EVDAS-search on CMA-containing medicinal products. In the 
majority of cases (52%), information on risk factors was not provided. When provided, reported risk 
factors included history of radiation therapy and meningioma, drugs like nomegestrol, progesterone 
and desogestrel, BMI of >25, and breast cancer. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 14/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The MAH Viatris further identified 20 case reports mentioning meningioma with CMA-containing 
medicinal products. Out of them, 1 case shows a positive dechallenge and 4 cases describe a negative 
dechallenge. The outcomes of the cases were reported as recovered/recovered with 
sequelae/recovering in 4 cases and not recovered/unknown in 16 cases. Of the reported 20 cases, 
chlormadinone was suspect in 10 cases mainly based on the long-term use of the drug for several 
years. In the remaining 10 cases chlormadinone was reported as suspect along with other co-suspect 
drugs or confounded by patients’ medical history. Unfortunately, the cases have very limited 
information and are confounded precluding a thorough assessment. 
Nomegestrol acetate:  
For Lutenyl (in the strengths 3.75 mg and 5 mg NOMAC-monotherapy), the MAH retrieved 441 cases 
of meningioma from Eudravigilance. Of them, 205 were classified by the MAH as possibly related, 85 
as unlikely related and 151 as unassessable according to WHO-UMC causality assessment scale. 
Almost all case reports (around 98%) were reported from France with a sharp increase starting in 2018 
following a PI update and ANSM communication as a consequence of the observed increase of case 
reports of meningiomas. The mean duration of Lutenyl use before meningioma diagnosis was 12.2 
years (minimum 1 year and maximum 35 years) but was only available in around 12% of the cases 
retrieved by the MAH. This is in accordance with the EVDAS-search discussed in section 2.2.3.2 below. 
Table 4: Number of meningioma cases with Lutenyl per age group, indication and dosing 
(modified from the figure provided by MAH Theramex Ireland) 
Age group (years) 
Number of cases 
20-29 
30-39 
40-49 
50-59 
60-69 
70-79 
80-89 
Missing 
Indication 
1 
34 
153 
152 
30 
15 
1 
55 
Number of cases 
Contraception (off-label) 
Endometriosis (off-label) 
Uterine fibroid/myoma 
Menopause/HRT 
Menorrhagia 
Fibroadenoma (off-label) 
Metrorrhagia 
Other (including ovarian cyst, mastodynia, 
polycystic ovarian syndrome) 
Missing 
88 
70 
24 
20 
18 
15 
15 
90 
110 
Dose 
2.5 mg 
3.75 mg 
5 mg 
7.5-11.25 mg 
78.75 mg-100 mg 
1 DF (dosage form) 
Other (including 13 DF, 20 DF, 21 DF and 
unspecified unit) 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Number of cases 
2 
20 
93 
5 
4 
50 
84 
Page 15/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Missing 
183 
As shown in table 4 above, most cases belong to women between 40-59 years of age for the indication 
contraception (in-label only for the lower dose combination with estradiol) and endometriosis (not 
approved indication for NOMAC). However, there could be a bias towards an older age due to delayed 
or stimulated reporting. This theory is supported by the fact that over half of the case reports (57%) 
have a timeline of more than 6 months between the adverse event onset date versus the case receipt 
date of the initial report. Only in approximately one third (28%) of cases, less than 6 months have 
passed between the adverse event onset date and the case receipt date. In the remaining cases 
(15%), the adverse event onset date is unknown. Most cases lack further helpful information on the 
cumulative dose, patient’s anamnesis and concomitant exposures with other progestins. 6 case reports 
have been identified mentioning a positive dechallenge. In addition, three cases describing a negative 
dechallenge have also been retrieved. In all other cases the de- and rechallenge was unknown. In 
those cases that reported the patient’s outcome, it was highlighted as “not recovered or recovered with 
sequelae” at the time of the reporting but there are also reports mentioning “recovering”. No fatal 
outcome was reported.  
One case, presented by MAH Sandoz, refers to a 37-year-old female patient with medical history of 
memory loss, headache and asthenia, who received nomegestrol acetate for birth control at a dose of 
5 mg, once daily, for the duration of 20 years. The patient experienced amnesia, meningioma 
(meningioma of left greater sphenoid wing and right sphenoid ridge) associated with long-term use of 
nomegestrol acetate (serious) headache, asthenia, partial seizures and peri-tumoral edema. On an 
unknown date, one month after the cessation of nomegestrol acetate, MRI showed a significant volume 
decrease of the left sphenoidal meningioma (40.7 cm3) as well as peri-tumoral edema, a left sided 
large (54.5 cm3) paraclinoidal meningioma spanning the left greater sphenoid wing surrounded by 
edema. A smaller meningioma (1.8 cm3) located on the contralateral sphenoid wing was also detected. 
One year after the cessation of nomegestrol acetate, an additional tumour volume reduction was 
observed for both meningiomas with a volume reduction of 76% (13.1 cm3) of the largest 
meningioma. On an unknown date, action taken with nomegestrol acetate was temporarily withdrawn 
and the patient fully recovered from meningioma. 
There was also very little information on the type of meningioma detected, not allowing for a more 
specific characterisation of the cases. Furthermore, there is a high chance that risk factors are under-
reported or not reported at all since information on additional meningioma risk factors such as 
radiation exposure, ethnicity or genetic disorders was lacking from the identified meningioma cases. 
Several cases reported the use of NOMAC and CPA- or CMA-containing products in varying 
chronological sequences and durations. The use of NOMAC alongside CPA was reported in 6.4% of 
cases, the use of NOMAC alongside CMA in 13.4% of cases and the use of NOMAC alongside CPA or 
CMA or both in 17.7% of cases. Such use of several different progestins/hormonal preparations, which 
is highly likely during a woman’s life makes the establishment of an exposure-response relationship 
difficult. 
For combination products with lower-dose NOMAC/E2 in the indication HRT and hormonal 
contraception, three case reports were retrieved by the MAH, however in one of these cases a higher 
dose of NOMAC had been used (i.e. 5 mg/day) for contraception: 
1) 50-year-old female patient who received Zoely for contraception for ca. 10 years. Three months 
after cessation, patient was diagnosed with meningioma. The outcome of the event was reported as 
recovered with sequelae.  
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 16/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) 45-year old women who received Zoely for “non-contraceptive” reasons since 09/2016. Concomitant 
therapies included lorazepam, escitalopram, ketazolam, omeprazole, imidapril hydrochloride, probucol, 
dipyrone and vitamins (B12 B6 B1). In 11/2017 the patient was diagnosed with meningioma grade 1. 
Treatment with Zoely was discontinued and the patient hospitalised for radiotherapy in 02/2018. The 
subject received 33 sessions of radiotherapy, no surgery was performed and no chemotherapy done. 
The subject reported that tumour has maintained its size with radiotherapy treatment. She was also 
treated with dexamethasone.  
3) Case showing a tumour progression after NOMAC-use. The patient remained symptom-free over a 
10 months observation period. However, no combination is mentioned and the case is confounded by 
CPA-treatment in the past. 
2.2.3.2.  EudraVigilance analysis 
EMA performed an analysis of EudraVigilance (EV) data on cases of meningioma reported with 
chlormadinone- or nomegestrol-containing medicinal products with the data lock point 15/11/2021. 
Altogether, 359 case reports with CMA (8.8% out of 4098 cases) and 461 case reports for NOMAC 
(13.6% out of 3388 case reports) have been retrieved, almost all in females and most of them aged 
between 40 to 60 years. The case reports describing meningioma mainly derived from France with a 
sharp increase in 2019 potentially due to the high media coverage in this country. This is in contrast to 
non-meningioma cases showing a more diverse geographical distribution. 
Most cases contained single components and only a few case reports for combination products such as 
Zoely have been reported. The main indication was, however, (oral) contraception and endometriosis. 
This is of interest since neither CMA nor NOMAC are approved for hormonal contraception as a single 
component (in contrast to other progestin-only pills).  
Further on, it is noted that about 60 case reports contain treatment information on both progestins 
under discussion (i.e. CMA or NOMAC); thus HCPs may switch to the other progestin in case of 
unsatisfaction with the first one. The same is noted for cyproterone acetate, which is the second-most 
frequently co-reported progestin in the case reports retrieved and known to be associated with an 
increased risk of meningioma. This needs to be considered for any changes of the product information 
and treatment warnings further discussed in this AR. 
The mean time-to-onset was 12-15 years explicitly for the detection of meningioma, which underlines 
that most of them are asymptomatic over a long time-period or the unspecific and individual 
symptoms of a meningioma cannot in all cases be associated with a meningioma by HCPs and patients. 
However, the outcome in most of these cases is highlighted as not recovered or recovered with 
sequelae, which is of concern and needs to be further elucidated with regard to the data from 
spontaneous reporting and literature articles. None of the cases reported a fatal outcome. 
2.2.4.  Discussion 
From the review of post marketing cases provided by the MAHs (spontaneous reporting and literature) 
it was noted that: 
- In the majority of cases, meningioma was described after high daily doses of CMA 5 mg-10 mg (316 
cases) and NOMAC 3.75-5 mg (441 cases, of which 205 classified as possibly related) with long time-
intervals of 5 years and longer. This is in line with the EVDAS-search conducted by EMA. Most cases 
belong to women between 40-59 years of age for the indications contraception (off-label use except for 
the combination with estradiol) and endometriosis (not approved indication for NOMAC). A long-term 
therapy is therefore considered a risk factor for meningioma and high cumulative doses will be 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 17/30 
 
 
 
 
 
reached. Meningioma in the past and radiation therapy were also mentioned as risk factors in the case 
retrieved by the innovator MAH. 
- No case reports showed a causal association between CMA and a shorter treatment duration or low 
dose CMA-monotherapy. 
- For CMA in combination with ethinylestradiol, no case reports clearly showing a possible causal 
association with meningioma was identified. 
- For NOMAC-combination therapy, only three cases have been detected (one without explicitly 
mentioning a combination) including two showing an at least possible causal association with 
meningioma have been detected. The role of estrogen receptors on meningioma tissue is currently 
unknown. 
The results obtained from both studies by Nguyen at al. reliably showed an increased risk for 
intracranial meningioma after exposure to either CMA or NOMAC – especially in case of high cumulative 
doses or longer exposure duration. Overall, the extent of risk increase was similar between incident 
users of CMA and incident users of NOMAC (CMA aHR: 4.4, 95% CI: 3.4-5.8 vs. NOMAC aHR: 4.5, 
95% CI: 3.5-5.7). The strength of association, the strong dose-dependent effects and the risk 
reduction observed after treatment discontinuation of at least one year support the association 
between CMA/NOMAC exposure and increased risk of meningiomas.  
Low-dose CMA (1-2 mg)- or low-dose NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing products were not covered by the 
SNDS-database and were therefore not included in the analysis provided by the study authors. 
Nevertheless, Nguyen et al. detected a statistically increased relative risk of 1.7 (95% CI: 1-2.7) 
starting from a cumulative CMA dose of 1.44 g, and 2.5 (95% CI: 1.8-3.5) with a cumulative NOMAC 
dose of 1.2 g, further increasing with higher doses. By taking the posology for the different indications 
into account, the cumulative CMA or NOMAC-dose can be referred to a specific time-interval after that 
the cumulative dose will be reached approximately. Examples of indications with a slightly different 
dosing regimen were chosen to calculate time-intervals to reach the cumulative dosing “thresholds” 
from Nguyen et al. 2021, demonstrating that a cumulative dose of 1.44 g or 1.2 g will be reached after 
plausible timeframes for the underlying indications. Depending on the indication, a statistically 
increased risk of meningioma is reached after only 5 menstrual cycles or months (in the indication 
endometriosis) to 11 months (in the indication HRT) with high-dose CMA-monotherapy. A statistically 
significant increase was detected after several (18) months in the treatment of HRT (with 5 mg/d) and 
after 24 months in the premenopausal setting e.g. for menstrual disorders with NOMAC-containing 
products. A potential risk of meningioma was maybe apparent with low-dose CMA or NOMAC-
containing products. For example, for low-dose CMA-monotherapy, a cumulative dose of 1.44 g will be 
reached after around 60 cycles (i.e. 5 years) in the treatment of HRT and after around 36 cycles (3 
years) if used for mastodynia. For low dose NOMAC-combination products, a cumulative dose of 1.2 g 
is reached after 20 menstrual cycles in the indication contraception. Nevertheless there is clearly a 
lower risk of meningioma associated with lower dose products and a causal association with low-dose 
products has not been established, yet, which warrants a differentiated wording in the PI. 
Further on, a decrease risk after discontinuation has been recognised by the study authors; thus 
further information for HCPs and patients need to be included in the product information (PI) to help 
mitigating this risk. 
Some of the articles provided by the MAHs show new case reports with an at least possible or probable 
causal association showing meningioma occurrence after long-term use and higher daily dosages with 
CMA or NOMAC-treatment (e.g. Graillon et al. 2021; Apra et al. 2020; Passeri et al. 2019; Champagne 
et al. 2019).  
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 18/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, the observed results on the recently published case control study by Hoisnard and 
colleagues (2022) using data from the SNDS are consistent with the findings from Nguyen and 
colleagues (2021) and previous findings from cohort studies assessed in the context of the Article 31 
referral procedure on cyproterone acetate (procedure EMEA/H/A-31/1488). Compared to the overall 
risk of current users, only low risk estimates were observed by Hoisnard et al. for short-term use (< 1 
year of exposure in the year prior index date). However, due to the short time interval between drug 
intake and the event, it cannot be concluded that short-term use (< 1 year) is in general without risk. 
In contrast to short-term use, a significant association is shown in particular for prolonged use (>1 
year). These findings are in line with post-hoc analyses of the EPI-PHARE studies by Nguyen et al. 
showing an increase in risk with longer treatment duration of CMA or NOMAC. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance 
The efficacy of chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate, also in combination with ethinylestradiol 
or estradiol, in their authorised indications, has been assessed at the time of authorisation in central 
and national MAA procedures, and is considered to be established.  
The two recent cohort studies by Nguyen et al. (2021), aimed to evaluate the real-life impact of 
prolonged use of CMA or NOMAC on the risk of meningioma in women, add to the current knowledge 
well-defined, structured, long-term data based on administrative health data from the SNDS (Système 
National des Données de Santé), which covers around 99% of the French population. The results 
showed an increased risk for intracranial meningioma after exposure to CMA or NOMAC with high 
cumulative dose and longer exposure duration, with potential decrease after discontinuation of CMA or 
NOMAC. 
The analysis of post-marketing cases points as well towards an increased risk of meningioma during 
long-term use with high dose products (CMA 5-10 mg and NOMAC 3.75-5 mg) for different indications. 
For CMA, most cases reported refer to use of the product in the endometriosis indication. For NOMAC, 
the highest number of cases have been reported in the context of off-label use (contraception and 
endometriosis) followed by reports in the authorised treatment of uterine leiomyoma and heavy 
menstrual bleeding. 
In addition, a EudraVigilance (EV) analysis of cases of meningioma reported with CMA or NOMAC-
containing medicinal products retrieved 359 case reports with CMA-containing products and 461 case 
reports with NOMAC-containing products, almost all in females, most of them aged between 40 to 60 
years. The case reports mainly derived from France with a sharp increase in 2019. Only a few case 
reports with the low dose NOMAC combination products such as Zoely were retrieved. 
Low-dose CMA (1-2 mg)- and low dose NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing products 
The risk of meningioma with the use of CMA or NOMAC has been previously recognised and is currently 
reflected in the PI as follows: 
• 
Low dose CMA monotherapy-containing products: contraindication in patients with meningioma 
or history of meningioma. 
• 
Low dose NOMAC combination products: contraindication in patients with meningioma or 
history of meningioma and a warning on the risk of meningioma.  
While, as part of the review, no increased risk specifically in association to the use of low dose 
products could be identified, it is noted that there are situations where patients may be exposed to low 
dose products for a long period of time and therefore, the risk of meningioma associated to low dose 
products is considered a potential important risk. As the risk increases with increasing cumulative 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 19/30 
 
 
 
 
 
dose, PRAC considered that a warning on this risk should be reflected in the PI of low dose CMA (1- 2 
mg)- or NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing products, and that the use of these products should be 
contraindicated in patients with meningioma or history of meningioma. It is to be noted that for some 
products, e.g. Zoely, a contraindication and a warning on the risk of meningioma were already 
reflected in the PI, however, PRAC recommended further amendments to the previously agreed 
wording to reflect the current knowledge and be in alignment with the class. Additionally, for low dose 
CMA- or NOMAC containing products, a targeted follow-up questionnaire should be implemented (if not 
yet established) for cases of meningiomas, to ensure high-quality reports and facilitate causality 
assessment in future. Key elements for this targeted follow-up questionnaire were agreed by PRAC. 
High-dose CMA (5-10 mg)- or high-dose NOMAC (3.75-5 mg)- containing products 
Although meningioma has only been reported as a rare event with CMA-containing products, the causal 
relationship between meningioma and high dose CMA- or high dose NOMAC-containing products is 
considered established. Based on this, it is considered that the benefit-risk balance for treatment 
options with high dose-containing products should be restricted to situations where other interventions 
are considered inappropriate, and the treatment should be restricted to the lowest effective dose and 
shortest duration. Additionally, a contraindication in patients with meningioma or history of 
meningioma should be added to the PI, as well as a warning that symptoms of meningioma should be 
monitored and that treatment should be stopped if a patient is diagnosed with meningioma. In 
addition, PRAC recommended that information on results of the two epidemiological studies by Nguyen 
et al. should be reflected in the product information. 
During the present review, PRAC considered the need to recommend MRI monitoring of patients before 
and regularly during the course of treatment with CMA or NOMAC. However, in view of the burden on 
individual patients and the very large number of MRIs to be performed to diagnose a single case of 
meningioma in a patient without any symptoms due to the low incidence of meningioma with use of 
CMA/NOMAC, PRAC considered that this measure would not be proportionate.  
In view of the findings of the studies by Nguyen et al., healthcare professionals should be reminded via 
a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) of the warning and contraindication on the risk 
of meningioma for all products and be informed of the new restrictions for the use of high dose CMA- 
or NOMAC-containing products. The DHPC is to be jointly disseminated by marketing authorisation 
holders in each Member State. This communication should be distributed to endocrinologists, 
gynaecologists, general practitioners, learned societies and any other relevant target groups to be 
further defined at national level.   
Finally, the PRAC considered the need for additional pharmacovigilance activities to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the proposed risk minimisation measures and was of the view that all marketing 
authorisation holders should analyse the prescribing behaviour and awareness of prescribers and 
evaluate the effectiveness of the newly introduced RMMs in the upcoming PSURs for the respective 
active substances.  
4.  Summary of new activities and measures 
4.1.  Risk management  
The Committee, having considered all information and data submitted in the procedure, recommends a 
series of risk minimisation measures and pharmacovigilance activities to further minimise and 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 20/30 
 
 
 
 
 
characterise the risk of meningioma associated with CMA-containing products and NOMAC-containing 
products. 
Each MAH of CMA- or NOMAC-containing products for which a risk management plan is in place should 
update their RMP within 6 months following the finalisation of this procedure to reflect the 
pharmacovigilance activities and risk minimisation measures listed below, as applicable, and submit it 
to the relevant NCA through an appropriate variation procedure. 
4.1.1.  Safety concerns 
High dose CMA (5-10 mg)- or NOMAC (3.75–5 mg)-containing products: the Committee considered 
that meningioma should be added as an important identified risk in the risk management plan. 
Low dose CMA (1 mg and 2 mg)-containing products or NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing products: the 
Committee considered that meningioma should be added as an important potential risk in the risk 
management plan. 
4.1.2.  Risk minimisation measures 
4.1.2.1.  Routine risk minimisation measures 
Amendments to the product information 
The PRAC considered that routine risk minimisation measures in the form of updates to the product 
information would be necessary in order to minimise the risk of meningioma associated with the use of 
nomegestrol acetate- or chlormadinone acetate-containing medicinal products. These changes include 
amendments to the following sections of the SmPC: 
•  High dose CMA (5-10 mg)-containing products and high dose NOMAC (3.75–5 mg)-containing 
products: updates of SmPC section 4.1 to restrict the use of the products to situations where 
other interventions are considered inappropriate, section 4.2 to limit the treatment to the 
lowest effective dose and shortest duration, section 4.3 to include a contraindication in patients 
with meningioma or history of meningioma, section 4.4 to add a warning to monitor for 
symptoms of meningioma and stop treatment with these medicines if a patient is diagnosed 
with meningioma, section 4.8 to add meningioma as an ADR with frequency rare, and section 
5.1 to include the results of the two epidemiological study results by Nguyen et al.. 
• 
Low dose CMA (1 mg and 2 mg)-containing products and NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing 
products: updates of SmPC section 4.3 to include a contraindication in patients with 
meningioma or history of meningioma, and SmPC section 4.4 to add a warning to monitor for 
symptoms of meningioma and stop treatment permanently with these medicines if a patient is 
diagnosed with meningioma. 
The package leaflets are amended accordingly. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 21/30 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1.3.  Pharmacovigilance activities  
4.1.3.1.  Routine pharmacovigilance activities 
Targeted follow-up questionnaires 
The MAHs for low dose CMA (1 mg and 2 mg) and NOMAC (2.5mg)- containing-products are requested 
to implement targeted follow-up questionnaires to further characterise the important potential risk of 
meningioma.  
These targeted follow-up questionnaires should include the following key elements: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Patients height/weight/BMI/age 
 Gestational history 
 Previous/ concomitant hormonal therapy 
 Personal and family history of meningioma/ neurofibromatosis type 2/ cerebrospinal irradiation/ 
cancer 
 clinical symptoms of meningioma 
 Imaging before diagnosis of meningioma/ imaging to identify meningioma/ follow-up imaging 
 Management of meningioma 
 Pathology report 
 Monitoring/evolution.  
PSUR frequency 
The frequency of PSUR submission for "chlormadinone" and "chlormadinone acetate / ethinylestradiol" 
should be aligned with the data lock points (DLP) for the PSURs for "nomegestrol" and "nomegestrol 
acetate / estradiol". Consequently, the next PSURs for "chlormadinone" and "chlormadinone acetate / 
ethinylestradiol" should have a DLP of 31/01/2024 and be submitted within 90 days of the DLP 
published in the updated list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. 
Presentation of data in PSURs 
Within the respective sections of each PSUR, MAHs should provide detailed data on the implementation 
of the now proposed measures and a thorough evaluation and causality assessment of all upcoming 
cases reporting meningioma and off-label use. It should be analysed whether case reports are received 
that may be indicative of contraindicated use. 
Exposure data should be provided over time (starting with a timeframe before the referral procedure) 
and annually stratified by underlying indication (if data are available) and strength so in order to 
assess changes before and after implementation of the measures agreed as part of this the current 
referral procedure could be assessed. All MAHs should ensure that the data provided in their PSURs are 
adequate to enable the assessment to assess the effectiveness of the recommended risk minimisation 
measures.  
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 22/30 
 
 
 
 
 
4.2.  Direct healthcare professional communication and 
communication plan 
The Committee considered that a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) was needed to 
raise awareness of the revised/new recommendations and other risk minimisation measures agreed as 
outcome of this review. This communication should be distributed to endocrinologists, gynaecologists, 
general practitioners, learned societies and any other relevant target groups to be further defined at 
national level.   
All concerned MAHs in each Member State are encouraged to liaise with national competent authorities 
to collaborate in order to prepare and circulate a single DHPC in each Member State. 
5.  Grounds for Recommendation 
Whereas, 
•  The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC for all 
chlormadinone acetate-containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing products. 
•  The PRAC reviewed the available data on risk of meningioma during or following the use of 
medicinal products containing chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate, either alone or in 
combination, in particular the epidemiological studies including the French Health Insurance 
(CNAM) studies, as well as post-marketing case reports and data submitted by the marketing 
authorisation holders. 
•  The PRAC concluded from the data that the absolute risk of meningioma caused by treatment 
with products containing chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate use remains low. 
However, the risk increases with increasing cumulative doses and treatment duration of 
chlormadinone or nomegestrol acetate. PRAC also noted that risk of meningioma may decrease 
after treatment discontinuation.  
•  The PRAC therefore recommended that treatment with products containing high doses of 
chlormadinone acetate (5-10 mg) or nomegestrol acetate (3.75-5 mg) is restricted to 
situations where alternative treatments or interventions are considered inappropriate. 
Treatment should be limited to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration. Moreover the 
Committee recommended that these high dose products, are contraindicated in patients with 
meningioma or history of meningioma.   
•  The PRAC also concluded that while no increased risk of meningioma was specifically identified 
following use of low dose chlormadinone acetate- or nomegestrol acetate-containing medicinal 
products, either alone or in combination, it is noted that there are situations where patients 
may be exposed to low dose products for a long period of time. Given that the risk increases 
with increasing cumulative doses of chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate, the 
Committee recommended that low dose chlormadinone acetate (1-2 mg)- or nomegestrol 
acetate (2.5 mg)-containing products should also be contraindicated in patients with 
meningioma or history of meningioma. 
•  The Committee recommended further updates to the product information of chlormadinone 
acetate-containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing products to reflect current 
knowledge on the risk of meningioma. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 23/30 
 
 
 
 
 
•  The Committee recommended that all marketing authorisation holders should evaluate the 
effectiveness of the newly introduced RMMs in the upcoming PSURs for the respective active 
substances. 
In view of the above, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of chlormadinone acetate-
containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing products remains favourable subject to 
changes to the product information described above.  
A DHPC will be distributed to inform healthcare professionals of the above recommendations. 
The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations for chlormadinone acetate-containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing 
products. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 24/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
Kuhl H. ‘Pharmacology of estrogens and progestogens: influence of different routes of administration’, 
Climacteric 8(Suppl 1):3–63, 2005.  
Goldbrunner R, Stavrinou P, Jenkinson MD, Sahm F, Mawrin C, Weber DC, Preusser M, Minniti G, Lund-
Johansen M, Lefranc F, Houdart E, Sallabanda K, Le Rhun E, Nieuwenhuizen D, Tabatabai G, Soffietti R, 
Weller M. 'EANO guideline on the diagnosis and management of meningiomas', Neuro Oncol, Vol 23 
(11), 2 November 2021, p. 1821-1834.  
Ostrom QT, Cioffi G, Gittleman H, Patil N, Waite K, Kruchko C, Barnholtz-Sloan JS., 'CBTRUS Statistical 
Report: Primary Brain and Other Central Nervous System Tumors Diagnosed in the United States in 
2012-2016', Neuro Oncol., Vol 21(Suppl 5), 1 November 2019, v1-v100. 
Goutagny S, Yang HW, Zucman-Rossi J, Chan J, Dreyfuss JM, Park PJ, Black PM, Giovannini M, Carroll 
RD, Kalamarides M. ‘Genomic profiling reveals alternative genetic pathways of meningioma malignant 
progression dependent on the underlying NF2 status’, 16(16):4155-64, August 2010. 
Buerki RA, Horbinski CM, Kruser T, Horowitz PM, James CD, Lukas RV. ’An overview of meningiomas’, 
14(21):2161-2177, September 2018. 
Wiemels J, Wrensch M, Claus EB. ‘Epidemiology and etiology of meningioma’, 99(3):307-14, 
September 2010 
Umansky F, Shoshan Y, Rosenthal G, Fraifeld S, Spektor S. ‘Radiation-induced meningioma’, 24(5):E7, 
2008. 
Korhonen K, Raitanen J, Isola J, Haapasalo H, Salminen T, Auvinen A. ’Exogenous sex hormone use 
and risk of meningioma: a population-based case-control study in Finland’, 21(12):2149-56, December 
2010. 
Hsu DW, Efird JT, Hedley-Whyte ET. ‘Progesterone and estrogen receptors in meningiomas: prognostic 
considerations’, 86(1):113-20, January 1997. 
Yongli J, Rankin C, Grunberg S, Sherrod AE, Ahmadi J, Townsend JJ, Feun LG, Fredericks RK, Russell 
CA, Kabbinavar FF, Stelzer KJ, Schott A, Verschraegen C. ‘Double-Blind Phase III Randomized Trial of 
the Antiprogestin Agent Mifepristone in the Treatment of Unresectable Meningioma: SWOG S9005’, 
33(34):4093-8, December 2015. 
Holleczek B, Zampella D, Urbschat S, Sahm F, von Deimling A, Oertel J, Ketter R. 'Incidence, mortality 
and outcome of meningiomas: a population-based study from Germany'. Cancer Epidemiol, Vol. 62, 
October 2019. 
Nguyen P, Hoisnard L, Neumann A, Zureik M, Weill A. ‘Utilisation prolongée de l’acétate de 
chlormadinone et risque de méningiome intracrânien: une étude de cohorte à partir des données du 
SND’, EPI-PHARE - Groupement d’intérêt scientifique (GIS) ANSM-CNAM, April 2021. 
Nguyen P, Hoisnard L, Neumann A, Zureik M, Weill A. ‘Utilisation prolongée de l’acétate de 
nomégestrol et risque de méningiome intracrânien: une étude de cohorte à partir des données du 
SNDS’, EPI-PHARE - Groupement d’intérêt scientifique (GIS) ANSM-CNAM, April 2021. 
Graillon T, S Boissonneau S, Appay R, Boucekine M, Peyrière H, Meyer M, Farah K, Albarel F, Morange 
I, Castinetti F, Brue T, Fuentes S, Figarella-Branger D, Cuny T, Dufour H, ‘Meningiomas in patients with 
long-term exposition to progestins: Characteristics and outcome’. Neurichururgie, 67(6):556-563, 
November 2021. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 25/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Malaize H, Samoyeau T, Zanello M, Roux A, Benzakoun J, Peeters S, Zah-Bi G, Edjlali M, Tauziede-
Espariat A, Dezamis E, Parraga E, Chrétien F, Varlet P, Plu-Bureau G, Oppenheim C, Pallud J. ‘Evolution 
of the neurosurgical management of progestin-associated meningiomas: a 23-year single-center 
experience’, Neuro Oncol., 152(2):279-288, April 2021. 
Apra C, Roblot P, Alkhayri A, Le Guérinel C, Polivka M, Chauvet D, ‘Female gender and exogenous 
progesterone exposition as risk factors for spheno-orbital meningiomas’, Neouro Oncol., 149(1):95-
101, August 2020. 
Devalckeneer A, Aboukais R, Bourgeois P, De Witte O, Racape J, Caron S, Perbet R, Maurage CA, 
Lejeune JP, ‘Preliminary report of patients with meningiomas exposed to Cyproterone Acetate, 
Nomegestrol Acetate and Chlormadinone Acetate - Monocentric ongoing study on progestin related 
meningiomas’, Clin. Neurol and Neurosurg., 210:106959, November 2021. 
Wiemels J, Wrensch M, Claus EB, ‘Epidemiology and etiology of meningioma’, Nuero Oncol., 
99(3):307-14, September 2010. 
Ogasawara C, Philbrick BD, Adamson DC, ‘Meningioma: A Review of Epidemiology, Pathology, 
Diagnosis, Treatment, and Future Directions’, Biomedicines, 9(3):319, March 2021. 
AbiJaoude S, Marijon P, Roblot P, Tran S, Cornu P, Kalamarides M, Peyre M, ‘Sustained growth of 
intraosseous hormone-associated meningiomas after cessation of progestin therapy’, Acta-Neurochir-
Wien., 163(6):1705-1710, June 2021. 
Salle L, Salle H., ‘What's the link between otological signs and oral contraception?’, Eur-J-Intern-Med., 
81:85-86, November 2020. 
Passeri T, Champagne PO, Bernat AL, Hanakita S, Salle H, Mandonnet E, Froelich S, ‘Spontaneous 
regression of meningiomas after interruption of nomegestrol acetate: a series of three patiens’, Acta-
Neurochir-Wien, 161(4):761-765, April 2019. 
Champagne PO, Passeri T, Froelich S, ‘Combined hormonal influence of cyproterone acetate and 
nomegestrol acetate on meningioma: a case report’. Acta-Neurochir-Wien, 161(3):589-592, March 
2019. 
Shimizu J, Matsumoto M, Yamazaki E, Yasue M, ‘Spontaneous regression of an asymptomatic 
meningioma associated with discontinuation of progesterone agonist administration’, Neurol. Med. 
Chir., 48(5):227-30, May 2008. 
Peyre M, Gaillard S, de Marcellus C, Giry M, Bielle F, Villa C, Boch A L, Loiseau H, Baussart B, Cazabat 
L, Raffin-Sanson M L, Sanson M, Kalamarides M, ‘Progestin-associated shift of meningioma mutational 
landscape’, Ann. Oncol., 29(3):681-686, March 2018. 
Telugu RB, Chowhan AK, Rukmangadha N, Patnayak R, Phaneendra BV, Prasad BCM, ‘Estrogen and 
progesterone receptor in meningiomas: An immunohistochemical analysis’, J. Cancer Res. Ther., 
16(6):1482-1487, October-December 2020. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 26/30 
 
 
 
 
 
Hoisnard, L, Laanani, M, Passeri, T, Duranteau, L, Coste, J, Zureik, M, Froelich, S, Weill, ‘Risk of 
intracranial meningioma with three potent progestogens: A population-based case–control study’ Eur J 
Neurol., 00:1–9, May 2022. 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 27/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1 
Divergent positions to PRAC recommendation 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 28/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1510 
Procedure number: EMEA/H/A-31/1510/C/1213/60 
Nomegestrol or chlormadinone containing medicinal products 
Divergent statement 
The following PRAC Members consider that the benefit-risk ratio of nomegestrol and chlormadinone 
containing products is uncertain in the following indications in view of the identified risk of 
meningioma: HRT (Hormone Replacement Therapy), dysmenorrhea, gynaecological disorders related 
to progesterone insufficiency (menstrual irregularities, premenstrual syndrome, mastodynia), based on 
the following grounds: 
In the aforementioned therapeutic indications, women are older (mean 40 years old) compared to 
other gynaecological uses (e.g., contraception). Data from the two French pharmacoepidemiological 
studies, on which the referral was triggered, have highlighted that meningioma risk is highly related to 
the age of women. Women treated either for perimenopausal disorders or HRT have a higher risk of 
meningioma compared to other exposed women due to their higher age.  
Medicinal products containing nomegestrol acetate or chlormadinone acetate monosubstances are used 
in various gynaecological indications. The treatment duration is often long as some disorders could last 
from menarche to menopause (e.g., menstrual irregularities).  
Moreover and according to clinical guidelines, alternative therapies, not known to increase meningioma 
risk, are available in each of the above mentioned indications. The data of efficacy of these substances 
in the current indications are old and should have been reassessed in the light of the magnitude of the 
risk meningioma, which is a rare but a serious risk exposing women to potential severe sequels. The 
restriction of the use of nomegestrol containing products and chlormadinone containing products to 
those situations where other interventions are considered inappropriate, as per the PRAC 
recommendation, appears therefore not risk-proportionate and expose women to an unnecessary risk 
as alternative options exist.  
Therefore, unless the benefits are clearly re-assessed, indication by indication, and considering the 
new data about the risk of meningioma, the benefit-risk is uncertain in these aforementioned 
indications and as a precautionary measure, these products should not be used in these indications. 
These concerns were already clearly raised by France when triggering a referral under Article 31 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC since women are likely to be treated for several years including menopausal 
period in the aforementioned indications which were expected to be further assessed.  
The divergent statement concerns also the absence of recommendation for requesting a post-
authorisation safety study to assess the effectiveness of the risk minimization measures which will be 
implemented in the EU countries as an outcome of this referral. Irrespective of the nature of the study 
(HCP survey, drug utilization study), a dedicated study performed by the concerned MAHs is essential 
to know whether the healthcare professionals will adhere to the risk minimization measures agreed by 
PRAC e.g., contraindication in case of (history of) meningioma for combinations, discontinuation of the 
drug in case of a meningioma is diagnosed, and the use of these products in last resort. 
PRAC Members expressing a divergent opinion: 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 29/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Tiphaine Vaillant (France) 
Julia Pallos (Hungary) 
•  Nadine Petitpain (Luxembourg) 
• 
Patricia McGettigan (Independent scientific expert nominated by the European Commission) 
Assessment report 
EMA/773938/2022 
Page 30/30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
