ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zoely 2.5 mg/1.5 mg film-coated tablets 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each white active tablet contains 2.5 mg nomegestrol acetate and 1.5 mg estradiol (as hemihydrate). 
Each yellow placebo tablet does not contain active substances. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each white active tablet contains 57.7 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
Each yellow placebo tablet contains 61.8 mg of lactose monohydrate. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Film-coated tablet (tablet). 
The active tablet is white, round and coded ‘ne’ on both sides. 
The placebo tablet is yellow, round and coded ‘p’ on both sides. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Oral contraception. 
The decision to prescribe Zoely should take into consideration the individual woman’s current risk 
factors, particularly those for venous thromboembolism (VTE), and how the risk of VTE with Zoely 
compares with other combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs) (see sections 4.3 and 4.4). 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Posology 
One tablet is to be taken daily for 28 consecutive days. Each pack starts with 24 white active tablets, 
followed by 4 yellow placebo tablets. A subsequent pack is started immediately after finishing the 
previous pack, without a break in daily tablet intake and irrespective of presence or absence of 
withdrawal bleeding. Withdrawal bleeding usually starts on day 2-3 after intake of the last white tablet 
and may not have finished before the next pack is started. See ‘Cycle control’ in section 4.4. 
Special populations 
Renal impairment 
Although data in renal impaired patients are not available, renal impairment is unlikely to affect the 
elimination of nomegestrol acetate and estradiol. 
Hepatic impairment 
No clinical studies have been performed in patients with hepatic insufficiency. Since the metabolism 
of steroid hormones might be impaired in patients with severe hepatic disease, the use of Zoely in 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
these women is not indicated as long as liver function values have not returned to normal (see 
section 4.3). 
Paediatric population 
Safety and efficacy have not been established in adolescents under 18 years of age. There is no 
relevant use of Zoely in children and pre-menarchal adolescents.  
Method of administration 
Oral use. 
How to take Zoely 
Tablets must be taken every day at about the same time without regard to meals. Tablets should be 
taken with some liquid as needed, and in the order as directed on the blister. Stickers marked with the 
7 days of the week are provided. The woman should choose the sticker that starts with the day she 
begins taking the tablets and stick it on the blister. 
How to start Zoely 
No preceding hormonal contraceptive use (in the past month) 
Tablet-taking has to start on day 1 of the woman’s menstrual cycle (i.e. the first day of her menstrual 
bleeding). When doing so, no additional contraceptive measures are necessary. 
Changing from a CHC (combined oral contraceptive (COC), vaginal ring or transdermal patch) 
The woman should start with Zoely preferably on the day after the last active tablet-taking (the last 
tablet containing the active substances) of her previous COC, but at the latest on the day following the 
usual tablet-free or placebo tablet interval of her previous COC. In case a vaginal ring or transdermal 
patch has been used, the woman should start using Zoely preferably on the day of removal, but at the 
latest when the next application would have been due. 
Changing from a progestogen-only-method (minipill, implant, injectable) or from a 
hormone-medicated intra uterine system (IUS) 
The woman may switch any day from the minipill and Zoely should be started on the next day. An 
implant or IUS may be removed any day, and Zoely should be started on the day of its removal. When 
changing from an injectable, Zoely should be started on the day when the next injection would have 
been due. In all of these cases, the woman should be advised to additionally use a barrier method until 
she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted white active table-taking. 
Following first-trimester abortion 
The woman may start the tablet-taking immediately. When doing so, no additional contraceptive 
measures are necessary. 
Following delivery or second-trimester abortion 
The woman should be advised to start the tablet-taking between day 21 and 28 after delivery or 
second-trimester abortion. When starting later, the woman should be advised to additionally use a 
barrier method until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted white active tablet-taking. However, if 
intercourse has already occurred, pregnancy should be excluded before the actual start of COC use or 
the woman has to wait for her first menstrual period. 
For breast-feeding women see section 4.6. 
Management of missed tablets 
The following advice only refers to missed white active tablets: 
If the woman is less than 24 hours late in taking any active tablet, contraceptive protection is not 
reduced. The woman should take the tablet as soon as she remembers and should take further tablets at 
the usual time. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the woman is 24 or more hours late in taking any active tablet, contraceptive protection may be 
reduced. The management of missed tablets can be guided by the following two basic rules: 
• 
7 days of uninterrupted white active tablet-taking are required to attain adequate suppression of 
the hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian-axis. 
The more white active tablets are missed and the closer the missed tablets are to the 4 yellow 
placebo tablets, the higher the risk of a pregnancy. 
• 
Day 1-7 
The woman should take the last missed white tablet as soon as she remembers, even if this means 
taking two tablets at the same time. She then continues to take tablets at her usual time. In addition, a 
barrier method such as a condom should be used until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted white 
tablet-taking. If intercourse took place in the preceding 7 days, the possibility of a pregnancy should 
be considered. 
Day 8-17 
The woman should take the last missed white tablet as soon as she remembers, even if this means 
taking two tablets at the same time. She then continues to take tablets at her usual time. Provided that 
the woman has taken her tablets correctly in the 7 days preceding the first missed tablet, there is no 
need to use extra contraceptive precautions. However, if she has missed more than 1 tablet, the woman 
should be advised to use extra precautions until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted white 
tablet-taking. 
Day 18-24 
The risk of reduced reliability is imminent because of the forthcoming yellow placebo tablet phase. 
However, by adjusting the tablet-intake schedule, reduced contraceptive protection can still be 
prevented. By adhering to either of the following two options, there is therefore no need to use extra 
contraceptive precautions, provided that in the 7 days preceding the first missed tablet the woman has 
taken all tablets correctly. If this is not the case, she should follow the first of these two options and 
use extra precautions for the next 7 days as well. 
1. 
The woman should take the last missed tablet as soon as she remembers, even if this means 
taking two tablets at the same time. She then continues to take tablets at her usual time until the 
active tablets are used up. The 4 placebo tablets from the last row must be discarded. The next 
blister pack must be started right away. The woman is unlikely to have a withdrawal bleeding 
until the end of the active tablets section of the second pack, but she may experience spotting or 
breakthrough bleeding on tablet-taking days. 
The woman may also be advised to discontinue active tablet-taking from the current blister 
pack. She should then take placebo tablets from the last row for a maximum of 3 days such that 
the total number of placebo plus missed white active tablets is not more than 4, and 
subsequently continue with the next blister pack. 
2. 
If the woman missed tablets and subsequently has no withdrawal bleeding in the placebo tablet phase, 
the possibility of a pregnancy should be considered. 
Please note: If the woman is not sure about the number or colour of tablets missed and what advice to 
follow, a barrier method should be used until she has completed 7 days of uninterrupted white active 
tablet-taking. 
The following advice only refers to missed yellow placebo tablets: 
Contraceptive protection is not reduced. Yellow tablets from the last (4th) row of the blister can be 
disregarded. However, the missed tablets should be discarded to avoid unintentionally prolonging the 
placebo tablet phase. 
Advice in case of gastro-intestinal disturbances 
In case of severe gastro-intestinal disturbance (e.g., vomiting or diarrhoea), absorption of the active 
substances may not be complete and additional contraceptive measures should be taken. 
If vomiting occurs within 3-4 hours after white tablet-taking, the tablet should be considered as missed 
and a new tablet should be taken as soon as possible. The new tablet should be taken within 24 hours 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the usual time of tablet-taking if possible. The next tablet should then be taken at the usual time. If 
24 or more hours have passed since last tablet intake, the advice concerning missed tablets, as given in 
section 4.2 "Management of missed tablets", is applicable. If the woman does not want to change her 
normal tablet-taking schedule, she has to take the extra white tablet(s) from another pack. 
How to shift periods or how to delay a period 
To delay a period the woman should continue with another blister pack of Zoely without taking the 
yellow placebo tablets from her current pack. The extension can be carried on for as long as wished 
until the end of the white active tablets in the second pack. Regular intake of Zoely is then resumed 
after the yellow placebo tablets have been taken of the second pack. During the extension the woman 
may experience breakthrough-bleeding or spotting. 
To shift her periods to another day of the week than the woman is used to with her current scheme, she 
can be advised to shorten her forthcoming yellow placebo tablet phase with a maximum of 4 days. The 
shorter the interval, the higher the risk that she does not have a withdrawal bleeding and may 
experience breakthrough-bleeding and spotting during the subsequent pack (just as when delaying a 
period). 
4.3  Contraindications 
CHCs must not be used in the following conditions. Should any of the conditions appear for the first 
time during Zoely use, the medicinal product should be stopped immediately. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
Presence or risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
o 
Venous thromboembolism - current VTE (on anticoagulants) or history of (e.g. deep 
venous thrombosis [DVT] or pulmonary embolism [PE]). 
Known hereditary or acquired predisposition for venous thromboembolism, such as 
activated protein C (APC)-resistance (including Factor V Leiden), 
antithrombin-III-deficiency, protein C deficiency, protein S deficiency. 
o  Major surgery with prolonged immobilisation (see section 4.4). 
o 
A high risk of venous thromboembolism due to the presence of multiple risk factors (see 
section 4.4). 
Presence or risk of arterial thromboembolism (ATE) 
o 
Arterial thromboembolism - current ATE, history of ATE (e.g. myocardial infarction) or 
prodromal condition (e.g. angina pectoris). 
Cerebrovascular disease – current stroke, history of stroke or prodromal condition (e.g. 
transient ischaemic attack [TIA]). 
Known hereditary or acquired predisposition for arterial thromboembolism, such as 
hyperhomocysteinaemia and antiphospholipid-antibodies (anticardiolipin-antibodies, 
lupus anticoagulant). 
History of migraine with focal neurological symptoms. 
A high risk of arterial thromboembolism due to multiple risk factors (see section 4.4) or 
to the presence of one serious risk factor such as: 
• 
diabetes mellitus with vascular symptoms; 
• 
severe hypertension; 
• 
severe dyslipoproteinaemia. 
Pancreatitis or a history thereof if associated with severe hypertriglyceridaemia. 
Presence or history of severe hepatic disease as long as liver function values have not returned 
to normal. 
Presence or history of liver tumours (benign or malignant). 
Known or suspected sex steroid-influenced malignancies (e.g., of the genital organs or the 
breasts). 
Meningioma or history of meningioma. 
Undiagnosed vaginal bleeding. 
Hypersensitivity to the active substances or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Warnings 
If any of the conditions or risk factors mentioned below is present, the suitability of Zoely should be 
discussed with the woman. 
In the event of aggravation, or first appearance of any of these conditions or risk factors, the woman 
should be advised to contact her doctor to determine whether the use of Zoely should be discontinued. 
All data presented below are based upon epidemiological data obtained with CHCs containing 
ethinylestradioland apply to Zoely.   
Risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE) 
• 
The use of any combined hormonal contraceptive (CHC) increases the risk of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) compared with no use. Products that contain levonorgestrel, 
norgestimate or norethisterone are associated with the lowest risk of VTE. Zoely may have 
a risk of VTE in the same range as observed with CHC containing levonorgestrel. The 
decision to use any product other than one known to have the lowest VTE risk should be 
taken only after a discussion with the woman to ensure she understands the risk of VTE 
with CHCs, how her current risk factors influence this risk, and that her VTE risk is 
highest in the first ever year of use. There is also some evidence that the risk is increased 
when a CHC is re-started after a break in use of 4 weeks or more. 
In women who do not use a CHC and are not pregnant about 2 out of 10,000 will develop a 
VTE over the period of one year. However, in any individual woman, the risk may be far 
higher, depending on her underlying risk factors (see below). 
Epidemiological studies in women who use low dose (< 50 micrograms ethinylestradiol) CHC 
have found that out of 10,000 women between 6 and 12 will develop a VTE in one year. 
It is estimated that out of 10,000 women who use a levonorgestrel-containing CHC about 61 will 
develop a VTE in one year. 
The number of VTEs per year with low dose CHCs is fewer than the number expected in 
women during pregnancy or in the postpartum period. 
VTE may be fatal in 1-2 % of cases. 
Extremely rarely, thrombosis has been reported to occur in CHC users in other blood vessels, 
e.g. hepatic, mesenteric, renal, or retinal veins and arteries. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Risk factors for VTE 
The risk for venous thromboembolic complications in CHC users may increase substantially in a 
woman with additional risk factors, particularly if there are multiple risk factors (see table). 
Zoely is contraindicated if a woman has multiple risk factors that put her at high risk of venous 
thrombosis (see section 4.3). If a woman has more than one risk factor, it is possible that the increase 
in risk is greater than the sum of the individual factors – in this case her total risk of VTE should be 
considered. If the balance of benefits and risks is considered to be negative, a CHC should not be 
prescribed (see section 4.3). 
1 Mid-point of range of 5-7 per 10,000 WY, based on a relative risk for CHCs containing levonorgestrel versus non-use of approximately 2.3 to 3.6 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Risk factors for VTE 
Risk factor 
Obesity (body mass index over 30 kg/m²) 
Comment 
Risk increases substantially as BMI rises. 
Prolonged immobilisation, major surgery, any 
surgery to the legs or pelvis, neurosurgery, or 
major trauma 
Note: Temporary immobilisation including air 
travel > 4 hours can also be a risk factor for 
VTE, particularly in women with other risk 
factors. 
Positive family history (venous 
thromboembolism ever in a sibling or parent 
especially at a relatively early age, e.g., before 
50) 
Other medical conditions associated with VTE 
Particularly important to consider if other risk 
factors also present. 
In these situations it is advisable to discontinue 
use of the pill (in the case of elective surgery at 
least four weeks in advance) and not resume 
until two weeks after complete remobilisation. 
Another method of contraception should be used 
to avoid unintentional pregnancy. 
Antithrombotic treatment should be considered 
if Zoely has not been discontinued in advance. 
If a hereditary predisposition is suspected, the 
woman should be referred to a specialist for 
advice before deciding about any CHC use. 
Cancer, systemic lupus erythematosus, 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome, chronic 
inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease or 
ulcerative colitis) and sickle cell disease 
Increasing age  
Particularly above 35 years 
• 
• 
There is no consensus about the possible role of varicose veins and superficial thrombophlebitis 
in the onset or progression of venous thrombosis. 
The increased risk of thromboembolism in pregnancy, and particularly the 6-week period of the 
puerperium, must be considered (for information on "Pregnancy and lactation" see section 4.6). 
Symptoms of VTE (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) 
In the event of symptoms women should be advised to seek urgent medical attention and to inform the 
healthcare professional that she is taking a CHC. 
Symptoms of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) can include: 
- unilateral swelling of the leg and/or foot or along a vein in the leg; 
- pain or tenderness in the leg which may be felt only when standing or walking; 
- increased warmth in the affected leg; red or discoloured skin on the leg. 
Symptoms of pulmonary embolism (PE) can include: 
- sudden onset of unexplained shortness of breath or rapid breathing; 
- sudden coughing which may be associated with haemoptysis; 
- sharp chest pain; 
- severe light headedness or dizziness; 
- rapid or irregular heartbeat. 
Some of these symptoms (e.g. “shortness of breath”, “coughing”) are non-specific and might be 
misinterpreted as more common or less severe events (e.g. respiratory tract infections). 
Other signs of vascular occlusion can include: sudden pain, swelling and slight blue discoloration of 
an extremity. 
If the occlusion occurs in the eye symptoms can range from painless blurring of vision which can 
progress to loss of vision. Sometimes loss of vision can occur almost immediately. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk of arterial thromboembolism (ATE) 
Epidemiological studies have associated the use of CHCs with an increased risk for arterial 
thromboembolism (myocardial infarction) or for cerebrovascular accident (e.g., transient ischaemic 
attack, stroke). Arterial thromboembolic events may be fatal. 
Risk factors for ATE 
The risk of arterial thromboembolic complications or of a cerebrovascular accident in CHC users 
increases in women with risk factors (see table). Zoely is contraindicated if a woman has one serious 
or multiple risk factors for ATE that puts her at high risk of arterial thrombosis (see section 4.3). If a 
woman has more than one risk factor, it is possible that the increase in risk is greater than the sum of 
the individual factors – in this case her total risk should be considered. If the balance of benefits and 
risks is considered to be negative a CHC should not be prescribed (see section 4.3). 
Table: Risk factors for ATE 
Risk factor 
Increasing age 
Smoking 
Hypertension 
Comment 
Particularly above 35 years 
Women should be advised not to smoke if they 
wish to use a CHC. Women over 35 who 
continue to smoke should be strongly advised to 
use a different method of contraception. 
Obesity (body mass index over 30 kg/m2) 
Risk increases substantially as BMI increases. 
Particularly important in women with 
additional risk factors 
Positive family history (arterial 
thromboembolism ever in a sibling or parent 
especially at relatively early age, e.g., below 50) 
If a hereditary predisposition is suspected, the 
woman should be referred to a specialist for 
advice before deciding about any CHC use. 
Migraine 
Other medical conditions associated with 
adverse vascular events 
An increase in frequency or severity of migraine 
during CHC use (which may be prodromal of a 
cerebrovascular event) may be a reason for 
immediate discontinuation. 
Diabetes mellitus, hyperhomocysteinaemia, 
valvular heart disease and atrial fibrillation, 
dyslipoproteinaemia and systemic lupus 
erythematosus 
Symptoms of ATE 
In the event of symptoms women should be advised to seek urgent medical attention and to inform the 
healthcare professional that she is taking a CHC. 
Symptoms of a cerebrovascular accident can include: 
- sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arm or leg, especially on one side of the body; 
- sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination; 
- sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; 
- sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; 
- sudden, severe or prolonged headache with no known cause; 
- loss of consciousness or fainting with or without seizure. 
Temporary symptoms suggest the event is a transient ischaemic attack (TIA). 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Symptoms of a myocardial infarction (MI) can include: 
- pain, discomfort, pressure, heaviness, sensation of squeezing or fullness in the chest, arm, or 
below the breastbone; 
- discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, arm, stomach; 
- feeling of being full, having indigestion or choking; 
- sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness; 
- extreme weakness, anxiety, or shortness of breath; 
- rapid or irregular heartbeats. 
Tumours 
• 
An increased risk of cervical cancer in long-term users of COCs (> 5 years) has been reported in 
some epidemiological studies, but there continues to be controversy about the extent to which 
this finding is attributable to the confounding effects of sexual behaviour and other factors such 
as human papilloma virus (HPV). No epidemiological data on the risk of cervical cancer in 
users of Zoely are available. 
• 
•  With the use of the higher-dosed COCs (50 micrograms ethinylestradiol) the risk of endometrial 
and ovarian cancer is reduced. Whether this also applies to 17β-estradiol-containing COCs 
remains to be confirmed. 
A meta-analysis from 54 epidemiological studies reported that there is a slightly increased 
relative risk (RR=1.24) of having breast cancer diagnosed in women who are currently using 
COCs. The excess risk gradually disappears during the course of the 10 years after cessation of 
COC use. Because breast cancer is rare in women under 40 years of age, the excess number of 
breast cancer diagnoses in current and recent COC users is small in relation to the overall risk of 
breast cancer. The breast cancers diagnosed in ever-users tend to be less advanced clinically 
than the cancers diagnosed in never-users. The observed pattern of increased risk may be due to 
an earlier diagnosis of breast cancer in COC users, the biological effects of COCs or a 
combination of both. 
In rare cases, benign liver tumours, and even more rarely, malignant liver tumours have been 
reported in users of COCs. In isolated cases, these tumours have led to life-threatening 
intra-abdominal haemorrhages. Therefore, a hepatic tumour should be considered in the 
differential diagnosis when severe upper abdominal pain, liver enlargement or signs of 
intra-abdominal haemorrhage occur in women taking COCs. 
• 
Meningioma 
The occurrence of meningiomas (single and multiple) has been reported in association with use of 
nomegestrol acetate, especially at high doses and for prolonged use (several years). Patients should be 
monitored for signs and symptoms of meningiomas in accordance with clinical practice. If a patient is 
diagnosed with meningioma, any nomegestrol acetate-containing treatment, must be stopped, as a 
precautionary measure.  
There is some evidence that the meningioma risk may decrease after treatment discontinuation of 
nomegestrol acetate.  
Hepatitis C 
• 
During clinical trials with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) combination regimen 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with and without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times 
the upper limit of normal (ULN) were significantly more frequent in women using 
ethinylestradiol-containing medicinal products such as CHCs. Additionally, also in patients treated 
with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir, ALT elevations were observed in women using ethinylestradiol-
containing medications such as CHCs. Women using medicinal products containing oestrogens 
other than ethinylestradiol, such as estradiol, had a rate of ALT elevation similar to those not 
receiving any oestrogens; however, due to the limited number of women taking these other 
oestrogens, caution is warranted for co-administration with the combination drug regimen 
ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with or without dasabuvir and also the regimen 
glecaprevir/pibrentasvir. See section 4.5. 
9 
 
 
 
 
Other conditions 
•  Women with hypertriglyceridaemia, or a family history thereof, may be at an increased risk of 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
pancreatitis when using COCs. 
Although small increases in blood pressure have been reported in many women taking COCs, 
clinically relevant increases are rare. A relationship between COC use and clinical hypertension 
has not been established. However, if a sustained clinically significant hypertension develops 
during the use of a COC, then it is prudent for the physician to suspend the intake of the tablets 
and treat the hypertension. Where considered appropriate, COC use may be resumed if 
normotensive values can be achieved with antihypertensive therapy. 
The following conditions have been reported to occur or deteriorate with both pregnancy and 
COC use, but the evidence of an association with COC use is inconclusive: jaundice and/or 
pruritus related to cholestasis; gallstone formation; porphyria; systemic lupus erythematosus; 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome; Sydenham’s chorea; herpes gestationis; otosclerosis-related 
hearing loss. 
Exogenous oestrogens may induce or exacerbate symptoms of hereditary and acquired 
angioedema. 
Acute or chronic disturbances of liver function may necessitate the discontinuation of COC use 
until markers of liver function return to normal. Recurrence of cholestatic jaundice which occurred 
first during pregnancy or previous use of sex steroids necessitates the discontinuation of COCs. 
Although COCs may have an effect on peripheral insulin resistance and glucose tolerance, there 
is no evidence for a need to alter the therapeutic regimen in diabetics using low-dose COCs 
(containing  0.05 mg ethinylestradiol). However, diabetic women should be carefully observed 
while taking a COC, especially in the first months of use. 
Crohn’s disease, ulcerative colitis, and worsening of depression have been associated with COC 
use. 
Chloasma may occasionally occur, especially in women with a history of chloasma gravidarum. 
Women with a tendency to chloasma should avoid exposure to the sun or ultraviolet radiation 
whilst taking COCs. 
Depressed mood and depression are well-known undesirable effects of hormonal contraceptive 
use (see section 4.8). Depression can be serious and is a well-known risk factor for suicidal 
behaviour and suicide. Women should be advised to contact their physician in case of mood 
changes and depressive symptoms, including shortly after initiating the treatment. 
Medical examination/consultation 
Prior to the initiation or reinstitution of Zoely use a complete medical history (including family 
history) should be taken and pregnancy must be ruled out. Blood pressure should be measured and a 
physical examination should be performed, guided by the contraindications (see section 4.3) and 
warnings (see section 4.4). It is important to draw a woman’s attention to the information on venous 
and arterial thrombosis, including the risk of Zoely compared with other CHCs, the symptoms of VTE 
and ATE, the known risk factors and what to do in the event of a suspected thrombosis. 
The woman should also be instructed to carefully read the user leaflet and to adhere to the advice 
given. The frequency and nature of examinations should be based on established practice guidelines 
and be adapted to the individual woman. 
Women should be advised that hormonal contraceptives do not protect against human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections (which can cause acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
[AIDS]) and other sexually transmitted diseases. 
Reduced efficacy 
The efficacy of COCs may be reduced in the event of e.g., missed tablets (see section 4.2), 
gastro-intestinal disturbances during active tablet-taking (see section 4.2) or use of concomitant 
medicinal products that decrease the plasma concentrations of nomegestrol acetate and/or estradiol 
(see section 4.5). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
Cycle control 
With all COCs, irregular bleeding (spotting or breakthrough bleeding) may occur, especially during 
the first months of use. Therefore, the evaluation of any irregular bleeding is only meaningful after an 
adaptation interval of about 3 cycles. The percentage of women using Zoely experiencing intracyclic 
bleeding after this adaptation period ranged from 15-20 %. 
If bleeding irregularities persist or occur after previously regular cycles, then non-hormonal causes 
should be considered and adequate diagnostic measures are indicated to exclude malignancy or 
pregnancy. These may include curettage. 
The duration of the withdrawal bleeding in women using Zoely is on average 3-4 days. Users of Zoely 
may also miss their withdrawal bleeding although not being pregnant. During clinical trials, absence of 
withdrawal bleeding ranged over the cycles 1-12 from 18 % to 32 %. In such cases, absence of 
withdrawal bleeding was not associated with a higher occurrence of breakthrough bleeding/spotting in 
the subsequent cycles. 4.6 % of the women did not have a withdrawal bleeding in the first three cycles 
of use and the occurrences of absence of withdrawal bleeding in the later cycles of use were high in 
this subgroup, ranging from 76 % to 87 % of women. 28 % of the women experienced absence of 
withdrawal bleeding in at least one of the cycles 2, 3 and 4, associated with higher occurrences of 
absence of withdrawal bleeding in the later cycles of use, ranging from 51 % to 62 %. 
If absence of withdrawal bleeding occurs and Zoely has been taken according to the instructions as 
described in section 4.2, it is unlikely that the woman is pregnant. However, pregnancy must be ruled 
out before Zoely use is continued, if Zoely has not been taken as directed or if two consecutive 
withdrawal bleedings are missed. 
Paediatric population 
It is unknown whether the amount of estradiol in Zoely is sufficient to maintain adequate levels of 
estradiol in adolescents, especially for bone mass accrual (see section 5.2). 
Laboratory tests 
The use of contraceptive steroids may influence the results of certain laboratory tests, including 
biochemical parameters of liver, thyroid, adrenal and renal function, plasma levels of (carrier) 
proteins, e.g., corticosteroid binding globulin and lipid/lipoprotein fractions, parameters of 
carbohydrate metabolism and parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Changes generally remain 
within the normal laboratory range. 
Excipients 
Patients with rare hereditary problems of galactose intolerance, total lactase deficiency or 
glucose-galactose malabsorption should not take this medicinal product. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Interactions 
Note: The prescribing information of concomitant medicinal products should be consulted to identify 
potential interactions. 
Influence of other medicinal products on Zoely 
Interactions between oral contraceptives and enzyme-inducing medicinal products may lead to 
breakthrough bleeding and/or contraceptive failure. 
Hepatic metabolism: Interactions can occur with substances that induce CYP450 enzymes, resulting in 
reduced concentrations of sex hormones and decreased effectiveness of combined oral contraceptives, 
including Zoely. These substances are represented mostly with anticonvulsants (e.g. carbamazepine, 
topiramate, phenytoin, phenobarbital, primidone, oxcarbazepine, felbamate); anti-infective drugs (e.g. 
rifampicin, rifabutin, griseofulvin); St. John’s wort; bosentan and HIV or Hepatitis C virus (HCV) 
protease inhibitors (e.g. ritonavir, boceprevir, telaprevir) and non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors (e.g. efavirenz). 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enzyme induction can occur after a few days of treatment. Maximal enzyme induction is generally 
observed within a few weeks. After drug therapy is discontinued, enzyme induction can last for about 
28 days. 
A barrier contraceptive method should also be used during the concomitant use of an enzyme inducer, 
and for 28 days after its discontinuation. In case of long-term treatment with hepatic enzyme-inducing 
substances another method of contraception should be considered. 
If concomitant drug administration runs beyond the end of the active tablets in the current blister pack, 
the next blister pack should be started right away without the usual placebo tablet interval. 
Concomitant administration of strong (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, clarithromycin) or moderate 
(e.g. fluconazole, diltiazem, erythromycin) CYP3A4 inhibitors may increase the serum concentrations 
of oestrogens or progestogens. 
Medicinal product interaction studies were not performed with Zoely, but two studies with rifampicin 
and ketoconazole, respectively, were performed with a higher dosed nomegestrol acetate-estradiol 
combination (nomegestrol acetate 3.75 mg + 1.5 mg estradiol) in post-menopausal women. 
Concomitant use of rifampicin decreases the AUC0-∞ of nomegestrol acetate by 95 % and increases the 
AUC0-tlast of estradiol by 25 %. Concomitant use of ketoconazole (200 mg single dose) does not 
modify estradiol metabolism whereas increases in the peak concentration (85 %) and AUC0-∞ (115 %) 
of nomegestrol acetate were observed, which were of no clinical relevance. Similar conclusions are 
expected in women of childbearing potential. 
Influence of Zoely on other medicinal products 
Contraceptives containing ethinylestradiol may decrease the concentrations of lamotrigine by 
approximately 50%. Attention should be paid, notably when introducing a combined contraceptive, 
even with estradiol, in a well-equilibrated woman given lamotrigine. 
Other interactions 
During clinical trials with the HCV combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with 
and without dasabuvir, ALT elevations greater than 5 times the upper limit of normal (ULN) were 
significantly more frequent in women using ethinylestradiol-containing medicinal products such as 
CHCs. Women using medicinal products containing oestrogens other than ethinylestradiol, such as 
estradiol, had a rate of ALT elevation similar to those not receiving any oestrogens; however, due to 
the limited number of women taking these other oestrogens, caution is warranted for co-administration 
with the combination drug regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with or without dasabuvir and 
also the regimen with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (see section 4.4). 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
Zoely is not indicated during pregnancy. 
If pregnancy occurs while taking Zoely, further intake should be stopped. Most epidemiological 
studies have revealed neither an increased risk of birth defects in infants born to women who used 
ethinylestradiol-containing COCs prior to pregnancy, nor a teratogenic effect when 
ethinylestradiol-containing COCs were taken inadvertently during early pregnancy. 
Clinical data on a limited number of exposed pregnancies indicate no adverse effect of Zoely on the 
foetus or neonate. 
In animal studies, reproductive toxicity has been observed with the nomegestrol acetate / estradiol 
combination (see preclinical safety data in section 5.3). 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The increased risk of VTE during the postpartum period should be considered when re-starting Zoely 
(see section 4.2 and 4.4). 
Breast-feeding 
Small amounts of the contraceptive steroids and/or their metabolites may be excreted with the breast 
milk, but there is no evidence that this adversely affects infant health. 
Breast-feeding may be influenced by COCs as they may reduce the quantity and change the 
composition of breast milk. Therefore, the use of COCs should not be recommended until the breast-
feeding mother has completely weaned her child and an alternative method of contraception should be 
proposed to women wishing to breastfeed. 
Fertility 
Zoely is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy. For information on return to fertility, see 
section 5.1. 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Zoely has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use machines. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Six multi-centre clinical trials of up to one-year duration were used to evaluate safety of Zoely. In total 
3,434 women, aged 18-50, were enrolled and completed 33,828 cycles. 
Most commonly reported adverse reactions in these clinical trials were acne (15.4%) and withdrawal 
bleeding irregular (9.8%).  
An increased risk for venous and arterial thromboembolism, causative of serious adverse events has 
been observed with the use of CHCs (see section 4.4) 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Possibly related adverse reactions that have been reported in clinical trials or during post-marketing 
use with Zoely are listed in the table below. 
Adverse reactions are listed according to the MedDRA system organ class and ranked under frequency 
groupings using the following convention: very common ( 1/10), common ( 1/100 to < 1/10), 
uncommon ( 1/1,000 to < 1/100) and rare ( 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000). 
Table: List of adverse reactions  
Adverse reaction in MedDRA Term1 
Uncommon 
increased 
appetite, fluid 
retention 
Rare 
decreased 
appetite 
increased libido 
System organ class 
Very common 
Common 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric disorders 
decreased 
libido, 
depression/ 
depressed 
mood, mood 
altered 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System organ class 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Adverse reaction in MedDRA Term1 
Nervous system 
disorders 
headache, 
migraine 
Eye disorders 
Vascular disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous tissue 
disorders 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
Reproductive system 
and breast disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
nausea 
hot flush 
abdominal 
distension 
acne 
abnormal 
withdrawal 
bleeding 
metrorrhagia, 
menorrhagia, 
breast pain, 
pelvic pain 
hyperhydrosis, 
alopecia, 
pruritus, dry 
skin, seborrhea 
sensation of 
heaviness 
hypomenorrhoea, 
breast swelling, 
galactorrhoea, 
uterine spasm, 
premenstrual 
syndrome, breast 
mass, 
dyspareunia, 
vulvovaginal 
dryness 
irritability, 
oedema 
weight 
increased 
hepatic enzyme 
increased 
Rare 
cerebrovascular 
accident, 
transient 
ischaemic attack, 
disturbance in 
attention 
contact lens 
intolerance/dry 
eye 
venous 
thromboembolism 
dry mouth 
cholelithiasis, 
cholecystitis 
chloasma, 
hypertrichosis 
vaginal odour, 
vulvovaginal 
discomfort 
hunger 
1The most appropriate MedDRA term to describe a certain adverse reaction is listed. Synonyms or related 
conditions are not listed, but should be taken into account as well. 
In addition to the above-mentioned adverse reactions, hypersensitivity reactions have been reported in 
Zoely users (frequency unknown). 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
An increased risk of arterial and venous thrombotic and thromboembolic events, including myocardial 
infarction, stroke, transient ischaemic attacks, venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism has been 
observed in women using CHCs, which are discussed in more detail in section 4.4. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.9  Overdose 
Multiple doses up to five times the daily dose of Zoely and single doses up to 40 times the daily dose 
of nomegestrol acetate alone have been used in women without safety concern. On the basis of general 
experience with combined oral contraceptives, symptoms that may occur are: nausea, vomiting and, in 
young girls, slight vaginal bleeding. There are no antidotes and further treatment should be 
symptomatic. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1  Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Sex hormones and modulators of the genital system, progestogens and 
estrogens, fixed combinations, ATC code: G03AA14. 
Mechanism of action 
Nomegestrol acetate is a highly selective progestogen derived from the naturally occurring steroid 
hormone, progesterone. Nomegestrol acetate has a strong affinity for the human progesterone receptor 
and has an anti-gonadotropic activity, a progesterone receptor-mediated anti-oestrogenic activity, a 
moderate anti-androgenic activity, and is devoid of any oestrogenic, androgenic, glucocorticoid or 
mineralocorticoid activity. 
The oestrogen contained in Zoely is 17β-estradiol, an oestrogen identical to the endogenous human 
17β-estradiol. 
The contraceptive effect of Zoely is based on the interaction of various factors, the most important of 
which are seen as the inhibition of ovulation and the changes in the cervical secretion. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
In two randomised, open-label, comparative efficacy-safety trials, more than 3,200 women have been 
treated for up to 13 consecutive cycles with Zoely and more than 1,000 women with drospirenone 
3 mg – ethinylestradiol 30 μg (21/7 regimen). 
In the Zoely group, acne was reported by 15.4 % of the women (versus 7.9 % in the comparator 
group), weight increased was reported by 8.6 % of the women (versus 5.7 % in the comparator group), 
and abnormal withdrawal bleeding (predominantly absence of withdrawal bleeding) was reported by 
10.5 % of the women (versus 0.5 % in the comparator group). 
In the clinical trial performed with Zoely in the European Union the following Pearl Indices for the 
age class 18-35 years were calculated: 
Method failure: 0.40 (upper limit 95 % confidence interval 1.03). 
Method and user failure: 0.38 (upper limit 95 % confidence interval 0.97). 
In the clinical trial performed with Zoely in the United States the following Pearl Indices for the age 
class 18-35 years were calculated: 
Method failure: 1.22 (upper limit 95 % confidence interval 2.18). 
Method and user failure: 1.16 (upper limit 95 % confidence interval 2.08). 
In a randomised, open label trial, 32 women were treated for 6 cycles with Zoely. 
After discontinuation of Zoely, return to ovulation in the first 28 days after last tablet intake was 
observed in 79 % of the women. 
Endometrial histology was investigated in a subgroup of women (n=32) in one clinical study after 
13 cycles of treatment. There were no abnormal results. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population 
No data on efficacy and safety are available in adolescents below 18 years. Available pharmacokinetic 
data are described in section 5.2. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Nomegestrol acetate 
Absorption 
Orally administered nomegestrol acetate is rapidly absorbed. 
Maximum plasma concentrations of nomegestrol acetate of about 7 ng/mL are reached at 2 h after 
single administration. The absolute bioavailability of nomegestrol acetate after a single dose is 63 %. 
No clinically relevant effect of food was observed on the bioavailability of nomegestrol acetate. 
Distribution 
Nomegestrol acetate is extensively bound to albumin (97-98 %), but does not bind to sex hormone 
binding globulin (SHBG) or corticoid binding globulin (CBG). The apparent volume of distribution of 
nomegestrol acetate at steady-state is 1,645  576 L. 
Biotransformation 
Nomegestrol acetate is metabolized into several inactive hydroxylated metabolites by liver 
cytochrome P450 enzymes, mainly CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 with possible contribution of CYP2C19 
and CYP2C8. Nomegestrol acetate and its hydroxylated metabolites undergo extensive phase 2 
metabolism to form glucuronide- and sulphate conjugates. The apparent clearance at steady state is 
26 L/h. 
Elimination 
The elimination half-life (t1/2) is 46 h (ranging from 28-83 h) at steady state. The elimination half-life 
of metabolites was not determined. 
Nomegestrol acetate is excreted via urine and faeces. Approximately 80 % of the dose is excreted in 
urine and faeces within 4 days. Excretion of nomegestrol acetate was nearly complete after 10 days 
and amounts excreted were higher in faeces than in urine. 
Linearity 
Dose-linearity was observed in the range 0.625-5 mg (assessed in fertile and post-menopausal 
women). 
Steady-state conditions 
The pharmacokinetics of nomegestrol acetate are not influenced by SHBG. 
Steady-state is achieved after 5 days. Maximum plasma concentrations of nomegestrol acetate of about 
12 ng/mL are reached 1.5 h after dosing. Average steady state plasma concentrations are 4 ng/mL. 
Drug drug interactions 
Nomegestrol acetate causes in vitro no notable induction or inhibition of any cytochrome P450 
enzymes and has no clinically relevant interaction with the P-gp transporter. 
Estradiol 
Absorption 
Estradiol is subject to a substantial first-pass effect after oral administration. The absolute 
bioavailability is about 1 %. No clinically relevant effect of food was observed on the bioavailability 
of estradiol. 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The distribution of exogenous and endogenous estradiol is similar. Oestrogens are widely distributed 
in the body and are generally found in higher concentrations in the sex hormone target organs. 
Estradiol circulates in the blood bound to SHBG (37 %) and to albumin (61 %), while only 
approximately 1-2 % is unbound. 
Biotransformation 
Oral exogenous estradiol is extensively metabolized. The metabolism of exogenous and endogenous 
estradiol is similar. Estradiol is rapidly transformed in the gut and the liver in several metabolites, 
mainly estrone, which are subsequently conjugated and undergo entero-hepatic circulation. There is a 
dynamic equilibrium between estradiol, estrone and estrone-Sulfate due to various enzymatic activities 
including estradiol-dehydrogenases, sulfotransferases and aryl sulfatases. Oxidation of estrone and 
estradiol involves cytochrome P450 enzymes, mainly CYP1A2, CYP1A2 (extra hepatic), CYP3A4, 
CYP3A5, and CYP1B1 and CYP2C9. 
Elimination 
Estradiol is rapidly cleared from the circulation. Due to metabolism and enterohepatic circulation, a 
large circulating pool of oestrogen sulfates and glucuronides is present. This results in a highly 
variable baseline-corrected elimination half-life of estradiol, which is calculated to be 3.6 ± 1.5 h, after 
intravenous administration. 
Steady-state conditions 
Maximum serum concentrations of estradiol are about 90 pg/mL and are reached 6 h after dosing. 
Average serum concentrations are 50 pg/mL and these estradiol levels correspond with the early and 
late phase of a woman’s menstrual cycle. 
Special populations 
Effect of renal impairment 
No studies were performed to evaluate the effect of renal disease on the pharmacokinetics of Zoely. 
Effect of hepatic impairment 
No studies were conducted to evaluate the effect of hepatic disease on the pharmacokinetics of Zoely. 
However, steroid hormones may be poorly metabolized in women with impaired liver function. 
Ethnic groups 
No formal studies were performed to assess pharmacokinetics in ethnic groups. 
Paediatric population 
The pharmacokinetics of nomegestrol acetate (primary objective) after single oral dosing of Zoely in 
healthy postmenarcheal female adolescents and adult subjects were similar. However, after single oral 
dosing, for the estradiol component (secondary objective), the exposure was 36 % lower in adolescents 
versus adult subjects. The clinical relevance of this result is unknown. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Repeated dose toxicity studies with estradiol, nomegestrol acetate or combination have indicated 
expected oestrogenic and gestagen effects. 
Reproductive toxicity studies performed with the combination have shown foetotoxicity which is 
consistent with estradiol exposure. 
Genotoxicity and carcinogenicity studies were not conducted with the combination. Nomegestrol 
acetate is not genotoxic. 
However, it must be borne in mind that sex steroids can promote the growth of certain 
hormone-dependent tissues and tumours. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Tablet core (white active and yellow placebo film-coated tablets) 
Lactose monohydrate 
Microcrystalline cellulose (E460) 
Crospovidone (E1201) 
Talc (E553b) 
Magnesium stearate (E572) 
Colloidal anhydrous silica 
Tablet coat (white active film-coated tablets) 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol 3350 
Talc (E553b) 
Tablet coating (yellow placebo film-coated tablets) 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203) 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Macrogol 3350 
Talc (E553b) 
Yellow iron oxide (E172) 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
PVC/aluminium blister containing 28 film-coated tablets (24 white active tablets and 4 yellow placebo 
tablets). 
Pack sizes: 28, 84, 168 and 364 film-coated tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal 
COC tablets (including Zoely tablets) no longer required should not be disposed via wastewater or the 
municipal sewage system. The hormonal active compounds in the tablets may have harmful effects if 
reaching the aquatic environment. The tablets should be returned to a pharmacy or disposed of in 
another safe way according to local requirements. These measures will help to protect the 
environment. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Theramex Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor, Kilmore House, 
Park Lane, Spencer Dock, 
Dublin 1 
D01 YE64 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/690/001 
EU/1/11/690/002 
EU/1/11/690/003 
EU/1/11/690/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 27 July 2011 
Date of latest renewal: 10 May 2021 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency: http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Delpharm Lille S.A.S. 
Parc d’Activités Roubaix-Est 
22 Rue de Toufflers 
CS 50070 
59452 LYS-LEZ-LANNOY 
France 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
N.V. Organon 
Kloosterstraat 6 
5349 AB Oss 
The Netherlands 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Waarderweg 39 
2031 BN Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch. 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zoely 2.5 mg/1.5 mg film-coated tablets 
nomegestrol acetate/estradiol 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each white active tablet contains 2.5 mg nomegestrol acetate and 1.5 mg estradiol (as hemihydrate). 
Each yellow placebo tablet does not contain active substances. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Contains lactose monohydrate. 
See package leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Film-coated tablets 
28 film-coated tablets 
84 film-coated tablets 
168 film-coated tablets 
364 film-coated tablets 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Theramex Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor, Kilmore House, 
Park Lane, Spencer Dock, 
Dublin 1 
D01 YE64 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/11/690/001  28 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/11/690/002  84 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/11/690/003  168 film-coated tablets 
EU/1/11/690/004  364 film-coated tablets 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
zoely 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zoely 2.5 mg/1.5 mg tablets 
nomegestrol acetate/estradiol 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Theramex Ireland Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
[Box for placing day label stating:] Place day label here 
[Day numbering for each individual tablet:] Start,2, ….28 
[Arrows indicating the sequence of the tablets:] → 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DAY LABEL SHEET INCLUDING STICKERS PROVIDED WITH THE LEAFLET 
Day label sheet 
Choose the day label that begins with your starting day. 
Place the label on the blister over the words ‘Place day label here’. 
SUN  MON TUE  WED THU  FRI  SAT 
MON TUE  WED THU  FRI  SAT  SUN 
TUE  WED THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON 
WED THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON TUE 
THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON TUE  WED 
FRI  SAT  SUN  MON TUE  WED THU 
SAT  SUN  MON TUE  WED THU  FRI 
[Second day label sheet for box of 3 blisters stating, twice:] 
SUN  MON TUE  WED THU  FRI  SAT 
MON TUE  WED THU  FRI  SAT  SUN 
TUE  WED THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON 
WED THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON TUE 
THU  FRI  SAT  SUN  MON TUE  WED 
FRI  SAT  SUN  MON TUE  WED THU 
SAT  SUN  MON TUE  WED THU  FRI 
[In front of day labels intended for second blister:] Blister 2 
[In front of day labels intended for third blister:] Blister 3 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Zoely 2.5 mg/1.5 mg film-coated tablets 
nomegestrol acetate/estradiol 
Important things to know about combined hormonal contraceptives (CHCs): 
• 
• 
They are one of the most reliable reversible methods of contraception if used correctly. 
They slightly increase the risk of having a blood clot in the veins and arteries, especially in the 
first year or when restarting a combined hormonal contraceptive following a break of 4 or more 
weeks. 
Please be alert and see your doctor if you think you may have symptoms of a blood clot (see 
section 2 “Blood clots”). 
• 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them. 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Zoely is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you use Zoely 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to use Zoely 
Possible side effects 
How to store Zoely 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Zoely is and what it is used for 
Zoely is a contraceptive pill that is used to prevent pregnancy. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
All 24 white film-coated tablets are active tablets that contain a small amount of two different 
female hormones. These are nomegestrol acetate (a progestogen) and estradiol (an oestrogen). 
The 4 yellow film-coated tablets are inactive tablets that do not contain hormones and are called 
placebo tablets. 
Contraceptive pills that contain two different hormones, like Zoely, are called ‘combined pills’. 
Nomegestrol acetate (the progestogen in Zoely) and estradiol (the oestrogen in Zoely) work 
together to prevent ovulation (release of an egg from the ovary) and to reduce the chance of any 
released egg being fertilised and making you pregnant. 
2.  What you need to know before you use Zoely 
General notes 
Before you start using Zoely you should read the information on blood clots (thrombosis) in section 2. 
It is particularly important to read the symptoms of a blood clot – see section 2 “Blood clots”. 
Before you can begin taking Zoely, your doctor will ask you about your personal health history and 
that of your close relatives in order to give you an individual advice on the treatment. The doctor will 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
also measure your blood pressure and, depending upon your personal situation, may also carry out 
some other tests. 
This leaflet describes situations where you should stop taking the pill, or where the pill protection 
against pregnancy may be decreased. In such situations you should not have sex or you should take 
extra non-hormonal contraceptive precautions, e.g., use a condom or another barrier method. Do not 
use rhythm or temperature methods. These methods may not protect against pregnancy because the 
pill alters the usual changes in temperature and cervical mucus that occur during the menstrual cycle. 
Zoely, like other hormonal contraceptives, does not protect against human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection (which can cause acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, AIDS) or any 
other sexually transmitted disease. 
Do not use Zoely 
You must not use Zoely if you have any of the conditions listed below. If you do have any of the 
conditions listed below, you must tell your doctor. Your doctor will discuss with you what other form 
of birth control would be more appropriate. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
severe diabetes with blood vessel damage; 
very high blood pressure; 
a very high level of certain fat in the blood (cholesterol or triglycerides); 
a condition known as hyperhomocysteinaemia; 
if you have (or have ever had) a blood clot in a blood vessel of your legs (deep vein thrombosis, 
DVT), your lungs (pulmonary embolism, PE) or other organs; 
if you have a disorder affecting your blood clotting - for instance, protein C deficiency, protein 
S deficiency, antithrombin – III deficiency, Factor V Leiden or antiphospholipid antibodies; 
if you need an operation or if you are off your feet for a long time (see section ‘Blood clots); 
if you have ever had a heart attack or a stroke; 
if you have ever had angina pectoris (a condition that causes severe chest pain and may be a first 
sign of blocked blood vessels around your heart, known as heart attack) or transient ischaemic 
attack (TIA, temporary stroke symptoms); 
if you have any of the following diseases that may increase your risk of a clot in the arteries: 
– 
– 
– 
– 
if you have ever had a type of migraine called ‘migraine with aura’; 
if you have ever had inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) associated with high levels of 
fat in your blood; 
if you have ever had a severe liver disease and your liver function is not yet working normally; 
if you have ever had a benign or malignant tumour in the liver; 
if you have ever had, or if you may have, cancer of the breast or the genital organs; 
if you have meningioma or have ever been diagnosed with a meningioma (a generally benign 
tumour of the tissue layer between the brain and the skull).  
if you have any unexplained bleeding from the vagina; 
if you are allergic to estradiol or nomegestrol acetate, or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
If any of these conditions appear for the first time while using Zoely, stop taking it at once and tell 
your doctor. In the meantime, use a non-hormonal contraceptive. See also ‘General Notes’ in section 2 
above. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before using Zoely. 
When should you contact your doctor? 
Seek urgent medical attention if you: 
• 
notice possible signs of a blood clot that may mean you are suffering from a blood clot in the 
leg (i.e., deep vein thrombosis), a blood clot in the lung (i.e., pulmonary embolism), a heart 
attack or a stroke (see “Blood clots” section below). 
For a description of the symptoms of these serious side effects please go to “How to recognise a blood 
clot”. 
• 
notice any changes in your own health, especially involving any of the items mentioned in this 
leaflet (see also in section 2 ‘Do not use Zoely’; do not forget about the changes in the health of 
your immediate family); 
feel a lump in your breast; 
experience symptoms of angioedema such as swollen face, tongue and/or throat and/or 
difficulty swallowing or hives together with difficulty breathing; 
are going to use other medicines (see also in section 2 ‘Other medicines and Zoely’); 
are to be immobilised or are to have surgery (tell your doctor at least four weeks in advance); 
have unusual, heavy vaginal bleeding; 
forgot one or more tablets in the first week of the blister pack and had unprotected sex in the 
seven days before (see also in section 3 ‘If you forget to take Zoely’); 
have severe diarrhoea or experience severe vomiting; 
miss periods and suspect you may be pregnant (do not start the next blister pack until your 
doctor tells you, see also in section 3 ‘If you have missed one or more periods’). 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Tell your doctor if any of the following conditions apply to you. 
If the condition develops, or gets worse while you are using Zoely, you should also tell your doctor if 
you have: 
• 
hereditary and acquired angioedema. Consult your doctor immediately if you experience 
symptoms of angioedema such as swollen face, tongue and/or throat and/or difficulty 
swallowing or hives, together with difficulty breathing. Medicines containing oestrogens may 
induce or worsen symptoms of angioedema; 
epilepsy (see in section 2 ‘Other medicines and Zoely’); 
liver disease (for instance jaundice) or gallbladder disease (for instance gallstones); 
diabetes; 
depression; 
Crohn’s disease or ulcerative colitis (chronic inflammatory bowel disease); 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE, a disease affecting your natural defence system); 
haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS, a disorder of blood clotting causing failure of the 
kidneys); 
sickle cell anaemia (an inherited disease of the red blood cells); 
elevated levels of fat in the blood (hypertriglyceridaemia) or a positive family history for this 
condition. Hypertriglyceridaemia has been associated with an increased risk of developing 
pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas); 
an inflammation in the veins under the skin (superficial thrombophlebitis); 
varicose veins. 
a condition that occurred for the first time or worsened during pregnancy or previous use of 
female hormones (e.g. hearing loss, porphyria [a disease of the blood], herpes gestationis [skin 
rash with vesicles during pregnancy], Sydenham’s chorea [a disease of the nerves in which 
sudden movements of the body occur]); 
or have ever had chloasma (a skin yellowish-brown pigment patches, so called ‘pregnancy 
patches’, particularly on the face). If so, avoid too much exposure to the sun or ultraviolet light; 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
Also tell your doctor if: 
• 
• 
• 
a close relative has or has ever had breast cancer; 
you need an operation or if you are off your feet for a long time (see in section 2 ‘Blood clots); 
you have just given birth you are at an increased risk of blood clots. You should ask your doctor 
how soon after delivery you can start taking Zoely. 
BLOOD CLOTS 
Using a combined hormonal contraceptive such as Zoely increases your risk of developing a blood 
clot compared with not using one. In rare cases a blood clot can block blood vessels and cause serious 
problems. 
Blood clots can develop 
• 
in veins (referred to as ‘venous thrombosis’, ‘venous thromboembolism’ or VTE) 
• 
in the arteries (referred to as an ‘arterial thrombosis’, ‘arterial thromboembolism’ or ATE). 
Recovery from blood clots is not always complete. Rarely, there may be serious lasting effects or, very 
rarely, they may be fatal. 
It is important to remember that the overall risk of a harmful blood clot due to Zoely is small. 
HOW TO RECOGNISE A BLOOD CLOT 
Seek urgent medical attention if you notice any of the following signs or symptoms. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
What are you possibly 
suffering from? 
Deep vein thrombosis 
Pulmonary embolism 
Are you experiencing any of these signs? 
• 
swelling of one leg or along a vein in the leg or foot especially when 
accompanied by: 
•  pain or tenderness in the leg which may be felt only when 
• 
• 
standing or walking 
increased warmth in the affected leg 
change in colour of the skin on the leg e.g. turning pale, red 
or blue 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
sudden unexplained breathlessness or rapid breathing; 
sudden cough without an obvious cause, which may bring up blood; 
sharp chest pain which may increase with deep breathing; 
severe light headedness or dizziness; 
rapid or irregular heartbeat; 
severe pain in your stomach; 
If you are unsure, talk to a doctor as some of these symptoms such as 
coughing or being short of breath may be mistaken for a milder condition 
such as a respiratory tract infection (e.g., a ‘common cold’). 
Symptoms most commonly occur in one eye: 
• 
•  painless blurring of vision which can progress to loss of vision 
immediate loss of vision or 
Retinal vein thrombosis 
(blood clot in the eye) 
• 
• 
chest pain, discomfort, pressure, heaviness 
sensation of squeezing or fullness in the chest, arm or below the 
breastbone; 
fullness, indigestion or choking feeling; 
• 
•  upper body discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, arm and 
Heart attack 
stomach; 
sweating, nausea, vomiting or dizziness; 
extreme weakness, anxiety, or shortness of breath; 
rapid or irregular heartbeats 
sudden weakness or numbness of the face, arm or leg, especially on 
one side of the body; 
sudden confusion, trouble speaking or understanding; 
sudden trouble seeing in one or both eyes; 
sudden trouble walking, dizziness, loss of balance or coordination; 
sudden, severe or prolonged headache with no known cause; 
loss of consciousness or fainting with or without seizure. 
Stroke 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Sometimes the symptoms of stroke can be brief with an almost 
immediate and full recovery, but you should still seek urgent medical 
attention as you may be at risk of another stroke. 
• 
• 
swelling and slight blue discolouration of an extremity; 
severe pain in your stomach (acute abdomen). 
Blood clots blocking 
other blood vessels 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BLOOD CLOTS IN A VEIN 
What can happen if a blood clot forms in a vein? 
• 
The use of combined hormonal contraceptives has been connected with an increase in the risk of 
blood clots in the vein (venous thrombosis). However, these side effects are rare. Most 
frequently, they occur in the first year of use of a combined hormonal contraceptive. 
If a blood clot forms in a vein in the leg or foot it can cause a deep vein thrombosis (DVT). 
If a blood clot travels from the leg and lodges in the lung it can cause a pulmonary embolism. 
Very rarely a clot may form in a vein in another organ such as the eye (retinal vein thrombosis). 
• 
• 
• 
When is the risk of developing a blood clot in a vein highest? 
The risk of developing a blood clot in a vein is highest during the first year of taking a combined 
hormonal contraceptive for the first time. The risk may also be higher if you restart taking a combined 
hormonal contraceptive (the same product or a different product) after a break of 4 weeks or more. 
After the first year, the risk gets smaller but is always slightly higher than if you were not using a 
combined hormonal contraceptive. 
When you stop Zoely your risk of a blood clot returns to normal within a few weeks. 
What is the risk of developing a blood clot? 
The risk depends on your natural risk of VTE and the type of combined hormonal contraceptive you 
are taking. 
The overall risk of a blood clot in the leg or lung (DVT or PE) with Zoely is small. 
• 
Out of 10,000 women who are not using any combined hormonal contraceptive and are not 
pregnant, about 2 will develop a blood clot in a year. 
Out of 10,000 women who are using a combined hormonal contraceptive that contains 
levonorgestrel, norethisterone, or norgestimate, about 5-7 will develop a blood clot in a year. 
The risk of a blood clot with Zoely compares to the risk with a combined hormonal 
contraceptive that contains levonorgestrel. 
The risk of having a blood clot will vary according to your personal medical history (see 
“Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot” below). 
• 
• 
• 
Women who are not using a combined hormonal pill and are not 
pregnant 
Risk of developing a blood 
clot in a year 
About 2 out of 10,000 women 
Women using a combined hormonal contraceptive pill 
containing levonorgestrel, norethisterone or norgestimate 
About 5-7 out of 10,000 women 
Women using Zoely 
 About the same as with other 
combined hormonal 
contraceptives including 
contraceptives containing 
levonorgestrel 
Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot in a vein 
The risk of a blood clot with Zoely is small but some conditions will increase the risk. Your risk is 
higher: 
• 
• 
if you are very overweight (body mass index or BMI over 30 kg/m2); 
if one of your immediate family has had a blood clot in the leg, lung or other organ at a young 
age (e.g., below the age of about 50 years). In this case you could have a hereditary blood 
clotting disorder; 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
if you need to have an operation, or if you are off your feet for a long time because of an injury 
or illness, or you have your leg in a cast. The use of Zoely may need to be stopped several 
weeks before surgery or while you are less mobile. If you need to stop Zoely ask your doctor 
when you can start using it again. 
as you get older (particularly above about 35 years); 
if you gave birth less than a few weeks ago. 
The risk of developing a blood clot increases the more conditions you have. 
Air travel (for longer than 4 hours) may temporarily increase your risk of a blood clot, particularly if 
you have some of the other factors listed. 
It is important to tell your doctor if any of these conditions apply to you, even if you are unsure. Your 
doctor may decide that Zoely needs to be stopped. 
If any of the above conditions change while you are using Zoely, for example a close family member 
has a thrombosis for no known reason or you gain a lot of weight, tell your doctor. 
BLOOD CLOTS IN AN ARTERY 
What can happen if a blood clot forms in an artery? 
Like a blood clot in a vein, a clot in an artery can cause serious problems. For example, it can cause a 
heart attack or a stroke. 
Factors that increase your risk of a blood clot in an artery 
It is important to note that the risk of a heart attack or stroke from using Zoely is very small but can 
increase: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
with increasing age (beyond about 35 years); 
if you smoke. When using a combined hormonal contraceptive like Zoely you are advised to 
stop smoking. If you are unable to stop smoking and are older than 35 years your doctor may 
advise you to use a different type of contraceptive; 
if you are overweight; 
if you have high blood pressure; 
if a member of your immediate family has had a heart attack or stroke at a young age (less than 
about 50 years). In this case you could also have a higher risk of having a heart attack or stroke; 
if you, or someone in your immediate family, have a high level of fat in the blood (cholesterol 
or triglycerides); 
if you get migraines, especially migraines with aura; 
if you have a problem with your heart (valve disorder, disturbance of the rhythm called atrial 
fibrillation) 
if you have diabetes. 
If you have more than one of these conditions or if any of them are particularly severe, the risk of 
developing a blood clot may be increased even more. 
If any of the above conditions change while you are using Zoely, for example, you start smoking, a 
close family member experiences a thrombosis for no known reason or you gain a lot of weight, tell 
your doctor. 
Cancer 
Breast cancer has been detected slightly more often in women using combined contraceptives, but it is 
not known if it is caused by the combined pills. For example, it may be that tumours are detected more 
in women on combined pills because they have breast examination by their doctor more often. After 
stopping the combined pill, the increased risk gradually reduces. 
It is important to check your breasts regularly and you should contact your doctor if you feel any 
lump. You should also tell your doctor if a close relative has, or ever had breast cancer (see section 2 
“Warnings and precautions”). 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In rare cases, benign (noncancerous) liver tumours, and in even rarer cases malignant (cancerous) liver 
tumours have occurred in pill users. Contact your doctor if you have unusual severe abdominal pain. 
Cervical cancer is caused by an infection with the human papilloma virus (HPV). It has been reported 
to occur more often in women using the pill for more than 5 years. It is not known if this is due to the 
use of hormonal contraceptives or to other factors, such as difference in sexual behaviour. 
Meningiomas 
Use of nomegestrol acetate has been linked to the development of a generally benign tumours of the 
tissue layer between the brain and the skull (meningioma). The risk increases especially when you use 
it at high doses for longer duration (several years). If you are diagnosed with meningioma, your doctor 
will stop your treatment with Zoely (see section ‘Do not use Zoely’). If you notice any symptoms such 
as changes in vision (e.g. seeing double or blurriness), hearing loss or ringing in the ears, loss of smell, 
headaches that worsen with time, memory loss, seizures, weakness in your arms or legs, you must tell 
your doctor straightaway. 
Psychiatric disorders 
Some women using hormonal contraceptives including Zoely have reported depression or depressed 
mood. Depression can be serious and may sometimes lead to suicidal thoughts. If you experience 
mood changes and depressive symptoms contact your doctor for further medical advice as soon as 
possible. 
Laboratory tests 
If you are having any blood or urinary test, tell your doctor that you are using Zoely as it may affect 
the results of some tests. 
Children and adolescents 
No data on efficacy and safety are available in adolescents below 18 years. 
Other medicines and Zoely 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. 
Also tell any other healthcare professional who prescribes or dispenses another medicine that you use 
Zoely. 
• 
There are medicines that can make Zoely less effective in preventing pregnancy, or can cause 
unexpected bleeding. These include medicines used to treat: 
– 
epilepsy (e.g. primidone, phenytoin, phenobarbital, carbamazepine, oxcarbazepine, 
topiramate, felbamate); 
tuberculosis (e.g. rifampicin); 
HIV infection (e.g. rifabutin, ritonavir, efavirenz); 
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection (e.g. protease inhibitors); 
other infectious diseases (e.g. griseofulvin); 
high blood pressure in the blood vessels in the lungs, known as pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (bosentan). 
– 
– 
– 
– 
– 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The herbal product St. John’s wort (Hypericum perforatum) may also stop Zoely from working 
properly. If you want to use herbal products containing St. John’s wort while you are already 
using Zoely you should check with your doctor first. 
If you are taking medicines or herbal products that might make Zoely less effective, a barrier 
contraceptive method should also be used. Since the effect of another medicine on Zoely may 
last up to 28 days after you stop the medicine, it is necessary to use the additional barrier 
contraceptive method for that long. 
Some medicines can increase the levels of the active substances of Zoely in the blood. The 
effectiveness of the pill is maintained, but tell your doctor if you are using anti-fungal medicines 
containing ketoconazole. 
Zoely may also interfere with the working of other medicines, such as the anti-epileptic 
lamotrigine. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
The Hepatitis C virus (HCV) combination regimen ombitasvir/paritaprevir/ritonavir with or 
without dasabuvir and also the regimen with glecaprevir/pibrentasvir (see section 4.4) may 
cause increases in liver function blood test results (increase in ALT liver enzyme) in women 
using CHCs containing ethinylestradiol. Zoely contains estradiol instead of ethinylestradiol. It is 
not known whether an increase in ALT liver enzyme can occur when using Zoely with this HCV 
combination regimen. Your doctor will advise you. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Zoely must not be used by women who are pregnant, or who think they may be pregnant. If you get 
pregnant while using Zoely you should stop using Zoely immediately and contact your doctor. 
If you want to stop Zoely because you want to get pregnant, see in section 3 ‘If you stop taking Zoely’. 
Zoely is not usually recommended for use during breast-feeding. If you wish to use the pill while 
breast-feeding, you should check with your doctor. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking any medicine. 
Driving and using machines 
Zoely has no or negligible effect on your ability to drive and use machines. 
Zoely contains lactose 
If you have been told by your doctor that you have an intolerance to some sugars, contact your doctor 
before taking this medicine. 
3. 
How to use Zoely 
Always use this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor 
or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
When and how to take the tablets 
The Zoely blister contains 28 film-coated tablets: 24 white tablets with the active substances 
(number 1-24) and 4 yellow tablets without active substances (number 25-28). 
Each time you start a new blister of Zoely, take the number 1 white active tablet in the left-hand top 
corner (see ‘Start’). Choose from the 7 stickers with day indicators the one in the grey column that 
begins with your starting day. For example, if you start on a Wednesday, use the day label sticker that 
starts with ‘WED’. Place it on the blister, just above the row of white active tablets where it reads 
‘Place day label here’. This allows you to check whether you took your daily tablet. 
Take one tablet each day at about the same time, with some water if necessary. 
Follow the direction of the arrows on the blister, so use the white active tablets first and then the 
yellow placebo tablets. 
Your period will start during the 4 days that you use the yellow placebo tablets (so-called withdrawal 
bleeding). Usually it will start 2-3 days after you use the last white active tablet and may not have 
finished before you start the next blister. 
Start taking the next blister immediately after you use the last yellow placebo tablet, even if your 
period hasn’t finished. This means that you will always start a new blister on the same day of the 
week, and also that you have your period on roughly the same days each month. 
Some women may not have their period every month when they are using the yellow placebo tablets. 
If you have taken Zoely every day according to these directions, it is unlikely that you are pregnant 
(see also section 3 ‘If you have missed one or more periods’). 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Starting your first pack of Zoely 
If you have not used a contraceptive with hormones in the previous month 
Begin with Zoely on the first day of the cycle (that is the first day of your period). If you start Zoely 
on the first day of your period you are immediately protected against pregnancy. You do not need to 
use an additional contraceptive method. 
Changing from another combined hormonal contraceptive (combined pill, vaginal ring, or transdermal 
patch) 
You can start Zoely preferably on the day after you have taken the last active tablet (the last tablet 
containing the active substances) of your present pill blister (this means no tablet-free break). If your 
present pill blister also contains inactive (placebo) tablets you can start Zoely on the day after taking 
the last active tablet (if you are not sure which this is, ask your doctor or pharmacist). You can also 
start Zoely later, but never later than the day following the tablet-free break of your present pill (or the 
day after the last inactive tablet of your present pill). In case you change from a vaginal ring or 
transdermal patch, it is best to start Zoely on the day you remove the ring or patch. You can also start, 
at the latest, on the day you would have started using the next ring or patch. 
If you follow these instructions, it is not necessary to use an additional contraceptive method.  If you 
have any concerns about whether you are protected please seek the advice of your doctor. 
Changing from a progestogen-only pill (minipill) 
You can switch any day from the progestogen-only pill to start Zoely on the next day, but you must 
use a barrier method of contraception (for example, a condom) during the first 7 days that you are 
taking Zoely. 
When changing from a progestogen-only injectable, implant or a hormone-medicated intrauterine 
system (IUS) 
Start using Zoely when your next injection is due or on the day that your implant or IUS is removed. 
But if you are having intercourse, make sure you also use a barrier method of contraception for the 
first 7 days that you are taking Zoely. 
After having a baby 
You can start Zoely between 21 and 28 days after having a baby. If you start later than day 28, you 
must use a barrier method of contraception (for example, a condom) during the first 7 days that you 
are taking Zoely. If, after having a baby, you have had sex before starting Zoely, you must first be sure 
that you are not pregnant or you must wait until your next period.  
If you are breast-feeding and want to start Zoely after having a baby, see section 2 ‘Pregnancy and 
Breast-feeding’. 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist what to do if you are not sure when to start. 
After a miscarriage or an abortion 
Follow the advice of your doctor. 
If you take more Zoely than you should 
There have been no reports of serious harm from taking too many Zoely tablets. If you have taken 
several tablets at once, then you may feel sick (nausea), vomit or bleed from the vagina. If you have 
taken too many Zoely tablets, or you discover that a child has taken some, ask your doctor or 
pharmacist for advice. 
If you forget to take Zoely 
The following advice only refers to missed white active tablets. 
• 
• 
if you are less than 24 hours late taking a tablet, the pill protection against pregnancy is 
maintained. Take the tablet as soon as possible and then take the next tablets at the usual time. 
if you are 24 or more hours late taking a tablet, the pill protection against pregnancy may be 
reduced. The more tablets you have forgotten, the higher your risk of becoming pregnant. There 
is a particularly high risk of becoming pregnant if you miss white active tablets at the beginning 
or at the end of the blister. Therefore you should follow the rules given below. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Day 1-7 of white active tablet intake (see picture and schedule) 
Take the forgotten white active tablet as soon as possible, even if this means that you have to take two 
tablets at the same time, and continue to take the next tablet at the usual time. However, use a barrier 
method of contraception (for example, a condom) as an extra precaution until you have taken your 
tablets correctly for 7 days in a row. 
If you had sex in the week before missing the tablets, there is a possibility of you becoming or being 
pregnant. In that case, contact your doctor immediately. 
Day 8-17 of white active tablet intake (see picture and schedule) 
Take the last missed tablet as soon as you remember (even if this means taking two tablets at the same 
time) and take the next tablets at the usual time. If you have taken your tablets correctly in the 7 days 
prior to the missed tablet, the protection against pregnancy is not reduced, and you do not need to use 
extra precautions. However, if you have missed more than 1 tablet, use a barrier method such as a 
condom as an extra precaution until you have taken your tablets correctly for 7 days in a row. 
Day 18-24 of white active tablet intake (see picture and schedule) 
There is a particularly high risk of you becoming pregnant if you miss white active tablets close to the 
yellow placebo tablet interval. By adjusting your intake schedule this higher risk can be prevented. 
The following two options can be followed. You do not need to use extra precautions if you have 
taken your tablets correctly in the 7 days prior to the missed tablet. If this is not the case, you should 
follow the first of these two options and use a barrier method of contraception (for example, a 
condom) as an extra precaution until you have taken your tablets correctly for 7 days in a row. 
Option 1: Take the last missed white active tablet as soon as possible, even if this means that you have 
to take two tablets at the same time, and continue to take the next tablets at the usual time. Start the 
next blister as soon as the white active tablets in the current blister are finished, so skip the yellow 
placebo tablets. You may not have your period until you take the yellow placebo tablets at the end of 
the second blister, but you may have light or menstruation-like bleeding while taking the white active 
tablets. 
Option 2: Stop taking the white active tablets and start taking the yellow placebo tablets for a 
maximum of 3 days so that the total number of placebo plus missed white active tablets is not more 
than 4. At the end of the yellow placebo tablets intake, start the next blister. 
If you cannot remember how many white active tablets you have missed, follow the first option, use a 
barrier method such as a condom as an extra precaution until you have taken your tablets correctly for 
7 days in a row, and contact your doctor (as you may not have been protected from being pregnant). 
If you have forgotten to take white active tablets in a blister, and you do not have the expected 
monthly period while taking the yellow placebo tablets from the same blister, you may be pregnant. 
You must contact your doctor before you start with the next blister. 
The following advice only refers to forgotten yellow placebo tablets 
The last 4 yellow tablets of the fourth row are placebo tablets which do not contain active substances. 
If you forgot to take one of these tablets, the Zoely protection against pregnancy is maintained. Throw 
away the yellow placebo tablet(s) you missed and start taking the tablets of the next blister at the usual 
time. 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Picture 
Schedule if you are 24 or more hours late taking white active tablets 
If you vomit or have severe diarrhoea 
If you vomit within 3-4 hours of taking a white active tablet, or you have severe diarrhoea, there is a 
risk that the active substance in Zoely tablets may not have been completely absorbed into your body. 
The situation is similar to if you forget a white active tablet. After vomiting or diarrhoea, you must 
take another white active tablet from a reserve blister as soon as possible. If possible, take it within 
24 hours of when you normally take your pill. Take the next tablet at the usual time. If this is not 
possible or 24 or more hours have passed, you should follow the advice given under "If you forget to 
take Zoely". If you have severe diarrhoea, please tell your doctor. 
The yellow tablets are placebo tablets which do not contain active substances. If you vomit or have 
severe diarrhoea within 3-4 hours of taking a yellow placebo tablet, the Zoely protection against 
pregnancy is maintained. 
If you want to delay your period 
Even if it is not recommended, you can delay your period by missing out taking the yellow placebo 
tablets from the fourth row and going straight to a new blister of Zoely. You may have light or 
menstruation-like bleeding while using this second blister. When you wish your period to begin during 
the second blister, stop taking the white active tablets and start taking the yellow placebo tablets. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Finish this second blister by taking the 4 yellow placebo tablets, and then start with the next (third) 
blister. If you are not sure what to do, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
If you want to change the starting day of your period 
If you take the tablets according to the instructions, then your period will begin during the placebo 
days. If you have to change this day, reduce the number of placebo days – when you take the yellow 
placebo tablets – but never increase them (4 is the maximum). For example, if you start taking the 
yellow placebo tablets on Friday, and you want to change this to a Tuesday (3 days earlier) you must 
start a new blister 3 days earlier than usual. You may not have any bleeding during the shortened 
period of yellow placebo tablet intake. While using the next blister you may have light or 
menstruation-like bleeding on white active tablet-taking days. If you are not sure what to do, ask 
your doctor or pharmacist for advice. 
If you have unexpected bleeding 
With all combined pills, for the first few months, you can have some irregular vaginal bleeding 
(spotting or breakthrough bleeding) between your periods. You may need to use sanitary protection, 
but keep taking your tablets as usual. Irregular vaginal bleeding usually stops once your body has 
adjusted to the pill (usually after about 3 months). If bleeding continues, becomes heavy or starts 
again, contact your doctor. 
If you have missed one or more periods 
Clinical trials with Zoely have shown that you may occasionally miss your regular monthly period 
after Day 24. 
• 
If you have taken all the tablets correctly, and you have not vomited or had severe diarrhoea, or 
used other medicines, then it is very unlikely that you are pregnant. Keep taking Zoely as usual. 
See also in section 3 ‘If you vomit or have severe diarrhoea’ or in section 2 ‘Other medicines 
and Zoely’. 
If you have not taken all the tablets correctly, or if your expected period does not happen twice 
in a row, you may be pregnant. Contact your doctor immediately. Do not start the next blister of 
Zoely until your doctor has checked that you are not pregnant. 
• 
If you stop taking Zoely 
You can stop taking Zoely at any time. If you do not want to become pregnant, first ask your doctor 
about other methods of birth control. 
If you stop taking Zoely because you want to get pregnant, it is best to wait until you have had a 
natural period before trying to become pregnant. This will help you to determine when the baby will 
be due. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them.  
If you get any side effect, particularly if severe or persistent, or have any change to your health that 
you think may be due to Zoely, please talk to your doctor. 
An increased risk of blood clots in your veins (venous thromboembolism (VTE)) or blood clots in 
your arteries (arterial thromboembolism (ATE)) is present for all women taking combined hormonal 
contraceptives. For more detailed information on the different risks from taking combined hormonal 
contraceptives, please see section 2, “What you need to know before you use Zoely”. 
The following side effects have been linked with the use of Zoely: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
acne 
changes to menstrual periods (e.g. absence or irregularity) 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decreased interest in sex; depression/depressed mood; mood changes 
headache or migraine 
feeling sick (nausea) 
heavy menstrual periods, breast pain, pelvic pain 
weight gain 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
increased appetite, fluid retention (oedema) 
hot flush 
swollen abdomen (belly) 
increased sweating, hair loss, itching, dry skin, oily skin 
heaviness in limbs 
regular but scanty periods, larger breasts, breast lump, milk production while not pregnant, 
premenstrual syndrome, pain during sex, dryness in the vagina or vulva, spasm of the uterus 
irritability 
increased liver enzymes 
• 
• 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
harmful blood clots in a vein or artery, for example: 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
in a leg or foot (i.e., DVT) 
in a lung (i.e., PE) 
heart attack 
stroke 
mini-stroke or temporary stroke-like symptoms known as a transient ischaemic attack 
(TIA) 
blood clots in the liver, stomach/intestine, kidneys or eye. 
o 
The chance of having a blood clot may be higher if you have any other conditions that increase this 
risk. (See section 2 for more information on the conditions that increase risk for blood clots and the 
symptoms of a blood clot.) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
decreased appetite 
increased interest in sex 
disturbance in attention 
dry eye, contact lens intolerance 
dry mouth 
golden brown pigment patches, mostly in the face, excessive hair growth 
vaginal smell, discomfort in the vagina or vulva 
hunger 
disease of the gallbladder 
Allergic (hypersensitive) reactions have been reported in users of Zoely, but the frequency cannot be 
estimated from the available data. 
Further information on the possible side effect changes to menstrual periods (e.g. absence or irregular) 
during the use of Zoely is described in section 3 ‘When and how to take the tablets’, ‘If you have 
unexpected bleeding’ and ‘If you have missed one or more periods’). 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. 
How to store Zoely 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and carton after EXP. The 
expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Combined pills (including Zoely tablets) no longer required should not be disposed via wastewater or 
the municipal sewage system. The hormonal active substances in the tablet may have harmful effects 
if they reach the aquatic environment. Return them to a pharmacy or dispose them in another safe way 
according to local requirements. These measures will help to protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Zoely contains 
- 
- 
The active substances are: nomegestrol acetate and estradiol 
White active film-coated tablets: Each tablet contains 2.5 mg nomegestrol acetate and 1.5 mg 
estradiol (as hemihydrate). 
Yellow placebo film-coated tablets: The tablet does not contain active substances. 
The other ingredients are: 
Tablet core (white active and yellow placebo film-coated tablets): 
Lactose monohydrate (see section 2 ‘Zoely contains lactose’), microcrystalline cellulose (E460), 
crospovidone (E1201), talc (E553b), magnesium stearate (E572) and colloidal anhydrous silica  
Tablet coat (white active film-coated tablets): 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203), titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol 3350 and talc (E553b) 
Tablet coat (yellow placebo film-coated tablets): 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203), titanium dioxide (E171), macrogol 3350, talc (E553b), yellow iron 
oxide(E172) and black iron oxide(E172) 
What Zoely looks like and contents of the pack 
The active film-coated tablets (tablets) are white and round. They are coded ‘ne’ on both sides. 
The placebo film-coated tablets are yellow and round. They are coded ‘p’ on both sides. 
Zoely comes in blisters of 28 film-coated tablets (24 white active film-coated tablets and 4 yellow 
placebo film-coated tablets) packed in a ply carton. Pack sizes: 28, 84, 168 and 364 film-coated 
tablets. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Theramex Ireland Limited 
3rd Floor, Kilmore House, 
Park Lane, Spencer Dock, 
Dublin 1 
D01 YE64 
Ireland 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturer 
Delpharm Lille S.A.S. 
Parc d’Activités Roubaix-Est 
22 Rue de Toufflers 
CS 50070 
59452 LYS-LEZ-LANNOY 
France 
Teva Operations Poland Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Mogilska 80 
31-546 Krakow 
Poland 
N.V. Organon 
Kloosterstraat 6 
5349 AB Oss 
The Netherlands 
Merck Sharp & Dohme B.V. 
Waarderweg 39 
2031 BN Haarlem 
The Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annex IV 
Scientific conclusions 
46 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Nomegestrol acetate (NOMAC) and chlormadinone acetate (CMA) are both progestin derivatives 
with anti-gonadotropic effects. Both progestins have additional antiestrogenic but also 
antiandrogenic activity. Their antiandrogenic activity has been shown being 30% (CMA) and 90% 
(NOMAC) compared with cyproterone acetate (CPA) that was set as the reference antiandrogenic 
progestin with a 100 % antiandrogenic activity in castrated, androgen-treated rats (Kuhl 2005). 
Approved indications for nomegestrol acetate and chlormadinone acetate in monotherapy or in 
combination with estradiol or ethinylestradiol differ between the different strengths and between 
the different countries. Overall, they are indicated for gynaecological and menstrual disorders, 
hormone replacement therapy and, at lower doses, as hormonal contraception. 
Meningioma is a rare brain tumour which forms from the meninges. Although most meningiomas 
are benign tumours, their intracranial location may lead to serious and potentially lethal 
consequences. Women are approximately twice likely to develop it as men, suggesting a role of 
sexual hormones in the physiopathology. 
The risk of meningioma associated with nomegestrol acetate use is known since 2018. Indeed, this 
risk was then discussed during the PSUSA assessment (PSUSA/00002181/201801) covering 
nomegestrol monotherapy-containing products and added to the product information (PI). In the 
meantime, some publications reported case reports of meningioma regression after nomegestrol 
discontinuation suggesting a hormonal/progestin role of the drug in the growth of these tumours. 
Additionally, the risk was discussed during the PSUSA assessment of nomegestrol in combination 
with estradiol (PSUSA/00002182/201801) leading to changes to the PI to recommend close 
monitoring of meningiomas when used as hormone replacement therapy (HRT). The PI of Zoely 
was amended to reflect this risk. 
For chlormadinone acetate-containing medicinal products, an increase of case reports of 
meningiomas was observed in France in 2019 and further risk minimisation measures (RMMs) were 
implemented at national level, including amendments of the PI of all chlormadinone 5 and 10mg 
containing products to reflect the risk of meningioma.  
To further clarify the relationship between both chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate and 
the risk of meningioma, two pharmacoepidemiological studies have been conducted by the French 
group, EPI-PHARE (Nguyen et al. 2021), based on data from SNDS (Système national des données 
de santé - French National Health Data System). Results suggested an increased risk of 
meningiomas depending on dose and duration of treatment with nomegestrol acetate or 
chlormadinone acetate.  
On 22 September 2021, the French national competent authority (Agence nationale de sécurité du 
médicament et des produits de santé, ANSM) therefore triggered a referral under Article 31 of 
Directive 2001/83/EC resulting from pharmacovigilance data, and requested the PRAC to assess 
the impact of the above concerns on the benefit-risk balance of nomegestrol acetate-containing 
products and chlormadinone acetate-containing products and to issue a recommendation on 
whether the relevant marketing authorisations should be maintained, varied, suspended or 
revoked. 
The PRAC adopted a recommendation on 07 July 2022 which was then considered by the CHMP, in 
accordance with Article 107k of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
47 
 
 
 
Overall summary of the scientific evaluation by the PRAC 
The efficacy of chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate, also in combination with 
ethinylestradiol or estradiol, in their authorised indications, has been assessed at the time of 
authorisation in central and national MAA procedures, and is considered to be established.  
The two recent cohort studies by Nguyen et al. (2021), aimed to evaluate the real-life impact of 
prolonged use of CMA or NOMAC on the risk of meningioma in women, add to the current 
knowledge well-defined, structured, long-term data based on administrative health data from the 
SNDS (Système National des Données de Santé), which covers around 99% of the French 
population. The results showed an increased risk for intracranial meningioma after exposure to 
CMA or NOMAC with high cumulative dose and longer exposure duration, with potential decrease 
after discontinuation of CMA or NOMAC. The strength of association, the strong dose-dependent 
effects and the risk reduction observed after treatment discontinuation of at least one year support 
the association between CMA/NOMAC exposure and increased risk of meningiomas.  
The analysis of post-marketing cases points as well towards an increased risk of meningioma 
during long-term use with high dose products (CMA 5-10 mg and NOMAC 3.75-5 mg) for different 
indications. For CMA, most cases reported refer to use of the product in the endometriosis 
indication. For NOMAC, the highest number of cases have been reported in the context of off-label 
use (contraception and endometriosis) followed by reports in the authorised treatment of uterine 
leiomyoma and heavy menstrual bleeding. 
In addition, a EudraVigilance (EV) analysis of cases of meningioma reported with CMA or NOMAC-
containing medicinal products retrieved 359 case reports with CMA-containing products and 461 
case reports with NOMAC-containing products, almost all in females, most of them aged between 
40 to 60 years. The case reports mainly derived from France with a sharp increase in 2019. Only a 
few case reports with the low dose NOMAC combination products such as Zoely were retrieved. 
Low-dose CMA (1-2 mg)- or low dose NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing products 
The risk of meningioma with the use of CMA or NOMAC has been previously recognised and is 
currently reflected in the PI as follows: 
• 
Low dose CMA monotherapy-containing products: contraindication in patients with 
meningioma or history of meningioma. 
• 
Low dose NOMAC combination products: contraindication in patients with meningioma or 
history of meningioma and a warning on the risk of meningioma.  
While, as part of the review, no increased risk specifically in association to the use of low dose 
products could be identified, it is noted that there are situations where patients may be exposed to 
low dose products for a long period of time and therefore, the risk of meningioma associated to low 
dose products is considered a potential important risk. As the risk increases with increasing 
cumulative dose, PRAC considered that a warning on this risk should be reflected in the PI of low 
dose CMA (1- 2 mg)- or NOMAC (2.5 mg)-containing products, and that the use of these products 
should be contraindicated in patients with meningioma or history of meningioma. It is to be noted 
that for some products, e.g. Zoely, a contraindication and a warning on the risk of meningioma 
were already reflected in the PI, however, PRAC recommended further amendments to the 
previously agreed wording to reflect the current knowledge and be in alignment with the class. 
Additionally, for low dose CMA- or NOMAC containing products, a targeted follow-up questionnaire 
should be implemented (if not yet established) for cases of meningiomas, to ensure high-quality 
reports and facilitate causality assessment in future. Key elements for this targeted follow-up 
questionnaire were agreed by PRAC. 
High-dose CMA (5-10 mg)- or high-dose NOMAC (3.75-5 mg)- containing products 
48 
 
Although meningioma has only been reported as a rare event with CMA-containing products, the 
causal relationship between meningioma and high dose CMA- or high dose NOMAC-containing 
products is considered established. Based on this, it is considered that the benefit-risk balance for 
treatment options with high dose-containing products should be restricted to situations where other 
interventions are considered inappropriate, and the treatment should be restricted to the lowest 
effective dose and shortest duration. Additionally, a contraindication in patients with meningioma 
or history of meningioma should be added to the PI, as well as a warning that symptoms of 
meningioma should be monitored and that treatment should be stopped if a patient is diagnosed 
with meningioma. In addition, PRAC recommended that information on results of the two 
epidemiological studies by Nguyen et al. should be reflected in the product information. 
During the present review, PRAC considered the need to recommend MRI monitoring of patients 
before and regularly during the course of treatment with CMA or NOMAC. However, in view of the 
burden on individual patients and the very large number of MRIs to be performed to diagnose a 
single case of meningioma in a patient without any symptoms due to the low incidence of 
meningioma with use of CMA/NOMAC, PRAC considered that this measure would not be 
proportionate. 
In view of the findings of the studies by Nguyen et al., healthcare professionals should be reminded 
via a direct healthcare professional communication (DHPC) of the warning and contraindication on 
the risk of meningioma for all products and be informed of the new restrictions for the use of high 
dose CMA- or NOMAC-containing products. The DHPC is to be jointly disseminated by marketing 
authorisation holders in each Member State. This communication should be distributed to 
endocrinologists, gynaecologists, general practitioners, learned societies and any other relevant 
target groups to be further defined at national level. 
Finally, the PRAC considered the need for additional pharmacovigilance activities to evaluate the 
effectiveness of the proposed risk minimisation measures and was of the view that all marketing 
authorisation holders should analyse the prescribing behaviour and awareness of prescribers and 
evaluate the effectiveness of the newly introduced RMMs in the upcoming PSURs for the respective 
active substances.  
Grounds for PRAC recommendation  
Whereas, 
•  The PRAC considered the procedure under Article 31 of Directive 2001/83/EC for all 
chlormadinone acetate-containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing products. 
•  The PRAC reviewed the available data on risk of meningioma during or following the use of 
medicinal products containing chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate, either alone 
or in combination, in particular the epidemiological studies including the French Health 
Insurance (CNAM) studies, as well as post-marketing case reports and data submitted by 
the marketing authorisation holders. 
•  The PRAC concluded from the data that the absolute risk of meningioma caused by 
treatment with products containing chlormadinone acetate or nomegestrol acetate use 
remains low. However, the risk increases with increasing cumulative doses and treatment 
duration of chlormadinone or nomegestrol acetate. PRAC also noted that risk of 
meningioma may decrease after treatment discontinuation.  
•  The PRAC therefore recommended that treatment with products containing high doses of 
chlormadinone acetate (5-10 mg) or nomegestrol acetate (3.75-5 mg) is restricted to 
situations where alternative treatments or interventions are considered inappropriate. 
Treatment should be limited to the lowest effective dose and shortest duration. Moreover 
49 
 
the Committee recommended that these high dose products, are contraindicated in patients 
with meningioma or history of meningioma.   
•  The PRAC also concluded that while no increased risk of meningioma was specifically 
identified following use of low dose chlormadinone acetate- or nomegestrol acetate-
containing medicinal products, either alone or in combination, it is noted that there are 
situations where patients may be exposed to low dose products for a long period of time. 
Given that the risk increases with increasing cumulative doses of chlormadinone acetate or 
nomegestrol acetate, the Committee recommended that low dose chlormadinone acetate 
(1-2 mg)- or nomegestrol acetate (2.5 mg)-containing products should also be 
contraindicated in patients with meningioma or history of meningioma. 
•  The Committee recommended further updates to the product information of chlormadinone 
acetate-containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing products to reflect current 
knowledge on the risk of meningioma. 
•  The Committee recommended that all marketing authorisation holders should evaluate the 
effectiveness of the newly introduced RMMs in the upcoming PSURs for the respective 
active substances. 
In view of the above, the PRAC concluded that the benefit-risk balance of chlormadinone acetate-
containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing products remains favourable subject to 
changes to the product information described above.  
A DHPC will be distributed to inform healthcare professionals of the above recommendations. 
The Committee, as a consequence, recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing 
authorisations for chlormadinone acetate-containing products and nomegestrol acetate-containing 
products. 
CHMP opinion 
Having reviewed the PRAC recommendation, the CHMP agrees with the PRAC overall conclusions 
and grounds for recommendation. 
The CHMP, as a consequence, considers that the benefit-risk balance of nomegestrol-containing 
medicinal products and chlormadinone-containing medicinal products remains favourable subject to 
the amendments to the product information and to the conditions described above. 
Therefore, the CHMP recommends the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisations for 
nomegestrol-containing medicinal products and chlormadinone-containing medicinal products. 
50 
 
