ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
2.  QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
Each capsule contains 50 mg lonafarnib. 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
Each capsule contains 75 mg lonafarnib. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule (capsule) 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
Size 4 hard capsule (5 mm x 14 mm), opaque yellow with “LNF” and “50” printed in black. 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
Size 3 hard capsule (6 mm x 16 mm), opaque light orange with “LNF and “75” printed in black. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
Zokinvy is indicated for the treatment of patients 12 months of age and older with a genetically 
confirmed diagnosis of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome or a processing-deficient progeroid 
laminopathy associated with either a heterozygous LMNA mutation with progerin-like protein 
accumulation or a homozygous or compound heterozygous ZMPSTE24 mutation. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated by a physician experienced in the treatment of patients with progeroid 
syndromes or patients with rare genetic metabolic syndromes. 
Posology 
Starting dose 
For all indications, the recommended starting dose is 115 mg/m2 twice daily. The Du Bois formula 
was used in clinical trials and should be used to calculate body surface area for dosing. All total daily 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
doses should be rounded to the nearest 25 mg increment and divided into two equal, or near equal, 
doses (see Table 1). Doses should be taken approximately 12 hours apart from one another (morning 
and evening). 
Table 1: Recommended starting dose and administration schedule for 115 mg/m2 body surface 
area-based dosing 
Body surface 
area (m2) 
Total daily 
dose rounded 
to nearest 
25 mg 
75 
100 
125 
150 
175 
200 
225 
Morning dose 
number of capsule(s) 
Evening dose 
number of capsule(s) 
lonafarnib 
50 mg 
lonafarnib 
75 mg 
1* 
lonafarnib 
50 mg 
lonafarnib 
75 mg 
1* 
1 
0.30 – 0.38 
0.39 – 0.48 
0.49 – 0.59 
0.6 – 0.7 
0.71 – 0.81 
0.82 – 0.92 
0.93 – 1 
* For patients with a body surface area of 0.30 m2 to 0.38 m2, the contents of a 75 mg capsule must be 
mixed with 10 mL of orange juice. Half of the mixture (5 mL) equates to a 37.5 mg dose of lonafarnib. 
This dose will be prepared and consumed twice daily (see section 6.6). 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
Maintenance dose 
After 4 months of treatment using the starting dose of 115 mg/m2 twice daily, the dose should be 
increased to the maintenance dose of 150 mg/m2 twice daily (morning and evening). All total daily 
doses should be rounded to the nearest 25 mg increment and divided into two equal, or near equal, 
doses (see Table 2). 
Table 2: Recommended maintenance dose and administration schedule for 150 mg/m2 body 
surface area-based dosing 
Body surface 
area (m2) 
0.30 – 0.37 
0.38 – 0.45 
0.46 – 0.54 
0.55 – 0.62 
0.63 – 0.7 
0.71 – 0.79 
0.8 – 0.87 
0.88 – 0.95 
0.96 – 1 
Total daily 
dose rounded 
to nearest 
25 mg 
100 
125 
150 
175 
200 
225 
250 
275 
300 
Morning dose 
number of capsule(s) 
Evening dose 
number of capsule(s) 
lonafarnib 
50 mg 
1 
lonafarnib 
75 mg 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
2 
lonafarnib 
75 mg 
lonafarnib 
50 mg 
1 
1 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
Missed dose 
If a dose is missed, the dose should be taken as soon as possible, up to 8 hours prior to the next 
scheduled dose with food. If less than 8 hours remain before the next scheduled dose, the missed dose 
should be skipped and the dose regimen should be resumed at the next scheduled dose. 
Patients taking the starting dose of 115 mg/m2 with a body surface area of 0.30 m2 to 0.38 m2 
Patients will need to receive a daily dose of 75 mg (37.5 mg twice daily). The contents of a lonafarnib 
75 mg capsule should be mixed with 10 mL of orange juice. Only half of the 10-mL mixture will be 
consumed (see section 6.6). 
Dose adjustment for patients with persistent vomiting and/or diarrhoea leading to dehydration or 
weight loss 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients who have increased their dose to 150 mg/m2 twice daily and are experiencing repeated 
episodes of vomiting and/or diarrhoea resulting in dehydration or weight loss (see section 4.4), the 
dose may be reduced to the starting dose of 115 mg/m2 twice daily. All daily doses should be rounded 
to the nearest 25 mg increment and divided into two equal, or near equal, doses (see Table 1). 
Prevention or treatment of vomiting and/or diarrhoea leading to dehydration or weight loss 
Prevention or treatment of vomiting and/or diarrhoea with an anti-emetic and/or anti-diarrhoeal 
medicinal product can be considered (see section 4.4). 
Dose adjustment for patients already taking a moderate CYP3A inhibitor (see section 4.5) 
When adding lonafarnib to an existing treatment regimen containing a moderate CYP3A inhibitor, a 
lower starting dose of lonafarnib might be reasonable. If the concomitantly taken moderate CYP3A 
inhibitor will be discontinued, the lonafarnib dose may be increased (body surface area-based dosing). 
Dose adjustment for patients with known dysfunctional polymorphisms in CYP3A4 
The patient’s daily dose of lonafarnib should be reduced by 50%, and the reduced daily dose should be 
divided into two equal doses. Each dose should be rounded to the nearest 25 mg increment. The 
dosing regimen will be either 25 mg twice daily, 50 mg twice daily or 75 mg twice daily. Patients who 
have a reduced daily dose of 50 mg (25 mg twice daily) should mix the contents of a lonafarnib 50 mg 
capsule with 10 mL of orange juice to achieve the correct dose. Only half (5 mL) of the 10-mL 
mixture will be consumed (see section 6.6). QTc monitoring is recommended. 
Dose adjustment for patients requiring parenteral midazolam for a surgical procedure 
Concomitant use of midazolam is contraindicated (see sections 4.3 and 4.5). Patients requiring 
parenteral midazolam for a surgical procedure should discontinue lonafarnib for 14 days before and 
2 days after administration of midazolam. 
Specific interactions with foods and drinks 
Lonafarnib should not be taken with foods or juices that contain grapefruit, cranberries, pomegranates 
or Seville oranges (e.g., orange marmalade), otherwise known as sour or bitter oranges (see 
section 4.5). Taking lonafarnib with food or drinks containing these fruits or fruit juices may increase 
adverse reactions associated with lonafarnib. 
Special populations 
Patients with hepatic impairment 
No dose adjustments are required in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh 
Class A or B, respectively). Lonafarnib is contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh Class C) (see sections 4.3, 4.4 and 5.2). 
Patients with renal impairment 
Lonafarnib has not been studied in patients with renal impairment. Because lonafarnib and metabolite 
HM21 are only excreted to a limited extent via urine, no dose adjustments are required in patients with 
renal impairment (see sections 4.4 and 5.2). 
Paediatric population 
The posology is the same in adults and children 12 months of age and older. 
The safety and efficacy of lonafarnib in children less than 12 months of age have not been established. 
No data are available (see section 5.1). 
Method of administration 
Lonafarnib is intended for oral use. The capsule should be swallowed whole. The capsule should not 
be chewed. Each dose is to be taken with food. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For patients unable to swallow the capsule whole, instructions on mixing the capsule contents with 
orange juice are provided in section 6.6. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or any other member of the farnesyltransferase class, or to any 
of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
Concomitant use with strong CYP3A inhibitors (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of medicinal products that are predominantly metabolised by CYP3A4, such as 
midazolam, atorvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin (see sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5). 
Patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C) (see section 5.2). 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Age at start of treatment 
Treatment with lonafarnib should be initiated as soon as a diagnosis has been made. The clinical data 
indicate that the expected survival benefit of lonafarnib treatment in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria 
syndrome (HGPS) patients who started treatment at 10 years of age or above is less compared to those 
who started at a younger age (see section 5.1).  
Treatment initiation with lonafarnib in older patients should be balanced against the side effects (i.e., 
vomiting, nausea and diarrhoea) in the first few months of treatment.  
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions and dehydration 
Electrolyte abnormalities (hypermagnesaemia, hypokalaemia, hyponatraemia) have been reported (see 
section 4.8). The severity of gastrointestinal adverse reactions, especially during the first 4 months of 
treatment, should be closely monitored. When gastrointestinal adverse reactions occur, monitoring the 
patient’s weight, caloric consumption and fluid volume intake should be done on a regular basis. In 
some cases, persistent diarrhoea can result in hypovolaemia, which should be treated by infusion or 
orally. 
Patients experiencing diarrhoea and treated with the anti-diarrhoeal loperamide should be monitored 
for adverse reactions associated with increased exposure to loperamide (see section 4.5). 
Patients requiring parenteral midazolam for a surgical procedure 
Concomitant administration of lonafarnib and midazolam is contraindicated (see sections 4.3 and 4.5) 
due to an increased risk of extreme sedation and respiratory depression. For patients requiring 
midazolam as a component of anaesthesia for a surgical procedure, lonafarnib treatment should be 
discontinued for 14 days before and 2 days after parenteral midazolam is administered. 
Abnormal liver function 
Increased liver enzymes, such as aspartate aminotransferase or alanine aminotransferase, have been 
reported (see section 4.8). Signs and symptoms of reduced liver function should be assessed on a 
consistent basis. Liver function should be measured annually or at the onset of any new or worsening 
signs or symptoms of liver dysfunction. 
Nephrotoxicity 
Lonafarnib caused nephrotoxicity in rats with clinical chemistry and urinalysis changes, at plasma 
exposures approximately equal to the human dose (see section 5.3). Signs and symptoms of reduced 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
renal function should be assessed on a consistent basis. Renal function should be measured annually or 
at the onset of any new or worsening signs or symptoms associated with renal dysfunction. 
Retinal toxicity 
Lonafarnib caused rod-dependent, low-light vision decline in monkeys at plasma exposures similar to 
the human dose (see section 5.3). An ophthalmological evaluation should be performed annually and 
at the onset of any new visual disturbances during therapy. 
Concomitant use of moderate and strong CYP3A inducers 
Concomitant use of moderate and strong CYP3A inducers may reduce the efficacy of lonafarnib and 
they should be avoided (see section 4.5). 
Concomitant use of CYP3A inhibitors 
Concomitant use of lonafarnib and strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated (see section 4.3 and 
4.5). 
Concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers 
Concomitant use of weak CYP3A inducers may reduce the efficacy of lonafarnib and should be 
avoided. If their use is unavoidable, no dose adjustment of lonafarnib is needed (see section 4.5). 
Subjects with known dysfunctional polymorphisms in CYP3A4 
Subjects with a known dysfunctional polymorphism in CYP3A4 should start therapy at 50% of the 
indicated dose. QTc monitoring is necessary (see section 4.2 and 4.5). 
Other progeroid syndromes 
Lonafarnib is not expected to be effective for the treatment of progeroid syndromes caused by 
mutations in genes other than LMNA or ZMPSTE24 and laminopathies not associated with the 
accumulation of progerin-like proteins. Lonafarnib is not expected to be effective in the treatment of 
the following progeroid syndromes: Werner syndrome, Bloom syndrome, Rothmund–Thomson 
syndrome, Cockayne syndrome, xeroderma pigmentosum, trichothiodystrophy and ataxia-
telangiectasia. 
Excipients with known effect 
Zokinvy contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Lonafarnib is metabolised by CYP3A4 and 3A5 and is also known to be a moderate CYP3A4 
inhibitor. Hence, it autoinhibits its metabolism. There is an approximately 4-fold increase in Cmax 
following multiple doses of lonafarnib (75 mg twice daily for 6 days) relative to single-dose lonafarnib 
(75 mg). Based on the Cmax and AUC values, an accumulation of the active substance at steady state 
was evident. The same was true for the main metabolite of lonafarnib but with a reduced magnitude. 
Lonafarnib as victim 
Strong CYP3A inhibitors 
When lonafarnib was co-administered with ketoconazole, a strong CYP3A inhibitor, in healthy adult 
subjects, ketoconazole (200 mg for 5 doses) increased lonafarnib (single dose of 50 mg) Cmax by 3.7-
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fold and AUC by 5.3-fold. This may lead to an increased risk of adverse reactions. Therefore, 
concomitant use of lonafarnib and strong CYP3A inhibitors is contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Moderate CYP3A inhibitors 
When fluconazole (200 mg once daily for 4 days), a moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor, is added to a 
multiple-dose lonafarnib regimen (75 mg twice daily for 6 days then co-administered with fluconazole 
for 4 days), differences in lonafarnib exposures are not considered clinically relevant (no change in 
Cmax and a 1.2-fold decrease in AUC). No further inhibition besides the autoinhibitory effect following 
multiple-dose lonafarnib is observed when adding the moderate CYP3A4 inhibitor fluconazole to the 
regimen. However, adding lonafarnib to an existing regimen containing a moderate CYP3A inhibitor 
requires caution, and a lower starting dose might be reasonable (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). 
Weak CYP3A inhibitors 
No drug-drug interaction studies have been conducted with a weak CYP3A inhibitor. No dose 
adjustment is considered necessary; however, if the concomitant use of a weak CYP3A inhibitor 
induces a persistent toxicity, the dose of lonafarnib should be reduced by 50% and QTc monitoring is 
recommended (see sections 4.2 and 6.6). 
Strong CYP3A inducers 
Co-administration of a single oral dose of 50 mg lonafarnib (combined with a single oral dose of 
100 mg ritonavir) following 600 mg rifampin once daily for 8 days resulted in the Cmax of lonafarnib 
being reduced by 12.5-fold and the AUC being reduced by 50-fold, when compared to rifampin alone 
in healthy adult subjects. There is no efficacy data available that demonstrates lonafarnib remains 
effective when administered concomitantly with a strong CYP3A inducer. Therefore, the concomitant 
use of lonafarnib and a strong CYP3A inducer should be avoided, and therapeutic alternatives sought 
(see section 4.4). 
Moderate CYP3A inducers 
No interaction studies have been conducted with a moderate CYP3A inducer. There is no efficacy data 
available demonstrating that lonafarnib remains effective when given concomitantly with a moderate 
CYP3A inducer. Therefore, the concomitant use of lonafarnib and a moderate CYP3A inducer should 
be avoided, and therapeutic alternatives sought (see section 4.4). 
Weak CYP3A inducers 
No interaction studies have been conducted with a weak CYP3A inducer. There is no efficacy data 
available demonstrating that lonafarnib remains effective when given concomitantly with a weak 
CYP3A inducer. Therefore, the concomitant use of lonafarnib and a weak CYP3A inducer should be 
avoided, and therapeutic alternatives sought (see sections 4.2 and 4.4). If co-administration with a 
weak CYP3A inducer is unavoidable, maintain the current dose of lonafarnib. If the patient has not 
already been escalated to the maintenance dose of 150 mg/m2 twice daily, the timing of their 
scheduled dose increase should be maintained. 
Foods and select juices that affect the metabolism of lonafarnib 
Grapefruit, cranberries, pomegranate and Seville oranges (e.g., orange marmalade), otherwise known 
as sour or bitter oranges, inhibit the CYP3A system. Ingestion of food or juices containing these fruits 
should be avoided while taking lonafarnib (see section 4.2). 
Lonafarnib as perpetrator 
CYP3A4 substrates 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lonafarnib is an inhibitor of CYP3A4. When lonafarnib was co-administered with CYP3A4 substrate 
midazolam in healthy adult subjects, multiple-dose lonafarnib (100 mg twice daily for 5 consecutive 
days) increased midazolam (single 3 mg oral dose) Cmax by 2.8-fold and AUC by 7.4-fold. This 
interaction thereby increases the risk of extreme sedation and respiratory depression. Therefore, 
concomitant use of lonafarnib and midazolam is contraindicated (see sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4). 
No interaction studies have been conducted with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors. The HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors atorvastatin, lovastatin, and simvastatin are all dependent on CYP3A for 
metabolism. Lonafarnib is a potent in vivo CYP3A mechanism-based inhibitor and, when given 
concomitantly with either atorvastatin, lovastatin, or simvastatin, lonafarnib is expected to increase the 
plasma concentrations of these statins. This results in an increased risk of myopathy including 
rhabdomyolysis. Therefore, concomitant use of lonafarnib and atorvastatin, lovastatin and simvastatin 
are contraindicated (see section 4.3). 
Loperamide 
When lonafarnib was co-administered with loperamide in healthy adult subjects, multiple-dose 
lonafarnib (100 mg twice daily for 5 consecutive days) increased loperamide (single 2 mg oral dose) 
Cmax by 3.1-fold and AUC by 4.0-fold. The dose of loperamide should not exceed 1 mg daily (see 
section 4.4). In the event more than 1 mg of loperamide daily is to be administered, the dose should be 
slowly increased with caution as needed to treat diarrhoea. 
CYP2C19 substrates 
When lonafarnib was co-administered with the CYP2C19 substrate omeprazole in healthy adult 
subjects, multiple-dose lonafarnib (75 mg twice daily for 5 consecutive days) increased omeprazole 
(single 40 mg oral dose) Cmax by 28% and AUC by 60%. Patients taking medicinal products that are 
CYP2C19 substrates should be monitored during this period for potential adverse reactions, with dose 
adjustments made as necessary. 
MATE1 and MATE2-K 
Based on in vitro data, lonafarnib is a MATE1/MATE2-K inhibitor at clinically relevant maximal 
systemic concentrations and could potentially precipitate a clinically relevant interaction. Currently, 
the only identified clinically relevant substrate of MATE1/MATE2-K is metformin. Concomitant use 
of metformin and lonafarnib should be avoided. If metformin is required, clinicians should carefully 
monitor the patient for interactions with lonafarnib. 
P-glycoprotein substrates 
When lonafarnib was co-administered with the P-glycoprotein substrate fexofenadine in healthy adult 
subjects, multiple dose lonafarnib (100 mg twice daily for 5 consecutive days) increased fexofenadine 
(single 180 mg oral dose) Cmax by 21% and AUC by 24%. When lonafarnib is co-administered with 
P-glycoprotein substrates (e.g., digoxin, dabigatran) where minimal concentration changes may lead to 
serious or life-threatening toxicities, monitor for adverse reactions and reduce the dose of the 
P-glycoprotein substrate in accordance with its approved product labelling. 
OCT1 substrates 
In vitro studies indicate that lonafarnib is an OCT1 inhibitor at clinically relevant systemic 
concentrations. However, the clinical relevance is currently unknown. 
Oral contraceptives 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There have been no studies assessing the interaction of concomitant lonafarnib and an oral 
contraceptive. Females of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment 
with Zokinvy and for at least 1 week after the final dose (see section 4.6). 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential/Contraception in males and females 
Females of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment with Zokinvy and 
for at least 1 week after the final dose. Males with female partners of reproductive potential must use 
effective contraception during treatment with Zokinvy and for at least 3 months after the final dose. 
Effects of Zokinvy on contraceptive steroids have not been studied. A barrier method must be added if 
systemic steroids are used for contraception. 
Pregnancy 
There are no or limited data from the use of lonafarnib in pregnant women. Studies in animals have 
shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). Lonafarnib is not recommended during pregnancy and 
in women of childbearing potential not using contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
It is unknown whether lonafarnib is excreted in human milk. Animal studies have shown excretion of 
lonafarnib in milk (for details see section 5.3). A risk to the newborns/infants cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue therapy with 
lonafarnib taking into account the benefit of breast-feeding to the child and the benefit of therapy to 
the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no data on the effects of lonafarnib on fertility in humans. In animal studies, lonafarnib 
resulted in changes in the male and female reproductive tracts and resorptions (see section 5.3). The 
potential effect of lonafarnib on fertility in humans is currently unknown.  
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Lonafarnib has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Fatigue may occur 
following the administration of lonafarnib (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequently occurring adverse reactions are: vomiting (86%), diarrhoea (78%), increased 
aspartate aminotransferase (64%), increased alanine aminotransferase (50%), decreased appetite 
(41%), nausea (38%), abdominal pain (35%), fatigue (29%), decreased weight (27%), constipation 
(18%) and upper respiratory tract infection (11%). Most adverse reactions occurred within the first 
4 weeks following initiation of treatment and in general steadily decreased with increasing duration of 
treatment. 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most serious adverse reactions are increased alanine aminotransferase (3.6%), increased aspartate 
aminotransferase (3.6%), cerebral ischaemia (3.2%), pyrexia (1.6%) and dehydration (1.6%). 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions occurring in the clinical trials are presented in Table 3 by System Organ Class and 
Preferred Term. Frequencies are defined as: very common (≥1/10), common (≥1/100 to <1/10), 
uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100), rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000), very rare (<1/10,000) or not known 
(cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are 
presented in order of decreasing frequency within each System Organ Class. 
10 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Adverse reactions 
System organ class 
Infections and 
infestations 
Very common 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Blood and lymphatic 
system disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Haemoglobin decreased 
Decreased appetite 
Weight decreased 
Psychiatric disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Nausea 
Abdominal paina 
Constipation 
Hepatobiliary disorders  Aspartate aminotransferase 
increased 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased 
Blood bicarbonate decreased 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Common 
Infection 
Rhinitis 
Gastroenteritis 
Influenza 
Oral pustule 
Perirectal abscess 
Pneumonia 
Sinusitis 
White blood cell count decreased 
Dehydration 
Hypermagnesaemia 
Hypokalaemia 
Hypoalbuminaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Depressed mood 
Cerebral ischaemia 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Paraesthesia 
Cough 
Epistaxis 
Laryngeal/oropharyngeal pain 
Nasal congestion 
Flatulence 
Colitis 
Dyspepsia 
Gastritis 
Lower gastrointestinal haemorrhage 
Blood creatinine decreased 
Musculoskeletal and 
connective tissue 
disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Injury, poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
a Abdominal pain includes abdominal pain and abdominal pain upper 
Fatigue 
Rash 
Pruritus 
Dry skin 
Skin hyperpigmentation 
Musculoskeletal pain 
Back pain 
Pain in extremity 
Fever 
Chest pain 
Chills 
Tooth fracture 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions 
Gastrointestinal adverse reactions (vomiting [85.7%], diarrhoea [77.8%], nausea [38.1%]) were the 
most frequently reported adverse reactions. Of the patients with treatment related vomiting, 
29 (53.7%) patients had Grade 1 vomiting (defined as no intervention required) and 25 (46.3%) had 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Grade 2 vomiting (defined as outpatient intravenous hydration; medical intervention required). Of 
these patients with treatment related nausea, 23 (95.8%) had Grade 1 nausea (defined as loss of 
appetite without alteration in eating habits) and 1 (4.2%) patient had Grade 2 nausea (defined as oral 
intake decreased without significant weight loss, dehydration or malnutrition). During the first 
4 months of treatment in ProLon1, 19 (67.9%) patients had vomiting and 10 (35.7%) patients had 
nausea. By the end of therapy, 4 (14.3%) patients required anti-emetics or anti-nauseants (see 
section 4.4). A total of 4 patients discontinued treatment, mostly due to nausea or vomiting. 
Most patients with treatment related diarrhoea (approximately 94%) experienced mild or moderate 
diarrhoea; 38 (77.6%) patients reported Grade 1 (defined as an increase of less than 4 stools per day 
over baseline) and 8 (16.3%) patients reported Grade 2 treatment related diarrhoea (defined as an 
increase of 4 to 6 stools per day over baseline; limiting instrumental activities of daily living). Three 
(6.1%) patients reported Grade 3 diarrhoea (defined as an increase of 7 or more stools per day over 
baseline; hospitalisation indicated; severe increase in ostomy output compared to baseline; limiting 
self-care activities of daily living). During the first 4 months of treatment in ProLon1, 23 (82.1%) 
patients had diarrhoea; by the end of therapy, 3 (10.7%) patients had diarrhoea. Twelve (42.9%) 
patients were treated with loperamide. 
Electrolyte abnormalities 
Electrolyte abnormalities (hypermagnesaemia, hypokalaemia, hyponatraemia) were experienced by 
4 (6.3%) patients. Of the 2 patients who experienced hypermagnesaemia, 2 (100%) patients had 
Grade 1 hypermagnesaemia (defined as > upper limit of normal [ULN] to 3.0 mg/dL; >ULN to 
1.23 mmol/L). Of the 2 patients who experienced hypokalaemia, 1 (50%) patient had Grade 1 
hypokalaemia (defined as < lower limit of normal [LLN] to 3.0 mmol/L) and 1 (50%) patient had 
Grade 3 hypokalaemia (defined as <3.0 to 2.5 mmol/L; hospitalisation indicated). Of the 1 patient that 
experienced hyponatraemia, 1 (100%) patient had Grade 1 hyponatraemia (defined as <LLN to 
130 mmol/L). Dehydration was experienced by 3 (4.8%) patients. Of the 3 patients who experienced 
dehydration, 1 (33.3%) patient had Grade 1 dehydration (defined as increased oral fluids indicated; dry 
mucous membranes; diminished skin turgor) and 2 (66.7%) patients had Grade 2 dehydration (defined 
as intravenous fluids indicated). 
Aminotransferase increases 
Increased alanine aminotransferase was recorded for 14 (50.0% of patients) ProLon1 patients. Of the 
patients with increased alanine aminotransferase, 11 (78.6%) patients experienced a Grade 1 increase 
(defined as greater than ULN to 3.0 times ULN if baseline was normal; 1.5 to 3.0 times baseline if 
baseline was abnormal), 1 (7.1%) patient experienced a Grade 2 increase (defined as >3.0 to 5.0 times 
ULN if baseline was normal; >3.0 to 5.0 x baseline if baseline was abnormal), and 2 (14.3%) patients 
experienced a Grade 3 increase (defined as >5.0 to 20.0 x ULN if baseline was normal; >5.0 to 20.0 x 
baseline if baseline was abnormal). 
Increased aspartate aminotransferase was recorded for 18 (64.3%) ProLon1 patients. Of these patients, 
17 (94.4%) patients experienced a Grade 1 increase (defined as greater than ULN to 3.0 times ULN if 
baseline was normal; 1.5 to 3.0 times baseline if baseline was abnormal) and 1 (5.6%) patient 
experienced a Grade 3 increase (defined as >5.0 to 20.0 x ULN if baseline was normal; >5.0 to 20.0 x 
baseline if baseline was abnormal). 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the event of acute overdose, supportive medical care should be given as clinically indicated, 
including fluid replacement to avoid electrolyte imbalance and close monitoring of vital signs. There 
is no antidote to lonafarnib to reverse overdose. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Other alimentary tract and metabolism products, Various alimentary tract 
and metabolism products, ATC code: A16AX20 
Mechanism of action 
Lonafarnib is a disease modifying agent that prevents farnesylation, thereby reducing the 
accumulation of aberrant progerin and progerin-like proteins in the cell’s inner nuclear membrane. 
This results in maintaining cell integrity and normal function. The accumulation of progerin and 
progerin-like proteins in the cells within the walls of large blood vessels causes inflammation and 
fibrosis. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The clinical efficacy and safety of lonafarnib have been evaluated in two Phase 2 studies (ProLon1 
and ProLon2). Both studies were single-centre, open-label, single-arm trials that evaluated the efficacy 
and safety of lonafarnib in patients with genetically confirmed HGPS or a processing-deficient 
progeroid laminopathy. Analysis was done by combining the studies into a pooled analysis to evaluate 
differences in survival between those HGPS patients treated with lonafarnib and those that were 
lonafarnib-naïve. Survival analyses were conducted at 1, 2 and 3 years based upon the period of 
lonafarnib monotherapy in either ProLon1 or ProLon2 and using vital status as of August 1, 2021, 
otherwise called last follow-up. 
There were 28 patients in ProLon1 (26 patients with classic HGPS, 1 patient with non-classic HGPS 
and 1 patient with a progeroid laminopathy with a LMNA heterozygous mutation with progerin-like 
protein accumulation). Patients received lonafarnib over 24 to 30 months. Patients initiated treatment 
with lonafarnib 115 mg/m2 twice daily. After 4 months of treatment, patients who tolerated treatment 
had an increase in dose to 150 mg/m2 twice daily. Among the 28 patients treated, 27 patients with 
HGPS (16 females, 11 males) were included in the survival assessment. The median age at treatment 
initiation for the 27 patients was 7.5 years (range: 3 to 16 years). At the start of the study all patients 
were less than 18 years of age. 
There were 35 patients in ProLon2 (34 patients with classic HGPS and 1 patient with non-classic 
HGPS). Patients received lonafarnib over 12 to 36 months. Patients were treated with lonafarnib 
150 mg/m2 twice daily. Among the 35 patients treated, all were included in the survival assessment. 
The median age at treatment initiation was 6.0 years (range: 2 to 17 years). At the start of the study all 
patients were less than 18 years of age. 
Of the 63 patients in ProLon1 and ProLon2, 15 (24%) required some form of dosing adjustment. One 
(2%) patient discontinued, 11 (17%) patients had their dose interrupted, and 3 (5%) patients reduced 
dose. For 10 patients (10/63, 16%), the action taken was associated with a gastrointestinal disturbance, 
a known and common side-effect of lonafarnib. 
The retrospective 3-year survival analysis was based on the mortality data from 62 HGPS patients 
(27 treatment-naïve patients in ProLon1 and 35 treatment-naïve patients in ProLon2) treated with 
lonafarnib monotherapy and data from matched, untreated patients in a separate natural history cohort. 
The mean lifespan of HGPS patients treated with lonafarnib increased by an average of 0.44 to 
0.47 years (without and with adjustment for age at start of treatment, respectively) through the first 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 years of follow-up. However due to the uncertainties of the available data this might be as low as 
2.4 months. 
At last follow-up time (i.e., August 1, 2021) the mean lifespan of HGPS patients treated with 
lonafarnib increased by an average of 4.3 years. Given the limited information in the datasets this can 
be as low as 2.6 years. The results for the last follow-up time should be interpreted with some caution 
as patients underwent additional (potentially beneficial) treatments. 
The survival analysis summary is provided in Table 4. 
Table 4: Survival analysis summary for patients with Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome 
(lonafarnib treated versus external natural history cohort) 
3-year follow-up 
Difference in RMST* in years 
(95%-CI) 
0.466 (0.204, 0.728) P1+P2 
0.414 (0.042, 0.785) P1 
0.172 (-0.101, 0.445) P2 
last follow-up (August 1, 2021)  4.338 (2.551, 6.126) P1+P2 
0.237 (0.074, 0.401) P1+P2 
2-year follow-up 
0.094 (0.034, 0.154) P1+P2 
1-year follow-up 
Hazard ratio* (95%-CI) 
0.28 (0.107, 0.756) P1+P2 
0.15 (0.017, 1.263) P1 
0.71 (0.199, 2.556) P2 
0.28 (0.154, 0.521) P1+P2 
0.29 (0.097, 0.838) P1+P2 
0.20 (0.054, 0.732) P1+P2 
CI = confidence interval; P1 = ProLon1; P2 = ProLon2; RMST = restricted mean survival time 
There were 27 patients in ProLon1 and 35 patients in ProLon2. 
* Estimates are based on matching as follows: for each lonafarnib patient a random match untreated 
patient was selected with the same sex and same continent. Lonafarnib patients were matched 
sequentially from the lonafarnib patient with oldest age at start to the youngest. The age at start of 
treatment of the untreated patient within a matched pair was set to that of the lonafarnib patient. If an 
untreated patient had a longer follow-up than the lonafarnib treated patient in a matched pair, then this 
follow-up was censored at the length of the follow-up of the lonafarnib treated patient. Regression 
analysis for the RMST and Cox proportional hazard regression for the hazard ratio had sex and 
continent as stratification factors and age at start of treatment as covariate. 
This medicinal product has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This means that due to 
the rarity of the disease it has not been possible to obtain complete information on this medicinal 
product. The European Medicines Agency will review any new information which may become 
available every year and this SmPC will be updated as necessary. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Absolute bioavailability has not been assessed. Lonafarnib is absorbed via the oral route. The median 
time to maximum peak concentration (tmax) was 2 to 4 hours. Following multiple dose administration 
of lonafarnib (100 mg twice daily for 5 days) in healthy volunteers, the mean maximum peak 
concentration was 964 ng/mL observed at a median time of 4 hours (2 to 5 hours range). 
In healthy volunteers, the exposure following a single oral dose of 75 mg lonafarnib taken as an intact 
capsule was compared to the exposure following a single oral dose of 75 mg lonafarnib capsule 
contents mixed with orange juice (for instructions on mixing the capsule contents with orange juice 
see section 6.6). When the capsule contents were mixed with orange juice the Cmax of lonafarnib was 
reduced by 9% and the AUC was reduced by 8% as compared to when administered as an intact 
capsule. 
In healthy volunteers, following a single oral dose of 100 mg lonafarnib, food decreased the 
absorption of lonafarnib and the relative oral bioavailability under fed conditions as compared to 
fasted conditions was 48% and 77% based on Cmax and AUC, respectively. Multiple-dose 
administration of lonafarnib with food in healthy adult subjects did not have a significant effect on 
bioavailability and resulted in lower inter-subject variability (~16%). 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In healthy volunteers, the accumulation ratio is estimated to be 4.46 for AUCTAU/AUC0-12 and 3.36 for 
Cmax. 
The intra-individual variability is 20.79% for Cmax and 21.13% for AUCTAU and the inter-individual 
variability is 36.92% for Cmax and 50.75% for AUCTAU. 
Distribution 
In vitro plasma protein binding of lonafarnib was ≥99% over the concentration range between 0.5 to 
40.0 micrograms/mL. The blood-to-plasma ratio was 0.992 to 1.56. 
Lonafarnib exhibits time-dependent pharmacokinetics. Comparing studies in healthy adult volunteers 
of single-dose 75 mg lonafarnib to 75 mg lonafarnib twice daily for 5 days shows the lonafarnib 
apparent volume of distribution is reduced by 60% (242 L and 97.4 L, respectively) following multiple 
dose lonafarnib for 5 days. 
Biotransformation 
Lonafarnib is extensively metabolised via hepatic means. Lonafarnib accounted for 50% to 57% of the 
profiled plasma radioactivity. Total plasma recovery for the two metabolites of interest: HM17 
(15.1%) and HM21 (13.9%); therefore, a total of 79% to 86% of the plasma radioactivity was 
recovered. The common metabolic pathways included oxidation, dehydrogenation and combinations 
of these two processes. Most of the metabolites resulted from structural changes in the pendant 
piperidine ring region of lonafarnib. 
HM21 is a pharmacologically active metabolite. Following oral administration of 100 mg lonafarnib 
twice daily for 5 days, HM21 has a peak plasma concentration of 94.8 ng/mL occurring after 
approximately 4 hours (range: 3 to 6), with an AUCTAU of 864 ng·h/mL. Following oral administration 
of 75 mg lonafarnib twice daily for 5 days, HM21 has a peak plasma concentration of 82.1 ng/mL 
after approximately 3 hours (range: 3 to 5), with an AUCTAU of 767 ng·h/mL. 
In vitro metabolism studies indicate that CYP3A4 and CYP3A5 are mainly responsible for the 
oxidative metabolism of lonafarnib and that lonafarnib is an in vivo-sensitive CYP3A4 substrate. 
Twenty-one metabolites were characterised/identified in urine and faeces. No single uncharacterised 
metabolite represented greater than 5% of the dose. 
Transporters 
Based on the in vitro data, lonafarnib is most likely a substrate of P-glycoprotein and not a substrate of 
BCRP, OCT1, OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. 
Elimination 
A 14C- absorption, metabolism and excretion trial conducted in healthy volunteers following single-
dose administration of lonafarnib revealed that drug-derived radioactivity was primarily excreted via 
the faeces. Mean cumulative excretion of radioactivity was 61% in faeces and less than 1% in urine up 
to 24 hours post-dose (total recovery was ~62% in the mass balance study). 
Lonafarnib exhibits time-dependent pharmacokinetics. Comparing studies in healthy adult volunteers 
of single-dose 75 mg lonafarnib to 75 mg lonafarnib twice daily for 5 days shows lonafarnib clearance 
was reduced by 75% (48.2 L/h and 12.1 L/h, respectively) and the t1/2 increased by 60% (3.5 h versus 
5.6 h, respectively) following multiple dose lonafarnib for 5 days. 
Special populations 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hepatic impairment 
Lonafarnib has not been studied in patients with hepatic impairment. Co-administration of a single 
oral dose of 50 mg lonafarnib (combined with a single oral dose of 100 mg ritonavir) in mild and 
moderate hepatically impaired subjects showed similar lonafarnib exposures relative to the matched 
normal control group (normal hepatic function). These results indicate no dose adjustments are 
warranted in patients with mild or moderate hepatic impairment (see section 4.2). Lonafarnib is 
contraindicated in patients with severe hepatic impairment (see section 4.3) due to the predicted safety 
issue of decompensation due to the risk of diarrhoea (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). Lonafarnib (and most 
likely HM21) is extensively metabolised in the liver. Therefore, decreased hepatic function will most 
likely lead to an increase in exposure to lonafarnib (effect on HM21 is unknown) (see section 4.4). 
Renal impairment 
Lonafarnib has not been studied in patients with renal impairment (see section 4.4). Lonafarnib and 
HM21 are only excreted to a limited extent via urine. Therefore, it is not expected that renal 
impairment will affect the exposure to lonafarnib and HM21. 
Gender 
In healthy volunteers, following a single oral dose of 100 mg lonafarnib, the pharmacokinetic data 
suggest lonafarnib exposures (AUC0-inf) are higher in female subjects (44% higher) as compared to 
male subjects. Gender had less of an effect (26%) on the Cmax as compared with AUC0-inf. 
Age 
In healthy volunteers, following a single oral dose of 100 mg lonafarnib, the pharmacokinetic data 
show lonafarnib exposures (AUC0-inf) are higher in elderly subjects (59% higher in those aged 65 years 
or older) as compared to younger subjects aged 18 to 45 years. Age had less of an effect (27%) on the 
Cmax as compared with AUC0-inf. 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Lonafarnib had no effects on QT or QTc interval in guinea pigs and no electrocardiogram (ECG) 
changes were observed in monkeys. Lonafarnib produced modest and isolated effects on the QT 
interval of ECG in rats at estimated exposures similar to that seen in humans. 
A no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) could not be established in studies of up to 1-year 
duration in monkeys. Systemic toxicity was observed in 3-month and 1-year toxicity studies in rats 
and monkeys following repeated oral administration of lonafarnib at doses ≥30 and ≥10 mg/kg/day, 
respectively, corresponding to exposures lower than what is seen in patients. Toxicity findings 
included bone marrow suppression, testicular toxicity and lymphoid toxicity in rats and monkeys; 
kidney changes in rats (vacuolisation, mineralisation and necrosis of the inner renal medulla); and 
diarrhoea and electroretinographic changes in monkeys. In a 3-month toxicity study in monkeys, acute 
morbidity due to haemorrhage in multiple organs was observed in a small number of monkeys 
administered 60 mg/kg/day, corresponding to exposures similar to that seen in humans (at 150 mg/m2 
twice daily). In toxicity studies in monkeys, ocular findings of single cell necrosis of retinal 
photoreceptors were observed at ≥40 mg/kg/day. In a 3-month follow up study, changes in 
electroretinography were noted at ≥15 mg/kg/day, including substantial changes in scotopic 
amplitudes at 60 mg/kg/day indicating perturbation of rod cells and impairment of night vision. The 
NOAEL for ocular toxicity for lonafarnib was considered to be 20 mg/kg/day, corresponding to 
exposures similar to those seen in humans (at 150 mg/m2 twice daily). 
Lonafarnib increased pre- and post-implantation loss and decreased the number of live foetuses in 
female rats at doses ≥30 mg/kg/day. Decreased maternal body weight and lower foetal body weights 
were also observed at this dose level. The NOAEL for maternal toxicity and F1 litters was considered 
10 mg/kg/day, with an estimated exposure level lower than what is seen in humans at 150 mg/m2 twice 
daily. 
Reproductive organ toxicity was observed in male rats and monkeys, including lower testicular and 
epididymal weight, aspermia, altered spermatogenesis and spermatogonial debris in male rats at 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
≥90 mg/kg/day, and lower testes weights in male monkeys at the lowest tested dose 10 mg/kg/day. 
The NOAEL or the lowest tested dose regarding these effects corresponds to exposure levels lower 
than what is seen in humans at 150 mg/m2 twice daily. 
Lonafarnib demonstrated teratogenic potential at clinically relevant exposures in rabbits in the absence 
of maternal toxicity, with increased incidence of malformations and variations in foetal skeletal 
development observed at the lowest tested dose 10 mg/kg/day, corresponding to an exposure level 
lower than what is seen in humans at 150 mg/m2 twice daily. Maternal toxicity was observed at 
≥40 mg/kg/day and both maternal and embryofoetal toxicity, including abortion, discoloured urine, 
body weight loss, increased post-implantation loss and decreased foetal body weight, were observed at 
120 mg/kg/day, corresponding to exposures greater than those seen in humans (~2- and 25-times the 
human exposure at 150 mg/m2 twice daily, respectively). In rats, lonafarnib had no adverse effects on 
F1 and F2 generations in a pre- and post-natal development study. Lonafarnib is excreted in milk 
following oral administration in lactating rats, with a mean milk to plasma concentration ratio of 1.5 at 
12 hours. 
Overall, lonafarnib does not represent a genotoxic concern based on results of in vitro tests, including 
bacterial reverse mutation assays and a chromosome aberration assay using human peripheral blood 
lymphocytes. In the in vivo mouse bone micronucleus assay, lonafarnib was not genotoxic at doses up 
to 50 and 60 mg/kg/day (intraperitoneal injection) in male and female mice, respectively. However, 
these dose levels are lower than the clinical relevant dose. 
The carcinogenic potential of lonafarnib has not been studied. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Capsule contents 
Povidone 
Poloxamer 
Croscarmellose sodium 
Silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Magnesium stearate 
Capsule shell 
Gelatin (E 171) 
Titanium dioxide 
Yellow iron oxide (E 172) 
Red iron oxide (E 172) (75 mg capsules only) 
Sunflower lecithin (E 322) 
Black ink 
Shellac 
Iron oxide black (E 172) 
Propylene glycol 
Ammonia solution 
Potassium hydroxide 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.3  Shelf life 
3 years 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in the original package. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. This 
medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container 
HDPE bottle, containing desiccant in a cannister and capsules, with induction seal and polypropylene 
cap. Pack size of 30 hard capsules. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
Patients unable to swallow capsules whole 
If capsules cannot be swallowed whole, capsules can be opened and the contents of the capsule can be 
mixed with orange juice. 
Step 1: Using a clean medicine cup, measure either 5 mL or 10 mL of orange juice. You can choose to 
use 5 mL or 10 mL of orange juice. 
Step 2: Pour the orange juice measured in Step 1 into a clean cup. 
Step 3: Hold a capsule above the cup containing the orange juice. Hold the capsule between your 
thumb and forefinger on both sides. Gently twist and pull apart the capsule. 
Step 4: Empty the contents of the capsule directly into the cup containing the orange juice. 
Step 5: Using a clean spoon, mix the capsule contents and orange juice well. If only 1 capsule is to be 
taken, skip to Step 7. If 2 capsules are to be taken proceed to Step 6. 
Step 6: If 2 capsules will be taken, repeat Steps 1 through 5 for the second capsule. After finishing, go 
to Steps 7, 8 and 9. 
Step 7: Take all of the mixture with food within about 10 minutes of preparing. Each dose must be 
mixed and consumed within 10 minutes. The mixture should only be prepared at the time it is to be 
consumed. 
Step 8: Rinse the medicine cup used to measure the orange juice and fill it with 5 mL of water for 
each capsule mixed with orange juice. 
Step 9: Pour the water measured in Step 8 into the cup used to mix the Zokinvy and orange juice. 
Gently swirl the water around the cup. Consume the water. 
Patients requiring a reduced daily dose of Zokinvy 
Step 1: Use a clean medicine cup and fill it with 10 mL of orange juice. 
Step 2: Pour the orange juice measured in Step 1 into a clean cup for mixing. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 3: Depending on your doctor’s direction, hold either a Zokinvy 75 mg or 50 mg capsule above 
the cup containing the orange juice. Hold the capsule between your thumb and forefinger on both 
sides. Gently twist and pull apart the capsule. 
Step 4: Empty the contents of the capsule directly into the cup containing the orange juice. 
Step 5: Using a clean spoon, mix the capsule contents and orange juice well. 
Step 6: Pour 5 mL of the orange juice and mixture from the mixing cup into a clean medicine cup. 
Step 7: Take the 5-mL mixture with food and within about 10 minutes of preparing. Each dose must 
be mixed and consumed within 10 minutes. The mixture should only be prepared at the time it is to be 
consumed. 
Step 8: Fill the medicine cup used to consume the mixture with 5 mL of water. 
Step 9: Gently swirl the water around the medicine cup. Consume the water. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
EigerBio Europe Ltd. 
1 Castlewood Avenue 
Rathmines, D06 H685, Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/22/1660/001 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/22/1660/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 18 July 2022. 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
E.  SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the company responsible for product release 
ABF Pharmaceutical Services GmbH 
Brunner Straße 63/18-19 
A-1230 Vienna 
Austria 
Sciensus International B.V. 
Bijsterhuizen 3142 
6604 LV, Wijchen 
Netherlands 
The printed package leaflet of the medicinal product must state the name and address of the 
manufacturer responsible for the release of the concerned batch 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C. 
• 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile 
or as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E. 
SPECIFIC OBLIGATION TO COMPLETE POST-AUTHORISATION MEASURES 
FOR THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION UNDER EXCEPTIONAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES 
This being an approval under exceptional circumstances and pursuant to Article 14(8) of Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004, the MAH shall conduct, within the stated timeframe, the following measures: 
Due date 
Annual study reports will be submitted with the 
annual re-assessment 
Description 
Non-interventional Post authorisation safety 
study (PASS): in order to further characterise the 
safety, effectiveness and health-related quality of 
life of Zokinvy in patients with Hutchinson-
Gilford Progeria Syndrome and Processing 
Deficient Progeroid Laminopathies, the MAH 
shall submit the results of a prospective 
observational cohort study based on a registry. 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
CARTON (ZOKINVY 50 mg) 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
lonafarnib 
2.  STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 50 mg lonafarnib. 
3.  LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4.  PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6.  SPECIAL WARNINGS THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SITE AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.  SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. This 
medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
EigerBio Europe Ltd. 
1 Castlewood Avenue 
Rathmines, D06 H685, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1660/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16.  INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zokinvy 50 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL (ZOKINVY 50 mg) 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
lonafarnib 
2.  STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 50 mg lonafarnib. 
3.  LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4.  PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6.  SPECIAL WARNINGS THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SITE AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.  SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. This 
medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1660/001 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16.  INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
CARTON (ZOKINVY 75 mg) 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
lonafarnib 
2.  STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 75 mg lonafarnib. 
3.  LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4.  PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6.  SPECIAL WARNINGS THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SITE AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.  SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. This 
medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
EigerBio Europe Ltd. 
1 Castlewood Avenue 
Rathmines, D06 H685, Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1660/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16.  INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zokinvy 75 mg 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL (75 mg) 
1.  NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
lonafarnib 
2.  STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each capsule contains 75 mg lonafarnib. 
3.  LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4.  PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
30 hard capsules 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Oral use 
6.  SPECIAL WARNINGS THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SITE AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7.  OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not swallow the desiccant. 
8.  EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9.  SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in the original package. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. This 
medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL 
PRODUCTS, IF APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/22/1660/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15.  INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16.  INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules 
lonafarnib 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new safety 
information. You can help by reporting any side-effects you may get. See the end of section 4 for how to 
report side-effects. 
Read this entire leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, even if 
their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Zokinvy is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Zokinvy 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take Zokinvy 
Possible side effects 
How to store Zokinvy 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1. 
What Zokinvy is and what it is used for 
What Zokinvy is 
Zokinvy contains the active substance lonafarnib. 
What Zokinvy is used for 
This medicine is used to treat patients aged 12 months and older with the following rare disorders: 
• 
• 
Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome 
processing-deficient progeroid laminopathies 
These illnesses are caused by changes in genes needed to make certain proteins. Normal versions of these 
proteins help to keep cells strong and stable. However, the altered genes cause a build-up of harmful forms of 
the proteins called progerin or progerin-like proteins. These harmful proteins lead to cell damage that 
resembles the effects of aging. 
How Zokinvy works 
Zokinvy works by helping to reduce the build-up of the harmful progerin or progerin-like proteins. 
2.  What you need to know before you take Zokinvy 
Do not take Zokinvy 
• 
if you are allergic to lonafarnib or any of the other ingredients in this medicine (listed in section 6). 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
with medicines known as strong CYP3A inhibitors (these can reduce the breakdown of Zokinvy in the 
body, leading to more side effects, see Other medicines and Zokinvy, below). 
with the medicine midazolam 
with the medicines atorvastatin, lovastatin, simvastatin 
if you have severe hepatic (liver) impairment 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before taking Zokinvy. 
Please tell your doctor immediately if you: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
are over 10 years of age. Treatment results can vary depending on the age when you start taking 
Zokinvy. 
have persistent vomiting or diarrhoea and prolonged loss of appetite or weight (see section 4). 
start to take the anti-diarrhoeal medicine loperamide. Because of the interaction between Zokinvy and 
loperamide, it will be important for your doctor to provide dosing guidance and monitor your use of 
this medicine. 
are having surgery. You must not use midazolam, a medicine commonly used during surgery, with 
Zokinvy. Your doctor can provide instructions for this situation. 
experience increased levels of liver enzymes shown by blood tests. Your doctor should monitor your 
liver function while taking this medicine. 
develop any symptoms of kidney problems. Your doctor should monitor your kidney function while 
taking this medicine. 
experience any new visual changes. Your doctor should monitor your vision and eye health while 
taking this medicine. 
are taking a medicine that is a moderate or strong CYP3A inducer. These types of medicines should be 
avoided (see Other medicines and Zokinvy, below). 
are taking a medicine that is a moderate CYP3A inhibitor. Adding Zokinvy to an existing treatment 
with these types of medicines requires caution (see Other medicines and Zokinvy, below). 
have a known dysfunctional polymorphism in CYP3A4. 
have a progeroid syndrome caused by a mutation in a gene other than LMNA or ZMPSTE24 and do not 
cause a build-up of the harmful proteins called progerin or progerin-like proteins. Zokinvy is not 
expected to be effective for these types of progeroid syndromes. Examples of progeroid syndromes 
that Zokinvy is not expected to provide benefit include, Werner syndrome, Bloom syndrome, 
Rothmund–Thomson syndrome, Cockayne syndrome, xeroderma pigmentosum, trichothiodystrophy 
and ataxia-telangiectasia. 
Children 
Do not give this medicine to children under 12 months of age because it has not been studied in this age 
group. 
Other medicines and Zokinvy 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking or might take any other medicines. 
Some medicines may interact with Zokinvy when taken together. The following medicines must not be 
taken with Zokinvy: 
• 
medicines that are strong CYP3A inhibitors (they can reduce the breakdown of Zokinvy in the body, 
leading to more side effects; ask your pharmacist or doctor if any of your other medicines are of this 
kind) 
midazolam (used to treat seizures and for surgical procedures - tell your doctor you are taking Zokinvy 
if you are planning to have surgery) 
atorvastatin, lovastatin or simvastatin (used to lower blood cholesterol) 
• 
• 
The following medicines require caution when taken with Zokinvy: 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
medicines that are moderate CYP3A inhibitors (adding Zokinvy to an existing treatment with this 
kind of medicines requires caution; ask your pharmacist or doctor if any of your other medicines are of 
this kind). If you are already taking this kind of medicine your doctor may reduce your starting dose of 
Zokinvy. 
medicines that are strong, moderate or weak CYP3A inducers (these can increase the breakdown of 
Zokinvy in the body, making the medicine less effective; ask your pharmacist or doctor if any of your 
other medicines are of this kind) 
loperamide (used to treat diarrhoea). The dose of loperamide should not exceed 1 mg daily. Children 
less than 2 years of age should not take loperamide. 
metformin (used to treat type 2 diabetes) 
medicines that are CYP2C19 substrates (ask your pharmacist or doctor if any of your other medicines 
are of this kind). If you must take a CYP2C19 substrate, your doctor may need to adjust your dose of 
the CYP2C19 substrate and monitor your side effects more closely. 
St. John’s wort or St. John’s wort-containing products (a herbal medicine used to treat mild 
depression) 
medicines that are P-glycoprotein substrates (ask your pharmacist or doctor if any of your other 
medicines are this kind). If you must take a P-glycoprotein substrate, your doctor may need to adjust 
your dose of the P-glycoprotein substrate and monitor your side effects more closely. 
medicines that are OCT1 substrates (ask your pharmacist or doctor if any of your other medicines are 
this kind) 
oral contraceptives 
Zokinvy with food and drink 
Do not take Zokinvy with foods or drinks that contain grapefruit, cranberries, pomegranates, or Seville 
(bitter) orange (such as orange marmalade). Foods or drinks containing these fruits may increase the side 
effects of Zokinvy. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are pregnant or breast-feeding, think you may be pregnant or are planning to have a baby, ask your 
doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Zokinvy has not been tested in pregnant women. 
Zokinvy is not recommended during pregnancy. 
Females of childbearing potential must use effective contraception while taking Zokinvy and for at least 
1 week after the final dose. Males with female partners of childbearing potential must use effective 
contraception while taking Zokinvy and for at least 3 months after the final dose. Add a barrier method of 
contraception if systemic steroids are used for contraception. 
It is not known if Zokinvy passes into breast milk and could affect a breast-fed baby. If you wish to breast 
feed, discuss the benefits and possible risks of doing so or of stopping Zokinvy with your doctor first. 
It is not yet known if this medicine affects fertility in men or women. 
Driving and using tools or machines 
Zokinvy has a minor influence on the ability to drive and use machines. Fatigue may occur following 
administration of Zokinvy. 
Zokinvy contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. 
How to take Zokinvy 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you. Check with your doctor or 
pharmacist if you are not sure. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Zokinvy is taken as 1 or 2 capsules twice a day, about 12 hours apart (morning and evening) with 
food. The dose of Zokinvy is based on your height and weight. 
Your doctor will work out the right starting dose of Zokinvy for you. This may mean taking capsules 
of different strengths to make up the right amount. After 4 months of treatment with Zokinvy, your 
doctor may increase your dose. 
Make sure you know how many capsules you need to take at every dose and the strength of each 
capsule you need. Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse to write it down (including the colour of the 
capsule(s) to be taken for each dose). 
Take the capsules with food, washing them down with enough water to help you swallow them. 
Taking Zokinvy with food may help to reduce side effects. 
If you cannot swallow a Zokinvy capsule whole 
• 
If you cannot swallow a Zokinvy capsule whole, use the following directions for mixing the capsule 
content with orange juice. 
What you need to mix Zokinvy with orange juice 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Mix a fresh dose of Zokinvy for each use. 
Set aside the right number of Zokinvy capsules for your dose. Place the capsule or capsules on a clean 
flat surface. 
Use orange juice only. Do not use other drinks to mix Zokinvy. 
A clean medicine cup with 5 mL and 10 mL measurement levels. 
A clean cup for each Zokinvy capsule to be mixed. 
A clean spoon for stirring the mixture. 
How to mix Zokinvy with orange juice 
Step 1: 
• 
Using a clean medicine cup, measure either 
5 mL or 10 mL of orange juice. 
37 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
You can choose to use 5 mL or 10 mL of 
orange juice. 
Step 2: 
Pour the orange juice measured in Step 1 into a 
clean cup. 
Step 3: 
• 
• 
• 
Hold a Zokinvy capsule above the cup 
containing the orange juice. 
Hold the capsule between your thumb and 
forefinger on both sides. 
Gently twist and pull apart the capsule. 
Step 4: 
Empty all the contents of the capsule into the cup 
containing the orange juice. 
Step 5: 
• 
• 
• 
Using a clean spoon, mix the capsule 
contents and orange juice well. 
If only 1 capsule is to be taken, skip to 
Step 7. 
If 2 capsules are to be taken, proceed to 
Step 6. 
Step 6: 
• 
• 
• 
If 2 capsules will be taken, repeat Steps 1 
through 5 for the second capsule. 
Once the second capsule is mixed - the 
2 servings can either be combined in a single 
cup or remain in 2 serving cups. 
After you finish, go to Steps 7, 8 and 9. 
Step 7: 
Take all of the Zokinvy mixture: 
• 
• 
with food. 
within about 10 minutes of preparing. 
Each dose must be mixed and consumed within 
10 minutes. The mixture should only be prepared at 
the time it is to be consumed. 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 8: 
Rinse the medicine cup used to measure the orange 
juice and fill it with 5 mL of water for each capsule 
mixed with orange juice. 
Step 9: 
• 
• 
Pour the water measured in Step 8 into the 
cup used to mix the Zokinvy and orange 
juice (a). 
Gently swirl the water around the cup (b). 
Consume the water. 
(a) 
(b) 
If you need a reduced daily dose of Zokinvy  
Step 1: 
Use a clean medicine cup and fill it with 10 mL of orange 
juice.  
Step 2:  
Pour the orange juice measured in Step 1 into a clean cup 
for mixing. 
Step 3: 
• 
• 
• 
Depending on your doctor’s direction, hold either a 
Zokinvy 75 mg or 50 mg capsule above the cup 
containing the orange juice. 
Hold the capsule between your thumb and forefinger 
on both sides. 
Gently twist and pull apart the capsule. 
39 
Fill with 
10 mL of 
orange juice 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 4: 
• 
Empty all the contents of the capsule into the cup 
containing the orange juice. 
Step 5: 
Using a clean spoon, mix the capsule contents and orange 
juice well. 
Step 6: 
Pour 5 mL of the orange juice and Zokinvy mixture from 
the mixing cup into a clean medicine cup. 
Step 7:  
Take the 5-mL Zokinvy and orange juice mixture from the 
medicine cup: 
• 
• 
with food 
within about 10 minutes of preparing 
Each dose must be mixed and consumed within 10 minutes. 
The mixture should only be prepared at the time it is to be 
consumed. 
Step 8: 
Fill the medicine cup used to consume the Zokinvy and 
orange juice mixture with 5 mL of water. 
Fill to  
5 mL 
Fill to 5 mL 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Step 9: 
Gently swirl the water around the medicine cup. Consume 
the water. 
Drink lots of water while taking Zokinvy 
It is important to drink lots of water and other liquids while taking Zokinvy. This may help to reduce 
problems linked to diarrhoea or vomiting. 
Ask your doctor about the amount of water or other liquids that you should drink each day. 
Your doctor will discuss with you which liquids you can drink to make sure that you are getting the correct 
amount of fluids each day. 
Do not eat foods or drink juices that contain grapefruit, cranberries, pomegranates or Seville oranges (known 
as sour or bitter oranges). 
If you take more Zokinvy than you should 
If you take more capsules than you should, stop taking the medicine and contact your doctor.  
If you forget to take Zokinvy 
If you forget to take a dose, and 8 hours or more remain until your next planned dose, take the missed dose 
as soon as possible with some food. If less than 8 hours remains before the next scheduled dose, skip the 
missed dose and resume taking Zokinvy at the next scheduled dose. 
If you stop taking Zokinvy 
Do not stop taking Zokinvy without talking to your doctor. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
Serious side effects. Tell your doctor immediately if you: 
• 
have persistent nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea that leads to loss of appetite, weight loss or dehydration. 
Vomiting or diarrhoea are very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) and may lead to 
electrolyte deficiencies requiring supportive care. Your doctor may monitor your weight, appetite and 
how much you eat and drink to help detect any of these possible electrolyte conditions. 
Tell your doctor immediately if you notice any of the serious side effects above. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
increased liver enzymes shown by blood tests, which indicate stress on the liver 
stomach pain 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
fatigue (tiredness) 
constipation 
sinus infections or other upper respiratory tract infections 
decreased haemoglobin shown by blood tests 
decreased bicarbonate shown by blood tests 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
body aches and body pain, including back pain and pain in extremity 
fever 
decease in levels of sodium, potassium, albumin, creatinine shown by blood tests 
increase in levels of magnesium shown by blood tests 
cough 
flatulence 
rash 
pruritus (itchy skin) 
cerebral ischaemia (stroke) 
headache 
runny nose 
nasal congestion (blocked nose) 
nosebleed 
sore throat 
depression 
oral pustule (mouth sores) 
painful boil-like swelling near the anus (perirectal abscess) 
pneumonia 
influenza 
decrease in blood cell counts (such as white blood cell count) shown by blood tests 
tingling in hands and feet 
dizziness 
irritation, inflammation or ulcers of the large intestine (colitis) 
indigestion (may include feelings of bloating, discomfort, feeling too full or gas) 
inflammation of the stomach lining (gastritis) 
bleeding of the large intestine, rectum or anus 
dry skin 
skin darkening (hyperpigmentation) 
chest pain 
chills 
tooth fracture 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you help provide more information on the safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Zokinvy 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and on the bottle after “EXP”. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
Store in the original package. Keep the bottle tightly closed in order to protect from moisture. This medicinal 
product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to throw 
away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Zokinvy contains 
- 
- 
The active substance is lonafarnib 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules: each capsule contains 50 mg lonafarnib. 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules: each capsule contains 75 mg lonafarnib. 
The other ingredients are: 
Capsule contents: croscarmellose sodium (see section 2 “Zokinvy contains sodium”), magnesium 
stearate, poloxamer, povidone and silica, colloidal anhydrous 
Capsule shell: 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules: gelatin, titanium dioxide, yellow iron oxide and sunflower lecithin 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules: gelatin, titanium dioxide, yellow iron oxide, red iron oxide and 
sunflower lecithin 
Printing ink: shellac, iron oxide black 
What Zokinvy looks like and contents of the pack 
Zokinvy 50 mg hard capsules are opaque yellow hard capsules, marked with “LNF” and “50” in black ink. 
Zokinvy 75 mg hard capsules are opaque light orange hard capsules, marked with “LNF” and “75” in black 
ink. 
The bottle pack contains 30 hard capsules and a desiccant. The desiccant is in a cannister and that cannister 
is included in the bottle, containing the capsules. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
EigerBio Europe Ltd. 
1 Castlewood Avenue 
Rathmines, D06 H685, Ireland 
Manufacturer 
ABF Pharmaceutical Services GmbH 
Brunner Straße 63/18-19 
A-1230 Vienna 
Austria 
Sciensus International B.V. 
Bijsterhuizen 3142 
6604 LV, Wijchen 
Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in MONTH YEAR 
This medicine has been authorised under ‘exceptional circumstances’. 
This means that because of the rarity of this disease it has been impossible to get complete information on 
this medicine. 
The European Medicines Agency will review any new information on this medicine every year and this 
leaflet will be updated as necessary. 
Other sources of information 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu. There are also links to other websites about rare diseases and treatments. 
This leaflet is available in all EU/EEA languages on the European Medicines Agency website. 
44 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
