EMA/351469/2022  
EMEA/H/C/005271 
Zokinvy (lonafarnib) 
An overview of Zokinvy and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zokinvy and what is it used for? 
Zokinvy is a medicine used to treat patients of 12 months and older who are affected by the following 
rare diseases in which features resembling aging appear in childhood: 
•  Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome; 
• 
processing-deficient progeroid laminopathies. 
The diseases that Zokinvy is used to treat are rare and Zokinvy was designated as ‘orphan medicine’ 
on 14 December 2018 for Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.  
Zokinvy contains the active substance lonafarnib. 
How is Zokinvy used? 
Zokinvy can only be obtained with a prescription and treatment should be initiated by doctors with 
experience in the treatment of patients with premature aging or rare metabolic conditions. 
Zokinvy is available as capsules to be taken with food twice a day. The starting daily dose (which 
ranges from 75 to 225 mg) depends on the height and weight of the patient. After 4 months of 
treatment, the patient may start taking a higher (maintenance) dose. 
For more information about using Zokinvy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist.  
How does Zokinvy work? 
Patients with Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome and with processing-deficient progeroid 
laminopathies have an accumulation of abnormal forms of progerin or progerin-like proteins, which 
causes damage to cells and leads to symptoms of aging early in life. Zokinvy prevents a chemical 
reaction involved in the formation of these abnormal proteins, thereby helping to improve symptoms of 
the diseases.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2022. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Zokinvy have been shown in studies? 
Two main studies have shown that Zokinvy prolongs the life of patients with Hutchinson-Gilford 
progeria syndrome and with processing-deficient progeroid laminopathies. The studies involved 62 
patients who were given Zokinvy. Three years after start of treatment with Zokinvy only, the patients 
lived between 2.5 months and about half a year longer than the 62 patients who did not participate in 
the studies and were not given Zokinvy. At the time of the last follow-up (about 11 years after starting 
treatment), patients given Zokinvy (and possibly additional treatments) lived an average of 4.3 years 
longer than untreated patients. However, given the limited data available, the extra years lived could 
be as low as 2.6 years.  
What are the risks associated with Zokinvy? 
The most common side effects with Zokinvy (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are vomiting, 
diarrhoea, increased levels of liver enzymes, decreased appetite, nausea, abdominal pain, tiredness, 
weight loss, constipation and upper respiratory tract infection (nose and throat infection). 
The most common serious side effects with Zokinvy (which may affect up to 1 in 10 people) are 
increased levels of liver enzymes, cerebral ischaemia (reduced blood supply to the brain), fever and 
dehydration. 
Why is Zokinvy authorised in the EU? 
At the time of the authorisation of Zokinvy there were no other medicines for treating Hutchinson-
Gilford progeria syndrome and processing-deficient progeroid laminopathies. The results from the 
studies of Zokinvy showed that this medicine can prolong the life of patients with these conditions. The 
most common side effects, such as diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting, occurred mainly in the first 4 
months of treatment and were manageable.  
The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Zokinvy’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU under ‘exceptional circumstances’. This is because it has not 
been possible to obtain complete information about Zokinvy due to the rarity of the disease.  
Every year, the European Medicines Agency will review any new information that becomes available, 
and this overview will be updated as necessary. 
What information is still awaited for Zokinvy? 
Since Zokinvy has been authorised under exceptional circumstances, the company that markets 
Zokinvy will provide data from a registry of patients treated with the medicine to further evaluate the 
safety and effectiveness of Zokinvy as well as the quality of life of patients. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zokinvy? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zokinvy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zokinvy are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Zokinvy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Zokinvy (lonafarnib)  
EMA/351469/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Zokinvy 
Zokinvy received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 July 2022. 
Further information on Zokinvy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zokinvy  
This overview was last updated in 07-2022. 
Zokinvy (lonafarnib)  
EMA/351469/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
