EMA/467454/2012 
EMEA/H/C/002482 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zoledronic acid Mylan 
zoledronic acid 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zoledronic acid Mylan. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Zoledronic acid Mylan. 
What is Zoledronic acid Mylan? 
Zoledronic acid Mylan is a medicine that contains the active substance zoledronic acid. It is available as 
a 4mg/5ml concentrate for a solution for infusion. 
Zoledronic acid Mylan is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Zoledronic acid Mylan is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zometa. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Zoledronic acid Mylan used for? 
Zoledronic acid Mylan can be used to prevent bone complications in adults with advanced cancer that 
is affecting the bone. This includes fractures (breaks in the bone), spinal compression (when the spinal 
cord is compressed by the bone), bone disorders needing radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) or 
surgery, and hypercalcaemia (high levels of calcium in the blood). Zoledronic acid Mylan can also be 
used to treat the hypercalcaemia caused by tumours. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Zoledronic acid Mylan used? 
Zoledronic acid Mylan must only be used by a doctor who has experience in the use of this type of 
medicine given into a vein. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2012. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The usual dose of Zoledronic acid Mylan is one infusion of 4 mg over at least 15 minutes. When used to 
prevent bone complications, the infusion can be repeated every three to four weeks, and patients 
should also take supplements of calcium and vitamin D. A lower dose is recommended for patients with 
bone metastases (when cancer has spread to the bone) if they have mild to moderate problems with 
their kidneys. It is not recommended for patients with severe kidney problems. 
How does Zoledronic acid Mylan work? 
The active substance in Zoledronic acid Mylan, zoledronic acid, is a bisphosphonate. It stops the action 
of the osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. This leads 
to less bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to make bones less likely to break, which is useful in 
preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone metastases.  
Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the bones. By 
preventing the breakdown of bones, Zoledronic acid Mylan also helps to reduce the amount of calcium 
released into the blood. 
How has Zoledronic acid Mylan been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on zoledronic acid. No additional studies in 
patients were needed as Zoledronic acid Mylan is a generic medicine that is given by infusion and 
contains the same active substance as the reference medicine, Zometa. 
What are the benefits and risks of Zoledronic acid Mylan? 
Because Zoledronic acid Mylan is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its 
benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Zoledronic acid Mylan been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Zoledronic acid Mylan has been shown 
to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zometa. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, 
as for Zometa, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Zoledronic 
acid Mylan be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Zoledronic acid Mylan 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zoledronic acid Mylan on 23 August 2012. 
The full EPAR for Zoledronic acid Mylan can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Zoledronic acid Mylan, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in August 2012. 
Zoledronic acid Mylan  
Page 2/2
 
 
 
 
