EMA/681300/2015 
EMEA/H/C/002359 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zoledronic acid medac 
zoledronic acid 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zoledronic acid medac. It 
explains how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to 
reach its opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the 
conditions of use for Zoledronic acid medac. 
What is Zoledronic acid medac? 
Zoledronic acid medac is a medicine that contains the active substance zoledronic acid. It is available 
as a 4mg/100ml solution for infusion (drip into a vein) and as a 4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for 
infusion. 
Zoledronic acid medac is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Zoledronic acid medac is similar to a 
‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zometa. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Zoledronic acid medac used for? 
Zoledronic acid medac can be used to prevent bone complications in adults with advanced cancer that 
is affecting the bone. This includes fractures (breaks in the bone), spinal compression (when the spinal 
cord is compressed by the bone), bone disorders needing radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) or 
surgery, and hypercalcaemia (high levels of calcium in the blood). Zoledronic acid medac can also be 
used to treat the hypercalcaemia caused by tumours. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription.  
How is Zoledronic acid medac used? 
Zoledronic acid medac must only be used by a doctor who has experience in the use of this type of 
medicine given into a vein. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The usual dose of Zoledronic acid medac is one infusion of 4 mg over at least 15 minutes. When used 
to prevent bone complications, the infusion can be repeated every three to four weeks, and patients 
should also take supplements of calcium and vitamin D. A lower dose is recommended for patients with 
bone metastases (when cancer has spread to the bone) if they have mild to moderate problems with 
their kidneys. It is not recommended for patients with severe kidney problems. 
How does Zoledronic acid medac work? 
The active substance in Zoledronic acid medac, zoledronic acid, is a bisphosphonate. It stops the action 
of the osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. This leads 
to less bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to make bones less likely to break, which is useful in 
preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone metastases.  
Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the bones. By 
preventing the breakdown of bones, Zoledronic acid medac also helps to reduce the amount of calcium 
released into the blood. 
How has Zoledronic acid medac been studied? 
The company provided data from the published literature on zoledronic acid. No additional studies were 
needed as Zoledronic acid medac is a generic medicine that is given by infusion and contains the same 
active substance as the reference medicine, Zometa. 
What are the benefits and risks of Zoledronic acid medac? 
Because Zoledronic acid medac is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, 
its benefits and risks are taken as being the same as the reference medicine’s. 
Why has Zoledronic acid medac been approved? 
The CHMP concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Zoledronic acid medac has been shown 
to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Zometa. Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, 
as for Zometa, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The Committee recommended that Zoledronic 
acid medac be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zoledronic acid medac? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Zoledronic acid medac is used as safely as 
possible. Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet for Zoledronic acid medac, including the appropriate precautions 
to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Zoledronic acid medac will provide a card to inform patients 
about the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw (damage to the bones of the jaw, which could lead to pain, 
sores in the mouth or loosening of teeth) and to instruct them to contact their doctor if they 
experience symptoms. 
Zoledronic acid medac  
EMA/681300/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Other information about Zoledronic acid medac 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zoledronic acid medac on 03 August 2012. 
The full EPAR for Zoledronic acid medac can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Zoledronic acid medac, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Zoledronic acid medac  
EMA/681300/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
