ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One vial with 5 ml concentrate contains 4 mg zoledronic acid (as monohydrate) 
One ml concentrate contains 0.8 mg zoledronic acid (as monohydrate). 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3.  
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for solution for infusion (sterile concentrate) 
Clear and colourless solution. 
4.     CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  
Therapeutic indications 
- 
Prevention of skeletal related events (pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or 
surgery to bone, or tumour-induced hypercalcaemia) in adult patients with advanced 
malignancies involving bone. 
- 
Treatment of adult patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Zoledronic Acid Accord must only be prescribed and administered to patients by healthcare 
professionals experienced in the administration of intravenous bisphosphonates. Patients treated with 
Zoledronic Acid Accord should be given the package leaflet and the patient reminder card. 
Posology 
Prevention of skeletal related events in patients with advanced malignancies involving bone 
Adults and older people 
The recommended dose in the prevention of skeletal related events in patients with advanced 
malignancies involving bone is 4 mg zoledronic acid every 3 to 4 weeks. 
Patients should also be administered an oral calcium supplement of 500 mg and 400 IU vitamin D 
daily. 
The decision to treat patients with bone metastases for the prevention of skeletal related events should 
consider that the onset of treatment effect is 2-3 months. 
Treatment of TIH 
Adults and older people 
The recommended dose in hypercalcaemia (albumin-corrected serum calcium ≥12.0 mg/dl or 
3.0 mmol/l) is a single dose of 4 mg zoledronic acid. 
Renal impairment 
TIH: 
2 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Zoledronic Acid Accord treatment in TIH patients who also have severe renal impairment should be 
considered only after evaluating the risks and benefits of treatment. In the clinical studies, patients 
with serum creatinine > 400 µmol/l or > 4.5 mg/dl were excluded. No dose adjustment is necessary in 
TIH patients with serum creatinine < 400 µmol/l or < 4.5 mg/dl (see section 4.4). 
Prevention of skeletal related events in patients with advanced malignancies involving bone: 
When initiating treatment with zoledronic acid in patients with multiple myeloma or metastatic bone 
lesions from solid tumours, serum creatinine and creatinine clearance (CLcr) should be determined. 
CLcr is calculated from serum creatinine using the Cockcroft-Gault formula. Zoledronic acid is not 
recommended for patients presenting with severe renal impairment prior to initiation of therapy, which 
is defined for this population as CLcr < 30 ml/min. In clinical trials with zoledronic acid, patients with 
serum creatinine > 265 µmol/l or > 3.0 mg/dl were excluded. 
In patients with bone metastases presenting with mild to moderate renal impairment prior to initiation 
of therapy, which is defined for this population as CLcr 30-60 ml/min, the following zoledronic acid 
dose is recommended (see also section 4.4): 
Baseline creatinine clearance (ml/min)  Zoledronic acid recommended dose* 
> 60 
50-60 
40-49 
30-39 
* Doses have been calculated assuming target AUC of 0.66 (mg-hr/l) (CLcr = 75 ml/min). The 
reduced doses for patients with renal impairment are expected to achieve the same AUC as that seen in 
patients with creatinine clearance of 75 ml/min. 
4.0 mg zoledronic acid 
3.5 mg* zoledronic acid 
3.3 mg* zoledronic acid 
3.0 mg* zoledronic acid 
Following initiation of therapy, serum creatinine should be measured prior to each dose of zoledronic 
acid and treatment should be withheld if renal function has deteriorated. In the clinical trials, renal 
deterioration was defined as follows: 
- 
For patients with normal baseline serum creatinine (< 1.4 mg/dl or < 124 µmol/l), an increase of 
0.5 mg/dl or 44 µmol/l; 
For patients with abnormal baseline creatinine (> 1.4 mg/dl or > 124 µmol/l), an increase of 
1.0 mg/dl or 88 µmol/l. 
- 
In the clinical studies, zoledronic acid treatment was resumed only when the creatinine level returned 
to within 10% of the baseline value (see section 4.4). Zoledronic acid treatment should be resumed at 
the same dose as that given prior to treatment interruption. 
Paediatric population 
The safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid in children aged 1 year to 17 years have not been 
established. Currently available data are described in section 5.1 but no recommendation on a 
posology can be made. 
Method of administration 
Intravenous use. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 4 mg concentrate for solution for infusion, further diluted in 100 ml (see 
section 6.6), should be given as a single intravenous infusion in no less than 15 minutes. 
In patients with mild to moderate renal impairment, reduced zoledronic acid doses are recommended 
(see section “Posology” above and section 4.4). 
Instructions for preparing reduced doses of Zoledronic Acid Accord 
Withdraw an appropriate volume of the concentrate needed, as follows: 
- 
- 
- 
4.4 ml for 3.5 mg dose 
4.1 ml for 3.3 mg dose 
3.8 ml for 3.0 mg dose 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
For instructions on the dilution of zoledronic acid before administration, see section 6.6. The 
withdrawn amount of concentrate must be further diluted in 100 ml of sterile 0.9% w/v sodium 
chloride solution or 5% w/v glucose solution. The dose must be given as a single intravenous infusion 
over no less than 15 minutes. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord concentrate must not be mixed with calcium or other divalent 
cation-containing infusion solutions such as lactated Ringer’s solution, and should be administered as 
a single intravenous solution in a separate infusion line. 
Patients must be maintained well hydrated prior to and following administration of zoledronic acid. 
4.3  
Contraindications 
– 
– 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, to other bisphosphonates or to any of the excipients 
listed in section 6.1 
Breast-feeding (see section 4.6) 
4.4  
Special warnings and precautions for use 
General 
Patients must be assessed prior to administration of zoledronic acid to ensure that they are adequately 
hydrated. 
Overhydration should be avoided in patients at risk of cardiac failure. 
Standard hypercalcaemia-related metabolic parameters, such as serum levels of calcium, phosphate 
and magnesium, should be carefully monitored after initiating zoledronic acid therapy. If 
hypocalcaemia, hypophosphataemia, or hypomagnesaemia occurs, short-term supplemental therapy 
may be necessary. Untreated hypercalcaemia patients generally have some degree of renal function 
impairment, therefore careful renal function monitoring should be considered. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord contains the same active substance as found in Aclasta (zoledronic acid). 
Patients being treated with Zoledronic Acid Accord should not be treated with Aclasta or any other 
bisphosphonate concomitantly, since the combined effects of these agents are unknown. 
Renal insufficiency 
Patients with TIH and evidence of deterioration in renal function should be appropriately evaluated 
with consideration given as to whether the potential benefit of treatment with zoledronic acid 
outweighs the possible risk. 
The decision to treat patients with bone metastases for the prevention of skeletal related events should 
consider that the onset of treatment effect is 2-3 months. 
Zoledronic acid has been associated with reports of renal dysfunction. Factors that may increase the 
potential for deterioration in renal function include dehydration, pre-existing renal impairment, 
multiple cycles of zoledronic acid and other bisphosphonates as well as use of other nephrotoxic 
medicinal products. While the risk is reduced with a dose of 4 mg zoledronic acid administered over 
15 minutes, deterioration in renal function may still occur. Renal deterioration, progression to renal 
failure and dialysis have been reported in patients after the initial dose or a single dose of 4 mg 
zoledronic acid. Increases in serum creatinine also occur in some patients with chronic administration 
of zoledronic acid at recommended doses for prevention of skeletal related events, although less 
frequently. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Patients should have their serum creatinine levels assessed prior to each dose of zoledronic acid. Upon 
initiation of treatment in patients with bone metastases with mild to moderate renal impairment, lower 
doses of zoledronic acid are recommended. In patients who show evidence of renal deterioration 
during treatment, zoledronic acid should be withheld. Zoledronic acid should only be resumed when 
serum creatinine returns to within 10% of baseline. Zoledronic acid treatment should be resumed at the 
same dose as that given prior to treatment interruption. 
In view of the potential impact of zoledronic acid on renal function, the lack of clinical safety data in 
patients with severe renal impairment (in clinical trials defined as serum creatinine ≥ 400 µmol/l or 
≥ 4.5 mg/dl for patients with TIH and ≥ 265 µmol/l or ≥ 3.0 mg/dl for patients with cancer and bone 
metastases, respectively) at baseline and only limited pharmacokinetic data in patients with severe 
renal impairment at baseline (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min), the use of zoledronic acid is not 
recommended in patients with severe renal impairment. 
Hepatic insufficiency 
As only limited clinical data are available in patients with severe hepatic insufficiency, no specific 
recommendations can be given for this patient population. 
Osteonecrosis  
Osteonecrosis of the jaw 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) has been reported uncommonly in clinical trials in patients receiving 
Zoledronic Acid Accord. Post-marketing experience and the literature suggest a greater frequency of 
reports of ONJ based on tumour type (advanced breast cancer, multiple myeloma). A study showed 
that ONJ was higher in myeloma patients when compared to other cancers (see section 5.1). 
The start of treatment or of a new course of treatment should be delayed in patients with unhealed 
open soft tissue lesions in the mouth, except in medical emergency situations. A dental examination 
with appropriate preventive dentistry and an individual benefit-risk assessment is recommended prior 
to treatment with bisphosphonates in patients with concomitant risk factors. 
The following risk factors should be considered when evaluating an individual’s risk of developing 
ONJ: 
- 
Potency of the bisphosphonate (higher risk for highly potent compounds), route of 
administration (higher risk for parenteral administration) and cumulative dose of 
bisphosphonate. 
Cancer, co-morbid conditions (e.g. anaemia, coagulopathies, infection), smoking. 
Concomitant therapies: chemotherapy, angiogenesis inhibitors (see section 4.5), radiotherapy to 
neck and head, corticosteroids. 
History of dental disease, poor oral hygiene, periodontal disease, invasive dental procedures 
(e.g. tooth extractions) and poorly fitting dentures 
- 
- 
- 
All patients should be encouraged to maintain good oral hygiene, undergo routine dental check-ups 
and immediately report any oral symptoms such as dental mobility, pain or swelling, or non-healing of 
sores or discharge during treatment with Zoledronic Acid Accord. 
While on treatment,  invasive dental procedures should be performed only after careful consideration 
and be avoided in close proximity to zoledronic acid administration. For patients who develop 
osteonecrosis of the jaw while on bisphosphonate therapy, dental surgery may exacerbate the 
condition. For patients requiring dental procedures, there are no data available to suggest whether 
discontinuation of bisphosphonate treatment reduces the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw.  
The management plan for patients who develop ONJ should be set up in close collaboration between 
the treating physician and a dentist or oral surgeon with expertise in ONJ. Temporary interruption of 
zoledronic acid treatment should be considered until the condition resolves and contributing risk 
factors are mitigated where possible. 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Osteonecrosis of  other anatomical sites 
Osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal has been reported with bisphosphonates, mainly in 
association with long-term therapy. Possible risk factors for osteonecrosis of the external auditory 
canal include steroid use and chemotherapy and/or local risk factors such as infection or trauma. The 
possibility of osteonecrosis of the external auditory canal should be considered in patients receiving 
bisphosphonates who present with ear symptoms including chronic ear infections. 
Additionally, there have been sporadic reports of osteonecrosis of other sites, including the hip and 
femur, reported predominantly in adult cancer patients treated with Zoledronic Acid . 
Musculoskeletal pain 
In post-marketing experience, severe and occasionally incapacitating bone, joint, and/or muscle pain 
have been reported in patients taking zoledronic acid. However, such reports have been infrequent. 
The time to onset of symptoms varied from one day to several months after starting treatment. Most 
patients had relief of symptoms after stopping treatment. A subset had recurrence of symptoms when 
rechallenged with zoledronic acid or another bisphosphonate. 
Atypical fractures of the femur 
Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures have been reported with bisphosphonate 
therapy, primarily in patients receiving long-term treatment for osteoporosis. These transverse or short 
oblique fractures can occur anywhere along the femur from just below the lesser trochanter to just 
above the supracondylar flare. These fractures occur after minimal or no trauma and some patients 
experience thigh or groin pain, often associated with imaging features of stress fractures, weeks to 
months before presenting with a completed femoral fracture. Fractures are often bilateral; therefore the 
contralateral femur should be examined in bisphosphonate-treated patients who have sustained a 
femoral shaft fracture. Poor healing of these fractures has also been reported. Discontinuation of 
bisphosphonate therapy in patients suspected to have an atypical femur fracture should be considered 
pending evaluation of the patient, based on an individual benefit risk assessment. 
During bisphosphonate treatment patients should be advised to report any thigh, hip or groin pain and 
any patient presenting with such symptoms should be evaluated for an incomplete femur fracture. 
Hypocalcaemia 
Hypocalcaemia has been reported in patients treated with zoledronic acid. Cardiac arrhythmias and 
neurologic adverse events (including convulsions, hypoasthesia and tetany) have been reported 
secondary to cases of severe hypocalcaemia. Cases of severe hypocalcaemia requiring hospitalisation 
have been reported. In some instances, the hypocalcaemia may be life-threatening (see section 4.8). 
Caution is advised when Zolendronc Acid Accord is administered with medicinal products known to 
cause hypocalcaemia, as they may have a synergistic effect resulting in severe hypocalcaemia (see 
section 4.5). Serum calcium should be measured and hypocalcaemia must be corrected before 
initiating Zoledronic Acid Accord therapy. Patients should be adequately supplemented with calcium 
and vitamin D. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. However, if a solution of common salt (0.9% w/v sodium chloride solution) is used for 
the dilution of Zoledronic Acid Accord prior to administration then the dose of sodium received would 
be higher. 
4.5  
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
In clinical studies, zoledronic acid has been administered concomitantly with commonly used 
anticancer agents, diuretics, antibiotics and analgesics without clinically apparent interactions 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
occurring. Zoledronic acid shows no appreciable binding to plasma proteins and does not inhibit 
human P450 enzymes in vitro (see section 5.2), but no formal clinical interaction studies have been 
performed.  
Caution is advised when bisphosphonates are administered with aminoglycosides, calcitonin or loop 
diuretics, since these agents may have an additive effect, resulting in a lower serum calcium level for 
longer periods than required (see section 4.4).  
Caution is indicated when zoledronic acid is used with other potentially nephrotoxic medicinal 
products. Attention should also be paid to the possibility of hypomagnesaemia developing during 
treatment. 
In multiple myeloma patients, the risk of renal dysfunction may be increased when zoledronic acid is 
used in combination with thalidomide. 
Caution is advised when zoledronic acid is administered with anti-angiogenic medicinal products, as 
an increase in the incidence of ONJ has been observed in patients treated concomitantly with these 
medicinal products.   
4.6  
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are no adequate data on the use of zoledronic acid in pregnant women. Animal reproduction 
studies with zoledronic acid have shown reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). The potential risk for 
humans is unknown. Zoledronic acid should not be used during pregnancy. Women of child-bearing 
potential should be advised to avoid becoming pregnant. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether zoledronic acid is excreted into human milk. Zoledronic acid is 
contraindicated in  breast-feeding women (see section 4.3). 
Fertility 
Zoledronic acid was evaluated in rats for potential adverse effects on fertility of the parental and F1 
generation. This resulted in exaggerated pharmacological effects considered to be related to the 
compound’s inhibition of skeletal calcium metabolisation, resulting in periparturient hypocalcaemia, a 
bisphosphonate class effect, dystocia and early termination of the study. Thus these results precluded 
determining a definitive effect of zoledronic acid on fertility in humans. 
4.7  
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
Adverse reactions, such as dizziness and somnolence, may have influence on the ability to drive or use 
machines, therefore caution should be exercised with the use of Zoledronic Acid Accord along with 
driving and operating of machinery. 
4.8  
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Within three days after zoledronic acid administration, an acute phase reaction has commonly been 
reported, with symptoms including bone pain, fever, fatigue, arthralgia, myalgia, rigors and arthritis 
with subsequent joint swelling; these symptoms usually resolve within a few days (see description of 
selected adverse reactions). 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following are the important identified risks with zoledronic acid in the approved indications: 
Renal function impairment, osteonecrosis of the jaw, acute phase reaction, hypocalcaemia, atrial 
fibrillation, anaphylaxis, interstitial lung disease. The frequencies for each of these identified risks are 
shown in Table 1. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
The following adverse reactions, listed in Table 1, have been accumulated from clinical studies and 
post-marketing reports following predominantly chronic treatment with 4 mg zoledronic acid: 
Table 1 
Adverse reactions are ranked under headings of frequency, the most frequent first, using the following 
convention: 
Very common (≥ 1/10) 
Common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10) 
Uncommon (≥ 1/1.000 to < 1/100) 
Rare (≥ 1/10.000 to < 1/1.000) 
Very rare (< 1/10.000), 
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders  
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Immune system disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Psychiatric disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Nervous system disorders 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Very rare: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Very rare: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
8 
Anaemia 
Thrombocytopenia, leukopenia 
Pancytopenia 
Hypersensitivity reaction 
Angioneurotic oedema 
Anxiety, sleep disturbance 
Confusion 
paraesthesia, 
Headache 
Dizziness, 
hypoaesthesia, 
somnolence 
hypoaesthesia 
Convulsions, 
(secondary to hypocalcaemia)  
hyperaesthesia, 
dysgeusia, 
tremor, 
and 
tetany 
Conjunctivitis 
Blurred vision, scleritis and orbital inflammation 
Uveitis 
Episcleritis 
Hypertension,  hypotension,  atrial  fibrillation, 
hypotension  leading  to  syncope  or  circulatory 
collapse 
Bradycardia,  cardiac  arrhythmia  (secondary  to 
hypocalcaemia) 
Dyspnoea, cough, bronchoconstriction 
Interstitial lung disease 
Nausea, vomiting, decreased appetite 
Diarrhoea, 
constipation, 
abdominal 
pain, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Uncommon: 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Very rare: 
Renal and urinary disorders 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
dyspepsia, stomatitis, dry mouth 
Pruritus,  rash  (including  erythematous  and 
macular rash), increased sweating 
Bone pain, myalgia, arthralgia, generalised pain 
Muscle spasms, osteonecrosis of the jaw 
Osteonecrosis  of  the  external  auditory  canal 
(bisphosphonate  class  adverse  reaction)  and 
other anatomical sites including femur and hip 
Renal impairment 
Acute renal failure, haematuria, proteinuria 
Acquired Fanconi syndrome 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Very common: 
Common: 
Uncommon: 
Rare: 
Investigations 
Fever,  flu-like  syndrome  (including  fatigue, 
rigors, malaise and flushing) 
Asthenia,  peripheral  oedema, 
injection  site 
reactions  (including  pain,  irritation,  swelling, 
induration), 
increase, 
chest  pain,  weight 
anaphylactic reaction/shock, urticaria 
Arthritis  and  joint  swelling  as  a  symptom  of 
acute phase reaction 
Hypophosphataemia 
Blood  creatinine  and  blood  urea  increased, 
hypocalcaemia 
Hypomagnesaemia, hypokalaemia 
Hyperkalaemia, hypernatraemia 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Renal function impairment 
Zoledronic acid has been associated with reports of renal dysfunction. In a pooled analysis of safety 
data from zoledronic acid registration trials for the prevention of skeletal-related events in patients 
with advanced malignancies involving bone, the frequency of renal impairment adverse events 
suspected to be related to zoledronic acid (adverse reactions) was as follows: multiple myeloma 
(3.2%), prostate cancer (3.1%), breast cancer (4.3%), lung and other solid tumours (3.2%). Factors that 
may increase the potential for deterioration in renal function include dehydration, pre-existing renal 
impairment, multiple cycles of zoledronic acid or other bisphosphonates, as well as concomitant use of 
nephrotoxic medicinal products or using a shorter infusion time than currently recommended. Renal 
deterioration, progression to renal failure and dialysis have been reported in patients after the initial 
dose or a single dose of 4 mg zoledronic acid (see section 4.4). 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw 
Cases of osteonecrosis of the jaw have been reported, predominantly in cancer patients treated with 
medicinal products that inhibit bone resorption, such as zoledronic acid (see section 4.4). Many of 
these patients were also receiving chemotherapy and corticosteroids and had signs of local infection 
including osteomyelitis. The majority of the reports refer to cancer patients following tooth extractions 
or other dental surgeries.  
Atrial fibrillation 
In one 3-year, randomised, double-blind controlled trial that evaluated the efficacy and safety of 
zoledronic acid 5 mg once yearly vs. placebo in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO), 
the overall incidence of atrial fibrillation was 2.5% (96 out of 3,862) and 1.9% (75 out of 3,852) in 
patients receiving zoledronic acid 5 mg and placebo, respectively. The rate of atrial fibrillation serious 
adverse events was 1.3% (51 out of 3,862) and 0.6% (22 out of 3,852) in patients receiving zoledronic 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
acid 5 mg and placebo, respectively. The imbalance observed in this trial has not been observed in 
other trials with zoledronic acid, including those with zoledronic acid 4 mg every 3-4 weeks in 
oncology patients. The mechanism behind the increased incidence of atrial fibrillation in this single 
clinical trial is unknown. 
Acute phase reaction 
This adverse drug reaction consists of a constellation of symptoms that includes fever, myalgia, 
headache, extremity pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, arthralgia and arthritis with subsequent joint 
swelling. The onset time is ≤ 3 days post-zoledronic acid infusion, and the reaction is also referred to 
using the terms “flu-like” or “post-dose” symptoms. 
Atypical fractures of the femur 
During post-marketing experience the following reactions have been reported (frequency rare): 
Atypical subtrochanteric and diaphyseal femoral fractures (bisphosphonate class adverse reaction). 
Hypocalcaemia-related ADRs  
Hypocalcaemia is an important identified risk with zoledronic acid in the approved indications. Based 
on the review of both clinical trial and post-marketing cases, there is sufficient evidence to support an 
association between zoledronic acid therapy, the reported event of hypocalcaemia, and the secondary 
development of cardiac arrhythmia. Furthermore, there is evidence of an association between 
hypocalcaemia and secondary neurological events reported in these cases including; convulsions, 
hypoaesthesia and tetany (see section 4.4).   
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose 
Clinical experience with acute overdose of zoledronic acid is limited. The administration of doses up 
to 48 mg of zoledronic acid in error has been reported. Patients who have received doses higher than 
those recommended (see section 4.2) should be carefully monitored, since renal function impairment 
(including renal failure) and serum electrolyte (including calcium, phosphorus and magnesium) 
abnormalities have been observed. In the event of hypocalcaemia, calcium gluconate infusions should 
be administered as clinically indicated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Drugs for treatment of bone diseases, bisphosphonates, 
ATC code: M05BA08 
Zoledronic acid belongs to the class of bisphosphonates and acts primarily on bone. It is an inhibitor of 
osteoclastic bone resorption. 
The selective action of bisphosphonates on bone is based on their high affinity for mineralised bone, 
but the precise molecular mechanism leading to the inhibition of osteoclastic activity is still unclear. In 
long-term animal studies, zoledronic acid inhibits bone resorption without adversely affecting the 
formation, mineralization or mechanical properties of bone. 
In addition to being a potent inhibitor of bone resorption, zoledronic acid also possesses several 
anti-tumour properties that could contribute to its overall efficacy in the treatment of metastatic bone 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
disease. The following properties have been demonstrated in preclinical studies: 
- 
In-vivo: Inhibition of osteoclastic bone resorption, which alters the bone marrow 
microenvironment, making it less conducive to tumour cell growth, anti-angiogenic activity and 
anti-pain activity. 
In-vitro: Inhibition of osteoblast proliferation, direct cytostatic and pro-apoptotic activity on 
tumour cells, synergistic cytostatic effect with other anti-cancer drugs, anti-adhesion/invasion 
activity. 
- 
Clinical trial results in the prevention of skeletal related events in patients with advanced malignancies 
involving bone 
The first randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study compared zoledronic acid 4 mg to 
placebo for the prevention of skeletal related events (SREs) in prostate cancer patients. Zoledronic 
acid 4 mg significantly reduced the proportion of patients experiencing at least one skeletal related 
event (SRE), delayed the median time to first SRE by > 5 months, and reduced the annual incidence of 
events per patient-skeletal morbidity rate. Multiple event analysis showed a 36% risk reduction in 
developing SREs in the zoledronic acid 4 mg group compared with placebo. Patients receiving 
zoledronic acid 4 mg reported less increase in pain than those receiving placebo, and the difference 
reached significance at months 3, 9, 21 and 24. Fewer zoledronic acid 4 mg patients suffered 
pathological fractures. The treatment effects were less pronounced in patients with blastic lesions. 
Efficacy results are provided in Table 2. 
In a second study including solid tumours other than breast or prostate cancer, zoledronic acid 4 mg 
significantly reduced the proportion of patients with an SRE, delayed the median time to first SRE by 
> 2 months, and reduced the skeletal morbidity rate. Multiple event analysis showed 30.7% risk 
reduction in developing SREs in the zoledronic acid 4 mg group compared with placebo. Efficacy 
results are provided in Table 3. 
Table 2: Efficacy results (prostate cancer patients receiving hormonal therapy) 
Any SRE (+TIH) 
Fractures* 
Radiation therapy to 
bone 
N  
Proportion of patients with 
SREs (%) 
p-value 
Median time to SRE (days) 
zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
214 
38 
Placebo  zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
214 
17 
208 
49 
Placebo  zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
214 
26 
208 
25 
Placebo 
208 
33 
0.028 
0.052 
0.119 
488 
321 
NR 
NR 
NR 
640 
p-value 
Skeletal morbidity rate 
0.009 
0.020 
0.055 
0.77 
1.47 
0.20 
0.45 
0.42 
0.89 
p-value 
Risk reduction of suffering from 
multiple events** (%) 
0.005 
0.023 
0.060 
36 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
p-value 
0.002 
NA 
NA 
* Includes vertebral and non-vertebral fractures 
** Accounts for all skeletal events, the total number as well as time to each event during the trial 
NR-Not Reached 
NA-Not Applicable 
Table 3: Efficacy results (solid tumours other than breast or prostate cancer) 
Any SRE (+TIH) 
Fractures* 
Radiation therapy to 
bone 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
N 
Proportion of patients with 
SREs (%) 
p-value 
Median time to SRE (days) 
p-value 
Skeletal morbidity rate 
p-value 
Risk reduction of suffering from 
multiple events** (%) 
p-value  
zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
257 
39 
Placebo  zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
257 
16 
250 
48 
Placebo  zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
257 
29 
250 
22 
Placebo 
250 
34 
0.039 
0.064 
0.173 
236 
155 
NR 
NR 
424 
307 
0.009 
0.020 
0.079 
1.74 
2.71 
0.39 
0.63 
1.24 
1.89 
0.012 
0.066 
0.099 
30.7 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
0.003 
NA 
NA 
* Includes vertebral and non-vertebral fractures 
** Accounts for all skeletal events, the total number as well as time to each event during the trial 
NR-Not Reached 
NA-Not Applicable 
In a third phase III randomised, double-blind trial, zoledronic acid 4 mg or 90 mg pamidronate every 
3 to 4 weeks were compared in patients with multiple myeloma or breast cancer with at least one bone 
lesion. The results demonstrated that zoledronic acid 4 mg showed comparable efficacy to 90 mg 
pamidronate in the prevention of SREs. The multiple event analysis revealed a significant risk 
reduction of 16% in patients treated with zoledronic acid 4 mg in comparison with patients receiving 
pamidronate. Efficacy results are provided in Table 4. 
Table 4: Efficacy results (breast cancer and multiple myeloma patients) 
Any SRE (+TIH) 
Fractures* 
Radiation therapy to 
bone 
N 
Proportion of patients with SREs 
(%) 
p-value 
Median time to SRE (days) 
zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
561 
48 
Pam 
90 mg 
555 
52 
zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
561 
37 
Pam 
90 mg 
555 
39 
zoledronic 
acid 4 mg 
561 
19 
Pam 
90 mg 
555 
24 
0.198 
0.653 
0.037 
376 
356 
NR 
714 
NR 
NR 
p-value 
Skeletal morbidity rate 
0.151 
0.672 
0.026 
1.04 
1.39 
0.53 
0.60 
0.47 
0.71 
p-value 
Risk reduction of suffering from 
multiple events** (%) 
0.084 
0.614 
0.015 
16 
- 
NA 
NA 
NA 
NA 
p-value 
0.030 
NA 
NA 
* Includes vertebral and non-vertebral fractures 
** Accounts for all skeletal events, the total number as well as time to each event during the trial 
NR-Not Reached 
NA-Not Applicable 
Zoledronic acid 4 mg was also studied in a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trial in 
228 patients with documented bone metastases from breast cancer to evaluate the effect of 4 mg 
12 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
zoledronic acid on the skeletal related event (SRE) rate ratio, calculated as the total number of SRE 
events (excluding hypercalcaemia and adjusted for prior fracture), divided by the total risk period. 
Patients received either 4 mg zoledronic acid or placebo every four weeks for one year. Patients were 
evenly distributed between zoledronic acid-treated and placebo groups. 
The SRE rate (events/person year) was 0.628 for zoledronic acid and 1.096 for placebo. The 
proportion of patients with at least one SRE (excluding hypercalcaemia) was 29.8% in the zoledronic 
acid-treated group versus 49.6% in the placebo group (p=0.003). Median time to onset of the first SRE 
was not reached in the zoledronic acid-treated arm at the end of the study and was significantly 
prolonged compared to placebo (p=0.007). Zoledronic acid 4 mg reduced the risk of SREs by 41% in a 
multiple event analysis (risk ratio=0.59, p=0.019) compared with placebo. 
In the zoledronic acid-treated group, statistically significant improvement in pain scores (using the 
Brief Pain Inventory, BPI) was seen at 4 weeks and at every subsequent time point during the study, 
when compared to placebo (Figure 1). The pain score for zoledronic acid was consistently below 
baseline and pain reduction was accompanied by a trend in reduced analgesics score. 
Figure 1. Mean changes from baseline in BPI scores. Statistically significant differences are 
marked (*p< 0.05) for between treatment comparisons (4 mg zoledronic acid vs. Placebo) 
CZOL446EUS122/SWOG study 
The primary objective of this observational study was to estimate the cumulative incidence of 
osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) at 3 years in cancer patients with bone metastasis receiving zoledronic 
acid. The osteoclast inhibition therapy, other cancer therapy, and dental care was performed as 
clinically indicated in order to best represent academic and community-based care. A baseline dental 
examination was recommended but was not mandatory. 
Among the 3491 evaluable patients, 87 cases of ONJ diagnosis were confirmed. The overall estimated 
cumulative incidence of confirmed ONJ at 3 years was 2.8% (95% CI: 2.3-3.5%). The rates were 0.8% 
at year 1 and 2.0% at year 2. Rates of 3-year confirmed ONJ were highest in myeloma patients (4.3%) 
and lowest in breast cancer patients (2.4%). Cases of confirmed ONJ were statistically significantly 
higher in patients with multiple myeloma (p=0.03) than other cancers combined. 
Clinical trial results in the treatment of TIH 
Clinical studies in tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH) demonstrated that the effect of zoledronic 
acid is characterised by decreases in serum calcium and urinary calcium excretion. In Phase I dose 
finding studies in patients with mild to moderate tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH), effective 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
doses tested were in the range of approximately 1.2-2.5 mg. 
To assess the effects of 4 mg zoledronic acid versus pamidronate 90 mg, the results of two pivotal 
multicentre studies in patients with TIH were combined in a pre-planned analysis. There was faster 
normalisation of corrected serum calcium at day 4 for 8 mg zoledronic acid and at day 7 for 4 mg and 
8 mg zoledronic acid. The following response rates were observed: 
Table 5: Proportion of complete responders by day in the combined TIH studies 
Day 4 
Day 7 
Zoledronic acid 4 mg (N=86)   45.3% (p=0.104) 
82.6% (p=0.005)*  88.4% (p=0.002)* 
Zoledronic acid 8 mg (N=90)   55.6% (p=0.021)*  83.3% (p=0.010)*  86.7% (p=0.015)* 
33.3% 
Pamidronate 90 mg (N=99)  
*p-values compared to pamidronate.  
Day 10 
63.6% 
69.7% 
Median time to normocalcaemia was 4 days. Median time to relapse (re-increase of albumin-corrected 
serum calcium ≥ 2.9 mmol/l) was 30 to 40 days for patients treated with zoledronic acid versus 
17 days for those treated with pamidronate 90 mg (p-values: 0.001 for 4 mg and 0.007 for 8 mg 
zoledronic acid). There were no statistically significant differences between the two zoledronic acid 
doses. 
In clinical trials 69 patients who relapsed or were refractory to initial treatment (zoledronic acid 4 mg, 
8 mg or pamidronate 90 mg) were retreated with 8 mg zoledronic acid. The response rate in these 
patients was about 52%. Since those patients were retreated with the 8 mg dose only, there are no data 
available allowing comparison with the 4 mg zoledronic acid dose. 
In clinical trials performed in patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH), the overall safety 
profile amongst all three treatment groups (zoledronic acid 4 and 8 mg and pamidronate 90 mg) was 
similar in types and severity. 
Paediatric population  
Clinical trial results in the treatment of severe osteogenesis imperfecta in paediatric patients aged 1 to 
17 years 
The effects of intravenous zoledronic acid in the treatment of paediatric patients (age 1 to 17 years) 
with severe osteogenesis imperfecta (types I, III and IV) were compared to intravenous pamidronate in 
one international, multicentre, randomised, open-label study with 74 and 76 patients in each treatment 
group, respectively. The study treatment period was 12 months preceded by a 4- to 9-week screening 
period during which vitamin D and elemental calcium supplements were taken for at least 2-weeks. In 
the clinical programme patients aged 1 to < 3 years received 0.025 mg/kg zoledronic acid (up to a 
maximum single dose of 0.35 mg) every 3 months and patients aged 3 to 17 years received 0.05 mg/kg 
zoledronic acid (up to a maximum single dose of 0.83 mg) every 3 months. An extension study was 
conducted in order to examine the long-term general and renal safety of once yearly or twice yearly 
zoledronic acid over the 12-month extension treatment period in children who had completed one year 
of treatment with either zoledronic acid or pamidronate in the core study. 
The primary endpoint of the study was the percent change from baseline in lumbar spine bone mineral 
density (BMD) after 12 months of treatment. Estimated treatment effects on BMD were similar, but 
the trial design was not sufficiently robust to establish non-inferior efficacy for zoledronic acid. In 
particular there was no clear evidence of efficacy on incidence of fracture or on pain. Fracture adverse 
events of long bones in the lower extremities were reported in approximately 24% (femur) and 14% 
(tibia) of zoledronic acid-treated patients vs 12% and 5% of pamidronate-treated patients with severe 
osteogenesis imperfecta, regardless of disease type and causality but overall incidence of fractures was 
comparable for the zoledronic acid and pamidronate-treated patients: 43% (32/74) vs 41% (31/76). 
Interpretation of the risk of fracture is confounded by the fact that fractures are common events in 
patients with severe osteogenesis imperfecta as part of the disease process. 
14 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
The type of adverse reactions observed in this population were similar to those previously seen in 
adults with advanced malignancies involving the bone (see section 4.8). The adverse reactions ranked 
under headings of frequency, are presented in Table 6. 
Very common (≥1/10) 
Common (≥1/100 to <1/10) 
Uncommon (≥1/1,000 to <1/100) 
Rare (≥1/10,000 to <1/1,000) 
Very rare (<1/10,000) 
Not known (cannot be estimated from the available data). 
Table 6: Adverse reactions observed in paediatric patients with severe osteogenesis imperfecta1 
 Nervous system disorders 
Common: 
Headache  
Cardiac disorders 
Tachycardia 
Common 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal disorders 
Common: 
Nasopharyngitis 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Very common  Vomiting, nausea 
Common 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders 
Common 
Abdominal pain 
Pain in extremities, arthralgia, musculoskeletal pain 
General disorders and administration site conditions 
Very common  Pyrexia, fatigue 
Common 
Acute phase reaction, pain 
Investigations 
Very common  Hypocalcaemia 
Common: 
Hypophosphataemia 
1 Adverse events occurring with frequencies < 5% were medically assessed and it was shown that 
these cases are consistent with the well established safety profile of zoledronic acid (see section 4.8) 
In paediatric patients with severe osteogenesis imperfecta, zoledronic acid seems to be associated with 
more pronounced risks for acute phase reaction, hypocalcaemia and unexplained tachycardia, in 
comparison to pamidronate, but this difference declined after subsequent infusions. 
The European Medicines Agency has waived the obligation to submit the results of studies with the 
reference product containing zoledronic acid in all subsets of the paediatric population in the treatment 
of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia and prevention of skeletal-related events in patients with advanced 
malignancies involving bone (see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
5.2  
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Single and multiple 5- and 15-minute infusions of 2, 4, 8 and 16 mg zoledronic acid in 64 patients 
with bone metastases yielded the following pharmacokinetic data, which were found to be dose 
independent. 
After initiating the infusion of zoledronic acid, the plasma concentrations of zoledronic acid rapidly 
increased, achieving their peak at the end of the infusion period, followed by a rapid decline to < 10% 
of peak after 4 hours and < 1% of peak after 24 hours, with a subsequent prolonged period of very low 
concentrations not exceeding 0.1% of peak prior to the second infusion of zoledronic acid on day 28. 
Intravenously administered zoledronic acid is eliminated by a triphasic process: rapid biphasic 
disappearance from the systemic circulation, with half-lives of t½α 0.24 and t½β 1.87 hours, followed by 
a long elimination phase with a terminal elimination half-life of t½γ 146 hours. There was no 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accumulation of zoledronic acid in plasma after multiple doses given every 28 days. Zoledronic acid is 
not metabolised and is excreted unchanged via the kidney. Over the first 24 hours, 39 ± 16% of the 
administered dose is recovered in the urine, while the remainder is principally bound to bone tissue.  
From the bone tissue it is released very slowly back into the systemic circulation and eliminated via 
the kidney. The total body clearance is 5.04 ± 2.5 l/h, independent of dose, and unaffected by gender, 
age, race, and body weight. Increasing the infusion time from 5 to 15 minutes caused a 30% decrease 
in zoledronic acid concentration at the end of the infusion, but had no effect on the area under the 
plasma concentration versus time curve. 
The interpatient variability in pharmacokinetic parameters for zoledronic acid was high, as seen with 
other bisphosphonates. 
No pharmacokinetic data for zoledronic acid are available in patients with hypercalcaemia or in 
patients with hepatic insufficiency. Zoledronic acid does not inhibit human P450 enzymes in vitro, 
shows no biotransformation and in animal studies < 3% of the administered dose was recovered in the 
faeces, suggesting no relevant role of liver function in the pharmacokinetics of zoledronic acid. 
The renal clearance of zoledronic acid was correlated with creatinine clearance, renal clearance 
representing 75 ± 33% of the creatinine clearance, which showed a mean of 84 ± 29 ml/min (range 
22 to 143 ml/min) in the 64 cancer patients studied. Population analysis showed that for a patient with 
creatinine clearance of 20 ml/min (severe renal impairment), or 50 ml/min (moderate impairment), the 
corresponding predicted clearance of zoledronic acid would be 37% or 72%, respectively, of that of a 
patient showing creatinine clearance of 84 ml/min. Only limited pharmacokinetic data are available in 
patients with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 30 ml/min). 
In an in vitro study, zoledronic acid showed low affinity for the cellular components of human blood, 
with a mean blood to plasma concentration ratio of 0.59 in a concentration range of 30 ng/ml to 
5000 ng/ml. The plasma protein binding is low, with the unbound fraction ranging from 60% at 
2 ng/ml to 77% at 2000 ng/ml of zoledronic acid 
Special populations 
Paediatric patients 
Limited pharmacokinetic data in children with severe osteogenesis imperfecta suggest that zoledronic 
acid pharmacokinetics in children aged 3 to 17 years are similar to those in adults at a similar mg/kg 
dose level. Age, body weight, gender and creatinine clearance appear to have no effect on zoledronic 
acid systemic exposure. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Acute toxicity 
The highest non-lethal single intravenous dose was 10 mg/kg bodyweight in mice and 0.6 mg/kg in 
rats. 
Subchronic and chronic toxicity 
Zoledronic acid was well tolerated when administered subcutaneously to rats and intravenously to 
dogs at doses up to 0.02 mg/kg daily for 4 weeks. Administration of 0.001 mg/kg/day subcutaneously 
in rats and 0.005 mg/kg intravenously once every 2-3 days in dogs for up to 52 weeks was also well 
tolerated. 
The most frequent finding in repeat-dose studies consisted of increased primary spongiosa in the 
metaphyses of long bones in growing animals at nearly all doses, a finding that reflected the 
compound’s pharmacological antiresorptive activity. 
The safety margins relative to renal effects were narrow in the long-term repeat-dose parenteral animal 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
studies but the cumulative no adverse event levels (NOAELs) in the single dose (1.6 mg/kg) and 
multiple dose studies of up to one month (0.06-0.6 mg/kg/day) did not indicate renal effects at doses 
equivalent to or exceeding the highest intended human therapeutic dose. Longer-term repeat 
administration at doses bracketing the highest intended human therapeutic dose of zoledronic acid 
produced toxicological effects in other organs, including the gastrointestinal tract, liver, spleen and 
lungs, and at intravenous injection sites. 
Reproduction toxicity 
Zoledronic acid was teratogenic in the rat at subcutaneous doses ≥ 0.2 mg/kg. Although no 
teratogenicity or foetotoxicity was observed in the rabbit, maternal toxicity was found. Dystocia was 
observed at the lowest dose (0.01 mg/kg bodyweight) tested in the rat. 
Mutagenicity and carcinogenic potential 
Zoledronic acid was not mutagenic in the mutagenicity tests performed and carcinogenicity testing did 
not provide any evidence of carcinogenic potential. 
6 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Mannitol (E421) 
Sodium citrate 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
To avoid potential incompatibilities, Zoledronic Acid Accord concentrate is to be diluted with 
0.9% w/v sodium chloride solution for Injection or 5% w/v glucose solution. 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with calcium or other divalent cation-containing infusion 
solutions such as lactated Ringer’s solution, and should be administered as a single intravenous 
solution in a separate infusion line. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
30 months. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 36 hours at 2 – 8 °C. 
After dilution: From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not 
used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C, unless dilution has taken place in 
controlled and validated aseptic conditions. 
6.4  
Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage condition. 
For storage conditions of the reconstituted solution for infusion, see section 6.3. 
6.5  
Nature and contents of container 
5-ml plastic vial made of clear, cycloolefine copolymer with chlorobutyl rubber stopper and 
aluminium cap with flip-off component. 
Packs containing 1, 4 or 10 vials. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Prior to administration, 5ml concentrate from one vial or the volume of the concentrate withdrawn as 
required must be further diluted with 100 ml of calcium-free infusion solution (0.9% w/v sodium 
chloride solution for Injection or 5% w/v glucose solution). 
Additional information on handling of Zoledronic Acid Accord, including guidance on preparation of 
reduced doses, is provided in section 4.2. 
Aseptic techniques must be followed during the preparation of the infusion. For single use only. 
Only clear solution free from particles and discolouration should be used. 
Healthcare professionals are advised not to dispose of unused Zoledronic Acid Accord via the 
domestic sewage system. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBERS 
EU/1/13/834/001 
EU/1/13/834/002 
EU/1/13/834/003 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 16.01.2014 
Date of latest renewal: 20th November 2018 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
 MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE  
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
  Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
  ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal products subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION  
•  Periodic safety update reports  
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set 
out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or 
as the result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached.  
Additional risk minimisation measures 
The MAH shall ensure that a patient reminder card regarding osteonecrosis of the jaw is 
implemented. 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
FOLDING BOX  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
zoledronic acid  
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One vial contains 4 mg of zoledronic acid (as monohydrate). 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: mannitol (E421), sodium citrate and water for injections. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Concentrate for solution for infusion 
1 vial  
4 vials  
10 vials  
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
For single use only. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Use immediately after dilution. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
10. 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
EU/1/13/834/001- 1vial pack 
EU/1/13/834/002- 4 vial pack 
EU/1/13/834/003- 10 vial pack 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC: 
SN: 
NN: 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS 
VIAL LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 4 mg/5 ml sterile concentrate  
zoledronic acid 
I.V. use after dilution 
2. 
METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
5 ml 
6. 
OTHER 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
Zoledronic Acid Accord 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion 
Zoledronic acid 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you are given this medicine because it contains important 
information for you. 
• 
• 
• 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible 
side effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Zoledronic Acid Accord is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Zoledronic Acid Accord 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How Zoledronic Acid Accord is used 
Possible side effects 
How to store Zoledronic Acid Accord 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What Zoledronic Acid Accord is and what it is used for 
The active substance in Zoledronic Acid Accord is zoledronic acid, which belongs to a group of 
substances called bisphosphonates. Zoledronic acid works by attaching itself to the bone and slowing 
down the rate of bone change. It is used: 
• 
To prevent bone complications, e.g. fractures, in adult patients with bone metastases (spread 
of cancer from primary site to the bone). 
To reduce the amount of calcium in the blood in adult patients where it is too high due to the 
presence of a tumour. Tumours can accelerate normal bone change in such a way that the 
release of calcium from bone is increased. This condition is known as tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
• 
2.  What you need to know before you are given Zoledronic Acid Accord 
Follow carefully all instructions given to you by your doctor. 
Your doctor will carry out blood tests before you start treatment with Zoledronic Acid Accord 
and will check your response to treatment at regular intervals. 
Do not receive Zoledronic Acid Accord: 
• 
• 
if you are breast-feeding. 
if you are allergic to zoledronic acid, another bisphosphonate (the group of substances to 
which Zoledronic Acid Accord belongs), or any of the other ingredients of this medicine 
(listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
Talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse before you are given Zoledronic Acid Accord 
• 
• 
if you have or have had a kidney problem. 
if you have or have had pain, swelling or numbness of the jaw, a feeling of heaviness in the jaw 
or loosening of a tooth. Your doctor may recommend a dental examination before you start 
treatment with Zoledronic Acid Accord. 
if you are having dental treatment or are due to undergo dental surgery, tell your dentist that 
you are being treated with Zoledronic Acid Accord and inform your doctor about your dental 
treatment. 
• 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
While being treated with Zoledronic Acid Accord, you should maintain good oral hygiene 
(including regular teeth brushing) and receive routine dental check-ups. 
Contact your doctor and dentist immediately if you experience any problems with your mouth or 
teeth such as loose teeth, pain or swelling, or non-healing of sores or discharge, as these could be 
signs of a condition called osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Patients who are undergoing chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy, who are taking steroids, who are 
undergoing dental surgery, who do not receive routine dental care, who have gum disease, who are 
smokers, or who were previously treated with a bisphosphonate (used to treat or prevent bone 
disorders) may have higher risk of developing osteonecrosis of the jaw. 
Reduced levels of calcium in the blood (hypocalcaemia), sometimes leading to muscle cramps, dry 
skin, burning sensation, have been reported in patients treated with Zoledronic Acid Accord. 
Irregular heart beat (cardiac arrhythmia), seizures, spasm and twitching (tetany) have been reported 
as secondary to severe hypocalcaemia. In some instances the hypocalcaemia may be life-threatening. 
If any of these apply to you, tell your doctor straight away. If you have pre-existing hypocalcaemia, 
it must be corrected before initiating the first dose of Zoledronic Acid Accord. You will be given 
adequate calcium and vitamin D supplements. 
Patients aged 65 years and over 
Zoledronic Acid Accord can be given to people aged 65 years and over. There is no evidence to 
suggest that any extra precautions are needed. 
Children and adolescents 
Zoledronic Acid Accord is not recommended for use in adolescents and children below the age of 
18 years. 
Other medicines and Zoledronic Acid Accord 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines. It is especially important that you tell your doctor if you are also taking: 
• 
Aminoglycosides (medicines used to treat severe infections), calcitonin (a type of medicine 
used to treat post-menopausal osteoporosis and hypercalcaemia), loop diuretics (a type of 
medicine to treat high blood pressure or oedema) or other calcium-lowering medicines, 
since the combination of these with bisphosphonates may cause the calcium level in the 
blood to become too low. 
Thalidomide (a medicine used to treat a certain type of blood cancer involving the bone) or 
any other medicines which may harm your kidneys. 
Other medicines that also contain zoledronic acid and are used to treat osteoporosis and other 
non-cancer diseases of the bone, or any other bisphosphonate, since the combined effects of 
these medicines taken together with Zoledronic Acid Accord are unknown. 
Anti-angiogenic medicines (used to treat cancer), since the combination of these with 
zoledronic acid has been associated with an increased risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ). 
• 
• 
• 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
You should not be given Zoledronic Acid Accord if you are pregnant. Tell your doctor if you are or 
think that you may be pregnant. 
You must not be given Zoledronic Acid Accord if you are breast-feeding. 
Ask your doctor for advice before taking any medicine while you are pregnant or breast-feeding. 
Driving and using machines 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
There have been very rare cases of drowsiness and sleepiness with the use of Zoledronic Acid 
Accord. You should therefore be careful when driving, using machinery or performing other tasks 
that need full attention. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord contains sodium. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per vial, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. If your doctor uses a solution of common salt to dilute Zoledronic Acid Accord, the 
dose of sodium received would be larger. 
3. 
How Zoledronic Acid Accord is used 
• 
• 
• 
Zoledronic Acid Accord must only be given by healthcare professionals 
trained in administering bisphosphonates intravenously, i.e. through a vein. 
Your doctor will recommend that you drink enough water before each treatment to help 
prevent dehydration. 
Carefully follow all the other instructions given to you by your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
How much Zoledronic Acid Accord is given 
• 
• 
The usual single dose given is 4 mg zoledronic acid. 
If you have a kidney problem, your doctor will give you a lower dose depending on the 
severity of your kidney problem. 
How often Zoledronic Acid Accord is given 
• 
If you are being treated for the prevention of bone complications due to bone metastases, 
you will be given one infusion of Zoledronic Acid Accord every three to four weeks. 
If you are being treated to reduce the amount of calcium in your blood, you will normally only 
be given one infusion of Zoledronic Acid Accord. 
• 
How Zoledronic Acid Accord is given 
• 
Zoledronic Acid Accord is given as a drip (infusion) into a vein which should take at least 
15 minutes and should be administered as a single intravenous solution in a separate infusion 
line. 
Patients whose blood calcium levels are not too high will also be prescribed calcium and vitamin D 
supplements to be taken each day. 
If you are given more Zoledronic Acid Accord than you should be 
If you have received doses higher than those recommended, you must be carefully monitored by 
your doctor. This is because you may develop serum electrolyte abnormalities (e.g. abnormal levels 
of calcium, phosphorus and magnesium) and/or changes in kidney function, including severe kidney 
impairment. If your level of calcium falls too low, you may have to be given supplemental calcium 
by infusion. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. 
4. 
Possible Side Effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
The most common ones are usually mild and will probably disappear after a short time.  
Tell your doctor about any of the following serious side effects straight 
away: 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Severe kidney impairment (will normally be determined by your doctor with certain 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
specific blood tests). 
Low level of calcium in the blood. 
• 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
Pain in the mouth, teeth and/or jaw, swelling or non-healing sores inside the mouth or jaw, 
discharge, numbness or a feeling of heaviness in the jaw, or loosening of a tooth. These could 
be signs of bone damage in the jaw (osteonecrosis). Tell your doctor and dentist immediately if 
you experience such symptoms while being treated with Zoledronic Acid Accord or after 
stopping treatment. 
Irregular heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation) has been seen in patients receiving zoledronic acid 
for postmenopausal osteoporosis. It is currently unclear whether zoledronic acid causes this 
irregular heart rhythm but you should report it to your doctor if you experience such symptoms 
after you have received zoledronic acid. 
Severe allergic reaction: shortness of breath, swelling mainly of the face and throat. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
As a consequence of low calcium values: irregular heart beat (cardiac arrhythmia; secondary to 
hypocalcaemia). 
A kidney function disorder called Fanconi syndrome (will normally be determined by your 
doctor with certain urine tests). 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
• 
As a consequence of low calcium values: seizures, numbness and tetany (secondary to 
hypocalcaemia). 
Talk to your doctor if you have ear pain, discharge from the ear, and/or an ear infection. These 
could be signs of bone damage in the ear. 
Osteonecrosis has also very rarely been seen occurring with other bones than the jaw, 
especially the hip or thigh. Tell your doctor immediately if you experience symptoms such as 
new onset or worsening of aches, pain or stiffness while being treated with Zoledronic Acid 
Accord or after stopping treatment. 
Tell your doctor about any of the following side effects as soon as 
possible: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Low level of phosphate in the blood. 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
• 
Headache and a flu-like syndrome consisting of fever, fatigue, weakness, drowsiness, chills 
and bone, joint and/or muscle ache. In most cases no specific treatment is required and the 
symptoms disappear after a short time (couple of hours or days). 
Gastrointestinal reactions such as nausea and vomiting as well as loss of appetite. 
Conjunctivitis. 
Low level of red blood cells (anaemia). 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Hypersensitivity reactions. 
Low blood pressure. 
Chest pain. 
Skin reactions (redness and swelling) at the infusion site, rash, itching. 
High blood pressure, shortness of breath, dizziness, anxiety, sleep disturbances, taste 
disturbances, trembling, tingling or numbness of the hands or feet, diarrhoea constipation, 
abdominal pain, dry mouth. 
Low counts of white blood cells and blood platelets. 
Low level of magnesium and potassium in the blood. Your doctor will monitor this and take 
30 
• 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any necessary measures. 
•  Weight increase. 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Increased sweating. 
Sleepiness. 
Blurred vision, tearing of the eye, eye sensitivity to light. 
Sudden coldness with fainting, limpness or collapse. 
Difficulty in breathing with wheezing or coughing. 
Urticaria. 
Rare (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people): 
• 
• 
• 
Slow heart beat. 
Confusion. 
Unusual fracture of the thigh bone particularly in patients on long-term treatment for 
osteoporosis may occur rarely. Contact your doctor if you experience pain, weakness or 
discomfort in your thigh, hip or groin as this may be an early indication of a possible fracture 
of the thigh bone. 
Interstitial lung disease (inflammation of the tissue around the air sacks of the lungs) 
Flu-like symptoms including arthritis and joint swelling. 
Painful redness and/or swelling of the eye. 
• 
• 
• 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
• 
Fainting due to low blood pressure. 
• 
Severe bone, joint and/or muscle pain, occasionally incapacitating. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, pharmacist or nurse. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting 
system listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the 
safety of this medicine. 
5. 
How to store Zoledronic Acid Accord 
Your doctor, pharmacist or nurse knows how to store Zoledronic Acid Accord properly (see section 6).  
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Zoledronic Acid Accord contains  
• 
The active substance is zoledronic acid. One vial contains 4 mg zoledronic acid (as 
monohydrate). 
The other ingredients are: mannitol, sodium citrate, water for injections. 
• 
What Zoledronic Acid Accord looks like and contents of the pack 
Zoledronic Acid Accord is supplied as a liquid concentrate in a vial. One vial contains 4 mg of 
zoledronic acid. 
Each pack contains the vial with concentrate. Zoledronic Acid Accord is supplied as packs 
containing 1, 4 or 10 vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder and Manufacturer 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain 
Manufacturer  
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp.z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50,95-200 Pabianice, Poland 
This leaflet was last revised in 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is intended for healthcare professionals only: 
How to prepare and administer Zoledronic Acid Accord 
• 
To prepare an infusion solution containing 4 mg zoledronic acid, further dilute the Zoledronic 
Acid Accord concentrate (5ml) with 100 ml of calcium-free or other divalent cation-free 
infusion solution. If a lower dose of Zoledronic Acid Accord is required, first withdraw the 
appropriate volume as indicated below and then dilute it further with 100 ml of infusion 
solution. To avoid potential incompatibilities, the infusion solution used for dilution must be 
either 0.9% w/v sodium chloride or 5% w/v glucose solution. 
Do not mix Zoledronic Acid Accord concentrate with calcium-containing or other 
divalent cation-containing solutions such as lactated Ringer’s solution. 
Instructions for preparing reduced doses of Zoledronic Acid Accord: 
Withdraw the appropriate volume of the liquid concentrate, as follows: 
o 
o 
o 
4.4 ml for 3.5 mg dose 
4.1 ml for 3.3 mg dose 
3.8 ml for 3.0 mg dose 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
For single use only. Any unused solution should be discarded. Only clear solution free from 
particles and discolouration should be used. Aseptic techniques must be followed during the 
preparation of the infusion. 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 36 hours at 2 – 8 °C.  
From a microbiological point of view, the diluted solution for infusion should be used 
immediately. If not used immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are 
the responsibility of the user and would normally not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C-8°C. 
The refrigerated solution should then be equilibrated to room temperature prior to 
administration. 
The solution containing zoledronic acid is given as a single 15-minute intravenous infusion in a 
separate infusion line. The hydration status of patients must be assessed prior to and following 
administration of Zoledronic Acid Accord to ensure that they are adequately hydrated. 
Studies with several types of infusion lines made from polyvinylchloride, polyethylene and 
polypropylene showed no incompatibility with Zoledronic Acid Accord. 
Since no data are available on the compatibility of Zoledronic Acid Accord with other 
intravenously administered substances, Zoledronic Acid Accord must not be mixed with other 
medications/substances and should always be given through a separate infusion line. 
How to store Zoledronic Acid Accord 
• 
• 
• 
Keep Zoledronic Acid Accord out of the reach and sight of children. 
Do not use Zoledronic Acid Accord after the expiry date stated on the pack. 
The unopened vial does not require any specific storage conditions. 
The diluted Zoledronic Acid Accord infusion solution should be used immediately in order to 
avoid microbial contamination. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
