EMA/880418/2018 
EMEA/H/C/002667 
Zoledronic Acid Accord (zoledronic acid) 
An overview of Zoledronic Acid Accord and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zoledronic Acid Accord and what is it used for? 
Zoledronic Acid Accord is a medicine used to prevent bone complications in adults with advanced 
cancer that is affecting the bone. This includes fractures (breaks in the bone), spinal compression 
(when the spinal cord is compressed by the bone), bone disorders needing radiotherapy (treatment 
with radiation) or surgery, and hypercalcaemia (high levels of calcium in the blood). Zoledronic Acid 
Accord can also be used to treat hypercalcaemia caused by tumours.  
Zoledronic Acid Accord contains the active substance zoledronic acid and is a ‘generic medicine’. This 
means that Zoledronic Acid Accord contains the same active substance and works in the same way as 
a ‘reference medicine’ already authorised in the European Union (EU) called Zometa. For more 
information on generic medicines, see the question-and-answer document here. 
How is Zoledronic Acid Accord used? 
Zoledronic Acid Accord can only be obtained with a prescription and must only be prescribed and given 
by a healthcare professional who has experience in the use of this type of medicine given into a vein. 
The medicine is given as an infusion (drip) into a vein. The usual dose is one infusion of 4 mg over at 
least 15 minutes. When used to prevent bone complications, the infusion can be repeated every three 
to four weeks, and patients should also take supplements of calcium and vitamin D. A lower dose is 
recommended for patients with bone metastases (when cancer has spread to the bone) if they have 
mild to moderately reduced kidney function. It is not recommended for patients with severely reduced 
kidney function. 
For more information about using Zoledronic Acid Accord, see the package leaflet or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Zoledronic Acid Accord work? 
The active substance in Zoledronic Acid Accord, zoledronic acid, is a bisphosphonate. It stops the 
action of the osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. This 
reduces bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to make bones less likely to break, which is useful 
in preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone metastases. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact                                          
  An agency of the European Union    
© European Medicines Agency, 2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the bones. By 
preventing the breakdown of bones, Zoledronic Acid Accord also helps to reduce the amount of calcium 
released into the blood. 
How has Zoledronic Acid Accord been studied? 
Studies on the benefits and risks of the active substance in the authorised uses have already been 
carried out with the reference medicine, Zometa, and do not need to be repeated for Zoledronic Acid 
Accord.  
As for every medicine, the company provided studies on the quality of Zoledronic Acid Accord. There 
was no need for ‘bioequivalence’ studies to investigate whether Zoledronic Acid Accord is absorbed 
similarly to the reference medicine to produce the same level of the active substance in the blood. This 
is because Zoledronic Acid Accord is given by infusion into a vein, so the active substance is delivered 
straight into the bloodstream.  
What are the benefits and risks of Zoledronic Acid Accord? 
Because Zoledronic Acid Accord is a generic medicine, its benefits and risks are taken as being the 
same as the reference medicines’. 
 Why is Zoledronic Acid Accord authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that, in accordance with EU requirements, Zoledronic Acid 
Accord has been shown to have comparable quality and to be comparable to Zometa. Therefore, the 
Agency’s view was that, as for Zometa, the benefit outweighs the identified risk and it can be 
authorised for use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zoledronic Acid Accord? 
The company that markets Zoledronic Acid Accord will provide a card to inform patients receiving 
Zoledronic Acid Accord about the risk of osteonecrosis of the jaw and to instruct them to contact their 
doctor if they get symptoms. Osteonecrosis of the jaw is a condition affecting the bones of the jaw, 
which could lead to pain, sores in the mouth or loose teeth.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zoledronic Acid Accord have also been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zoledronic Acid Accord are continuously monitored. Side effects 
reported with Zoledronic Acid Accord are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect 
patients. 
Other information about Zoledronic Acid Accord 
Zoledronic Acid Accord received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 16 January 
2014. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord (zoledronic acid)  
EMA/880418/2018  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Further information on Zoledronic Acid Accord can be found on the Agency’s 
website: ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zoledronic-acid-accord. Information on the reference 
medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
This overview was last updated in 01-2019. 
Zoledronic Acid Accord (zoledronic acid)  
EMA/880418/2018  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
