19 April 2012 
EMA/534108/2012 
Assessment report 
Zoledronic acid Teva 
International non-proprietary name: zoledronic acid 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002439 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2011. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 3 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 4 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 4 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3. Non- clinical aspects ........................................................................................... 8 
2.4. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................. 9 
2.5. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 10 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 15 
4. 
Recommendation
................................................................................. 16 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 2/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.   Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Teva Pharma B.V. submitted on 6 May 2011 an application for Marketing Authorisation to 
the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Zoledronic acid Teva, through the centralised procedure 
under Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004 – ‘Generic of a Centrally authorised product’. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 21 October 2010. 
The application concerns a generic medicinal product as defined in Article 10(2)(b) of Directive 
2001/83/EC and refers to a reference medicinal product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has 
been granted in the Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of 
Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: prevention of skeletal related events and treatment 
of tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Generic application (Article 10(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information and complete quality data. 
According to the Guideline on investigation of bioequivalence (CPMP/EWP/QWP/1401/98 Rev. 1), 
bioequivalence studies are not required if the test product is to be administered as an aqueous 
intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved product. As this is 
the case with Zoledronic Acid Teva, bioequivalence study is not required.  
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information on the reference medicinal product 
The chosen reference medicinal product is: 
■  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form: Zometa 4 mg powder and solvent for solution for 
infusion and 4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for infusion.   
  Marketing authorisation holder:  Novartis Europharm Ltd.   
  Date of authorisation: 22-03-2001   
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number: EU/1/01/176/001-006      
■  Medicinal product authorised in the Community/Members State where the application is made or 
European reference medicinal product:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:  Zometa 4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for 
infusion    
  Marketing authorisation holder: Novartis Europharm Ltd    
  Date of authorisation:  22-03-2001  
  Marketing authorisation granted by:  
  Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number:  EU/1/01/176/0014-006          
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 3/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific advice  
The applicant did not seek scientific advice at the CHMP. 
Licensing status 
At the time of submission of the application, Teva Group had not licensed the product in any country of 
the European Union and outside the European Union Teva Group had registered the product in Mexico 
only. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Kristina Dunder  
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
The application was received by the EMA on 6 May 2011.  
The procedure started on 25 May 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 16 August 
2011.  
During the meeting on 19-22 September 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of 
Questions to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the 
applicant on 26 September 2011. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 11 
November 2011. 
The Rapporteur circulated the Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 4 January 2012.  
During the CHMP meeting on 16-19 January, the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues 
to be addressed in writing by the applicant. 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 
13 February 2012. 
During the meeting on 12-15 March 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted 
and the scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a 
Marketing Authorisation to Zoledronic Acid Teva on 15 March 2012.  
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The marketing authorisation application for Zoledronic acid Teva 4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for 
infusion is a generic application submitted to the centralised procedure according to regulation (EC) No 
726/2004,  Article  3(3).  The  reference  product  is  the  centrally  authorised  medicinal  product  Zometa 
4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for infusion, authorised to Novartis Europharm Limited on 20 March 
2001. 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 4/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  active  substance  of  this  generic  medical  product  is  zoledronic  acid,  a  bisphosphonate  that  acts 
primarily  on  bone.  It  is  an  inhibitor  of  osteoclastic  bone  resorption.  The  selective  action  of 
bisphosphonates on bone is based on their high affinity for mineralised bone, but the precise molecular 
mechanism leading to the inhibition of osteoclastic activity is still unclear. In addition to being a potent 
inhibitor  of  bone  resorption,  zoledronic  acid  also  possesses  several  anti-tumour  properties  that  could 
contribute to its overall efficacy in the treatment of metastatic bone disease. 
Patients  with  tumors  can  have  high  levels  of  calcium  in  their  blood,  released  from  the  bones.  By 
preventing  the  breakdown  of  bones,  Zoledronic  acid  also  helps  to  reduce  the  amount  of  calcium 
released into the blood. 
The safety and efficacy profile of zoledronic acid has been demonstrated in several clinical trials, details 
of which can be found in the EPAR of the reference product Zometa. In addition, there is long-term 
post-marketing experience contributing to the knowledge of the clinical use of this product. Since this 
application is a generic application, a summary of the clinical data has been provided and no new 
clinical studies regarding pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and efficacy and safety have been 
conducted with Zoledronic acid Teva.  
The applicant applied for all the indications of the reference product: 
 
prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  (pathological  fractures,  spinal  compression,  radiation  or 
surgery  to  bone,  or  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia)  in  adult  patients  with  advanced 
malignancies involving bone  
 
treatment of adult patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
Zoledronic acid Teva must only be prescribed and administered to patients by healthcare professionals 
experienced in the administration of intravenous bisphosphonates. 
The  recommended  dose  in  the  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  in  patients  with  advanced 
malignancies  involving  bone  is  4 mg  zoledronic  acid  every  3  to  4 weeks  ;  patients  should  also  be 
administered an oral calcium supplement of 500 mg and 400 IU vitamin D daily. The decision to treat 
patients  with  bone  metastases  for  the  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  should  consider  that  the 
onset of treatment effect is 2-3 months. 
The recommended dose in hypercalcaemia is a single dose of 4 mg zoledronic acid.  
Since Zoledronic acid Teva contains the same active substance as the currently approved product and 
is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution, bioequivalence studies are not required. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Zoledronic Acid Teva is presented as 4ml/5mg concentrate for solution for infusion for intravenous use. 
It is a clear and colourless solution, free from visible particles. It contains zoledronic acid as the active 
substance and excipients as described in the section 6.1 of the SmPC. 
The product is available in plastic vials and glass vials.   
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 5/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.2.  Active  substance 
The active substance is zoledronic acid, chemical name [1-hydroxy-2-(1H-imidazol-1) ethylidene] 
bisphosphonic acid or 2-(imidazol-1-yl)-1-hydroxy-ethane-1,1-diphosphonic acid. It exists in several 
crystalline forms; this application uses a hydrate. The corresponding molecular formula is 
C 5H10N2O7P2·H 2O, molecular weight of the monohydrate is 290.11. The molecule does not contain any
chiral centres.  
It is a white crystalline powder, containing plate-shape particles, non-hygroscopic, sparingly soluble in 
0.1N sodium hydroxide solution, slightly soluble in water and 0.1N hydrochloric acid, and practically 
insoluble in organic solvents. pH of a 0.7% solution of zoledronic acid in water is approximately 2.0.     
Manufacture 
The information on the active substance is provided according to the Active Substance Master File 
(ASMF) procedure.  
The structure of zoledronic acid was confirmed by IR, MS, 13C-NMR and 1H-NMR. 
Specification 
As there is no monograph of zoledronic acid in the Ph.Eur., the applicant developed their own 
specifications and test methods for the quality control. Control tests include description, identity by 
FTIR and HPLC, assay and impurities by HPLC, residual solvents by GC, polymorphism by XRD, pH of 
the solution, heavy metals, loss on drying, microbial purity and endotoxins.  
The acceptance criteria for impurities, including limits for organic impurities, inorganic impurities and 
residual solvents, are defined. The limits were evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of 
view of safety. No genotoxic impurities were detected in the batches of the active substance. No 
solvents are carried over from early steps of the synthesis.   
The limits set for specification parameters are acceptable and in line with batch results, stability 
studies and CHMP/ICH guidelines. Analytical methods used are sufficiently described and fully validated 
in line with the CHMP/ICH requirements.  
Results of analysis of three batches of the active substance were provided. Compliance with the 
specification was demonstrated.  
Stability 
Stability data of six batches of the active substance up to 60 months of storage at 25°C/60% relative 
humidity (RH) and 6 months at 40°C/75% RH were provided. Compliance with specification has been 
confirmed at both conditions. Following parameters were tested during stability studies: description, 
identity, impurities and assay by HPLC, polymorphism by XRD, loss on drying and microbial purity. No 
negative trends were observed.  
The stability data support the proposed retest period 60 months when stored in amber glass container 
with teflon liner and a white polypropylene cap as immediate packaging, inserted into an aluminum 
laminated bag.  
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 6/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The development of the Zoledronic acid Teva 4mg/5ml concentrate for solution for infusion was aiming 
to  manufacture  a  medicinal  product  essentially  similar  to  Zometa,  the  reference  product,  which 
contains  the  same  active  substance  and  the  same  excipients.  The  excipients  used  are  sodium  citrate 
(buffer), mannitol (tonicity system) and water for injection; all of them are described in the European 
Pharmacopoeia.  
Since the formulation is an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance at the 
same concentration as the reference product no bioequivalence studies are required.  
The finished product is terminally sterilised, this is the most suitable sterilisation method given the 
nature of the active substance. 
Adventitious agents 
Not applicable 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacturing  process  is  a  standard  process  for  parenteral  formulations.  The  manufacturing 
process consists of four main steps: dissolution, filtration, filling and terminal moist heat sterilisation. 
The  required  manufacturing  parameters  and  ranges  were  determined  during  manufacturing  process 
development and process validation. 
The  critical  steps  in  the  manufacture  are  environmental  monitoring,  bulk  solution  preparation,  sterile 
filtration, filling and terminal sterilisation. 
Validation of the manufacturing process has been performed on commercial scale batches. Holding 
times at each manufacturing step were defined and validated.  
The batch analysis data show that this medicinal product can be manufactured reproducibly according 
to the agreed finished product specification, which is suitable for control of this parenteral preparation. 
Product specification  
The  release  and  shelf  life  specification  includes  tests  and  limits  for  description  (visual),  clarity  of 
solution (Ph.Eur), visible particles (Ph.Eur), colour of solution (Ph.Eur), osmolality (Ph.Eur), extractable 
volume  (Ph.Eur),  pH  value  (Ph.Eur),  identification  (In-house),  assay  and  related  substances  (In-
house), sub-visible particles (Ph.Eur), bacterial endotoxins (Ph.Eur) and sterility (Ph.Eur). 
Batch analysis results from validation batches confirm consistency and uniformity of manufacture and 
indicate that the process is under control. 
Stability of the product 
Commercial  scale  batches  of  Zoledronic  Acid  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  for  both 
glass  and  plastic  vials  were  manufactured  and  introduced  in  stability  program  for  the  testing  periods 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 7/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  conditions:  6  months  under  accelerated  conditions  (40°C  ±  2°C/75%  RH  ±  5°C),  12  months  on 
long term conditions (25°C ± 2°C/60% RH ± 5°C) and 12 months on intermediate conditions (30°C ± 
2°C/75% RH ± 5°C).  
A photostability testing was performed on both glass and plastic in accordance with the requirements 
of ICH Q1B. 
For  the  parameters  appearance,  colour,  clarity,  pH,  visible  particles,  sub-visible  particles,  bacterial 
endotoxin  and  sterility  no  significant  changes  were  noticed  for  the  available  period  of  study,  as 
compared to the initial testing point, and there are no differences regardless of the storage conditions. 
The in-use shelf-life, supported by a study, is 24 hours at 2-8°C. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical and pharmaceutical aspects 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined in the SPC. Physicochemical and biological aspects relevant to the uniform clinical performance 
of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
Not applicable. 
2.3.  Non- clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
A non-clinical overview on the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology has been provided, 
which is based on up-to-date and adequate scientific literature. The overview justifies why there is no 
need to generate additional non-clinical pharmacology, pharmacokinetics and toxicology data. The 
non-clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product. The impurity 
profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required.  
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
No Environmental Risk Assessment was submitted. This was justified by the applicant as the 
introduction of Zoledronic acid Teva from Teva Pharma B.V. is considered unlikely to result in any 
significant increase in the combined sales volumes for all zoledronic acid containing products and the 
exposure of the environment to the active substance. Thus, the ERA is expected to be similar and not 
increased. 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 8/17
 
 
 
 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
Not applicable 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Not applicable 
2.4.  Clinical aspects  
2.4.1.  Introduction 
This  is  an  application  for  concentrate  for  solution  for  infusion  containing  4  mg/5  ml  zoledronic  acid.  
The Applicant claims essential similarity for their product Zoledronic acid Teva 4 mg/5 ml concentrate 
for  solution  for  infusion  with  the  reference  product  Zometa  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate  for  solution  for 
infusion. 
GCP 
Not applicable 
Exemption  
There are no bioequivalence studies submitted with this application. Bioequivalence testing with the 
reference product is not required under the provisions of the “Guideline on the Investigation of 
Bioequivalence” (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev.1):  
“Bioequivalence studies are generally not required if the test product is to be administered as an 
aqueous intravenous solution containing the same active substance as the currently approved 
product”.  
The pharmaceutical form and mode of administration as well as the qualitative and quantitative 
composition of Zoledronic acid Teva 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion is the same as of 
the reference product Zometa 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion.  
The claim of essential similarity can be accepted. There are no objections to the approval of Zoledronic 
acid Teva 4 mg/5 ml concentrate for solution for infusion from a clinical point of view. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics  
Not applicable 
2.4.3.  Post-marketing experience  
The products containing zoledronic acid are registered by Teva Group only in Mexico. Based on the 
sales data, from the date of first registration on 28 November 2008 until the Data Lock Point (31 July 
2011), it was estimated that patient exposure to Teva's zoledronic acid was 38, 469 patient-days. 
Exposure has been estimated based on Defined Daily Dose (DDD) of 4 mg for parenteral use (based on 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 9/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
WHO Collaborating Centre for Drug Statistic Methodology, ATC/DDD Index, 2011). In the indication of 
bone metastases a dose is given in a 15-minute intravenous infusion; the dose could be repeated 
every 3 to 4 weeks. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical aspects  
No new data are requested or provided. The indications are in accordance with the reference medicinal 
product. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical aspects 
A clinical overview has been provided, which is based on scientific literature. The overview justifies why 
there is no need to generate additional clinical data. The clinical aspects of the SmPC are in line with 
the SmPC of the reference medicinal product.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further clinical studies are required.  
2.5.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
Risk management plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
Table 1. Summary of the risk management plan. 
Safety 
concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified risks 
Osteonecrosis 
of the jaw 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling: Information on osteonecrosis of the jaw 
is  included  in  SPC  and  PL  for  4  mg/5  ml 
concentrate.  
SPC  [Section  4.4]  states  that  osteonecrosis  of  the 
jaw  has  been  reported  in  patients,  predominantly 
those  with  cancer,  receiving 
treatment  with 
bisphosphonates, including zoledronic acid. Many of 
these  patients  were  also  receiving  chemotherapy 
and corticosteroids. The majority of reported cases 
have  been  associated  with  dental  procedures  such 
as  tooth  extraction.  Many  had  signs  of  local 
infection including osteomyelitis. 
A  dental  examination  with  appropriate  preventive 
dentistry  should  be  considered  prior  to  treatment 
with  bisphosphonates  in  patients  with  concomitant 
chemotherapy, 
risk 
cancer, 
factors 
(e.g. 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 10/17
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
corticosteroids, poor oral hygiene). 
For  patients  who  develop  osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw 
while  on  bisphosphonate  therapy,  dental  surgery 
may  exacerbate 
the  condition.  For  patients 
requiring  dental  procedures,  there  are  no  data 
available  to  suggest  whether  discontinuation  of 
bisphosphonate  treatment  reduces  the  risk  of 
osteonecrosis of the jaw. Clinical judgement of the 
treating  physician  should  guide  the  management 
plan of each patient based on individual benefit/risk 
assessment. 
Statement in [Section 4.8] SPC: 
Uncommonly,  cases  of  osteonecrosis  (primarily  of 
the  jaw)  have  been  reported,  predominantly  in 
cancer  patients  treated  with  bisphosphonates, 
including  zoledronic  acid.  Many  of  these  patients 
had  signs  of  local  infection  including  osteomyelitis, 
and  the  majority  of  the  reports  refer  to  cancer 
patients following tooth extractions or other dental 
surgeries.  Osteonecrosis  of  the  jaw  has  multiple 
well  documented  risk  factors  including  a  diagnosis 
of 
(e.g. 
chemotherapy,  radiotherapy,  corticosteroids)  and 
anaemia, 
co-morbid 
(e.g. 
coagulopathies, 
infection,  pre-existing  dental 
disease).  Although  causality  has  not  been 
determined, it is prudent to avoid dental surgery as 
recovery may be prolonged.  
concomitant 
conditions 
therapies 
cancer, 
Hypocalcaemia  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Precautions  are  also  stated  in  PL:  pateint  should 
tell  doctor  if  has  or  has  had  pain,  swelling  or 
numbness of the jaw, a feeling of heaviness in the 
jaw or loosening of a tooth.  
Pain  in  the  mouth,  teeth  and/or  jaw,  swelling  or 
sores  inside  the  mouth,  numbness  or  a  feeling  of 
heaviness  in the  jaw,  or  loosening  of  a  tooth  (that 
could  be  signs  of  bone  damage  in  the  jaw, 
osteonecrosis) are listed as uncommon side effects.  
Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Risk  of  hypocalcaemia  is  included  in 
SPC  for  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate.  SPC  states 
[Section 4.4] that standard hypercalcaemia-related 
metabolic  parameters,  such  as  serum  levels  of 
calcium,  phosphate  and  magnesium,  should  be 
carefully  monitored  after  initiating  Zoledronic  Acid 
Teva  therapy.  Untreated  hypercalcaemia  patients 
generally  have  some  degree  of  renal  function 
impairment, 
function 
monitoring  should  be  considered.  [In  Section  4.8] 
Hypocalcaemia  is  listed  as  common  undesirable 
effect. In overdose section [Section 4.9] it is stated 
that patients who have received doses higher than 
those recommended should be carefully monitored, 
since  (among  others)  serum  electrolyte  (including 
calcium, 
magnesium) 
abnormalities have been observed. In the event of 
hypocalcaemia,  calcium  gluconate  infusions  should 
be administered as clinically indicated. 
Possible  interaction  with  aminoglycosides  resulting 
therefore  careful 
phosphorus 
renal 
and 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 11/17
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Renal 
impairment/ 
renal failure  
in a lower serum calcium level for prolonged period 
is  also  stated  in  [Section  4.5]  SPC  for  4  mg/5  ml 
concentrate.  
Risk of zoledronate blood calcium lowering effect is 
stated  in  the  PLs  for  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate,  as 
well  as  need  for  calcium  supplementation  to 
prevent the risk.  
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization activities: 
renal 
pre-existing 
Labelling:  Warnings and precautions are stated in 
[Section  4.4]  SPC  for  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate  on 
renal insufficiency.  
Zoledronic acid has been associated with reports of 
renal  dysfunction.  Factors  that  may  increase  the 
potential  for  deterioration  in  renal  function  include 
impairment, 
dehydration, 
multiple  cycles  of  zoledronic  acid  and  other 
bisphosphonates  as  well  as  use  of  other 
nephrotoxic  medicinal  products.  While  the  risk  is 
reduced  with  a  dose  of  4 mg  zoledronic  acid 
administered  over  15 minutes,  deterioration  in 
renal  function  may  still  occur.  Renal  deterioration, 
progression  to  renal  failure  and  dialysis  have  been 
reported in patients after the initial dose or a single 
dose  of  4 mg  zoledronic  acid.  Increases  in  serum 
creatinine  also  occur in  some  patients with  chronic 
administration  of  zoledronic  acid  at  recommended 
doses  for  prevention  of  skeletal  related  events, 
although less frequently. 
Patients  should  have  their  serum  creatinine  levels 
assessed  prior  to  each  dose  of  zoledronic  acid. 
Upon  initiation  of  treatment  in  patients  with  bone 
metastases  with  mild 
renal 
impairment,  lower  doses  of  Zoledronic  Acid  Teva 
are  recommended.  In  patients  who  show  evidence 
of  renal  deterioration  during  treatment,  Zoledronic 
Acid Teva should be withheld. Zoledronic Acid Teva 
should  only  be  resumed  when  serum  creatinine 
returns  to  within  10%  of  baseline.  Zoledronic  Acid 
Teva  treatment  should  be  resumed  at  the  same 
dose as that given prior to treatment interruption. 
The  use  of  Zoledronic  Acid  Teva 
recommended 
impairment. 
in  patients  with  severe 
is  not 
renal 
to  moderate 
Renal  and  urinary  disorders  are  also  listed  in 
[Section  4.8]  SPC.  In  addition,  renal  failure  is  also 
listed  in  overdose  [Section  4.9]  for  4  mg/5  ml 
concentrate. 
Additionally,  SPC  state  [in  Section  4.2]  dose 
adjustments in patients with renal impairment. 
Treatment precautions with 4 mg/5 ml concentrate 
are  given  separately  for  TIH  patients  and  patients 
with  bone  metastases  with  mild  to  moderate  renal 
impairment. 
In  PL  zoledronic  acid  use  is  contraindicated  in 
patents with kidney problems. 
Blood  tests  changes  (such  as  higher  levels  of 
creatinine), including severe kidney impairment are 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 12/17
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Hypersensiti-
vity reactions 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
listed as common side effects.  
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization activities: 
Ocular adverse 
events 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
to 
the 
is  contraindication 
Labelling:  Hypersensitivity 
active 
substance,  to  other  bisphosphonates  or  to  any  of 
the  excipients 
for  use  of 
Zoledronic  Acid  Teva  [in  Section  4.3].  In  addition, 
hypersensitivity reaction and angioneurotic oedema  
are listed in [Section 4.8] SPC.  
PL  also  states  known  allergy  as  contraindication 
and  severe  allergic  reaction:  shortness  of  breath, 
face  and  throat,  as 
swelling  mainly  of  the 
uncommon side effects. 
Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Risk  has  been  highlighted  in  the 
product  information  for  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate; 
ocular undesirable effects are listed in [Section 4.8] 
SPC  (common:  conjunctivitis,  uncommon:  blurred 
vision, scleritis and orbital inflammation, very rare: 
uveitis,  episcleritis)  and  in  PL  (tearing  of  the  eye, 
eye  sensitivity  to  light,  painful  redness  and/or 
swelling of the eye). 
Acute phase 
reaction  
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Acute  phase 
reaction  has  been 
highlighted  in  [Section  4.8]  SPC/PL  as  common 
undesirable  effects  (Flu-like  syndrome,  consisting 
of  fatigue,  weakness,  chills  and  bone,  joint  and/or 
muscle ache). 
Flu-like syndrome, consisting of fatigue, weakness, 
chills and bone, joint and/or muscle ache, is stated 
as common side effect in PL. 
Atrial fibrillation  Routine pharmacovigilance   Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Atrial  fibrillation  (from  studies  and  as 
post-marketing  experience)  is  listed  as  side  effect 
in [Section 4.8] SPC. 
It is listed in PL for 4 mg/5 ml concentrate as very 
rare side effect. 
Important potential risks 
Atypical 
femoral 
fractures 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling: Potential risk identified with zoledronic 
acid and other bisphosphonates has been 
highlighted in the product literature. 
femoral 
receiving 
long-term 
treatment 
SPC states [in Section 4.4] atypical subtrochanteric 
and  diaphyseal 
fractures  have  been 
reported  with  bisphosphonate  therapy,  primarily  in 
for 
patients 
osteoporosis.  These  transverse  or  short  oblique 
fractures can occur anywhere along the femur from 
just  below  the  lesser  trochanter  to  just  above  the 
supracondylar  flare.  These  fractures  occur  after 
minimal  or  no 
trauma  and  some  patients 
experience  thigh  or  groin  pain,  often  associated 
with imaging features of stress fractures, weeks to 
months before presenting with a completed femoral 
fracture. Fractures are often bilateral; therefore the 
contralateral 
in 
have 
bisphosphonate-treated 
femur  should  be  examined 
patients  who 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 13/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
has 
also 
fractures 
sustained a femoral shaft fracture.  Poor healing of 
reported. 
these 
Discontinuation  of  bisphosphonate 
in 
patients  suspected  to  have  an  atypical  femur 
fracture should be considered pending evaluation of 
the  patient,  based  on  an  individual  benefit  risk 
assessment. 
therapy 
been 
During  bisphosphonate  treatment  patients  should 
be  advised  to  report  any  thigh,  hip  or  groin  pain 
and  any  patient  presenting  with  such  symptoms 
should  be  evaluated  for  an  incomplete  femur 
fracture. 
Information  in  [Section  4.8]  SPCs  with  regard  to 
rare frequency of reported atypical subtrochanteric 
and  diaphyseal  femoral  fractures  (bisphosphonate 
class  adverse  reaction)  during  post-marketing 
experience. 
Risk  is  stated  in  PL:  unusual  fracture  of  the  thigh 
bone  particularly 
long-term 
treatment for osteoporosis may occur rarely.   
in  patients  on 
Routine pharmacovigilance   Routine risk minimization activities: 
Cardiac 
arrhythmias 
Cerebrovascula
r AEs 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Labelling:  Risk  of  atrial  fibrillation  has  been 
highlighted  in  [Section  4.8]  the  SPC/PL  as  post-
marketing experience. 
Currently  available  data  do  not  support  the  need 
for risk minimization. 
Fracture 
healing 
impairment 
Focal 
segmental 
glomerulo-
sclerosis 
Routine pharmacovigilance   Currently  available  data  do  not  support  the  need 
for risk minimization. 
Routine pharmacovigilance   Currently  available  data  do  not  support  the  need 
for risk minimization. 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance   Currently  available  data  do  not  support  the  need 
for risk minimization. 
Potential 
interaction 
with 
nephrotoxic 
drugs   
Medication 
errors 
Routine pharmacovigilance  
in 
Routine risk minimization activities: 
is 
Labelling:  Caution  when  zoledronic  acid 
conjunction  with  medicinal 
administered 
products that can significantly impact renal function 
is stated in the [Section 4.5] SCP/PL for 4 mg/5 ml 
concentrate.  
See  also  above  under 
impairment/ renal failure". 
identified  risk  "Renal 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Clear  difference  in  appearance  and 
labelling of the cartons and vials or bottles/bags for 
each strength (4 mg/5 ml concentrate (vials) and 5 
mg solution (bottles/bags, 100 ml). 
Different sizes of containers (5 ml vs. 100 ml). 
Important missing information 
Races other 
than 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Currently  available  data  do  not  support  the  need 
for risk minimization. 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 14/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Safety 
concern 
Caucasians 
Use during 
pregnancy and 
lactation  
Use in patients 
below 18 years 
of age 
Patients with 
severe renal 
impairment 
Patients with 
hepatic 
insufficiency 
Proposed 
pharmacovigilance 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Proposed risk minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance   Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  It is stated in [Section 4.6] SPC/PL that 
zoledronic  acid  should  not  be  used  during 
pregnancy or lactation.  
Routine pharmacovigilance   Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Information  is  given  in  [Section  4.2] 
SPC/PL:  drug  use  is  not  recommended  in  children 
below the age of 18 years. 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Information  and  precautions  are  given 
in  [Sections  4.2  and  5.2]  SPC/PL  related  to  drug 
use in patients with severe renal impairment. 
In  Sections  4.2  it  is  stated:  The  use  of  Zoledronic 
Acid  Teva  is  not  recommended  in  patients  with 
severe renal impairment. 
Routine pharmacovigilance  Routine risk minimization activities: 
Labelling:  Information  is  given  in  [Sections  4.4 
and  5.2]  SPC  for  4  mg/5  ml  concentrate:  As  only 
limited  clinical  data  are  available  in  patients  with 
severe 
specific 
recommendations  can  be  given  for  this  patient 
population. 
insufficiency, 
hepatic 
no 
PSUR submission 
The PSUR submission schedule should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product, which 
currently is on a 1-yearly cycle. The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 31 
August 2012. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
This application concerns a generic version of zoledronic acid concentrate for solution for infusion 
(4mg/ 5 ml). The reference product Zometa is indicated for the prevention of skeletal related events 
(pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or surgery to bone, or tumour-induced 
hypercalcaemia) in patients with advanced malignancies involving bone, and for treatment of tumour-
induced hypercalcaemia (TIH).  
No nonclinical studies have been provided for this application but an adequate summary of the 
available nonclinical information for the active substance was presented and considered sufficient. 
From a clinical perspective, this application does not contain new data on the pharmacokinetics and 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 15/17
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
pharmacodynamics as well as the efficacy and safety of the active substance; the applicant’s clinical 
overview on these clinical aspects based on information from published literature was considered 
sufficient. 
There are no bioequivalence studies submitted with this application, and this is not required under the 
provisions of the “Guideline on the Investigation of Bioequivalence” (CPMP/QWP/EWP/1401/98 Rev.1), 
as the test product is to be administered as an aqueous intravenous solution containing the same 
active substance as the currently approved product. 
A benefit/risk ratio comparable to the reference product can therefore be concluded. 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted in the application and available on the chosen 
reference medicinal product, is of the opinion that no additional risk minimisation activities are 
required beyond those included in the product information. 
4. Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Zoledronic acid Teva in the 
 
prevention  of  skeletal  related  events  (pathological  fractures,  spinal  compression,  radiation  or 
surgery  to  bone,  or  tumour-induced  hypercalcaemia)  in  adult  patients  with  advanced 
malignancies involving bone  
 
treatment of adult patients with tumour-induced hypercalcaemia (TIH). 
 is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (See Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in version 3.0 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing 
authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 16/17
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being 
reached  
at the request of the EMA 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Assessment report  
EMA/534108/2012  
Page 17/17
 
 
 
 
 
