EMA/725800/2022 
EMEA/H/C/004750 
Zolgensma (onasemnogene abeparvovec) 
An overview of Zolgensma and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zolgensma and what is it used for? 
Zolgensma is a gene therapy medicine for treating spinal muscular atrophy, a serious condition of the 
nerves that causes muscle wasting and weakness. 
It is intended for patients with inherited mutations affecting a gene known as SMN1, who have either 
been diagnosed with SMA type 1 (the most severe type) or have up to 3 copies of another gene known 
as SMN2. 
Spinal muscular atrophy is rare, and Zolgensma was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used 
in rare diseases) on 19 June 2015. Further information on the orphan designation can be found here: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/orphan-designations/eu3151509. 
Zolgensma contains the active substance onasemnogene abeparvovec. 
How is Zolgensma used? 
Zolgensma is given once as an infusion (drip) into a vein lasting about 1 hour. The infusion should take 
place in a clinic or hospital under the supervision of a doctor experienced in managing spinal muscular 
atrophy. 
Before and after receiving the infusion, the patient will have a number of tests, including liver and 
blood tests, and will be given corticosteroid medicines to reduce the risk of side effects. The medicine 
can only be obtained with a prescription. For more information about using Zolgensma, see the 
package leaflet or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Zolgensma work? 
Patients with spinal muscular atrophy have a defect in a gene known as SMN1, which the body needs 
to make a protein essential for the normal functioning of nerves that control muscle movements. The 
active substance in Zolgensma, onasemnogene abeparvovec, contains a functional copy of this gene. 
When injected, it passes into the nerves from where it provides the correct gene to make enough of 
the protein and thereby restore nerve function. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
What benefits of Zolgensma have been shown in studies? 
A main study showed that Zolgensma reduces the need for artificial ventilation in babies with spinal 
muscular atrophy. In this study, 20 out of the 22 babies given Zolgensma were alive and breathing 
without a permanent ventilator after 14 months, when normally only a quarter of untreated patients 
would survive without needing a ventilator. 
The study also showed that Zolgensma can help babies sit unaided for at least 30 seconds. 14 out of 
the 22 babies given Zolgensma were able to do so after 18 months, a milestone that is never achieved 
in untreated babies with severe forms of the disease. 
What are the risks associated with Zolgensma? 
The most common side effects with Zolgensma  are raised liver enzymes, injury to the liver 
(hepatotoxicity), low levels of blood platelets (thrombocytopenia), raised levels of troponin (a measure 
which indicates damage to the heart muscle), fever and vomiting.  
For the full list of restrictions and side effects of Zolgensma, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zolgensma authorised in the EU? 
The main study of Zolgensma showed that a one-time infusion can improve survival in these patients 
and reduce the need for a permanent ventilator to breathe. It can also help them reach development 
milestones. As for its safety, the side effects of Zolgensma are considered manageable; the most 
common side effect in the study, raised liver enzymes, required treatment with a steroid. The 
European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Zolgensma’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
it can be authorised for use in the EU. 
Zolgensma was originally given ‘conditional authorisation’ because there was more evidence to come 
about the medicine. As the company has supplied the additional information necessary, the 
authorisation has been switched from conditional to full authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zolgensma? 
The company that markets Zolgensma will provide educational materials to caregivers with information 
on how to use the medicine safely, the risks associated with the medicine and how to identify and 
report side effects. It will also conduct a study of the medicine’s safety and effectiveness in the long-
term.  
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zolgensma have also been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zolgensma are continuously monitored. Side effects reported 
with Zolgensma are carefully evaluated and any necessary actions taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zolgensma 
Zolgensma received a conditional marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 May 2020. 
This was switched to a full marketing authorisation on 17 May 2022.  
Further information on Zolgensma can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zolgensma   
Zolgensma (onasemnogene abeparvovec)  
EMA/725800/2022 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
This overview was last updated in 08-2022. 
Zolgensma (onasemnogene abeparvovec)  
EMA/725800/2022 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
