ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 2 mg/mL concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
One mL of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains 2 mg doxorubicin hydrochloride in a pegylated 
liposomal formulation. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal, a liposome formulation, is doxorubicin hydrochloride encapsulated 
in liposomes with surface-bound methoxypolyethylene glycol (MPEG). This process is known as 
pegylation and protects liposomes from detection by the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS), which 
increases blood circulation time. 
Excipients with known effect 
Contains fully hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine (from soyabean) - see section 4.3 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
A translucent red coloured dispersion filled in a clear glass vial. When examined under suitable 
conditions of visibility it should be practically free from particles. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is indicated: 
-  As monotherapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer, where there is an increased cardiac 
risk. 
-  For treatment of advanced ovarian cancer in women who have failed a first-line platinum-based 
- 
chemotherapy regimen. 
In combination with bortezomib for the treatment of progressive multiple myeloma in patients 
who have received at least one prior therapy and who have already undergone or are unsuitable for 
bone marrow transplant. 
-  For treatment of AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) in patients with low CD4 counts (< 200 
CD4 lymphocytes/mm3) and extensive mucocutaneous or visceral disease. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal may be used as first-line systemic chemotherapy, or as second line 
chemotherapy in AIDS-KS patients with disease that has progressed with, or in patients intolerant to, 
prior combination systemic chemotherapy comprising at least two of the following agents: a vinca 
alkaloid, bleomycin and standard doxorubicin (or other anthracycline). 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is indicated in adults. 
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal should only be administered under the supervision of a qualified 
oncologist specialised in the administration of cytotoxic agents. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal exhibits unique pharmacokinetic properties and must not be used 
interchangeably with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Posology 
Breast cancer/Ovarian cancer 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is administered intravenously at a dose of 50 mg/m2 once every 4 
weeks for as long as the disease does not progress and the patient continues to tolerate treatment. 
Multiple myeloma 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is administered at 30 mg/m2 on day 4 of the bortezomib 3 week 
regimen as a 1 hour infusion administered immediately after the bortezomib infusion. The bortezomib 
regimen consists of 1.3 mg/m2 on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 every 3 weeks. The dose should be repeated as 
long as patients respond satisfactorily and tolerate treatment. Day 4 dosing of both medicinal products 
may be delayed up to 48 hours as medically necessary. Doses of bortezomib should be at least 72 
hours apart. 
AIDS-related KS 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is administered intravenously at 20 mg/m2 every two-to-three 
weeks. Avoid intervals shorter than 10 days as medicinal product accumulation and increased toxicity 
cannot be ruled out. Treatment of patients for two-to-three months is recommended to achieve a 
therapeutic response. Continue treatment as needed to maintain a therapeutic response. 
For all patients 
If the patient experiences early symptoms or signs of infusion reaction (see sections 4.4 and 4.8), 
immediately discontinue the infusion, give appropriate premedications (antihistamine and/or short 
acting corticosteroid) and restart at a slower rate. 
Guidelines for ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal dose modification 
To manage adverse reaction such as palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia (PPE), stomatitis or 
haematological toxicity, the dose may be reduced or delayed. Guidelines for ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal dose modification secondary to these adverse effects are provided in the tables below. The 
toxicity grading in these tables is based on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria 
(NCI-CTC). 
The tables for PPE (Table 1) and stomatitis (Table 2) provide the schedule followed for dose 
modification in clinical trials in the treatment of breast or ovarian cancer (modification of the 
recommended 4 week treatment cycle): if these toxicities occur in patients with AIDS-related KS, the 
recommended 2 to 3 week treatment cycle can be modified in a similar manner. 
The table for haematological toxicity (Table 3) provides the schedule followed for dose modification 
in clinical trials in the treatment of patients with breast or ovarian cancer only. Dose modification in 
patients with AIDS-KS is provided following Table 4.. 
Table 1. Palmar-Plantar erythrodysesthesia 
Toxicity grade at current 
assessment 
Grade 1 
(mild erythema, swelling, 
or desquamation not 
interfering with daily 
activities) 
Grade 2 
(erythema, desquamation, 
or swelling interfering 
Week after prior Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal dose 
Week 5 
Week 4 
Week 6 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a 
previous grade 3 or 
4 skin toxicity, in 
which case wait an 
additional week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a 
previous grade 3 or 4 
skin toxicity, in which 
case wait an 
additional week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 4 
week interval 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 4 
week interval 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with, but not precluding 
normal physical activities; 
small blisters or 
ulcerations less than 2 cm 
in diameter) 
Grade 3 
(blistering, ulceration, or 
swelling interfering with 
walking or normal daily 
activities; cannot wear 
regular clothing) 
Grade 4 
(diffuse or local process 
causing infectious 
complications, or a 
bedridden state or 
hospitalisation) 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Withdraw patient 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Withdraw patient 
Table 2. Stomatitis 
Toxicity grade at 
current assessment 
Grade 1 
(painless ulcers, 
erythema, or mild 
soreness) 
Grade 2 
(painful erythema, 
oedema, or ulcers, but 
can eat) 
Grade 3 
(painful erythema, 
edema, or ulcers, but 
cannot eat) 
Grade 4 
(requires parenteral or 
enteral support) 
Week after prior Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal dose 
Week 6 
Week 5 
Week 4 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a previous 
grade 3 or 4 stomatitis 
in which case wait an 
additional week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Redose unless 
patient has 
experienced a previous 
grade 3 or 4 stomatitis 
in which case wait an 
additional week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 4 
week interval or 
withdraw patient per 
physician's assessment 
Decrease dose by 
25%; return to 4 
week interval or 
withdraw patient per 
physician's assessment 
Withdraw patient 
Wait an additional 
week 
Wait an additional 
week 
Withdraw patient 
Table 3.   Haematological toxicity (ANC or platelets) - Management of patients with breast or 
ovarian cancer 
GRADE 
Grade 1 
Grade 2 
ANC 
1,500 – 1,900 
1,000 – < 1,500 
PLATELETS 
MODIFICATION 
75,000 – 150,000  Resume treatment with no dose reduction. 
50,000 – < 75,000  Wait until ANC ≥ 1,500 and platelets ≥ 75,000; 
redose with no dose reduction. 
Grade 3 
500 – < 1,000 
25,000 – < 50,000  Wait until ANC ≥ 1,500 and platelets ≥ 75,000; 
Grade 4 
< 500 
< 25,000 
redose with no dose reduction. 
Wait until ANC ≥ 1,500 and platelets ≥ 75,000; 
decrease dose by 25% or continue full dose with 
growth factor support. 
For multiple myeloma patients treated with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal  in combination with 
bortezomib who experience PPE or stomatitis, the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal dose should be 
modified as described in Table 1 and 2 above respectively. Table 4, below provides the schedule 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
followed for other dose modifications in the clinical trial in the treatment of patients with multiple 
myeloma receiving doxorubicin pegylated liposomal and bortezomib combination therapy. For more 
detailed information on bortezomib dosing and dosage adjustments, see the SmPC for bortezomib. 
Table 4.   Dosage adjustments for doxorubicin pegylated liposomal  + bortezomib combination 
therapy - patients with multiple myeloma 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal   
Do not dose this cycle if before day 4; 
if after day 4, reduce next dose by 25%. 
Do not dose this cycle if before day 4; 
if after day 4 reduce next dose by 25% 
in the following cycles if bortezomib is 
reduced for haematologic toxicity.* 
Bortezomib 
Reduce next dose by 25%. 
Do not dose; if 2 or more 
doses are not given in a 
cycle, reduce dose by 25% 
in following cycles. 
Patient status 
Fever ≥ 38°C and ANC 
< 1,000/mm3 
On any day of medicine 
administration after day 1 
of each cycle: 
Platelet count 
< 25,000/mm3 
Haemoglobin < 8 g/dl 
ANC < 500/mm3 
Grade 3 or 4 non-
haematologic medicine 
related toxicity 
Do not dose until recovered to grade 
< 2 and reduce dose by 25% for all 
subsequent doses. 
Do not dose until recovered 
to grade < 2 and reduce 
dose by 25% for all 
subsequent doses. 
See the SmPC for 
bortezomib. 
Neuropathic pain or 
peripheral neuropathy 
* for more information on bortezomib dosing and dosage adjustment, see the SmPC for bortezomib 
No dosage adjustments. 
For AIDS-KS patients treated with ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal, haematological toxicity may 
require dose reduction or suspension or delay of therapy. Temporarily suspend ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal treatment in patients when the ANC count is < 1,000/mm3 and/or the platelet count is < 
50,000/mm3. G-CSF (or GM-CSF) may be given as concomitant therapy to support the blood count 
when the ANC count is < 1,000/mm3 in subsequent cycles. 
Special populations 
Hepatic impairment 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal   pharmacokinetics determined in a small number of patients with 
elevated total bilirubin levels do not differ from patients with normal total bilirubin; however, until 
further experience is gained, the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal dosage in patients with impaired 
hepatic function should be reduced based on the experience from the breast and ovarian clinical trial 
programs as follows: at initiation of therapy, if the bilirubin is between 1.2-3.0 mg/dl, the first dose is 
reduced by 25%. If the bilirubin is > 3.0 mg/dl, the first dose is reduced by 50%. If the patient tolerates 
the first dose without an increase in serum bilirubin or liver enzymes, the dose for cycle 2 can be 
increased to the next dose level, i.e., if reduced by 25% for the first dose, increase to full dose for cycle 
2; if reduced by 50% for the first dose, increase to 75% of full dose for cycle 2. The dosage can be 
increased to full dose for subsequent cycles if tolerated. Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal   can be 
administered to patients with liver metastases with concurrent elevation of bilirubin and liver enzymes 
up to 4 x the upper limit of the normal range. Prior to doxorubicin pegylated liposomal administration, 
evaluate hepatic function using conventional clinical laboratory tests such as ALT/AST, alkaline 
phosphatase, and bilirubin. 
Renal impairment 
As doxorubicin is metabolised by the liver and excreted in the bile, dose modification should not be 
required. Population pharmacokinetic data (in the range of creatinine clearance tested of 
30-156 mL/min) demonstrate that doxorubicin clearance is not influenced by renal function. No 
pharmacokinetic data are available in patients with creatinine clearance of less than 30 mL/min. 
AIDS-related KS patients with splenectomy 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As there is no experience with ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal in patients who have had 
splenectomy, treatment with ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is not recommended. 
Paediatric population 
The experience in children is limited ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is not recommended in 
patients below 18 years of age. 
Elderly 
Population  based  analysis  demonstrates  that  age  across  the  range  tested  (21–75  years)  does  not 
significantly alter the pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin. 
Method of administration  
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is administered as an intravenous infusion. For further instructions 
on preparation and special precautions for handling (see section 6.6). 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal must not be administered as a bolus injection or undiluted solution. 
It is recommended that the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal infusion line be connected through the 
side port of an intravenous infusion of glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution to achieve further dilution and 
minimise the risk of thrombosis and extravasation. The infusion may be given through a peripheral 
vein. Do not use with in-line filters. Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal must not be given by the 
intramuscular or subcutaneous route (see section 6.6). 
For doses < 90 mg: dilute doxorubicin pegylated liposomal in 250 mL glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) 
solution for infusion. 
For doses ≥ 90 mg: dilute doxorubicin pegylated liposomal in 500 mL glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) 
solution for infusion. 
Breast cancer/Ovarian cancer/Multiple myeloma 
To minimise the risk of infusion reactions, the initial dose is administered at a rate no greater than 
1 mg/minute. If no infusion reaction is observed, subsequent doxorubicin pegylated liposomal 
infusions may be administered over a 60-minute period. 
In those patients who experience an infusion reaction, the method of infusion should be modified as 
follows: 
5% of the total dose should be infused slowly over the first 15 minutes. If tolerated without reaction, 
the infusion rate may then be doubled for the next 15 minutes. If tolerated, the infusion may then be 
completed over the next hour for a total infusion time of 90 minutes. 
AIDS-related KS 
The dose of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal is diluted in 250 mL glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution 
for infusion and administered by intravenous infusion over 30 minutes. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance, peanut or soya, or to any of the excipients listed in section 
6.1. 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal must not be used to treat AIDS-KS that may be treated effectively 
with local therapy or systemic alfa-interferon. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Given the difference in pharmacokinetic profiles and dosing schedules, doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal should not be used interchangeably with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
Cardiac toxicity 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is recommended that all patients receiving doxorubicin pegylated liposomal routinely undergo 
frequent ECG monitoring. Transient ECG changes such as T-wave flattening, S-T segment depression 
and benign arrhythmias are not considered mandatory indications for the suspension of doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal therapy. However, reduction of the QRS complex is considered more indicative 
of cardiac toxicity. If this change occurs, the most definitive test for anthracycline myocardial injury, 
i.e., endomyocardial biopsy, must be considered. 
More specific methods for the evaluation and monitoring of cardiac functions as compared to ECG are 
a measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction by echocardiography or preferably by Multigated 
Angiography (MUGA). These methods must be applied routinely before the initiation of doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal therapy and repeated periodically during treatment. The evaluation of left 
ventricular function is considered to be mandatory before each additional administration of 
doxorubicin pegylated liposomal that exceeds a lifetime cumulative anthracycline dose of 450 mg/m2. 
The evaluation tests and methods mentioned above concerning the monitoring of cardiac performance 
during anthracycline therapy are to be employed in the following order: ECG monitoring, 
measurement of left ventricular ejection fraction, endomyocardial biopsy. If a test result indicates 
possible cardiac injury associated with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal therapy, the benefit of 
continued therapy must be carefully weighed against the risk of myocardial injury. 
In patients with cardiac disease requiring treatment, administer doxorubicin pegylated liposomal only 
when the benefit outweighs the risk to the patient. 
Exercise caution in patients with impaired cardiac function who receive doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal. 
Whenever cardiomyopathy is suspected, i.e., the left ventricular ejection fraction has substantially 
decreased relative to pre-treatment values and/or left ventricular ejection fraction is lower than a 
prognostically relevant value (e.g., < 45%), endomyocardial biopsy may be considered and the benefit 
of continued therapy must be carefully evaluated against the risk of developing irreversible cardiac 
damage. 
Congestive heart failure due to cardiomyopathy may occur suddenly, without prior ECG changes and 
may also be encountered several weeks after discontinuation of therapy. 
Caution must be observed in patients who have received other anthracyclines. The total dose of 
doxorubicin hydrochloride must also take into account any previous (or concomitant) therapy with 
cardiotoxic compounds such as other anthracyclines/anthraquinones or e.g., 5-fluorouracil. Cardiac 
toxicity also may occur at cumulative anthracycline doses lower than 450 mg/m2 in patients with prior 
mediastinal irradiation or in those receiving concurrent cyclophosphamide therapy. 
The cardiac safety profile for the dosing schedule recommended for both breast and ovarian cancer 
(50 mg/m2) is similar to the 20 mg/m2 profile in patients with AIDS-KS (see section 4.8). 
Myelosuppression 
Many patients treated with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal have baseline myelosuppression due to 
such factors as their pre-existing HIV disease or numerous concomitant or previous medicines, or 
tumours involving bone marrow. In the pivotal trial in patients with ovarian cancer treated at a dose of 
50 mg/m2, myelosuppression was generally mild to moderate, reversible, and was not associated with 
episodes of neutropaenic infection or sepsis. Moreover, in a controlled clinical trial of doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal vs. topotecan, the incidence of treatment related sepsis was substantially less in 
the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal-treated ovarian cancer patients as compared to the topotecan 
treatment group. A similar low incidence of myelosuppression was seen in patients with metastatic 
breast cancer receiving doxorubicin pegylated liposomal in a first-line clinical trial. In contrast to the 
experience in patients with breast cancer or ovarian cancer, myelosuppression appears to be the 
dose-limiting adverse reaction in patients with AIDS-KS (see section 4.8). Because of the potential for 
bone marrow suppression, periodic blood counts must be performed frequently during the course of 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
doxorubicin pegylated liposomal therapy, and at a minimum, prior to each dose of doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal. 
Persistent severe myelosuppression, may result in superinfection or haemorrhage. 
In controlled clinical studies in patients with AIDS-KS against a bleomycin/vincristine regimen, 
opportunistic infections were apparently more frequent during treatment with doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal. Patients and doctors must be aware of this higher incidence and take action as appropriate. 
Secondary haematological malignancies 
As with other DNA-damaging antineoplastic agents, secondary acute myeloid leukemias and 
myelodysplasias have been reported in patients having received combined treatment with doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal. Therefore, any patient treated with doxorubicin should be kept under 
haematological supervision. 
Secondary oral neoplasms 
Very rare cases of secondary oral cancer have been reported in patients with long-term (more than one 
year) exposure to doxorubicin pegylated liposomal or those receiving a cumulative doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal dose greater than 720 mg/m2. Cases of secondary oral cancer were diagnosed 
both, during treatment with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, and up to 6 years after the last dose. 
Patients should be examined at regular intervals for the presence of oral ulceration or any oral 
discomfort that may be indicative of secondary oral cancer. 
Infusion-associated reactions 
Serious and sometimes life-threatening infusion reactions, which are characterised by allergic-like or 
anaphylactoid-like reactions, with symptoms including asthma, flushing, urticarial rash, chest pain, 
fever, hypertension, tachycardia, pruritus, sweating, shortness of breath, facial oedema, chills, back 
pain, tightness in the chest and throat and/or hypotension may occur within minutes of starting the 
infusion of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal. Very rarely, convulsions also have been observed in 
relation to infusion reactions (see section 4.8). Temporarily stopping the infusion usually resolves 
these symptoms without further therapy. However, medicines to treat these symptoms (e.g., 
antihistamines, corticosteroids, adrenaline, and anticonvulsants), as well as emergency equipment 
should be available for immediate use. In most patients treatment can be resumed after all symptoms 
have resolved, without recurrence. Infusion reactions rarely recur after the first treatment cycle. To 
minimise the risk of infusion reactions, the initial dose should be administered at a rate no greater than 
1 mg/minute (see section 4.2). 
Palmar plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndrome (PPE) 
PPE is characterised by painful, macular reddening skin eruptions. In patients experiencing this event, 
it is generally seen after two or three cycles of treatment. Improvement usually occurs in 1-2 weeks, 
and in some cases, may take up to 4 weeks or longer for complete resolution. Pyridoxine at a dose of 
50-150 mg per day and corticosteroids have been used for the prophylaxis and treatment of PPE, 
however, these therapies have not been evaluated in phase III trials. Other strategies to prevent and 
treat PPE include keeping hands and feet cool, by exposing them to cool water (soaks, baths, or 
swimming), avoiding excessive heat/hot water and keeping them unrestricted (no socks, gloves, or 
shoes that are tight fitting). PPE appears to be primarily related to the dose schedule and can be 
reduced by extending the dose interval 1- 2 weeks (see section 4.2). However, this reaction can be 
severe and debilitating in some patients and may require discontinuation of treatment (see section 4.8). 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) 
Interstitial lung disease (ILD), which may have an acute onset, has been observed in patients receiving 
pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, including fatal cases (see section 4.8). If patients experience 
worsening of respiratory symptoms such as dyspnoea, dry cough, and fever, ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal should be interrupted and the patient should be promptly investigated. If ILD is confirmed, 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal should be discontinued and the patient treated appropriately. 
Extravasation 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although local necrosis following extravasation has been reported very rarely, doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal is considered to be an irritant. Animal studies indicate that administration of doxorubicin 
hydrochloride as a liposomal formulation reduces the potential for extravasation injury. If any signs or 
symptoms of extravasation occur (e.g., stinging, erythema) terminate the infusion immediately and 
restart in another vein. The application of ice over the site of extravasation for approximately 30 
minutes may be helpful in alleviating the local reaction. Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal must not be 
given by the intramuscular or subcutaneous route. 
Diabetic patients 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal contains sucrose and the dose is administered in glucose 50 mg/mL 
(5%) solution for infusion. 
Excipients 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose and is essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
For common adverse reaction which required dose modification or discontinuation see section 4.8. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
No formal medicinal product interaction studies have been performed with doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal, although phase II combination trials with conventional chemotherapy agents have been 
conducted in patients with gynaecological malignancies. Exercise caution in the concomitant use of 
medicinal products known to interact with standard doxorubicin hydrochloride. Doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal, like other doxorubicin hydrochloride preparations, may potentiate the toxicity of other 
anti-cancer therapies. During clinical trials in patients with solid tumours (including breast and ovarian 
cancer) who have received concomitant cyclophosphamide or taxanes, no new additive toxicities were 
noted. In patients with AIDS, exacerbation of cyclophosphamide-induced haemorrhagic cystitis and 
enhancement of the hepatotoxicity of 6-mercaptopurine have been reported with standard doxorubicin 
hydrochloride. Caution must be exercised when giving any other cytotoxic agents, especially 
myelotoxic agents, at the same time. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of child-bearing potential/contraception in men and women 
Due to the genotoxic potential of doxorubicin hydrochloride (see section 5.3), women of child-bearing 
potential should use effective contraceptive measures while being treated with doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal and for 8 months following completion of treatment.  
Men are recommended to use effective contraceptive measures and to not father a child while 
receiving doxorubicin pegylated liposomal and for 6 months following completion of treatment. 
Pregnancy 
Doxorubicin hydrochloride is suspected to cause serious birth defects when administered during 
pregnancy. Therefore, doxorubicin pegylated liposomal should not be used during pregnancy unless 
clearly necessary. 
Breast-feeding 
It is not known whether doxorubicin pegylated liposomal is excreted in human milk. Because many 
medicinal products, including anthracyclines, are excreted in human milk, and because of the potential 
for serious adverse reactions in nursing infants, therefore mothers must discontinue nursing prior to 
beginning doxorubicin pegylated liposomal treatment. Health experts recommend that HIV infected 
women do not breast-feed their infants under any circumstances in order to avoid transmission of HIV. 
Fertility 
The effect of doxorubicin hydrochloride on human fertility has not been evaluated (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal has no or negligible influence on the ability to drive and use 
machines. However, in clinical studies to date, dizziness and somnolence were associated infrequently 
(< 5%) with the administration of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal. Patients who suffer from these 
effects must avoid driving and operating machinery. 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The most frequent adverse reactions (≥ 20%) were neutropaenia, nausea, leukopaenia, anaemia, and 
fatigue. 
Severe adverse reactions (Grade 3/4 adverse reactions occurring in ≥ 2% of patients) were 
neutropaenia, PPE, leukopaenia, lymphopaenia, anaemia, thrombocytopaenia, stomatitis, fatigue, 
diarrhoea, vomiting, nausea, pyrexia, dyspnoea, and pneumonia. Less frequently reported severe 
adverse reactions included Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, abdominal pain, cytomegalovirus 
infection including cytomegalovirus chorioretinitis, asthenia, cardiac arrest, cardiac failure, cardiac 
failure congestive, pulmonary embolism, thrombophlebitis, venous thrombosis, anaphylactic reaction, 
anaphylactoid reaction, toxic epidermal necrolysis, and Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Table 5 summarises the adverse drug reactions that occurred in patients receiving doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal in 4,231 patients for the treatment of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, multiple 
myeloma, and AIDS-related KS. Post-marketing adverse reactions are also included, as indicated by 
“b”. Frequencies are defined as very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10), uncommon (≥ 
1/1,000 to < 1/100), rare (≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000), very rare (< 1/10,000) and not known (frequency 
cannot be estimated from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, where relevant, adverse 
reactions are presented in order of decreasing seriousness 
Table 5: Adverse reactions in patients treated with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal 
System 
Organ 
Infections 
and 
infestations 
Frequency all grades 
Adverse drug reaction 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not known 
Sepsis 
Pneumonia 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia 
Cytomegalovirus infection including 
cytomegalovirus chorioretinitis 
Mycobacterium avium complex infection 
Candidiasis 
Herpes zoster 
Urinary tract infection 
Infection 
Upper respiratory tract infection 
Oral candidiasis 
Folliculitis 
Pharyngitis 
Nasopharyngitis 
Herpes simplex 
Fungal infection 
Opportunistic infection (including Aspergillus, 
Histoplasma, Isospora, Legionella,  Microsporidium, 
Salmonella, Staphylococcus,  Toxoplasma, 
Tuberculosis)a 
Acute myeloid leukaemiab 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neoplasms 
benign, 
malignant and 
unspecified 
(including 
cysts and 
l
) 
Blood and 
lymphatic 
disorders 
Immune 
system 
disorders 
Metabolism 
and  nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatri
c 
disorders 
Nervous 
system 
disorders 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Eye disorders 
Cardiac 
disorders
a
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Myelodysplastic syndromeb 
Oral neoplasmb 
Leukopaenia 
Neutropaenia 
Lymphopaenia 
Anaemia (including hypochromic) 
Thrombocytopaenia 
Febrile neutropaenia 
Pancytopaenia 
Thrombocytosis 
Bone marrow failure 
Hypersensitivity 
Anaphylactic reaction 
Anaphylactoid reaction 
Decreased appetite 
Cachexia 
Dehydration 
Hypokalaemia 
Hyponatraemia 
Hypocalcaemia 
Hyperkalaemia 
Hypomagnesaemia 
Confusional state 
Anxiety 
Depression 
Insomnia 
Neuropathy peripheral 
Peripheral sensory neuropathy 
Neuralgia 
Paraesthesia 
Hypoaesthesia 
Dysgeusia 
Headache 
Lethargy 
Dizziness 
Polyneuropathy 
Convulsion 
Syncope 
Dysaesthesia 
Somnolence 
Conjunctivitis 
Vision blurred 
Lacrimation increased 
Retinitis 
Tachycardia 
Palpitations 
Cardiac arrest 
Cardiac failure 
Cardiac failure congestive 
Cardiomyopathy 
11 
 
 
 
 
Rare 
Vascula
r 
Common 
Cardiotoxicity 
Ventricular arrhythmia 
Bundle branch block right 
Conduction disorder 
Atrioventricular block 
Cyanosis 
Hypertension 
Hypotension 
12 
 
 
Uncommon 
Flushing 
Pulmonary embolism 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Not Known 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Infusion site necrosis (including soft tissue 
necrosis and skin necrosis) 
Phlebitis 
Orthostatic hypotension 
Thrombophlebitis 
Venous thrombosis 
Vasodilatation 
Dyspnoea 
Dyspnoea exertional 
Epistaxis 
Cough 
Asthma 
Chest discomfort 
Throat tightness 
Interstitial lung disease 
Stomatitis 
Nausea 
Vomiting 
Diarrhoea 
Constipation 
Gastritis 
Aphthous stomatitis 
Mouth ulceration 
Dyspepsia 
Dysphagia 
Oesophagitis 
Abdominal pain 
Abdominal pain upper 
Oral pain 
Dry mouth 
Flatulence 
Gingivitis 
Glossitis 
Lip ulceration 
Palmar plantar erythrodysaesthesia syndromea 
Rash (including erythematous, maculo-papular,  and 
papular) 
Alopecia 
Skin exfoliation 
Blister 
Dry skin 
Erythema 
Pruritus 
Hyperhidrosis 
Skin hyperpigmentation 
Dermatitis 
Dermatitis exfoliative 
Acne 
Skin ulcer 
Dermatitis allergic 
1 
 
 
 
 
Urticaria 
Skin discolouration 
Petechiae 
Pigmentation disorder 
Nail disorder 
Toxic epidermal necrolysis 
Erythema multiforme 
Dermatitis bullous 
Lichenoid keratosis 
Stevens-Johnson syndromeb 
Musculoskeletal pain (including musculoskeletal  chest 
pain, back pain, pain in extremity) 
Muscle spasms 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Bone pain 
Muscular weakness 
Dysuria 
Breast pain 
Vaginal infection 
Scrotal erythema 
Pyrexia 
Fatigue 
Infusion-related reaction 
Pain 
Chest pain 
Influenza-like illness 
Chills 
Mucosal inflammation 
Asthenia 
Malaise 
Oedema 
Oedema peripheral 
Administration site extravasation 
Injection site reaction 
Face oedema 
Hyperthermia 
Mucous membrane disorder 
Weight decreased 
Ejection fraction decreased 
Liver function test abnormal (including Blood 
bilirubin increased, Alanine aminotransferase 
increased and Aspartate aminotransferase  increased) 
Blood creatinine increased 
Radiation recall phenomenona 
Rare 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Not known 
Very common 
Common 
Renal and 
urinary disorders 
Reproductive 
disorders 
Uncommon 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Investigations 
Uncommon 
Injury, poisoning 
and procedural 
complications 
a  See Description of selected adverse reactions 
b  Post-marketing adverse reaction 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Palmar plantar erythrodysaesthesia 
The most common undesirable effect reported in breast/ovarian clinical trials was palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia (PPE). The overall incidence of PPE reported was 41.3% and 51.1% in the ovarian 
and breast clinical trials, respectively. These effects were mostly mild, with severe (grade 3) cases 
reported in 16.3% and 19.6% of patients. The reported incidence of life-threatening (grade 4) cases 
was < 1%. PPE infrequently resulted in permanent treatment discontinuation (1.9% and 10.8%). PPE 
was reported in 16% of multiple myeloma patients treated with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal plus 
bortezomib combination therapy. Grade 3 PPE was reported in 5% of patients. No grade 4 PPE was 
reported. The rate of PPE was substantially lower in the AIDS-KS population (1.3% all grade, 0.4% 
grade 3 PPE, no grade 4 PPE). See section 4.4. 
Opportunistic infections 
Respiratory undesirable effects commonly occurred in clinical studies of doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal and may be related to opportunistic infections (OI’s) in the AIDS population. Opportunistic 
infections are observed in KS patients after administration with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, and 
are frequently observed in patients with HIV induced immunodeficiency. The most frequently 
observed OI’s in clinical studies were candidiasis, cytomegalovirus, herpes simplex, Pneumocystis 
jirovecii pneumonia, and mycobacterium avium complex. 
Cardiac toxicity 
An increased incidence of congestive heart failure is associated with doxorubicin therapy at 
cumulative lifetime doses > 450 mg/m2 or at lower doses for patientswith cardiac risk factors. 
Endomyocardial biopsies on nine of ten AIDS-KS patients receiving cumulative doses of doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal greater than 460 mg/m2 indicate no evidence of anthracycline-induced 
cardiomyopathy. The recommended dose of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal for AIDS-KS patients is 
20 mg/m2 every two-to-three weeks. The cumulative dose at which cardiotoxicity would become a 
concern for these AIDS-KS patients (> 400 mg/m2) would require more than 20 courses of 
doxorubicin pegylated liposomal therapy over 40 to 60 weeks. 
In addition, endomyocardial biopsies were performed in 8 solid tumour patients with cumulative 
anthracycline doses of 509 mg/m2-1,680 mg/m2. The range of Billingham cardiotoxicity scores was 
grades 0-1.5. These grading scores are consistent with no or mild cardiac toxicity. 
In the pivotal phase III trial versus doxorubicin, 58/509 (11.4%) randomised subjects (10 treated with 
doxorubicin pegylated liposomal at a dose of 50 mg/m2/every 4 weeks versus 48 treated with 
doxorubicin at a dose of 60 mg/m2/every 3 weeks) met the protocol-defined criteria for cardiac toxicity 
during treatment and/or follow-up. Cardiac toxicity was defined as a decrease of 20 points or greater 
from baseline if the resting LVEF remained in the normal range or a decrease of 10 points or greater if 
the LVEF became abnormal (less than the lower limit for normal). None of the 10 doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal subjects who had cardiac toxicity by LVEF criteria developed signs and 
symptoms of CHF. In contrast, 10 of 48 doxorubicin  subjects who had cardiac toxicity by LVEF 
criteria also developed signs and symptoms of CHF. 
In patients with solid tumours, including a subset of patients with breast and ovarian cancers, treated at 
a dose of 50 mg/m2/cycle with lifetime cumulative anthracycline doses up to 1,532 mg/m2, the 
incidence of clinically significant cardiac dysfunction was low. Of the 418 patients treated with 
doxorubicin pegylated liposomal 50 mg/m2/cycle, and having a baseline measurement of left 
ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and at least one follow-up measurement assessed by MUGA scan, 
88 patients had a cumulative anthracycline dose of > 400 mg/m2, an exposure level associated with an 
increased risk of cardiovascular toxicity with conventional doxorubicin. Only 13 of these 88 patients 
(15%) had at least one clinically significant change in their LVEF, defined as an LVEF value less than 
45% or a decrease of at least 20 points from baseline. Furthermore, only 1 patient (cumulative 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
anthracycline dose of 944 mg/m2), discontinued study treatment because of clinical symptoms of 
congestive heart failure. 
Radiation recall phenomenon 
Recall of skin reaction due to prior radiotherapy has occurred uncommonly with doxorubicin 
pegylated liposomal administration. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
Acute overdosing with doxorubicin hydrochloride worsens the toxic effects of mucositis, leukopaenia 
and thrombocytopaenia. Treatment of acute overdose of the severely myelosuppressed patient consists 
of hospitalisation, antibiotics, platelet and granulocyte transfusions and symptomatic treatment of 
mucositis. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Cytotoxic agents (anthracyclines and related substances), ATC code: 
L01DB01. 
Mechanism of action 
The active ingredient is doxorubicin hydrochloride, a cytotoxic anthracycline antibiotic obtained 
from Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius. The exact mechanism of the antitumour activity of 
doxorubicin is not known. It is generally believed that inhibition of DNA, RNA and protein synthesis 
is responsible for the majority of the cytotoxic effects. This is probably the result of intercalation of 
the anthracycline between adjacent base pairs of the DNA double helix thus preventing their 
unwinding for replication. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
A phase III randomised study of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal versus doxorubicin in patients with 
metastatic breast cancer was completed in 509 patients. The protocol-specified objective of 
demonstrating non-inferiority between doxorubicin pegylated liposomal and doxorubicin was met, the 
hazard ratio (HR) for progression-free survival (PFS) was 1.00 (95% Confidence interval (CI) for 
HR=0.82-1.22). The treatment HR for PFS when adjusted for prognostic variables was consistent with 
PFS for the ITT population. 
The primary analysis of cardiac toxicity showed the risk of developing a cardiac event as a function of 
cumulative anthracycline dose was significantly lower with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal  than 
with doxorubicin (HR=3.16, p < 0.001). At cumulative doses greater than 450 mg/m2 there were no 
cardiac events with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal. 
A phase III comparative study of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal versus topotecan in patients with 
epithelial ovarian cancer following the failure of first-line, platinum-based chemotherapy was 
completed in 474 patients. There was a benefit in overall survival (OS) for doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal-treated patients over topotecan-treated patients as indicated by a hazard ratio (HR) of 1.216 
(95% CI: 1.000; 1.478), p=0.050. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 56.3%, 34.7% and 20.2% 
respectively on doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, compared to 54.0%, 23.6% and 13.2% on topotecan. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the sub-group of patients with platinum-sensitive disease the difference was greater: HR of 1.432 
(95% CI: 1.066; 1.923), p=0.017. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 74.1%, 51.2% and 28.4% 
respectively on doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, compared to 66.2%, 31.0% and 17.5% on topotecan. 
The treatments were similar in the sub-group of patients with platinum-refractory disease: HR of 1.069 
(95% CI: 0.823; 1.387), p=0.618. The survival rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 41.5%, 21.1% and 13.8% 
respectively on doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, compared to 43.2%, 17.2% and 9.5% on topotecan. 
A phase III randomised, parallel-group, open-label, multicentre study comparing the safety and 
efficacy of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib combination therapy with bortezomib 
monotherapy in patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least 1 prior therapy and who 
did not progress while receiving anthracycline-based therapy, was conducted in 646 patients. There 
was a significant improvement in the primary endpoint of time to progression (TTP) for patients 
treated with combination therapy of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib compared to 
patients treated with bortezomib monotherapy as indicated by a risk reduction (RR) of 35% (95% CI: 
21-47%), p < 0.0001, based on 407 TTP events. The median TTP was 6.9 months for the bortezomib 
monotherapy patients compared with 8.9 months for the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal plus 
bortezomib combination therapy patients. A protocol-defined interim analysis (based on 249 TTP 
events) triggered early study termination for efficacy. This interim analysis showed a TTP risk 
reduction of 45% (95% CI: 29-57%), p < 0.0001. The median TTP was 6.5 months for the bortezomib 
monotherapy patients compared with 9.3 months for the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal plus 
bortezomib combination therapy patients. These results, though not mature, constituted the protocol 
defined final analysis. The final analysis for overall survival (OS) performed after a median follow-up 
of 8.6 years showed no significant difference in OS between the two treatment arms. The median OS 
was 30.8 months (95% CI; 25.2-36.5 months) for the bortezomib monotherapy patients and 33.0 
months (95% CI; 28.9-37.1 months) for the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal plus bortezomib 
combination therapy patients. 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal is a long-circulating pegylated liposomal formulation of doxorubicin 
hydrochloride. Pegylated liposomes contain surface-grafted segments of the hydrophilic polymer 
methoxypolyethylene glycol (MPEG). These linear MPEG groups extend from the liposome surface 
creating a protective coating that reduces interactions between the lipid bilayer membrane and the 
plasma components. This allows the doxorubicin pegylated liposomal liposomes to circulate for 
prolonged periods in the blood stream. Pegylated liposomes are small enough (average diameter of 
approximately 100 nm) to pass intact (extravasate) through defective blood vessels supplying tumours. 
Evidence of penetration of pegylated liposomes from blood vessels and their entry and accumulation 
in tumours has been seen in mice with C-26 colon carcinoma tumours and in transgenic mice with 
KS-like lesions. The pegylated liposomes also have a low permeability lipid matrix and internal 
aqueous buffer system that combine to keep doxorubicin hydrochloride encapsulated during liposome 
residence time in circulation. 
The plasma pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal in humans differ significantly from 
those reported in the literature for standard doxorubicin hydrochloride preparations. At lower doses 
(10 mg/m2–20 mg/m2) doxorubicin pegylated liposomal displayed linear pharmacokinetics. Over the 
dose range of 10 mg/m2-60 mg/m2 doxorubicin pegylated liposomal in displayed non-linear 
pharmacokinetics. Standard doxorubicin hydrochloride displays extensive tissue distribution (volume 
of distribution: 700 to 1,100 l/m2) and a rapid elimination clearance (24 to 73 l/h/m2). In contrast, the 
pharmacokinetic profile of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal indicates that doxorubicin pegylated 
liposomal is confined mostly to the vascular fluid volume and that the clearance of doxorubicin from 
the blood is dependent upon the liposomal carrier. Doxorubicin becomes available after the liposomes 
are extravasated and enter the tissue compartment. 
At equivalent doses, the plasma concentration and AUC values of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal 
which represent mostly pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (containing 90% to 95% of the 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
measured doxorubicin) are significantly higher than those achieved with standard doxorubicin 
hydrochloride preparations. 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal should not be used interchangeably with other formulations of 
doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal was evaluated in 120 patients from 10 
different clinical trials using the population pharmacokinetic approach. The pharmacokinetics of 
doxorubicin pegylated liposomal over the dose range of 10 mg/m2 to 60 mg/m2 was best described by 
a two compartment non-linear model with zero order input and Michaelis-Menten elimination. The 
mean intrinsic clearance of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal was 0.030 l/h/m2 (range 0.008 to 0.152 
l/h/m2) and the mean central volume of distribution was 1.93 l/m2 (range 0.96-3.85 l/m2) 
approximating the plasma volume. The apparent half-life ranged from 24-231 hours, with a mean of 
73.9 hours. 
Breast cancer patients 
The pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal determined in 18 patients with breast 
carcinoma were similar to the pharmacokinetics determined in the larger population of 120 patients 
with various cancers. The mean intrinsic clearance was 0.016 l/h/m2(range 0.008-0.027 l/h/m2), the 
mean central volume of distribution was 1.46 l/m2 (range 1.10-1.64 l/m2). The mean apparent half-life 
was 71.5 hours (range 45.2-98.5 hours). 
Ovarian cancer patients 
The pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal determined in 11 patients with ovarian 
carcinoma were similar to the pharmacokinetics determined in the larger population of 120 patients 
with various cancers. The mean intrinsic clearance was 0.021 l/h/m2(range 0.009–0.041 l/h/m2), the 
mean central volume of distribution was 1.95 l/m2 (range 1.67–2.40 l/m2). The mean apparent half-life 
was 75.0 hours (range 36.1–125 hours). 
AIDS-related KS patients 
The plasma pharmacokinetics of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal were evaluated in 23 patients with 
KS who received single doses of 20 mg/m2administered by a 30-minute infusion. The pharmacokinetic 
parameters of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal (primarily representing pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin hydrochloride and low levels of unencapsulated doxorubicin hydrochloride) observed 
after the 20 mg/m2 doses are presented in Table 10. 
Table 10.   Pharmacokinetic parameters in doxorubicin pegylated liposomal-treated AIDS-KS 
patients 
Parameter 
Maximum plasma concentration* (µg/mL) 
Plasma clearance (l/h/m2) 
Volume of distribution (l/m2) 
AUC (µg/mL•h) 
λ1 half-life (hours) 
λ2 half-life (hours) 
* Measured at the end of a 30-minute infusion 
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Mean ± standard error 
20 mg/m2 (n=23) 
8.34 ± 0.49 
0.041 ± 0.004 
2.72 ± 0.120 
590.00 ± 58.7 
5.2 ± 1.4 
55.0 ± 4.8 
In repeat dose studies conducted in animals, the toxicity profile of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal 
appears very similar to that reported in humans who receive long-term infusions of standard 
doxorubicin hydrochloride. With doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, the encapsulation of doxorubicin 
hydrochloride in pegylated liposomes results in these effects having a differing strength, as follows. 
Cardiotoxicity 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Studies in rabbits have shown that the cardiotoxicity of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal is reduced 
compared with conventional doxorubicin hydrochloride preparations. 
Dermal toxicity 
In studies performed after the repeated administration of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal to rats and 
dogs, serious dermal inflammations and ulcer formations were observed at clinically relevant dosages. 
In the study in dogs, the occurrence and severity of these lesions was reduced by lowering the dose or 
prolonging the intervals between doses. Similar dermal lesions, which are described as palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia were also observed in patients after long-term intravenous infusion (see section 
4.8). 
Anaphylactoid response 
During repeat dose toxicology studies in dogs, an acute response characterised by hypotension, pale 
mucous membranes, salivation, emesis and periods of hyperactivity followed by hypoactivity and 
lethargy was observed following administration of pegylated liposomes (placebo). A similar, but less 
severe response was also noted in dogs treated with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal and standard 
doxorubicin. The hypotensive response was reduced in magnitude by pretreatment with 
antihistamines. However, the response was not life-threatening and the dogs recovered quickly upon 
discontinuation of treatment. 
Local toxicity 
Subcutaneous tolerance studies indicate that doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, as against standard 
doxorubicin hydrochloride, causes slighter local irritation or damage to the tissue after a possible 
extravasation. 
Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity 
Although no studies have been conducted with doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, doxorubicin 
hydrochloride, the pharmacologically active ingredient of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, is 
mutagenic and carcinogenic. Pegylated placebo liposomes are neither mutagenic nor genotoxic. 
Reproductive toxicity 
Doxorubicin pegylated liposomal resulted in mild to moderate ovarian and testicular atrophy in mice 
after a single dose of 36 mg/kg. Decreased testicular weights and hypospermia were present in rats 
after repeat doses ≥ 0.25 mg/kg/day and diffuse degeneration of the seminiferous tubules and a marked 
decrease in spermatogenesis were observed in dogs after repeat doses of 1 mg/kg/day (see section 4.6). 
Nephrotoxicity 
A study has shown that doxorubicin pegylated liposomal at a single intravenous dose of over twice the 
clinical dose produces renal toxicity in monkeys. Renal toxicity has been observed with even lower 
single doses of doxorubicin HCl in rats and rabbits. Since an evaluation of the post-marketing safety 
database for doxorubicin pegylated liposomal in patients has not suggested a significant nephrotoxicity 
liability of doxorubicin pegylated liposomal, these findings in monkeys may not have relevance to 
patient risk assessment. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
N-(carbonyl-methoxypolyethylene glycol-2000)-1,2-distearoyl- sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine, 
sodium salt (MPEG 2000-DSPE) 
Hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine (HSPC) 
Cholesterol 
Ammonium sulphate (E 517) 
Sucrose (E 473) 
Histidine 
Hydrochloric acid concentrated (E 507) (for pH adjustment) 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sodium hydroxide (E-524) (for pH adjustment) 
Water for injections 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
This medicinal product must not be mixed with other medicinal products except those mentioned in 
section 6.6. 
6.3  Shelf life 
Unopened vial 
18 months. 
After dilution 
-  Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. 
-  From a microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used 
immediately, in-use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user 
and should not be longer than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. 
-  Partially used vials must be discarded. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
Store in a refrigerator (2°C - 8°C). 
Do not freeze. 
For storage conditions of the diluted medicinal product, see section 6.3. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
Type I glass vial with a siliconised grey bromobutyl stopper, and an aluminium seal, containing a 
deliverable volume of 10 mL (20 mg) or 25 mL (50 mg). 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is supplied as a single pack or packs of ten vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Do not use material that shows evidence of precipitation or any other particulate matter. 
Caution must be exercised in handling ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal dispersion. The use of 
gloves is required. If ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal comes into contact with skin or mucosa, wash 
immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal must be handled 
and disposed of in a manner consistent with that of other anticancer medicinal products in accordance 
with local requirements. 
Determine the dose of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal to be administered (based upon the 
recommended dose and the patient's body surface area). Take the appropriate volume of ZOLSKETIL 
pegylated liposomal up into a sterile syringe. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed since no 
preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal. The appropriate 
dose of ZOLSKETIL Pegylated Liposomal must be diluted in glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution for 
infusion prior to administration. For doses < 90 mg, dilute ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal in 
250 mL, and for doses ≥ 90 mg, dilute ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal in 500 mL. This can be 
infused over 60 or 90 minutes as detailed in 4.2. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The use of any diluent other than 50 mg/mL (5%) glucose solution for infusion, or the presence of any 
bacteriostatic agent such as benzyl alcohol may cause precipitation of ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal. 
It is recommended that the ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal infusion line be connected through the 
side port of an intravenous infusion of glucose 50 mg/mL (5%). Infusion may be given through a 
peripheral vein. Do not use with in-line filters. 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center,  
Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039, Barcelona,  
Spain 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1629/001 
EU/1/22/1629/002 
EU/1/22/1629/003 
EU/1/22/1629/004 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  31 May 2022. 
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer(s) responsible for batch release 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o., 
ul. Lutomierska 50, Pabianice, 95-200 
Poland 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
Winthontlaan 200,Utrecht,3526 KV, 
Netherlands 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal  product  subject  to  restricted  medical  prescription  (see  Annex  I:  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.   OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic Safety Update Reports 
The requirements for submission of periodic safety update reports for this medicinal product are set out 
in  the  list  of  Union  reference  dates  (EURD  list)  provided  for  under  Article  107c(7)  of  Directive 
2001/83/EC and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the  agreed  RMP  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  and  any  agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result 
of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
If the dates for submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the 
same time. 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 20 mg/10 mL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 2 mg/mL concentrate for dispersion for infusion  
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One mL of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains 2 mg doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine, N-(carbonylmethoxypolyethylene glycol-2000)-
1,2- distearoyl- sn-glycero-3- phosphoethanolamine, sodium salt (MPEG 2000-DSPE), cholesterol, 
ammonium sulphate, histidine, sucrose, water for injections, hydrochloric acid concentrated, sodium 
hydroxide 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial 
10 vials 
20 mg/10 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not use interchangebly with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Cytotoxic 
Partially used vials should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center,  
Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1629/001 (1 vial) 
EU/1/22/1629/002 (10 vials) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NN 
16 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON 50 mg/25 mL  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 2 mg/mL concentrate for dispersion for infusion  
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
One mL of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains 2 mg doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Excipients: hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine, N-(carbonylmethoxypolyethylene glycol-2000)-
1,2- distearoyl- sn-glycero-3- phosphoethanolamine, sodium salt (MPEG 2000-DSPE), cholesterol, 
ammonium sulphate, histidine, sucrose, water for injections, hydrochloric acid concentrated, sodium 
hydroxide 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
1 vial 
10 vials 
50 mg/25 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
Intravenous use after dilution. 
Read the package leaflet before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
Do not use interchangebly with other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
Store in a refrigerator. Do not freeze. 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
Cytotoxic 
Partially used vials should be discarded. 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center,  
Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039 Barcelona,  
Spain  
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/22/1629/003 (1 vial) 
EU/1/22/1629/004 (10 vials) 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Justification for not including Braille accepted. 
17.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
18.  UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC 
SN 
NN 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
VIAL LABEL 20 mg/10 mL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 2 mg/mL sterile concentrate  
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
IV after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
20 mg/10 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON SMALL IMMEDIATE PACKAGING UNITS  
(VIAL LABEL) 50 mg/25 mL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT AND ROUTE(S) OF ADMINISTRATION 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 2 mg/mL sterile concentrate  
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
IV after dilution 
2.  METHOD OF ADMINISTRATION 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
Lot 
BATCH NUMBER 
5. 
CONTENTS BY WEIGHT, BY VOLUME OR BY UNIT 
50 mg/25 mL 
6. 
OTHER 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the user 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 2 mg/mL concentrate for dispersion for infusion 
doxorubicin hydrochloride 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start using this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again.  
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours.  
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is and what it is used for  
2.  What you need to know before you use ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
3.  How to use ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
4.  Possible side effects  
5.  How to store ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is and what it is used for 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is an antitumour agent. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is used to treat cancer of the breast in patients at risk for heart 
problems. ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is also used to treat cancer of the ovary. It is used to kill 
cancer cells, shrink the size of the tumour, delay the growth of the tumour, and extend your survival. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is also used in combination with another medicine, bortezomib, to 
treat multiple myeloma (a cancer of the blood) in patients who have received at least 1 prior therapy. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is also used to produce an improvement in your Kaposi’s sarcoma 
including flattening, lightening and even shrinkage of the cancer. Other symptoms of Kaposi’s 
sarcoma, such as swelling around the tumour, may also improve or disappear. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains a medicine which is able to interact with cells in such a 
way as to selectively kill cancer cells. The doxorubicin hydrochloride in ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal is enclosed in tiny spheres called pegylated liposomes which help to deliver the medicinal 
product from the blood stream to the cancerous tissue rather than healthy normal tissue. 
2.  What you need to know before you use ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
Do not use ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
- 
if you are allergic to doxorubicin hydrochloride, peanut or soya, or any of the other ingredients 
of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions 
You should tell your doctor about any of the following: 
- 
- 
if you are receiving any treatment for heart disease or liver disease; 
if you are diabetic, because ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains sugar which may require 
an adjustment to the treatment of your diabetes; 
if you have Kaposi’s sarcoma and have had your spleen removed; 
- 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
if you notice sores, discolouration or any discomfort in your mouth. 
if you have bone marrow bone marrow is not making enough blood cells 
if you have cancer where bone marrow makes abnormal blood cells  
if you have painful, macular reddening skin rash 
if you have leakage of vesicant fluids or medicines from the vein into the surrounding tissue 
if you have hand–foot syndrome (redness, swelling and blistering (a pocket of fluid between the 
upper layers of skin) on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet) 
Strategies to prevent and treat hand-foot syndrome include: 
-  
soaking hands and/or feet in basins of cold water when possible (e.g., while watching television, 
reading, or listening to the radio); 
keeping hands and feet uncovered (no gloves, socks, etc.); 
staying in cool places; 
taking cool baths during hot weather; 
avoiding vigorous exercise that might cause trauma to the feet (e.g., jogging); 
avoiding exposure of skin to very hot water (e.g., jacuzzis, saunas); 
avoiding tight fitting footwear or high-heeled shoes. 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
Pyridoxine (Vitamin B6): 
- 
-  
vitamin B6 is available without prescription; 
take 50-150 mg daily beginning at the first signs of redness or tingling. 
The cases of Interstitial lung diseases have been observed in patients receiving pegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin including fatal cases. The symptoms of Interstitial lung disease are cough and shortness of 
breath sometimes with fever which are not caused by physical activity. Seek immediate medical 
attention, if you experience symptoms that may be signs of Interstitial lung disease. 
Children and adolescents 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal should not be used in children and adolescents, because it is not 
known how the medicine will affect them. 
Other medicines and ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist 
- 
- 
if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines, including medicines obtained 
without a prescription; 
about any other cancer treatments you are on or have been taking, as particular care needs to be 
taken with treatments which reduce the number of white blood cells, as this may cause further 
reduction in the number of white blood cells. If you are unsure about what treatments you have 
received or any illnesses you have had, discuss these with your doctor. 
Pregnancy and breast-feeding 
Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before taking this medicine. 
Because the active ingredient doxorubicin hydrochloride in ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal may 
cause birth defects, it is important to tell your doctor if you think you are pregnant.  
Women must avoid becoming pregnant and use contraception while taking ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal and in the eight months following discontinuation of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
treatment. Men must use contraception while taking ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal and in the six 
months following discontinuation of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal, so that their partner does not 
become pregnant. 
Because doxorubicin hydrochloride may be harmful to nursing infants, women must discontinue 
breast-feeding before starting treatment with ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal. Health experts 
recommend that HIV infected women do not breast-feed their infants under any circumstances in order 
to avoid transmission of HIV. 
Driving and using machines 
23 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Do not drive or use any tools or machines if you feel tired or sleepy from treatment with ZOLSKETIL 
pegylated liposomal. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains soya oil and sodium 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains soya oil. If you are allergic to peanut or soya, do not use 
this medicine. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per dose, that is to say 
‘essentially sodium-free’. 
3. 
How to use ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is a unique formulation. It must not be used interchangeably with 
other formulations of doxorubicin hydrochloride. 
How much ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is given 
If you are being treated for breast cancer or ovarian cancer, ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal will be 
administered at a dose of 50 mg per square metre of your body surface area (based on your height and 
weight). The dose is repeated every 4 weeks for as long as the disease does not progress and you are 
able to tolerate the treatment. 
If you are being treated for multiple myeloma, and have already received at least 1 prior therapy, 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal will be administered at a dose of 30 mg per square metre of your 
body surface area (based on your height and weight) as a 1 hour intravenous infusion on day 4 of the 
bortezomib 3 week regimen immediately after the bortezomib infusion. The dose is repeated as long as 
you respond satisfactorily and tolerate treatment. 
If you are being treated for Kaposi’sarcoma, ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal will be administered at 
a dose of 20 mg per square metre of your body surface area (based on your height and weight). The 
dose is repeated every 2 to 3 weeks for 2-3 months, then as often as necessary to maintain an 
improvement in your condition. 
How ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is given 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal will be given to you by your doctor in a drip (infusion) into a vein. 
Depending on the dose and indication, this may take from 30 minutes to more than one hour (i.e., 90 
minutes). 
If you use more ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal than you should 
Acute overdosing worsens side effects like sores in the mouth or decreases the number of white blood 
cells and platelets in the blood. Treatment will include administration of antibiotics, platelet cell 
transfusions, use of factors which stimulate production of white blood cells and symptomatic treatment 
of mouth sores. 
If you have any further questions on the use of this product, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
During the infusion of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal, the following reactions may occur: 
- 
severe allergic reaction that may include a swollen face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty 
swallowing or breathing; itchy rash (hives) 
inflamed and narrowed airways in the lungs, causing coughing, wheezing and shortness of 
breath (asthma) 
flushing, sweating, chills or a fever 
- 
- 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
chest pain or discomfort 
back pain 
high or low blood pressure 
fast heart beat 
fits (seizures) 
Leaking of the injection fluid from the veins into the tissues under the skin may occur. If the drip 
stings or hurts while you are receiving a dose of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal, tell your doctor 
immediately 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Your doctor should be contacted immediately if any of the following serious side effects are noticed 
you develop fever, feel tired, or if you have signs of bruising or bleeding (very common) 
- 
redness, swelling, peeling or tenderness, mainly on the hands or feet (‘hand-foot’ syndrome). 
- 
These effects have been seen very commonly and are sometimes severe. In severe cases, these 
effects may interfere with certain daily activities, and may last for 4 weeks or longer before 
resolving completely. The doctor may wish to delay the start and/or reduce the dose of the next 
treatment (see Strategies to prevent and treat hand foot syndrome, below) 
sores in mouth, severe diarrhoea or vomiting or nausea (very common) 
infections (common), including lung infections (pneumonia) or infections that may affect your 
vision 
being short of breath (common) 
severe stomach pain (common) 
severe weakness (common) 
severe allergic reaction that may include a swollen face, lips, mouth, tongue or throat; difficulty 
swallowing or breathing; itchy rash (hives) (uncommon) 
cardiac arrest (heart stops beating); heart failure, in which the heart does not pump enough 
blood to the rest of the body, which makes you short of breath and may lead to swollen legs 
(uncommon) 
blood clot that moves to the lungs, causes chest pain and makes you short of breath 
(uncommon) 
swelling, warmth, or tenderness in the soft tissues of your leg, sometimes with pain which gets 
worse when you stand or walk (rare) 
severe or life-threatening rash with blisters and peeling skin, particularly around the mouth, 
nose, eyes and genitals (Stevens-Johnson syndrome) or over most of the body (toxic epidermal 
necrolysis) (rare) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Other side effects 
Between infusions, the following may occur: 
Very common side effects (may affect more than 1 in 10 people) 
- 
decrease in the number of white blood cells, which can increase the chances of infections. In 
rare cases, having low white blood cells may lead to severe infection. Anaemia (reduction in red 
blood cells) may cause tiredness, and decreased platelets in the blood may increase the risk of 
bleeding. It is because of the potential changes in your blood cells that you will have regular 
blood tests. 
decreased appetite; 
constipation; 
skin rashes, including redness of the skin, allergic skin rash, red or raised rash on the skin 
hair loss 
pain including in the muscles and chest muscle, joint, arm, or leg 
feeling very tired 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Common side effects (may affect up to 1 in 10 people) 
- 
infections, including severe infection throughout the body (sepsis), lung infections, herpes 
zoster virus infections (shingles), a type of bacterial infection (mycobacterium avium complex 
infection), urinary tract infection, fungal infections (including thrush and oral thrush in the 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
mouth) infection of the hair roots, infected or irritated throat, infected nose, sinuses or throat 
(cold) 
low number of a type of white blood cell (neutrophils), with a fever 
severe weight loss and muscle wasting, not enough water in the body (dehydration), low level of 
potassium, sodium, or calcium in the blood 
feeling confused, feeling anxious, depression, difficulty sleeping 
nerve damage that may cause tingling, numbness, pain or loss of pain sensation, nerve pain, 
unusual feeling in the skin (such as tingling or a crawling feeling), decreased feeling or 
sensitivity, especially in the skin 
change in sense of taste, headache, feeling very sleepy with low energy, feeling dizzy; 
inflamed eyes (conjunctivitis) 
fast heart beat 
high or low blood pressure, flushing 
shortness of breath that may be brought on by physical activity, nose bleeds, cough 
inflamed stomach lining or foodpipe, ulcers (sores) in the mouth, indigestion, difficulty 
swallowing, mouth pain, dry mouth 
skin problems, including flaky or dry skin, redness of the skin, blister or ulcer (sore) on the skin, 
itching, dark skin patches 
excessive sweating 
muscle spasms or aches 
pain including in the muscles, bone, or back 
pain when passing urine 
allergic reaction to infusion of the medicine, flu-like illness, chills, inflamed lining of the 
cavities and passages in the body, such as the nose, mouth or windpipe, feeling weak, generally 
feeling unwell, swelling caused by fluid build up in the body, swollen hands, ankles or feet 
weight loss 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
When ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal is used alone, some of these effects are less likely to occur, 
and some have not occurred at all. 
Uncommon side effects (may affect up to 1 in 100 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
herpes simplex virus infections (cold sores or genital herpes), fungal infection 
low number of all types of blood cells, increased number of ‘platelets’ (cells that help blood to 
clot) 
allergic reaction 
high level of potassium in the blood, low level of magnesium in the blood 
nerve damage affecting more than one area of the body 
fits (seizures), fainting 
unpleasant or painful sensation, especially to touch, feeling sleepy 
blurred vision, watery eyes 
heart beat feels fast or uneven (palpitations), heart muscle disease, heart damage 
tissue damage (necrosis) where the injection is given, inflamed veins that cause swelling and 
pain, feeling dizzy upon sitting up or standing up 
chest discomfort 
passing wind, inflamed gums (gingivitis) 
skin problems or rashes, including flaky or peeling skin, allergic skin rash, ulcer (sore) or hives 
on the skin, discoloured skin, change in the natural colour (pigment) of the skin, small red or 
purple spots caused by bleeding under the skin, nail problems, acne 
muscle weakness 
breast pain 
irritation or pain where the injection is given 
swollen face, high body temperature 
symptoms (such as inflammation, redness or pain) come back at a part of the body that 
previously received radiation therapy or was previously damaged by a chemotherapy injection 
into a vein 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
Rare side effects (may affect up to 1 in 1,000 people) 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
infection that occurs in people with a weak immune system 
low number of blood cells made in the bone marrow 
inflamed retina, which may cause changes in vision or blindness 
abnormal heart rhythm, abnormal heart tracing on an ECG (electrocardiogram) and may be with 
a slow heart beat, problem with the heart that affects the heart beat and rhythm, blue colour to 
the skin and mucosa caused by low oxygen in the blood 
widening of blood vessels 
tight feeling in the throat 
sore and swollen tongue, ulcer (sore) on the lip 
skin rash with fluid-filled blisters 
vaginal infection, redness of the scrotum 
problems with the lining of the cavities and passages in the body, such as the nose, mouth or 
windpipe 
abnormal liver blood test results, increased level of ‘creatinine’ in the blood 
Not known (frequency cannot be estimated from the available data) 
cancer of the blood that develops quickly and affects the blood cells (acute myeloid leukaemia), 
bone marrow disease that affects the blood cells (myelodysplastic syndrome), cancer of 
themouth or lip 
coughing and shortness of breath, possibly accompanied by fever, that is not brought on by 
physical activity (Interstitial lung disease) 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or nurse. This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the vial label and carton. 
Store in a refrigerator (2ºC – 8ºC). Do not freeze. 
After dilution: 
Chemical and physical in-use stability has been demonstrated for 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. From a 
microbiological point of view, the product should be used immediately. If not used immediately, in-
use storage times and conditions prior to use are the responsibility of the user and should not be longer 
than 24 hours at 2°C to 8°C. Partially used vials must be discarded. 
Do not use this medicine if you notice that it shows evidence of precipitation or any other particulate 
matter. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal contains  
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
The active substance is doxorubicin hydrochloride. One mL of ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal contains 2 mg of doxorubicin hydrochloride in a pegylated liposomal formulation. 
The other ingredient(s) are hydrogenated soy phosphatidylcholine, N- 
carbonylmethoxypolyethylene glycol-2000)-1,2- distearoyl- sn-glycero-3- 
phosphoethanolamine, sodium salt (MPEG 2000-DSPE), cholesterol, ammonium sulphate, 
histidine, sucrose, water for injections, hydrochloric acid, concentrated (for pH-adjustment), 
sodium hydroxide (for pH-adjustment). See section 2. 
ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal: vials which provide 10 mL (20 mg) or 25 mL (50 mg). 
What ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal looks like and contents of the pack 
This medicine is a translucent red coloured dispersion filled in a clear glass vial. ZOLSKETIL 
pegylated liposomal is available in glass vials as a single pack or packs of ten vials. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder  
Accord Healthcare S.L.U.  
World Trade Center, Moll de Barcelona, s/n,  
Edifici Est 6ª planta,  
08039,Barcelona,  
Spain 
Manufacturer 
Accord Healthcare Polska Sp. z o.o. 
ul. Lutomierska 50, Pabianice, 95-200 
Poland 
Accord Healthcare B.V. 
Winthontlaan 200, Utrecht, 3526KV ,  
Netherlands 
This leaflet was last revised in {MM/YYYY}. 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
The following information is intended for medical or healthcare professionals only (see section 3): 
Caution must be exercised in handling ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal solution. The use of gloves 
is required. If ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal comes into contact with skin or mucosa, wash 
immediately and thoroughly with soap and water. ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal must be handled 
and disposed of in a manner consistent with that of other anticancer medicinal products. 
Determine the dose of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal to be administered (based upon the 
recommended dose and the patient's body surface area). Take the appropriate volume of ZOLSKETIL 
pegylated liposomal up into a sterile syringe. Aseptic technique must be strictly observed since no 
preservative or bacteriostatic agent is present in ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal. The appropriate 
dose of ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal must be diluted in glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution for 
infusion prior to administration. For doses < 90 mg, dilute ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal in 
250 mL, and for doses ≥ 90 mg, dilute ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal in 500 mL. 
To minimise the risk of infusion reactions, the initial dose is administered at a rate no greater than 
1 mg/minute. If no infusion reaction is observed, subsequent ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal 
infusions may be administered over a 60-minute period. 
28 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the breast cancer trial program, modification of the infusion was permitted for those patients 
experiencing an infusion reaction as follows: 5% of the total dose was infused slowly over the first 
15 minutes. If tolerated without reaction, the infusion rate was doubled for the next 15 minutes. If 
tolerated, the infusion was completed over the next hour for a total infusion time of 90 minutes.  
If the patient experiences early symptoms or signs of infusion reaction, immediately discontinue the 
infusion, give appropriate premedications (antihistamine and/or short acting corticosteroid) and restart 
at a slower rate. 
The use of any diluent other than glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution for infusion, or the presence of any 
bacteriostatic agent such as benzyl alcohol may cause precipitation of ZOLSKETIL pegylated 
liposomal. 
It is recommended that the ZOLSKETIL pegylated liposomal infusion line be connected through the 
side port of an intravenous infusion of glucose 50 mg/mL (5%) solution. Infusion may be given 
through a peripheral vein. Do not use with in-line filters. 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCIENTIFIC CONCLUSIONS AND GROUNDS FOR THE VARIATION TO THE TERMS 
OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION(S) 
ANNEX IV 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for doxorubicin, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
In view of available data on interstitial lung disease from the literature and spontaneous reports 
including in some cases a close temporal relationship, the PRAC considers a causal relationship 
between pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and interstitial lung disease is at least a reasonable 
possibility. The PRAC concluded that the product information of products containing pegylated 
liposomal doxorubicin should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for doxorubicin the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing doxorubicin is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
31 
 
