European Medicines Agency 
Evaluation of Medicines for Human Use 
London, 17 January 2010 
Doc. Ref No: EMA/35729/2010  
ASSESSMENT REPORT 
FOR 
Zometa 
International non-proprietary name/Common name: 
zoledronic acid 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000336/II/0031 
Variation Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4HB, UK 
Tel.  (44-20) 74 18 84 00   Fax (44-20) 74 18 86 13 
E-mail: mail@ema.europa.eu     http://www.ema.europa.eu 
 European Medicines Agency,2010. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I 
SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION  
1.1 
Introduction 
Zometa (zoledronic acid 4 mg) is a nitrogen-containing, third generation bisphosphonate that inhibits 
osteoclastic bone resorption with very high potency. Zometa is resistant to hydrolysis by phosphatases 
because  of  the  characteristic  phosphorus–carbon–phosphorus  bond.  It  binds  tightly  to  calcified  bone 
matrix  and  inhibits  osteoclast-mediated  bone  resorption  more  effectively  than  earlier  generation 
bisphosphonates,  at  doses  that  do  not  impair  bone  mineralization.  As  a  bone  resorption  inhibitor, 
zoledronic  acid  has  demonstrated  therapeutic  use  in  several  diseases  involving  enhanced  bone 
turnover. 
Zometa  was  first  registered  in  Canada  on  21  August  2000  for  the  treatment  of  tumor-induced 
hypercalcemia (TIH). Zometa was authorized in the European Union for the treatment of TIH and for 
the prevention of skeletal related events (SRE) in patients with advanced malignancies involving bone 
on 20 March 2001 and 19 July 2002, respectively. 
In  general,  Zometa  is  currently  approved  as  a  solution  for  infusions  in  a  powder  formulation  in 
96 countries  and  as  a  concentrate  in  81  countries  worldwide,  including  European  Union,  for  the 
treatment of 2 conditions: 
  Prevention of SREs (pathological fractures, spinal compression, radiation or surgery to bone, or 
TIH) in patients with advanced malignancies involving bone, and  
  Treatment of TIH. 
The  Osteogenesis  imperfecta  (OI)  comprises  a  group  of  inherited  disorders  that  primarily  (but  not 
always) arise from mutations in the genes for type I collagen (COL1A and COLA2). These molecular 
defects result in impaired bone formation, increased bone fragility and low bone mass. These essential 
features lead to the common name “brittle bone disease” for the condition. The clinical classification 
system published by Sillence in 1979 is widely used and divides the condition into Types I-IV. More 
recently,  additional  OI  types  (V-VII)  have  been  identified  from  within  the  Type  IV  phenotype,  and 
have  distinct  clinical  and  molecular  characteristics.  The  severity  of  the  clinical  characteristics 
increases as follows: type I < types IV, V, VI, VII < type III < type II. 
Children with severe OI suffer recurrent fractures resulting in severe deformity and impaired growth 
(short  stature),  usually  accompanied  by  chronic  bone  pain,  and  progressive  loss  of  independent 
ambulation by the teenage years in over 50% of cases. 
The cornerstone of treatment for OI includes physical therapy, rehabilitation, pain management, and 
orthopedic  surgery  to  address  deformities.  Early  trials  with  several  different  medical  therapies  were 
unsuccessful, including those involving fluoride, magnesium, calcitonin, and anabolic steroids. 
The  most  promising  long-term  results  have  come  from  studies  using  intravenous  pamidronate.  An 
observational study of 30 children with severe type III or IV OI aged 3-16 years, treated with cyclic 
intravenous pamidronate 1.5-3.0 mg/kg q 4-6 months for 1.5 to 5 years, showed substantial increases 
in BMD and BMD Z-score, suppression of metabolic bone markers, reduction in fractures, increase in 
height, and in many patients improved mobility. Subsequently, smaller trials of i.v. pamidronate have 
shown similar efficacy. 
With the exception of neridronate, which is nationally approved in Italy only, there are no approved 
pharmacologic therapies to address the frequent fractures, impaired growth, skeletal deformities, and 
impaired mobility that are characteristic of severe OI in affected children.  
With this variation application the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) sought approval for a new 
indication in the treatment of severe OI in paediatric patients aged 1 to 17 years to be added to section 
4.1 of the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC). Furthermore, the MAH proposed also revisions 
to  SPC  sections  4.2,  4.4,  5.1  and  5.2  related  to  the  available  data  in  paediatric  patients.  In  addition, 
SPC section 4.4 was proposed to be amended with a warning regarding the concomitant use of Aclasta 
as  well  as  changes  to  SPC  sections  4.3,  4.6  and  4.8  were  applied  to  align  with  the  QRD  template. 
Moreover, Annex II is to be updated with the RMP standard text reflecting the latest agreed version 
number.  The  package  leaflet  has  been  proposed  to  be  revised  based  on  the  results  of  a  Readability 
2 
 
 
 
Testing.  The  MAH  took  also  the  opportunity  to  introduce  minor  corrections  to  the  PI  of  several 
languages. 
Information on Paediatrics 
The  paediatric  program  in  OI  was  agreed  between  Novartis  and  the  FDA  during  2002  and  later 
amended  in  2003.  The  data  was  submitted  to  and  evaluated  by  the  FDA  and  data  with  respect  to 
available data for paediatric patients included in the US Prescribing Information. 
In Europe, the MAH submitted to EMEA/PDCO on 26 July 2007 a proposal for a Zometa Paediatric 
Investigation  Plan  (PIP)  (EMEA-000024-PIP01-07),  in  accordance  with  articles  13  and  16.1  of  the 
Regulation  (EC)  No.  1901/2006.  The  MAH  voluntarily  proposed  a  paediatric  program  in  severe  OI 
and  applied  for  paediatric  waivers  for  all  paediatric  subsets  in  the  currently  approved  Zometa  adult 
indications. A modified version of the PIP was discussed with PDCO on 07 May 2008 and received a 
positive PDCO opinion and the corresponding EMEA Decision on 08 May 2008 and 24 June 2008, 
respectively. 
In  addition  to  the  acceptance  of  paediatric  waivers  for  all  paediatric  subsets  for  the  Zometa  adult 
indications by EMEA/PDCO, a clinical program in paediatric OI was agreed between EMEA/PDCO 
and  the  MAH  so  that  this  program  formed  the  basis  for  the  EMEA  Zometa  PIP  Decision 
(EMEA/310261/2008). 
The PIP is completed, the PDCO issued an opinion on compliance. 
1.2  Nonclinical aspects 
1.2.1  Pharmacology 
The CHMP had initially concerns that prior to any further clinical studies in osteogenesis imperfecta 
every effort should be made to further study the disease and potential therapies in preclinical models. 
The  MAH  summarised  that  some  studies  in  OI  pre-clinical  models  were  conducted.  The  study  by 
Camacho, et al (2001) was carried out in oim/oim mice, an established animal model of OI based on a 
naturally  occurring  mutation.  In  their  study,  alendronate  was  shown  to  reduce  fracture  risk  and 
increase  bone  density  in  growing  mice  that  serve  as  a  model  for  the  disease.  Since  the  model  used 
growing mice, that could be relevant to bone biology in children. Other positive outcomes from their 
study included increased bone diameter and decreased tibial bowing. In contrast to these findings, a 
decrease in femur length and a persistence of calcified cartilage were also found with treatment; both 
were  considered  indicators  of  potential  negative  outcomes.  The  same  research  later  investigated  the 
effect  of  alendronate  on  the  material  properties  in  these  mice  and  concluded  that  the  observable 
improvement to the oim/oim mouse bone was increased in cancellous bone volume and geometry but 
not  material  properties.  This  study  suggested  that  in  this  mouse  model  of  OI,  the  previously 
demonstrated bisphosphonate associated reduction in fractures was primarily attributable to increased 
metaphyseal bone mass and not changes in material properties (Misof, et al 2005).  
The most recent publication related to alendronate and OI in mice was from Uveges, et al (2009). The 
authors  used  the  Brtl  mouse  model,  which  had  a  glycine  substitution  in  COL1A1  and  was  ideal  for 
modeling the effects of bisphosphonate in classical OI (most closely mimicking the phenotype of type 
IV OI). The study demonstrated that alendronate treatment improved femoral areal BMD and cortical 
volumetric  BMD  without  altering  bone  length  (longitudinal  bone  growth).  Alendronate  improved 
diaphyseal  cortical  thickness  and  trabecular  number,  and  cross-sectional  shape,  resulting  in 
significantly increased load to fracture in femora after 12 weeks. However, predicted material strength 
and  elastic  modulus  were  negatively  impacted  at  12  weeks  presumably  due  to  the  retention  of 
metaphyseal remnants of mineralized cartilage. Femoral brittleness was unimproved by alendronate. 
From  the  MAH’s  point  of  view,  overall  there  is  evidence  in  favor  of  treatment  benefits  (such  as 
reduced number of fractures, and reduced bone deformation) in those pre-clinical models. The results 
from these studies seem to explore the association between bone mass improvement and therapeutic 
benefits  for  OI,  including  reductions  in  fracture  and  bone  deformation.  Although  these  studies  used 
alendronate,  not  zoledronic  acid,  a  similar  effect  is  expected  because  of  the  same  mechanism  of 
alendronate and zoledronic acid. Novartis is not planning any further pre-clinical studies in OI. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP noted that no pre-clinical proof-of-concept studies have been conducted with zoledronic 
acid.  However,  published  scientific  data  indicate  that  bisphosphonates  may  be  beneficial  for  the 
treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta due to their effects on bone remodelling. The in vivo assessment 
of bone architecture and strength are known to be important for the initial efficacy assessment in other 
products used in somewhat related indications (e.g. treatment of primary osteoporosis). Nevertheless, 
the clinical efficacy of zoledronic acid in treatment of osteogenesis imperfecta has been compared to 
pamidronate,  the  most  common  standard  of  care.  Furthermore,  Zometa  has  been  used  in  adults  for 
several  years.  Thus,  the  CHMP  considered  that  further  non-clinical  pharmacology  studies  are  not 
warranted  as  the  efficacy  of  zoledronic  acid  in  non-clinical  disease  models  would  not  significantly 
affect the risk-benefit balance. 
1.2.2  Toxicology 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
The MAH has provided a phase I environmental risk assessment for the proposed new indication. The 
predicted  environmental  concentration  (PEC)  was  calculated  by  the  MAH  based  on  the  formula 
proposed in guideline EMEA/CHMP/4447/00. The MAH used a refined Fpen. For the refinement of 
the  Fpen  the  MAH  calculated  consumption  data  for  the  active  substance  based  on  4  treatments/ 
patient/ year and the prevalence of the disease (number of patients in Europe).  
The  outcome  of  MAH`s  approach  is  a  PEC  below  the  trigger  value  of  10ng/L  for  a  phase  II 
assessment. It should be pointed out that the guideline EMEA/CHMP/4447/00 assumes in phase I that 
one percent of the population is treated with the product on a given day. Therefore an annual dose for 
one  patient  is  not  acceptable  for  PEC  calculation.  An  Fpen  refinement  in  phase  I  would  only  be 
possible  on  published  prevalence  data  for  the  disease/indication.  The  MAH  has  provided  data  on 
number of patients with severe osteogenesis imperfecta.  
Subsequently,  the  MAH  provided  a  full  Phase  II-Tier  A  environmental  risk  assessment  (EAR)  for 
zoledronic  acid.  From  the  MAH’s  point  of  view,  this  ERA  showed  that  there  is  no  concern  for  the 
environmental  compartments  considered  in  this  assessment,  i.e.  sewage  treatment  plants,  surface 
waters, groundwaters, sediments and soils.  
Due to the properties of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, zoledronic acid, analytical verification 
of test substance concentrations has not been possible for all concentrations tested. The available UV 
photometric  detection  at  209  nm  for  zoledronic  acid  enables  the  analysis  of  concentrations  down  to 
1.97  mg/L.  As  effective  concentrations  of  zoledronic  acid  in  Daphnia  magna  and  fish  have  been 
observed in the μg/L range, the development of a more sensitive LC-MS method was tackled.  
The  following  problems  have  been  identified  impeding  the  development  of  a  suitable  analytical 
method for zoledronic acid: 
  The volatility is poor so no GC analysis is possible. 
  The  test  item  is  a  poor  chromophor  and  thus  HPLC-UV  analysis  can  only  be  performed  at 
very high concentrations. 
  The test item is highly polar with acidic and alkaline groups making it difficult to concentrate 
the test item. 
  Zoledronic acid forms complexes with the calcium ions present in test media used for aquatic 
toxicity tests. 
Zoledronic acid belongs to the class of bisphosphonates, which is specifically mentioned in the OECD 
guidance  document  on  aquatic  toxicity  testing  of  difficult  substances  and  mixtures  (OECD,  2000. 
OECD  Series  on  Testing  and  Assessment  Number  23).  In  Chapter  3.7  on  ‘Complexing  substances’, 
the authors of this document come to the conclusion that ‘Analysis methods for quantifying exposure 
concentrations,  which  are  capable  of  distinguishing  between  the  complexed  and  non-complexed 
fraction of a test substance, may not always be available or economic. Where this is the case approval 
should  be  sought  from  the  regulatory  authority  for  expressing  the  test  results  in  terms  of  nominal 
concentrations.’  Following  these  recommendations,  the  environmental  toxicity  and  fate  testing  has 
been conducted to the extent possible with zoledronic acid. The effective concentrations in the aquatic 
toxicity  tests  have  been  expressed  as  nominal  concentrations  calculated  from  the  higher  test 
4 
 
 
concentrations,  which  could  be  verified  with  the  previously  implemented  UV  spectrophotometric 
method. 
Zoledronic  acid  contains  5  acidic  groups  and  1  basic  group  (imidazole  ring)  and  is  not  present  as  a 
neutral substance over a wide pH range, including environmentally relevant pHs (see Figure 4-1).  
Based  on  the  properties  of  zoledronic  acid  as  an  ionisable  substance,  a  significant  potential  to 
accumulate  in  aquatic  organisms  is  therefore  highly  unlikely  in  the  MAH’s  opinion.  Moreover,  an 
experimental  determination  of  an  octanol-water  partition  coefficient  will  also  be  impeded  by  the 
properties of zoledronic acid described above, hindering the development of a suitable HPLC method 
for the analytical determination of partitioned substance in water and octanol. 
Therefore,  the  experimental  determination  of  an  octanol-water  partition  coefficient  is  neither 
technically feasible nor indicated based on the known physico-chemical properties of zoledronic acid. 
As the predicted environmental concentration (PEC) is 0.02 µg/L, which exceeds the trigger value of 
0.01 µg/L a Phase II – Tier A ERA assessment was needed. The Phase II – Tier A environmental risk 
assessment  indicated  no  concern  for  surface  water,  ground  water  and  microorganisms  in  sewage 
treatment plants.  
With  reference  to  the  determination  of  transformation  half-life  in  sediments  and  total  systems  the 
OECD 308 demonstrated significant shifting of Zoledronic acid and its transformation products to the 
sediment (>90% as well as bound residues and free substance in total). The CHMP requested a test on 
lumbriculus  (OECD  225to  be  undertaken.  The  MAH  agreed  to  conduct  this  test  as  a  Follow-Up 
Measure. 
1.3  Clinical aspects 
The clinical development program to support the treatment of children with severe OI comprised two 
studies.  The  core  randomized,  active-controlled  open-label  Study  H2202  was  conducted  to 
demonstrate  both  the  efficacy  and  the  safety  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the  target  population  over 
12 months. The open-label extension Study H2202E1 provides an additional 12 months of treatment 
data  with  zoledronic  acid  in  the  patient  population  who  completed  the  controlled  study  H2202 
regardless of the treatment received in the original core study. 
GCP compliance 
According  to  the  MAH  all  studies  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  the  ethical  requirements  of 
Directive 2001/20/EC and with the ICH E6 guideline on Good Clinical Practice and the principles set 
forth in the Declaration of Helsinki. 
5 
 
 
 
All studies were closely monitored by Novartis personnel or a contract organization for compliance to 
the protocol and the procedures described in it. 
No new pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic studies were performed for this submission. 
1.3.1  Clinical Efficacy 
1.3.1.1  Main study H2202 
Study  H2202  was  an  international,  multicenter,  randomized,  open-label,  parallel  efficacy  and  safety 
trial  of  intravenous  Zoledronic  acid  compared  to  intravenous  pamidronate  in  children  with  severe 
osteogenesis imperfecta (OI). 
Methods 
Study Participants  
Approximately 132 children 1 to 17 years of age with severe OI were to be randomized (66 patients 
per treatment group) in order to obtain 120 evaluable patients for the primary efficacy variable. The 
main inclusion criteria were: 
-  Children, male or female, between 1 and 17 years of age, all inclusive.  
-  Any child with phenotypic OI type III or IV.  
-  Any  child  with  phenotypic  OI  type  I  who  had≥3  minimal  trauma  fractures  (including  vertebral 
fractures) in the previous 2 years or with a history of limb deformity requiring surgery. 
The  washout  period  for  other  metabolic  bone  therapies,  in  particular  for  bisphosphonates,  prior  to 
study drug administration at visit 2 was: 
 
 
 
If used for >12 months, the washout period was 12 months. 
If used for 4 - ≤12 months, the washout period was 6 months. 
If used for ≤3 months, there was no washout period. 
A “use” could be daily or weekly oral bisphosphonate or every 3 months intravenous injections, where 
one  dose  by  i.v.  injection  =  3  months’  use  if  the  patient  received  the  complete  dose  over  the  3  day 
period  (e.g.  pamidronate  3  mg/kg  was  given  as  1  mg/kg/day  over  3  consecutive  days  as  4  hour  i.v. 
infusions;  therefore,  the  total  dose  of  three  infusions  over  3  days  was  considered  equivalent  to 
3 months’ use). 
All patients must have completed 2 weeks of treatment with an appropriate dose of vitamin D daily 
and  elemental  calcium  (or  equivalent  described  in  the  protocol)  daily  (prestudy  and/or  within  the 
screening period) prior to the first administration of zoledronic acid or pamidronate. 
Treatments 
Patients were randomized to either zoledronic acid or pamidronate in a 1:1 ratio. 
Zometa dose selection for the core study was based on several sources available at the time of protocol 
development:  adults  with  benign  disease  safely  received  up  to  5  mg  i.v.  infusion  over  15  minutes. 
Compared  to  pamidronate,  Zometa  4  mg  was  more  efficacious  than  90  mg  pamidronate  in  patients 
with  TIH  or  metastatic  cancers  to  the  bone.  These  approved  doses  of  zoledronic  acid  (4  mg)  and 
pamidronate (90 mg) in adults for oncology indications are equal to an approximate dose of zoledronic 
acid of 0.07 mg/kg or pamidronate 1.5 mg/kg for a 60 kg adult. In a long-term paediatric pamidronate 
OI study, pamidronate 1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg was tested and the dose range was safe and efficacious. Age-
specific dose range of zoledronic acid being administrated as an i.v. infusion in this paediatric trial is 
comparable  to  that  of  pamidronate.  Therefore,  the  higher  zoledronic  acid  dose  selected  in  children 
3 years of age or older, 0.05 mg/kg, was expected to provide similar safety and efficacy (demonstrated 
with BMD measurements) compared to that previously reported for pamidronate in OI patients. The 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
maximum allowable zoledronic acid dose of 4 mg (regardless of patient weight), does not exceed the 
4 mg single dose that has been used in adults. 
A  dose  of  zoledronic  acid  equivalent  to  that  administered  to  adults  with  other  metabolic  bone 
conditions is approximately 0.05 mg/kg (maximum of 4.0 mg). This is the zoledronic acid dose range 
comparable to pamidronate 90 mg which has been studied in patients with OI. 
The doses of zoledronic acid to be administered as an i.v. infusion at a peripheral site, based on age 
and body weight are presented below. 
´ 
Body weight was measured at each dose administration visit, for calculation of the dose. Patients aged 
3 to 17 years were to receive 0.05 mg/kg of zoledronic acid up to a maximum of 4 mg. Patients aged 1 
to <3 years were to receive a lower zoledronic acid dose of 0.025 mg/kg up to a maximum of 2 mg, 
until  they  reached  their  third  birthday.  If  a  2  year  old  patient  had  a  birthday  during  the  study,  the 
zoledronic  acid  dose  was  to  be  increased  from  0.025  to  0.05  mg/kg  at  the  next  scheduled  dose 
administration  visit.  To  enable  accurate  dosing  in  the  children  aged  <3  years,  zoledronic  acid  was 
provided in 5 mg/100 mL vials. 
The doses of pamidronate to be administered as an i.v. infusion at a peripheral site, based on age and 
body weight, are presented below. 
Body  weight  was  measured  at  each  dose  administration  visit,  for  calculation  of  the  dose.  The 
pamidronate dose was not to exceed 60 mg per day for any patient (total of 180 mg over 3 days). The 
volume  of  the  infusion  was  the  same  on  each  successive  day  except  on  the  first  day  of  the  first 
infusion cycle for pamidronate (day 1 of visit 2), when only half of the patient’s calculated daily dose 
was  infused  to  mitigate  initial  post-dose  symptoms.  Pamidronate  patients  followed  the  same  dosing 
schedule assigned to them at randomization throughout the study, regardless of age increases. 
Objectives 
The primary objective was to assess the percentage change in lumbar spine BMD at month 12 relative 
to  baseline  in  zoledronic  acid-treated  paediatric  patients  with  severe  OI  compared  to  pamidronate-
treated  paediatric  patients  who  were  ≥1  year  to  ≤17  years  of  age.  The  efficacy  of  zoledronic  acid 
would  be  considered  demonstrated,  if  it  was  shown  to  be  noninferior  to  pamidronate  (i.e.  the 
percentage change from baseline in bone mineral density after 12 months is less than 13% inferior to 
pamidronate). 
The secondary objectives were: 
-  To assess the change in Z-score of the lumbar spine at month 12 relative to baseline in zoledronic 
acid-treated  patients  with  severe  osteogenesis  imperfecta  compared  to  pamidronate  in  children 
≥1 year to ≤17 years of age. 
7 
 
 
 
 
  
 
-  To assess the effect of zoledronic acid on the change in femoral neck bone mineral content (BMC) 
after 6 and 12 months of treatment relative to baseline compared to pamidronate in children ≥1 year 
to ≤17 years of age. 
-  To  assess  the  effect  of  zoledronic  acid  on  the  number  of  clinical  fractures  that  occurred  over  a 
1-year period compared to pamidronate in children ≥1 year to ≤17 years of age. 
-  To  assess  the  effect  of  zoledronic  acid  on  the  change  in  bone  resorption  and  bone  formation 
markers  after  6  and  12  months  of  treatment  relative  to  baseline  compared  to  pamidronate  by 
measuring  the  following  bone  markers  in  serum:  bone  specific  alkaline  phosphatase  (BSAP) 
(formation), N-terminal propeptide of type I collagen (P1NP) (formation), and C-telopeptide (CTx) 
(resorption) in children ≥3 years to ≤17 years of age. 
-  To  assess  the  effect  of  zoledronic  acid  on  the  change  in  supine  length  (or  height)  after  6  and 
12 months  of  treatment  relative  to  baseline  compared  to  pamidronate  in  children  ≥1  year  to 
≤17 years of age. 
-  To assess the effect of zoledronic acid on the change in bone pain, using the Wong-Baker FACES 
pain rating scale, relative to baseline compared to pamidronate in children ≥1 year to ≤17 years of 
age. 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  was  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  at  month  12  relative  to 
baseline. Secondary efficacy variables were the following:  
-  Change from baseline in lumbar spine Z-score at month 12: applies only to patients aged ≥3 years 
imaged on the Hologic equipment and patients aged ≥5 years imaged on the Lunar equipment for 
whom there are validated normative ranges 
-  Change from baseline in femoral neck BMC at month 6 and 12 
-  Number of clinical fractures over a year (frequency and time to first fracture) 
Sample size 
The  primary  objective  of  this  trial  was  to  demonstrate  that  zoledronic  acid  (0.025  mg/kg  or 
0.05 mg/kg, dependent upon age) is not inferior to pamidronate (1.5 mg/kg, 2.25 mg/kg or 3.0 mg/kg – 
total dose over three days, dependent upon age) in children with severe osteogenesis imperfecta, with 
respect to the percentage change in lumbar spine bone mineral density (LS BMD) at month 12 relative 
to  baseline.  A  previous  study  suggests  that  the  annualized  percentage  change  in  LS  BMD  after 
treatment is as much as 42% (SD 29%). 
μP and μZ were defined as the population means of annualized percentage change in LS BMD for the 
pamidronate and zoledronic acid patients, respectively, and Δ=μZ - μP the treatment difference. The 
null hypothesis that zoledronic acid is more than 13% inferior to pamidronate (H0 : Δ ≤ -13%) was 
tested,  or  was  rejected  in  favor  of  the  alternative  hypothesis  that  zoledronic  acid  is  less  than  13% 
inferior to pamidronate (HA : Δ > -13%). In testing this hypothesis, it was assumed that the standard 
deviations  for  two  treatments  were  the  same  under  H0  and  HA  and  that  zoledronic  acid  had 
approximately  a  2%  advantage  with  respect  to  the  annualized  percentage  change  in  LS  BMD  under 
HA  relative  to  pamidronate.  Therefore,  given  a  two-sample  t-test  with  80%  power  and  a  one-sided 
level of significance of 0.025 to detect a non-inferiority margin of 13%, approximately 60 evaluable 
patients per treatment group were necessary. Assuming a 5% adjustment for dropouts and missing data 
for  LS  BMD,  the  total  sample  size  required  in  the  study  was  approximately  132  patients  (66  per 
group). 
Statistical methods 
The 2-sided 95% CI, based on t-distribution, for the difference of percentage change from baseline in 
LS  BMD  between  the  two  treatment  groups  was  calculated.  The  noninferiority  and  superiority  of 
zoledronic acid relative to pamidronate were assessed by comparing the lower bound of the 95% CI to 
a pre-defined non-inferiority margin (-13%) in the ITT, per-protocol and completers populations. 
An  analysis  of  covariance  (ANCOVA)  model  with  baseline  value  as  a  covariate,  treatment,  region, 
gender  and  puberty  stage  as  factors  was  fitted  for  all  efficacy  variables  except  fracture  and  Wong-
Baker FACES score. Cox’s proportional hazard model and Kaplan-Meier estimate with log-rank test 
8 
 
 
 
were used to compare the risk of fracture, and the t-test was used to compare the number of fractures 
per patient during treatment between the two treatment groups. Descriptive statistics was provided to 
summarize the Wong-Baker FACES pain scores. 
In the ANCOVA model applied to changes in biomarkers, a loge transformation of the ratio of the on 
treatment  value  at  a  visit  relative  to  baseline  value  (relative  change)  was  used  in  the  analysis  to 
approximate  normality.  A  non-parametric  ANCOVA  model  based  on  rank  scores  was  used  as  a 
confirmatory analysis for the percentage change from baseline in LS BMD at month 6 and 12 when 
the assumption of normality was not valid. 
All hypothesis tests were evaluated at a 0.05 level of significance, and no adjustments for multiplicity 
were  performed  for  any  of  secondary  variables.  No  interim  analysis  was  performed  for  any  of  the 
efficacy variables. 
Results 
Participant flow  
A  total  of  155  patients  were  randomized  out  of  the  205  patients  screened.  A  screening  log  was 
maintained  at  each  center  but  records  of  screen  failures  were  not  entered  in  the  clinical  database. 
Therefore frequency and reasons for screen failures were not summarized in the report. Patients were 
randomized  at  20  centers  in  9  countries  (Belgium,  Canada,  France,  South  Africa,  Hungary,  Poland, 
Finland: 1 center each, Great Britain: 3 centers,  USA: 10 centers). The first patient was enrolled on 
26 June 2003 (first patient screened) and the last patient completed on 09 May 2007. 
~ 
xr81i 
The majority of patients in both groups completed the study. Reasons for discontinuation were similar 
in each group, namely withdrawal of consent, AE or lost to follow up at comparable frequencies. Only 
2 patients in each group discontinued because of AEs. 
The proportions of patients with major protocol deviations were similar in the two treatment groups.  
Lack of valid baseline or month 12 lumbar spine BMD assessments were the most frequent cause of 
major PDs. 
All  patients  received  randomized  study  medication,  as  assigned,  except  one  pamidronate  treated 
patient  (GBR/0403/00007)  who  received  hospital  supply  of  drug  for  the  first  infusion  due  to  issues 
9 
 
 
 
 
with delivery of study drug. Three randomized patients (1 zoledronic acid, 2 pamidronate) were not 
administered any study drug and were excluded from all analyses. 
Baseline data 
The  characteristics  matched  the  intended  target,  paediatric  population  including  children  aged  1  to 
17 years: 51% were between 9 and 17 years of age, 41% were aged 3 to 8 years, 7% were 2 years old 
and one child in each group was just 1 year old. Most children were Caucasian (84%) and there was a 
slightly higher proportion of boys versus girls particularly in the pamidronate group (zoledronic acid 
boys  vs.  girls:  51%  vs.  49%,  pamidronate  boys  vs.  girls:  59%  vs.  41%).  Otherwise  the  two  groups 
were comparable. 
Children with OI type I accounted for 49% of the study subjects overall. Some imbalance was noted in 
terms of the distribution across the 3 OI types, in that a higher proportion of pamidronate patients had 
OI type IV (zoledronic acid 24%, pamidronate 34%). 
Almost  all  the  children  (97%)  had  a  history  of  fracture,  approximately  45%  had  undergone  surgical 
correction of deformities, 50% of zoledronic acid patients and 43.4% of pamidronate patients used a 
mobility aid at baseline, and 27% and 25% respectively were using a wheelchair. 
Mean and median number of fractures per patient in the last 12 months prior to this study (mean 3.0 
vs. 2.3) and in the children’s lifetimes (mean 18.9 vs. 16.5) were slightly higher in the zoledronic acid 
group  versus  pamidronate.  A  similar  proportion  of  children  in  each  group  had  suffered  at  least  one 
fracture in the 12 months before this study (zoledronic acid 77%, pamidronate 79%). 
There  were  no  notable  differences  between  the  two  treatment  groups  with  respect  to  baseline 
characteristics, except for serum calcium with a higher baseline mean value in the pamidronate group 
(p=0.0024). 
10 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
155 patients were randomized (zoledronic acid 75, pamidronate 80). The efficacy analysis comprised 
150  patients in  the  ITT  population  (zoledronic  acid  74,pamidronate  76);  152 patients  were  analyzed 
for  safety  (zoledronic  acid  74,  pamidronate  78)  and  11  patients  were  analyzed  for  PK  of  zoledronic 
acid (4 aged 3-8 years, 7 aged 9-17 years). 
Outcomes and estimation 
11 
 
 
 
 
The  primary  analysis  of  the  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  (LS)  BMD  at  month  12  relative  to 
baseline in the ITT (LOCF) population demonstrated that the estimated effects on BMD were similar 
between zoledronic acid and pamidronate with an 8.06% greater increase in LS BMD and lower limit 
of the 95% confidence interval of 0.42%. This result was confirmed by analyses in the per-protocol 
and completers population and by a non-parametric ANCOVA model in the ITT (LOCF) population. 
Primary efficacy results: percent change from baseline in LS BMD at month 12 
Mean percentage change from baseline in lumbar spine BMD by treatment (ITT LOCF) 
Secondary efficacy results 
Analyses of LS Z-score at 6 and 12 months in femoral neck and total body BMC also demonstrated 
similarity between zoledronic acid and pamidronate. 
12 
 
 
 
 
Change  from  baseline  in  lumbar  spine  BMD,  femoral  neck  and  total  body  BMC,  and  lumbar 
spine Z-score by visit: treatment comparisons (ITT LOCF) 
Subgroup analysis of LS BMD by OI type subgroups 
BMD  change  from  baseline  was  greater  in  OI  type  III  or  IV  patients  than  in  OI  type  I  patients  at 
Months. It seems that increase in LS BMD was higher with zoledronic acid than pamidronate in both 
subgroups although p values are not provided. 
Serum biomarkers of bone turnover 
Serum  biomarkers  of  bone  turnover  were  measured  in  patients  aged  ≥3  years  from  fasting  blood 
samples. 
For  all  three  biomarkers  of  bone  turnover,  zoledronic  acid  had  a  greater  effect  than  pamidronate  on 
reducing resorption and formation from baseline. The relative change from baseline was statistically 
significantly greater at month 6 and month 12 for zoledronic acid compared to pamidronate. 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical fractures 
Incidence and time to first clinical fracture after first infusion, overall and by OI type (ITT) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of clinical fractures per patient within and between treatment, overall and by OI type 
(completers population) 
Fewer patients had clinical fractures in the 12 months of the study compared with the 12 months prior 
to randomization, with decreases in the proportions of patients with fractures from 77% to 43% in the 
zoledronic acid group and 79% to 41% in the pamidronate group (ITT population).  
Overall, the incidence of fracture during treatment with zoledronic acid (43.2%) versus pamidronate 
(40.8%) was similar (p=0.8687, hazard ratio 1.05, 95% CI 0.64 - 1.72) and the Kaplan-Meier estimates 
of time to clinical fracture were comparable. 
However, rates of clinical fracture by OI type subgroup, I / III or IV, showed a higher incidence with 
zoledronic acid relative to pamidronate in the OI type I patients (zoledronic acid 50.0%, pamidronate 
28.6%, hazard ratio 2.12, 95% CI 0.96 - 4.69) and a lower incidence relative to pamidronate in the OI 
type  III  or  IV  patients  (zoledronic  acid  36.1%,  pamidronate  51.2%,  hazard  ratio  0.59,  95% 
CI 0.29 - 1.19). 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
Within  treatment  groups,  the  overall  mean  reductions  of  1.96  fractures/patient/year  with  zoledronic 
acid treatment and 1.55 fractures/patient/year with pamidronate treatment were statistically significant 
(p<0.0001 in both groups). Similarly, reductions in fracture rates were observed in each of the OI type 
subgroups. The highest mean reductions in fractures/patient/year were seen in the OI type I subgroup 
(reductions: zoledronic acid 2.21 fractures/patient/year p<0.0001, pamidronate 2.23 p<0.0001), while 
those  in  the  OI  type  III  or  IV  subgroups  were  lower  (reductions:  zoledronic  acid  1.71  p<0.05, 
pamidronate 0.97 p<0.05). 
The  comparison  of  treatments  regarding  fracture  rates  showed  no  statistically  significant  differences 
between zoledronic acid and pamidronate. 
Bone pain 
Summaries of bone pain scores using Wong-Baker FACES, for all patients and by OI type subgroups, 
did not show any marked, consistent differences between zoledronic acid and pamidronate treatments 
at any time during the study versus the baseline pain assessment. 
At baseline and post-baseline assessments the majority of patients or their legal guardian reported “no 
hurt” or “hurts little bit”. Some imbalance at baseline was observed in the OI type I subgroup where 
30 (79%) of patients in the zoledronic acid group compared to 21 (60%) of patients in the pamidronate 
group reported “no hurt”. With high proportions of patients having none or very little pain at baseline, 
improvements in pain status post-baseline relative to baseline were difficult to detect. 
1.3.1.2  Study H2202E1 
This  was  a  one-year,  international,  multicenter,  randomized,  open-label,  parallel-group,  safety  and 
efficacy study extending treatment to paediatric patients with severe OI who completed the first year 
of  treatment  in  core  Study  H2202,  stratifying  extension  zoledronic  acid  regimens  (once  or  twice 
yearly)  by  core  treatment  (zoledronic  acid  or  pamidronate).  The  first  visit  of  the  extension  study 
coincided with the final visit of study H2202. 
The once yearly treatment group had 1 dosing visit (extension visit 1 at month 12 relative to the core 
baseline) when patients received a zoledronic acid infusion (0.025 mg/kg in children 1 to < 3 years of 
age and 0.05 mg/kg in children 3 to 17 years of age). 
The  twice  yearly  treatment  group  had  two  dosing  visits  (extension  visit  1  and  extension  visit  4  at 
month 18 relative to the core baseline). 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
The  study  was  conducted  according  to  Good  Clinical  Practice,  randomizing  103  patients  into 
zoledronic acid once a year or twice a year treatment group. With previous treatment assignment in the 
core  study,  the  treatment  assignment  over  the  2-year  core-extension  are  displayed  as  the  following 
4 study groups: 25 zol-zol 1x/yr, 27 zol-zol 2x/yr, 24 pam-zol 1x/yr, 27 pam-zol 2x/yr. 
The  primary  objective  of  Study  H2202E1  was  to  examine  the  long-term  general  and  renal  safety  of 
once  yearly  or  twice  yearly  zoledronic  acid  over  a  12  month  extension  treatment  period  in  patients 
aged who had completed one year of treatment with either zoledronic acid or pamidronate in the core 
study. Continued efficacy of zoledronic acid was a secondary objective of the extension study. 
Baseline demographics 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Baseline disease characteristics 
The  population  and  baseline  characteristics  of  patients  in  the  open-label  extension  were  similar  to 
those of the initial study. Mean LS BMD, LS Z-score and total body BMC were lowest at baseline for 
patients  who  were  in  the  extension  zoledronic  acid  once-yearly  group  of  the  core  zoledronic  acid 
stratum (zol-zol 1x/yr) and highest in the pam-zol 1x/yr group.  
Patients were grouped by core treatment stratum (zoledronic acid or pamidronate) and extension study 
zoledronic acid regimen (1x/yr or 2x/yr). The majority of patients in each treatment group completed 
the extension study. Seven patients discontinued for administrative problems, namely the termination 
of the study as per the recommendation of the Data Safety Monitoring Board. They were brought in 
for their final visit earlier than intended and therefore did not complete the study as originally planned. 
All 7 of these patients received the first study drug infusion and one patient in the zol-zol 2x/yr group 
18 
 
 
 
 
also had the second infusion at 6 months. Two of these 7 patients completed 3 months, one 4 months, 
two 6 months and two 9 months of the planned 12 month extension study period. 
The extension study was terminated early at the recommendation of the DSMB who in their review of 
unblinded  interim  safety  and  efficacy  data  had  observed  an  “excess  fracture  risk”  that  “had  not 
changed from the core” study (see discussion in safety section below). The changes in study conduct 
necessary to terminate the extension study were communicated to the investigators.  
Patient disposition 
Baseline demographic and disease characteristics in the open-label extension were similar to those of 
the initial study and the completion rates were acceptable. 
Results 
Long term efficacy outcome 
A summary of clinical fractures by core treatment stratum is presented in the table below. 
As  noted  assessment  of  continued  efficacy  and  disease  control  over  an  additional  12  months  in 
paediatric  patients  with  severe  OI  who  completed  the  core  study  was  a  secondary  objective  in 
extension. 
Median percentage increases in LS BMD from core baseline to month 24 (LOCF) were 56.7%, 50.7%, 
43.4% and 44.3% in the zol-zol 1x/yr (n=22), zol-zol 2x/yr (n=21), pam-zol 1x/yr (n=22) and pam-zol 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2x/yr (n=22) groups, respectively. There is no apparent efficacy advantage in LS BMD of the twice a 
year zoledronic acid regimen over the once yearly regimen. 
Sustained  decreases  in  median  values  of  serum  biomarkers  of  bone  resorption  β-CTx  and  bone 
formation P1NP and BSAP were observed in all treatment groups over 24 months, however, both bone 
resorption and formation remained active at month 24. 
The  majority  of  patients  reported  “no  hurt”  in  the  Wong-Baker  FACES  pain  scores  throughout  the 
24 month treatment period with no clinically relevant changes in the distribution of scores within or 
between treatment groups.  
The proportion of patients who had clinical fractures in the 24 months of treatment was higher in the 
core  pamidronate  stratum  (34/51  patients,  66.7%)  compared  to  the  core  zoledronic  acid  stratum 
(29/52 patients,  55.8%).  All  treatment  regimens  reduced  the  proportion  of  patients  with  clinical 
fractures during the extension phase compared to the 12 months before the study when 41/51 (80.4%) 
and  41/52  (78.8%)  patients  reported  fractures  in  the  pamidronate  and  zoledronic  acid  strata, 
respectively.  
Over the combined 24 months of treatment, patients who sustained a clinical fracture in the zoledronic 
acid  stratum  had  a  higher  mean  (3.3)  and  median  (2.0)  number  of  clinical  fractures  per  patient 
compared  to  those  in  the  pamidronate  stratum  (mean  2.1,  median  1.0).  However,  due  to  the  small 
sample sizes these analyses should be interpreted with caution.  
1.3.1.3  Overall conclusion on clinical efficacy 
The clinical development program to support the treatment of children with severe OI comprised two 
studies.  The  core  randomized,  active-controlled  open-label  Study  H2202  was  conducted  to 
demonstrate  both  the  efficacy  and  the  safety  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the  target  population  over 
12 months. The open-label extension Study H2202E1 provides an additional 12 months of treatment 
data  with  zoledronic  acid  in  the  patient  population  who  completed  the  controlled  study  H2202 
regardless of the treatment received in the original core study.  
Zometa dose selection was based on several sources: adults with benign disease safely received up to 
5 mg  i.v.  infusion  over  15  minutes.  Compared  to  pamidronate,  Zometa  4  mg  was  more  efficacious 
than  90  mg  pamidronate  in  patients  with  TIH  or  metastatic  cancers  to  the  bone.  Doses  in  adults  for 
oncology  indications  are  equal  to  an  approximate  dose  of  zoledronic  acid  of  0.07  mg/kg  or 
pamidronate 1.5 mg/kg for a 60 kg adult. In a long-term paediatric pamidronate OI study, pamidronate 
1.5 or 3.0 mg/kg was tested and the dose range was safe and efficacious. Age-specific dose range of 
zoledronic acid being administrated as an i.v. infusion in this paediatric trial is comparable to that of 
pamidronate.  The  maximum  allowable  zoledronic  acid  dose  of  4  mg  (regardless  of  patient  weight), 
does  not  exceed  the  4  mg  single  dose  that  has  been  used  in  adults.  A  dose  of  zoledronic  acid 
equivalent  to  that  administered  to  adults  with  other  metabolic  bone  conditions  is  approximately 
0.05 mg/kg (maximum of 4.0 mg). This is the zoledronic acid dose range comparable to pamidronate 
90 mg which has been studied in patients with OI. 
to 
the  Sillence  classification 
Notwithstanding  the  more  recently  identified  subtypes  of  OI  (type  VII  and  VIII),  where  a  recessive 
inheritance  was  found  and  mutations  of  additional  genes  involved  in  the  cellular  machinery 
responsible  for  synthesis  and  output  of  type  I  collagen  were  noticed,  it  is  held  that  OI  diagnosed 
according 
is  a  heterogeneous  condition,  both  clinically  and 
pathogenetically.  Silence  types  III  and  IV  are  deforming  variants  that  are  associated  with  variable 
severity  of  growth  retardation  and  limb  deformity.  The  phenotype  is  a  consequence  of  a  genetic 
mutation  affecting  the  structure  of  the  type  1  collagen  molecule.  The  qualitative  defects  of  the 
extracellular  matrix  account  for  distinctly  low  mineral  bone  mass  at  an  early  age,  impaired  bone 
growth  and  severe  deformities.  In  contrast,  a  number  of  cases  of  less  deforming  or  even  non-
deforming  OI  type  I  are  the  result  of  mutations  affecting  the  production  and/or  the  output  from 
osteoblasts of otherwise normal type 1 collagen. Bone cell biology, bone mineral content, frequency 
and location of fractures, and the response to antiresorptive medication in the paediatric age from 1 to 
17 years, are conceivably different among OI types.  
Clinical consequences of the differences involve the phenotype, which is usually milder in type I than 
in  the  two  other  types  and,  on  the  other  hand,  is  usually  most  severe  in  type  III.  The  majority  of 
20 
 
 
individuals  affected  with  this  type  do  not  walk  without  assistance,  and  a  number  of  them  use  a 
wheelchair because of marked bone fragility and deformities. It is reasonable to think that also bone 
resorption and bone turnover rate be different among types, the excess being more apparent in cases of 
recognized  structural  abnormalities  of  the  collagen  triple  helix.  Accordingly,  the  response  to 
antiresorptive bisphosphonates, when studied as changes of BMD from baseline is conceivably greater 
in such cases, as indeed was noticed in the MAH’s studies (post-hoc analyses). 
Children with type I accounted for half of the study subjects overall. Moreover, the pamidronate arm 
had  a  higher  percentage  of  cases  with  the  more  severe  types.  A  number  of  cases  had  received 
metabolic bone therapies prior to study. Due to long-term skeletal accumulation of bisphosphonates, 
the chosen washout periods were questionable. Dietary calcium, parathyroid hormone (PTH) and sex 
hormone levels were not systematically assessed. 25-OH Vitamin D was measured at screening before 
study H2202 after supplementation if necessary (distribution of patients in classes of hypovitaminosis 
is  not  provided).  Measurements  of  levels  of  25-OHD  were  made  for  safety  purposes  (and  not 
efficacy),  as  a  precaution  to  minimize  the  risk  of  developing  clinically  apparent  hypocalcemia  upon 
first administration of study drug. Briefly, heterogeneity of the study population for pathogenesis and 
endocrine  signals  to  bone  at  the  time  of  starting  therapy  was  inadequately  addressed;  as  a 
consequence, overall interpretation of results – either efficacy or safety – has important limitations.  
Official  positions  of  qualified  scientific  societies  state  that  in  children  fracture  prediction  should 
primarily  take  into  account  fracture  of  long  bones  in  the  lower  extremities,  together  with  vertebral 
compression  fractures,  or  two  or  more  long-bone  fractures  of  the  upper  extremities.  DXA 
measurements  should  be  part  of  a  comprehensive  skeletal  health  assessment,  and  therapeutic 
interventions  should  not  be  based  on  a  single  DXA  measurement.  Pertinently,  DXA  measures  an 
“areal”  bone density  (BMC/projection area).  The  areal  BMD  (g/cm2)  is  particularly  deceptive  when 
measured in growing patients. The influence of body (and bone) size must always be considered, not 
only for the initial assessment but also in the follow-up of growing patients; otherwise, for example, a 
subject  might  appear  to  have  an  increased  BMD  while  this  could be  an  artefact  due  to  an  increased 
bone  size.  Correction  methods  are  used  to  attenuate  difficulties  in  BMD  assessment  when  children 
with osteoporosis are studied longitudinally. 
Although the PDCO recommended a randomization of patients among the different subtypes of OI, to 
allow proper assessment of the benefit/risk per subtype of OI, randomisation was carried out by sites 
and  not  by  OI  type.  The  MAH  has  provided  a  posthoc  analysis  on  efficacy  among  the  different 
subtypes of OI. However, this did not provide additional, convincing information on the benefit/risk 
for  subtype  of  OI.  The  chosen  criteria  for  clinically  assessing  the  efficacy  “within-treatment”  and 
“after-treatment” are based mostly on BMD changes and are therefore questionable. 
The  primary  efficacy  variable  in  study  H2202  was  percentage  change  in  lumbar  spine  BMD  at 
month 12  relative  to  baseline  and  secondary  endpoints  were  change  from  baseline  in  lumbar  spine 
Z-score at month 12, change from baseline in femoral neck BMC at month 6 and 12 and number of 
clinical fractures over a year. A total of 155 patients were randomized out of the 205 patients screened. 
Discontinuation rates and major protocol deviations were similar in the two groups. At baseline some 
imbalances were noted with respect to gender, the 3 OI subtypes and number of fractures between the 
two treatment groups. The study showed that estimated effects on the primary endpoint were similar 
between  zoledronic  acid  and  pamidronate  in  terms  of  the  primary  endpoint  of  increase  in  LS-BMD 
after 12 months of treatment. This was also supported regarding sustained reductions in serum markers 
of bone resorption and bone formation. With respect to fractures, the proportion of patients who had 
clinical  fractures  during  the  12  months  of  treatment  was  similar  between  the  zoledronic  acid  and 
pamidronate treatment groups. Similarly no significant differences were observed regarding LS-BMD 
Z-score  at  6  and  12 months  and  femoral  neck  and  total  body  BMC.  No  changes  from  baseline  or 
differences between the two treatments in Wong-Baker FACES pain assessments were detected.  
The  open-label  extension  study  H2202E1,  designed  as  a  safety  study  with  secondary  efficacy 
parameters including small sample sizes, did not demonstrate any antifracture effect of zoledronic acid 
over pamidronate and median LS Z-score and total body BMC. During the extension period sustained 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
decreases in median values of serum biomarkers of bone resorption and bone formation were observed 
in all treatments.  
Although  the  estimated  effects  on  BMD  were  similar,  the  trial  design  was  not  sufficiently  robust  to 
conclusively establish non-inferior efficacy for Zometa. In particular there was no conclusive evidence 
of efficacy on incidence of fracture or on pain. The hallmark of OI is the occurrence of fractures. It is 
not  clear  that  the  key  efficacy  parameter  “improvement  in  BMD  at  12  months  from  baseline” 
translated into clinical benefit for patients with osteogenesis imperfecta in terms of less fractures, less 
disability and less chronic bone pain. The pivotal study H2202 was neither designed nor powered to 
estimate  the  efficacy  of  zoledronic  acid  on  fractures  or  other  clinically  relevant  outcome  measures. 
This lack of a clear relationship between surrogate and clinical efficacy parameter was also reflected 
by a high rate of new fractures after start of the two bisphosphonates.  
Furthermore, the CHMP questioned the choice of comparator. Regarding the use of pamidronate as the 
active control the applicant argued that this selection was an acknowledgement of the product’s ability 
to  alter  the  natural  disease  course,  improve  the  clinical  status  and  quality  of  life  in  children  and  are 
referring  to  two  studies.  The  study  by  Glorieux  1998  showed  that  Cyclical  i.v.  treatment  with 
pamidronate was associated with a marked increase in BMD and physical activity increased markedly 
in these patients and decreased fracture rate. This study was an observational and uncontrolled study.  
In the study by Plotkin children younger than 3 years old pamidronate infusion every 2-4 months over 
a  increased  BMD,  and  decreased  the  rate  of  fracture.  This  was  also  an  observational  study  using  a 
group  of  “historical  controls”.  Despite  the  use  of  bisphosponates  in  clinical  practice  (off-label),  the 
scientific evidence for pamidronate in this indication is quite weak with regards to placebo-controlled 
studies:  
-  the  lack  of  a  placebo-controlled  clinical  study  in  an  indication  without  a  well-established 
pharmacological therapy was not sufficiently justified.  
- in the absence of a well quantified effect of pamidronate versus placebo the choice of non-inferiority 
margin required further justification (see CPMP/EWP/2158/99).  
-  it  has  not  been  established  that  the  study  has  adequate  assay  sensitivity,  so  that  any  important 
differences between active agents could be detected.  
Therefore, the CHMP emphasized the weakness of the study design and considered this to be 
not sufficient in support of the proposed new indication. 
1.3.2  Clinical safety 
Patient Exposure 
All patients in the extension study received at least one infusion of zoledronic acid, and 49/54 patients 
randomized to twice yearly zoledronic acid received two infusions, per protocol. Three patients did not 
receive the second infusion because of the early termination of the study when they were required to 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
discontinue  for  “administrative  problems”  (defined  as  incorrect  early  terminations  of  study  due  to 
administrative  errors).  For  the  other  2  patients  in  the  pam-zol  2x/yr  group  who  did  not  receive  the 
second  infusion,  one  was  lost  to  follow  up  and  the  other  had  only  one  infusion  but  was  reported  to 
have completed the study. 
Another 3 patients were considered to be protocol deviators due to dosing errors or failure to follow 
protocol  procedures  in  the  event  of  additional  infusions:  1  patient  in  the  zol-zol  2x/yr  group  and 
1 patient  in  the  pam-zol  1x/yr  group  had  dosing  errors  when  too  little  zoledronic  acid  was 
administered at the first infusion, however this was corrected within 2 weeks in both cases. One other 
patient in the zol-zol 2x/yr group received 2 additional infusions of zoledronic acid due to increased 
fatigue  secondary  to  severe  OI  but  did  not  discontinue  from  the  extension  study  as  required  per 
protocol. 
Adverse events 
Adverse events by primary system organ class (Study H2202) 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequent adverse events (at least 10% in either group) by preferred term (Study H2202) 
Frequent early vs. later onset adverse events (at least 5% in either group) by preferred term and 
infusion (Study 2202) 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
Frequent adverse events (at least 5% in either group) occurring between infusions by preferred 
term (Study 2202) 
25 
 
26 
 
 
Almost  all  patients  in  both  groups  experienced  at  least  one  AE  during  the  study  (zoledronic  acid 
95.9%,  pamidronate  97.4%).  The  proportion  of  patients  with  AEs  in  the  most  frequently  affected 
primary SOCs were similar between zoledronic acid and pamidronate. More patients in the zoledronic 
acid  treatment  group  experienced  musculoskeletal  and  connective  tissue  disorders  (zoledronic  acid 
66% vs. pamidronate 51%) and GI disorders (zoledronic acid 50% vs. pamidronate 36%) than those 
treated with pamidronate. 
Pyrexia  was  the  most  frequent  early  onset  AE,  affecting  approximately  50%  of  patients  in  both 
treatment groups. Hypocalcemia and vomiting occurred more frequently in the zoledronic acid group 
and with early onset relative to the first infusion in the great majority of cases. No hypocalcemia AEs 
were reported as late onset. 
For  patients  receiving  pamidronate,  the  protocol-specified  procedure  to  infuse  only  half  of  the 
patient’s calculated daily dose on the first day of the first infusion cycle (day 1 of visit 2). This was 
intended to reduce the risk of acute-phase reactions. This infusion procedure was not applicable for the 
first zoledronic acid infusion because it required 30 to 45 minutes infusion to be completed in a single 
dose. Hence early onset adverse events related to acute-phase reactions in the pamidronate group may 
have been fewer than could have been expected without the dose reduction on day 1. 
Over the whole 12 month treatment period, pain in extremity, arthralgia and headache were the most 
frequent AEs and affected similar proportions of patients in both treatment groups. 
Vomiting,  femur  fracture,  hypocalcemia  and  bone  pain  were  10%  or  more  (absolute  proportion) 
among zoledronic acid-treated patients than pamidronate-treated patients. 
Common AEs contributing to the higher rates of musculoskeletal disorders with zoledronic acid versus 
pamidronate  included  bone  pain  and  musculoskeletal  pain,  and  for  GI  disorders  vomiting  and  upper 
abdominal pain. 
Acute-phase reactions were mainly observed after the first infusion and were much less frequent after 
subsequent  infusions  of  either  study  drug.  While  more  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  than 
pamidronate-treated  patients  presented  AEs  after  the  first  infusion,  this  difference  was  much  less 
marked after subsequent infusions. 
27 
 
 
Adverse events by primary system organ class (Study H2202E1) 
28 
 
 
 
Frequent adverse events (at least 5% in either group) by preferred term (Study H2202E1) 
In the extension study, the overall AE incidence was higher in the core zoledronic acid stratum than in 
the  core  pamidronate  stratum  (48  patients,  92.3%  vs.  37  patients,  72.6%).  The  most  noticeable 
difference  was  a  higher  frequency  of  core  zoledronic  acid  patients  with  AEs  in  the  infections  and 
infestations SOC. 
For AEs affecting at least 10% of patients in any group, there were twice as many patients in the core 
zoledronic  acid  stratum  versus  the  core  pamidronate  stratum  who  experienced  muscle  spasms, 
nasopharyngitis, pain in extremity, fatigue, nausea, sinusitis, influenza, musculoskeletal chest pain and 
humerus fracture. Bone pain was the only AE affecting at least 10% of patients in any group and twice 
as many patients in the core pamidronate stratum versus the core zoledronic acid stratum. 
29 
 
 
 
AEs related to acute-phase reactions were the most frequent overall in the core study, as expected on 
first administration of bisphosphonate infusions, and such acute-phase reactions were infrequent in the 
extension. The most frequent AEs overall in the extension were fractures. However, the proportions of 
patients with fractures in core zoledronic acid and pamidronate strata during the extension phase were 
similar to those reported in the core study. 
Frequent suspected drug related adverse events (at least 5% in either group) by preferred term  
The incidence of suspected study drug related AEs reflected the pattern of early onset AEs after the 
first infusion. Pyrexia was the most frequent AE suspected to be study drug related in both groups and 
numerically  higher  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group.  Hypocalcemia,  vomiting  and  fatigue  were  by  far 
more frequent with zoledronic acid than pamidronate. Tachycardia was reported by the investigators 
as  a  suspected  study  drug  related  event  in  5  (6.8%)  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients  and  none  in  the 
pamidronate  group.  However,  6  patients  (8.1%)  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  4  (5.1%) 
pamidronate-treated patients experienced tachycardia, regardless of study drug relationship. 
Tachycardia was the only suspected cardiac disorder occurring in at least 5% of a treatment group in 
this study. 
AEs  suspected  to  be  study  drug-related  by  the  investigator  were  more  frequent  in  the  zol-zol  1x/yr 
group compared with the pam-zol 1x/yr group, 4 (16.0%) patients vs. none, respectively, but there was 
little  difference  between  the  twice  yearly  groups, 3 (11.1%)  patients  vs.  4  (14.8%).  Suspected  study 
drug-related AEs reported by 2 patients over all extension treatments were pyrexia, hypercalcemia and 
pain in extremity; other study drugrelated AEs affected only single patients. 
30 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events and deaths 
No patient died during the core or extension study. 
Serious adverse events by preferred term (Study H2202) 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events suspected to be related to study drug by preferred term (Study H2202) 
Serious adverse events by preferred term (Study H2202E1) 
Serious adverse events suspected to be related to study drug by preferred term (Study H2202E1) 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SAEs were more frequent with zoledronic acid than with pamidronate (32.4% versus 19.2%) mainly 
due to the higher rates of femur fracture, hypocalcemia and pyrexia observed with zoledronic acid. In 
fact in the core study hypocalcemia and pyrexia as suspected as drug related were not observed in the 
pamidronat group at all. 
Hypocalcemia (6 patients) and blood calcium decreased (1 patient), reported as SAEs in 7 zoledronic 
acid-treated patients, occurred in the 3 days after the first zoledronic acid infusion and did not recur 
after subsequent infusions. Four of the 7 zoledronic acid patients reported symptoms of hypocalcemia, 
and 4 required either supplemental calcium or vitamin D. Two of these 7 patients had multiple early 
onset  SAEs:  one  patient  had  cough  with  sternal  pain,  dyspnea,  pyrexia,  chills  and  hypocalcemia, 
whereas  another  patient  had  hypophosphatemia,  hypokalemia  and  hypocalcemia  -  events  consistent 
with the clinical picture of hypocalcemia (Study H2202). 
Two  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  none  on  pamidronate  had  SAEs  leading  to 
discontinuation: one patient had bone pain in the right tibia one patient had a left arm fracture. 
Thirteen zoledronic acid patients had SAEs involving fractures, 5 of whom had more than one fracture 
during the study. One patient sustained multiple fractures of the axial and appendicular skeleton after 
being struck by an automobile, and in another case skull fractures were due to a fall. Both patients had 
type III OI, a history of 100 fractures in their lifetimes and 10 - 20 fractures in the 12 months before 
randomization into this study. Only nine pamidronate patients had fracture SAEs, 4 of whom had more 
than one fracture during the study. 
With  respect  to  the  patients  who  had  fracture  SAEs  relative  to  the  most  recent  study  drug  infusion, 
6 out of 13 patients in the zoledronic acid group had fractures that occurred between the 1st and 2nd 
dose  and  5  of  these  were  femur  fractures.  In  the  pamidronate  group,  2  out  of  9  patients  had  SAE 
fractures between the 1st and 2nd cycles of pamidronate infusions, one femur fracture and the other 
lower limb fracture. 
The  overall  incidence  of  SAEs  in  the  extension  study  was  lower  than  in  the  core  study 
(19/103 patients, 18.4% vs. 39/152 patients, 25.7%). The number and percentage of patients with any 
SAE  in  the  core  zoledronic  acid  stratum  versus  the  core  pamidronate  stratum  were  5  (20.0%)  in 
zol-zol 1x/yr vs. 3 (12.5%) in pam-zol 1x/yr and 6 (22.2%) in zol-zol 2x/yr vs. 5 (18.5%) in pam-zol 
2x/yr.  The  majority  of  SAEs  were  attributed  to  the  injury,  poisoning  and  procedural  complications 
SOC and primarily comprised the preferred terms of femur and tibia fractures. 
33 
 
Fracture AEs 
Fracture AEs by preferred term (Study H2202) 
34 
 
 
 
 
Fracture AEs by OI type and preferred term (Study H2202) 
The total number and proportion of patients who had any fracture reported as an AE during the study 
were comparable with both treatments.  
Whereas the total number of fractures was similar in the treatment groups the frequency of fractures in 
lower extremity long bones were higher among zoledronic acid patients than pamidronate patients and 
contrastingly  in  upper  extremity  fractures  were  observed  with  higher  frequency  among  pamidronate 
patients than zoledronic acid patients.  
Other imbalances by type of fracture were less marked, and, in some cases, the non-specific nature of 
the  reports  and  hence  preferred  terms  make  between-treatment  comparison  by  fracture  type  not 
clinically meaningful. 
35 
 
 
 
Fracture AEs by OI type and preferred term (Study H2202E1) 
The  number  and  percentage  of  patients  with  fracture  AEs  was  similar  in  the  zoledronic  and 
pamidronate  strata,  and  femur  or  tibia  fractures  were  most  frequent.  The  pam-zol  1x/yr  group  had 
fewer  patients  with  fracture  AEs  than  the  pam-zol  2x/yr  group:  9  (37.5%)  patients  vs.  13  (48.1%), 
respectively. Whereas in the zol-zol 1x/yr and 2x/yr groups there was no relevant difference between 
the fracture rates: 11 (44.0%) patients vs. 11 (40.7%). 
In the extension study, the cumulative incidence of total lower extremity long bone fracture (defined 
as femur, tibia, femoral neck or lower limb fracture) was 10 vs. 8 vs. 5 vs. 8 affecting 10 vs. 6 vs. 4 vs. 
7  patients  treated  with  zol-zol  1x/yr  vs.  zol-zol  2x/yr  vs.  pam-zol  1x/yr  vs.  pam-zol  2x/yr  treatment 
group, respectively (some  patients had more than one of these fracture types). The lowest incidence 
was found in the pam-zol 1x/yr group, the group with the lowest cumulative exposure to zoledronic 
acid,  but  having  the  highest  baseline  mean  and  median  lumbar  spine  BMD  compared  to  the  other 
treatment groups. 
For femur fracture AEs (not including femoral neck fracture), the incidence of fracture both by core 
treatment  stratum  (8  [15.4%]  vs.  7  [13.7%]  patients  for  core  zoledronic  acid  vs.  core  pamidronate, 
respectively), and by extension treatment group (5 [20.0%] vs. 3 [11.1%] vs. 3 [12.5%] vs. 4 [14.8%] 
patients  for  zol-zol  1x/yr  vs.  zol-zol  2x/yr  vs.  pam-zol  1x/yr  vs.  pam-zol  2x/yr,  respectively)  was 
similar. During the extension study, the distribution of OI type I patients with femur fracture between 
core treatment strata was similar (3 in both strata) and also for OI type III and IV patients (5 vs. 4 in 
core  zoledronic  acid  vs.  core  pamidronate,  respectively).  During  the  extension  study,  four  of  the  8 
patients with femur fracture in the core zoledronic acid stratum and 2 of the 7 in the core pamidronate 
stratum also had a femur fracture during the core study. 
Although there were 7 patients who were not observed for the planned length of the study due to early 
study termination, overall, the incidence of femur fracture events did not increase in frequency over 
time.  Similarly,  there  was  no  apparent  relationship  between  the  timing  of  the  tibia  fractures  and  the 
last dose of zoledronic acid either. It appeared that there was a similar distribution of femur fractures 
in  the  first  and  second  six  months  of  the  extension  study,  regardless  of  the  number  of  infusions 
administered. 
36 
 
 
 
Tachycardia AEs 
Patients with tachycardia AE (Study H2202) 
Tachycardia was the only cardiac disorder reported during this study.  
Six patients in the zoledronic acid group and 4 in the pamidronate group had tachycardia AEs, 2 of 
which  were  intermittent  tachycardia  (1  in  each  group).  All  but  one  of  these  events  occurred  within 
2 days of the start of a study drug infusion (zoledronic acid 6/6, pamidronate 3/4 patients), usually the 
first  infusion  (zoledronic  acid  5/6,  pamidronate  2/4  patients),  and  at  the  same  time  as  pyrexia,  a 
common  symptom  of  an  acute-phase  reaction  (zoledronic  acid  5/6,  pamidronate  3/4  patients).  The 
protocol-specified procedure to infuse pamidronate at half of the patient’s calculated daily dose on the 
first day of the first infusion cycle (day 1 of visit 2) reduced the risk of acute-phase reaction in this 
treatment arm. 
All 6 cases of tachycardia AEs in the zoledronic acid-treated patients resolved within 2 days of onset, 
and 5 were considered mild in severity requiring no action. 
Eye disorder AEs 
All  eye  disorders  affected  6  (8.1%)  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  3  (3.8%)  in  the 
pamidronate  group.  The  most  frequently  occurring  eye  disorders  were  eye  irritation  experienced  by 
3 patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  blurred  vision  in  2  pamidronate  patients.  Other  unique 
reports  of  eye  disorders  were  conjunctivitis,  eye  pruritus,  lacrimation  increased,  ocular  hyperemia, 
retinal dystrophy and visual disturbance in the zoledronic acid group and eye pain in a pamidronate-
treated  patient.  Four  of  these  eye  disorders  occurred  in  one  zoledronic  acid-treated  patient.  In  the 
extension study eye disorders affected 1 (4.0%) patient with conjunctivitis in the zol-zol 1x/yr group, 1 
(4.2%) patient with chalazion in the pam-zol 1x/yr group and 1 (3.7%) patient with conjunctivitis in 
the pam-zol 2x/yr group. There were no reported cases of uveitis or episcleritis. 
No  severe  cases  of  eye  disorders  were  observed  and  no  obvious  imbalances  between  groups  were 
noted. 
37 
 
 
 
 
Osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ) AEs 
In  the  core  study,  one  patient  presented  to  the  study  with  “dental  caries,  peri-apical  abscess, 
bacteremia” and was further evaluated to confirm that no ONJ occurred. This case was followed up for 
more  detail  of  the  events  and  was  evaluated  by  the  independent  ONJ  adjudication  committee.  The 
evaluation  did  not  confirm  that  the  events  were  consistent  with  ONJ.  However,  ONJ  can  not  be 
excluded in paediatric population treated for this indication and it needs to be considered that in fact 
the sample size was too small to detect this adverse reaction.  
Laboratory findings 
Hypocalcemia AEs 
Eighteen  zoledronic  acid  patients  (24.3%)  and  12  pamidronate  patients  (15.4%)  had  hypocalcemia 
AEs. All such events occurred as early onset AEs and usually after the first infusion only (zoledronic 
acid  17/18  patients,  pamidronate  9/12  patients).  For  3  patients,  hypocalcemia  AEs  recurred  after 
subsequent  infusions:  one  zoledronic  acid  patient  after  the  1st  and  3rd  infusions;  one  pamidronate 
patient after 1st and 2nd infusions; another pamidronate patient after 1st, 2nd and 3rd infusions. For 
one pamidronate patient, the hypocalcemia AE occurred after the third infusion only. In a few patients, 
concomitant hypophosphatemia (zoledronic acid: 2 patients) was also reported as an AE. 
Hematology notable values 
Increased  lymphocytes,  platelets  and  eosinophils,  and  decreased  hematocrit,  mean  cell  volume  and 
neutrophils  were  common  in  both  treatment  groups  during  the  study  treatment  period.  It  should  be 
noted  that  high  lymphocytes,  high  platelets,  low  mean  cell  volume  and  low  neutrophils  were  also 
common at baseline. 
The  incidence  of  hematology  values  outside  the  normal  range  any  time  during  treatment  with  study 
drug showed some differences between treatments in terms of low hemoglobin, low hematocrit, high 
neutrophils  and  high  WBCs  all  of  which  were  more  frequent  with  zoledronic  acid,  whereas 
eosinophilia was more frequent with pamidronate treatment. 
The most frequent (> 20% of patients in any group) hematology values outside the normal ranges at 
any  time  post-extension  baseline  were  hemoglobin  <  LLN,  hematocrit  <  LLN,  mean  cell  volume 
< LLN,  neutrophils  <  LLN,  eosinophils  >  ULN  and  lymphocytes  >  ULN,  with  no  consistent 
differences between treatments for any parameter. 
Mean and median decreases from baseline in total calcium and phosphate were found in both groups, 
slightly  more  with  zoledronic  acid  than  pamidronate.  The  decreases  were  most  evident  at  the 
9-11 days  post-infusion  visit  after  the  first  infusion  (e.g.  mean  decrease  in  total  calcium  9-11  days 
post-first  infusion:  zoledronic  acid  -0.186  mmol/L,  pamidronate  -  0.159  mmol/L).  Mean  decreases 
from baseline at each subsequent dosing visit were lesser in magnitude. 
Creatinine mean and median increases from baseline in both groups were highest at month 12 or the 
last  visit  (e.g.  mean  change  in  creatinine  at  last  visit:  zoledronic  acid  0.037  mg/dL,  pamidronate 
0.046 mg/dL). Small mean decreases in blood urea nitrogen in the zoledronic acid group versus small 
mean  increases  in  the  pamidronate  group  were  noted  (e.g.  mean  change  in  BUN  at  last  visit: 
zoledronic acid -0.18 mmol/L, pamidronate 0.23 mmol/L). 
No  clinically  meaningful  changes  were  observed  in  glucose,  magnesium  alkaline  phosphatase  or 
parathyroid hormone values. 
The most frequent biochemistry values outside the normal ranges were those for calcium, phosphate, 
magnesium and albumin. High magnesium was found in about half the patients in both groups. High 
total calcium was more prevalent than low calcium, probably due to intake of calcium and vitamin D 
supplements as required in this study. Low total calcium and low phosphate were more frequent in the 
zoledronic acid group. 
Increased ALT was seen in a higher proportion of zoledronic acid patients but there was no relevant 
difference  between  treatments  in  the  incidence  of  AST  values  >ULN.  One  patient  in  the  zoledronic 
acid group had very high ALT (1682 U/L, ULN 40 U/L) and AST (1944 U/L, ULN 34 U/L) on day 
275 due to mild hepatopathy reported as an AE not suspected to be related to study drug which was 
last received on day 192. All other ALT and AST values for this patient were within the normal range. 
38 
 
Renal abnormalities 
Renal abnormalities of creatinine and urine protein (safety population) 
There was no evidence of an adverse effect of zoledronic acid on renal function during the treatment 
period. Renal abnormalities (defined by a significant creatinine increase dependent on the midpoint of 
age and gender specific normal range) were more frequent after pamidronate infusions. 
During  the  whole  treatment  period,  10/74  patients  (13.5%)  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  15/77 
patients  (19.5%)  in  the  pamidronate  group  had  significant  creatinine  increases,  compared  to  3/62 
patients (4.8%) and 4/64 patients (6.3%), respectively at the month 12 visit. 
Only two events (one in each treatment arm) were reported by the investigators as AEs. Urine protein 
> 2+ was detected in only one patient in each group, but these two events were not associated with the 
two reported renal AE cases. It should be noted that although these events met the definition of renal 
abnormalities 
the 
that  occurred  were  generally  within 
centrallaboratory. 
the  normal  range  of 
the  changes 
Vital signs data analysis in core study 
There were no relevant differences between treatments in vital signs. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.3.2.2  Overall discussion on clinical safety 
All patients in the extension study received at least one infusion of zoledronic acid, and 49/54 patients 
randomized to twice yearly zoledronic acid received two infusions, per protocol. Three patients did not 
receive the second infusion because of the early termination of the study when they were required to 
discontinue  for  “administrative  problems”  (defined  as  incorrect  early  terminations  of  study  due  to 
administrative  errors).  For  the  other  2  patients  in  the  pam-zol  2x/yr  group  who  did  not  receive  the 
second  infusion,  one  was  lost  to  follow  up  and  the  other  had  only  one  infusion  but  was  reported  to 
have completed the study. 
Another 3 patients were considered to be protocol deviators due to dosing errors or failure to follow 
protocol  procedures  in  the  event  of  additional  infusions:  1  patient  in  the  zol-zol  2x/yr  group  and 
1 patient  in  the  pam-zol  1x/yr  group  had  dosing  errors  when  too  little  zoledronic  acid  was 
administered at the first infusion, however this was corrected within 2 weeks in both cases. One other 
patient in the zol-zol 2x/yr group received 2 additional infusions of zoledronic acid due to increased 
fatigue  secondary  to  severe  OI  but  did  not  discontinue  from  the  extension  study  as  required  per 
protocol. 
In  the  core  study  more  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  treatment  group  experienced  musculoskeletal 
and  connective  tissue  disorders  (zoledronic  acid  66%  vs.  pamidronate  51%)  and  GI  disorders 
(zoledronic  acid  50%  vs.  pamidronate  36%)  than  in  the  pamidronate  group.  Similarly  hypocalcemia 
and vomiting occurred more frequently in the zoledronic acid group. In the extension study the overall 
AE  incidence  was  higher  in  the  core  zoledronic  acid  stratum  than  in  the  core  pamidronate  stratum. 
This was especially pronounced in terms of infections and infestations. For AEs affecting at least 10% 
of patients in any group, there were twice as many patients in the core zoledronic acid stratum versus 
the  core  pamidronate  stratum  who  experienced  muscle  spasms,  nasopharyngitis,  pain  in  extremity, 
fatigue, nausea, sinusitis, influenza, musculoskeletal chest pain and humerus fracture. Pyrexia was the 
most  frequent  AE  suspected  to  be  study  drug  related  in  both  groups  and  numerically  higher  in  the 
zoledronic  group.  Furthermore  hypocalcemia,  vomiting  and  fatigue  were  by  far  more  frequent  with 
zoledronic  acid  than  pamidronate.  Similarly,  tachycardia  was  reported  as  a  suspected  study  drug 
related event in 6.8% zoledronic acid-treated patients and none in the pamidronate group.  
SAEs  were  more  frequent  with  zoledronic  acid  than  with  pamidronate,  mainly  due  to  a  higher 
incidence of femur fractures, hypocalcemia and pyrexia observed with zoledronic acid. In fact in the 
core  study  hypocalcemia  and  pyrexia  as  suspected  as  drug  related  were  not  observed  in  the 
pamidronate group at all. Thirteen zoledronic acid patients had SAEs involving fractures whereas only 
nine pamidronate patients had fracture SAEs. Whereas the total number of fractures was similar in the 
treatment  groups  the  frequency  of  fractures  in  lower  extremity  long  bones  was  higher  among 
zoledronic acid patients than pamidronate patients and contrastingly in upper extremity fractures were 
observed  with  higher  frequency  among  pamidronate  patients  than  zoledronic  acid  patients.  In  the 
extension  study  the  lowest  incidence  of  lower  extremity  fractures  was  found  in  the  pam-zol  1x/yr 
group, the group with the lowest cumulative exposure to zoledronic acid. In terms of femur fracture 
AEs (not including femoral neck fracture), the incidence of fracture was similar in the groups. More 
patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  experienced  tachycardia  compared  to  the  pamidronate  treated 
group. Most cases were considered mild in severity requiring no action. The nature of the tachycardia 
is not described. There was an overweight of hypocalcemia in the zoledronic acid group compared to 
the  pamidronate  treated  patients.  There  was  no  evidence  of  an  adverse  effect  of  zoledronic  acid  on 
renal function during the treatment period. Actually, significant creatinine increases were observed in 
13.5%  of  patients  in  the  zoledronic  acid  group  and  19.5%  of  patients  in  the  pamidronate  group, 
although within normal thresholds. 
The  significant  creatinine  increase  is  a  matter  of  concern  in  this  young  patient  population.  It  is  not 
clear  if  this  renal  impairment  is  reversible  or  not.  A  decline  in  glomerular  filtration  rate  is  present 
before serum creatinine starts to rise.  
In  the  study  H2202E1  patients  treated  with  four  infusions  (3-month  apart)  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the 
core study experienced a higher incidence of lower extremity long bone (femur, tibia) fractures than 
patients treated with pamidronate infusions, as outlined by DSMB during the interim unblinded safety 
analysis.  Increasing  BMD  does  not  necessarily  mean  to  avoid  further  fractures  if  the  quality  of  the 
40 
 
bone does not improve accordingly. Moreover, some imbalances were noted  with respect  to gender, 
the 3 OI subtypes and number of fractures between to two treatment groups. 
Bone  quality  was  not  addressed  in  the  studies.  The  imbalances  were  not  sufficiently  explained. 
Orthopaedic care was not considered as a source of additional information and a follow-up beyond the 
two-year  duration  of  the  study  was  not  planned  by  the  MAH.  Therefore,  there  would  be  a  need  to 
further evaluate the long term safety of Zometa in OI. 
Recent focus on skeletal accumulation of highly active bisphosphonates such as zoledronic acid and 
pamidronate  has  led  to  the  concept  that  prolonged  suppression  of  bone  modeling/remodeling  affects 
bone health and mechanical properties especially at sites with greater metabolic demands.  
Delayed  osteotomy  healing  has  been  reported  in  children  with  OI  treated  with  intravenous 
pamidronate. Anecdotal surgical reports describe the rock-hard, shatter-prone quality of OI bone after 
prolonged treatment with bisphosphonates. Additional concern comes from the prolonged half-life and 
bone accumulation of active nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates; the significance of giant osteoclast 
formation  recently  described  in  bone  specimens  form  patients  given  long-term  bisphosphonate 
therapy, including children with OI, is not clear. 
In  the  last  decade,  accumulating  reports  on  animal  models  of  OI  and  on  OI  children  treated  with 
bisphosphonates as well, are compatible with a dichotomic response to treatment of vertebral and limb 
long  bone,  respectively.  While  controlled  studies  have  found  increased  lumbar  bone  density  by 
DEXA, improved vertebral shape, decreased central vertebral compression and fracture rate, effects on 
cortical mineralization and long bone strength and quality are possibly disadvantageous. Interestingly 
enough, in the study H2202E1 patients treated with four infusions (3-month apart) of zoledronic acid 
in the core study experienced a higher incidence of low extremity long bone (femur, tibia) fractures 
than  patients  treated  with  pamidronate  infusions.  Given  the  long  life  in  the  body  of  administered 
bisphosphonates  (several  years  after  discontinuation  of  treatment),  it  seems  of  clinical  relevance  to 
continue monitoring of fractures in this study population.  
Overall,  the  safety  profile  of  zoledronic  acid  in  the  present  trials  of  a  paediatric  population  is 
comparable  to  the  known safety  profile  established with  Zometa  in  the  adult  population.  No  new or 
unexpected safety findings were disclosed. It is however important to note that the dosing and dosing 
schedule  differs  and  that  the  present  study  was  not  blinded  or  placebo  controlled.  Furthermore,  in 
comparison with pamidronate, zoledronic acid seems to be associated with more pronounced risks for 
acute  phase  reactions  (which  however  were  less  frequent  and  milder  after  subsequent  infusions), 
hypocalcemia  (most  cases  were  typically  asymptomatic  and  transient,  although  4  patients  had 
symptoms, and one patient required intravenous calcium treatment) and unexplained tachycardia. Also 
zoledronic acid-treated patients experienced a higher incidence of lower extremity long bone (femur, 
tibia) fractures than pamidronate-treated patients. Although the reason for this excess fracture risk is of 
uncertain clinical significance, this is a point of concern. No evidence of a long-term adverse effect of 
zoledronic acid on renal function and no cases of ONJ were reported.  
1.3.3  Risk Management Plan 
An updated Risk Management plan has been submitted with this application focusing on the update of 
the  safety  profile  of  the  drug  coming  from  the  new  studies.  The  MAH  proposed  routine 
pharmacovigilance  activities  in  order  to  monitor  the  newly  identified  risks  resulting  from  the  OI 
population, which is considered acceptable. Characterization of the potential risks has been adequately 
addressed in the pharmacovigilance plan.  
In conclusion, the RMP for Zometa is adequate, and the updates are relevant. No new additional risk 
minimization activities were proposed. This was also considered acceptable by the CHMP.  
Below, a list of all ongoing safety concerns is presented. 
41 
 
 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Summary of activities for each safety concern 
Safety 
concern 
Important identified risks 
Renal function 
impairment 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-
marketing and clinical trial reports using a 
questionnaire/checklist 
Osteonecrosis 
of the jaw 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-
marketing and clinical trial reports using a 
questionnaire/checklist 
Periodic reviews for the EMEA ONJ class-
review of bisphosphonates 
Special 15-day expedited reporting of ONJ 
regardless of seriousness, listedness and 
causality will be provided to FDA. 
Adjudication of selected clinical trials 
reports of ONJ (confirmation of diagnosis 
by an expert’s panel, based on pre-defined 
criteria) 
Ongoing clinical study on ONJ: SWOG 
Acute phase 
reaction  
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Ongoing study on post-dose symptoms: 
ZOL446HUS136 
42 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
CDS Section 4.2 Posology and Method 
of Administration: Infusion time ≥ 15 
minutes. Hypercalcemia: evaluate 
benefit/risk in severe renal impairment. 
Prevention of SREs: dose reduction 
guidance by baseline CrCl. Monitor prior to 
each dose. Withhold treatment until 
resolution if pre-defined Serum Creatinine 
increases occur. 
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: Renal function 
impairment and failure have been seen 
after one dose. Use of Zometa is not 
recommended in severe renal impairment 
(CrCl < 30 mL/min) 
CDS Section 4.5 Interactions: Caution 
advised when Zometa is administered with 
aminoglycosides, nephrotoxic drugs. 
Increased risk of renal dysfunction in 
myeloma patients treated with thalidomide. 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Acute renal failure, renal impairment, 
Serum Creatinine and BUN increased. 
Routine risk minimization activities: 
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: General information 
on ONJ. Dental examination and if 
necessary preventive dentistry 
recommended prior to treatment. Dental 
procedures to be avoided during treatment. 
Unknown effect of treatment 
discontinuation if ONJ occurs: in such case 
assess individual benefit/risk.  
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
ONJ and risk factors described in post-
marketing experience 
Enhanced risk minimization activities 
An ONJ educational program is in place, 
and it delivers on a country by country 
bases key messages on ONJ prevention 
and management 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Intravenous administration has been most 
commonly associated with a flu-like 
syndrome in about 9% of patients, including 
bone pain (9.1%), fever (7.2%), fatigue 
(4.1%) and rigors (2.9%). 
 
Safety 
concern 
Hypocalcemia  Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Ocular adverse 
events 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-
marketing and clinical trial reports using a 
questionnaire/checklist 
Atrial fibrillation Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-
marketing and clinical trial reports using a 
questionnaire/checklist 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Anaphylaxis 
GI disorders in 
paediatric OI 
patients 
Important potential risks 
Cardiac 
arrhythmias 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-
marketing and clinical trial reports using a 
questionnaire/checklist 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Targeted follow-up of all serious post-
marketing and clinical trial reports using a 
questionnaire/checklist 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
CDS Section 4.2 Posology and Method 
of Administration: Prevention of SREs: 
Patients should also be administered 
500 mg oral calcium supplement and 
400 IU vitamin D daily.  
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: Standard 
hypercalcemia-related metabolic 
parameters, such as serum levels of 
calcium, phosphate and magnesium, 
should be carefully monitored after initiating 
Zometa therapy. If hypocalcemia, 
hypophosphatemia, or hypomagnesaemia 
occurs, short-term supplemental therapy 
may be necessary.  
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Hypocalcemia is included in the ADRs. 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Conjunctivitis, Uveitis, Episcleritis. Scleritis 
and Orbital inflammation are included in the 
ADRs. 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Atrial fibrillation is listed in the post-
marketing experience section. 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Anaphylactic reaction/shock is listed in the 
post-marketing experience section. 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Nausea, Vomiting, Anorexia, Diarrhea, 
Constipation, Abdominal pain, Dyspepsia, 
Stomatitis, Dry Mouth are included in the 
ADRs. 
CDS Section 4.8 Undesirable effects: 
Atrial fibrillation is listed in the post-
marketing experience section. 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
43 
Cerebrovascul
ar AEs 
Focal 
Segmental 
Glomerulo-
sclerosis  
Fracture 
healing 
impairment 
Interstitial lung 
disease 
Bone growth 
impairment in 
paediatric OI 
patients 
Safety 
concern 
Progressive 
hearing loss in 
paediatric OI 
patients 
Increased risk 
of fractures in 
paediatric type 
I OI patients 
Proposed pharmacovigilance activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Proposed risk minimization activities 
(routine and additional) 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
Potential Interactions 
Products that 
can 
significantly 
affect renal 
function 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Drug interactions monitored through case-
specific content review for suspected 
interactions with targeted follow-up as 
appropriate 
Important missing information 
Paediatric OI 
patients < 1 
year 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Races other 
than 
Caucasian 
Pregnancy and 
lactation 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Patients with 
severe renal 
impairment 
Paediatric 
patients with 
renal 
impairment 
Patients with 
hepatic 
Insufficiency 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
Routine pharmacovigilance 
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: Use of nephrotoxic 
drugs may increase the potential for 
deterioration in renal function. 
CDS Section 4.5 Interaction with other 
medicinal products and other forms of 
interaction: Caution is indicated when 
Zometa is used with other potentially 
nephrotoxic drugs. 
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: The safety and 
efficacy of Zometa in paediatric patients 
with severe OI under the age of 1 year 
have not been established. 
Currently available data do not support the 
need for risk minimization. 
CDS Section 4.3 Contraindications: 
Zometa concentrate is contraindicated in 
pregnancy and in breast-feeding women. 
CDS Section 4.6 Pregnancy and 
lactation: Zometa should not be used 
during pregnancy. It is not known whether 
zoledronic acid is excreted into human milk. 
Zometa should not be used by breast-
feeding women. 
Detailed information in CDS Sections 4.2, 
4.4, 4.5, 4.8 (See Renal function 
impairment above). 
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: The safety of 
Zometa in paediatric patients with renal 
impairment has not been established. 
CDS Section 4.4 Special Warnings and 
Precautions for Use: As only limited 
clinical data are available in patients with 
severe hepatic insufficiency, no specific 
recommendations can be given for this 
patient population. 
44 
 
 
1.4   Benefit Risk Assessment 
BENEFITS  
- The  present  controlled  open  label  efficacy  study  demonstrated  that  infusions  of  zoledronic  acid 
showed similar effects compared to pamidronate in terms of the primary endpoint of increase in LS-
BMD after 12 months of treatment.  
- Similarity between zoledronic acid and pamidronate was also shown regarding sustained reductions 
in serum markers of bone resorption and bone formation.  
- The proportion of patients who had clinical fractures during the 12 months of treatment was similar 
between the zoledronic acid and pamidronate treatment groups.  
- No  significant  differences  were  observed  regarding  LS-BMD  Z-score  at  6  and  12  months  and 
femoral neck and total body BMC.  
- No  changes  from  baseline  or  differences  between  the  two  treatments  in  Wong-Baker  FACES  pain 
assessments were detected.  
- The open-label extension study, designed as a safety study with secondary efficacy parameters did 
not demonstrate any antifracture effect of zoledronic acid over pamidronate and median LS Z-score 
and total body BMC.  
- During  the  extension  period  sustained  decreases  in  median  values  of  serum  biomarkers  of  bone 
resorption and bone formation were observed in all treatments.  
RISKS  
- In comparison with pamidronate, zoledronic acid seems to be associated with more pronounced risks 
for acute phase reactions (which however were less frequent and milder after subsequent infusions). 
- In  comparison  with  pamidronate,  zoledronic  acid  was  associated  with  risk  of  hypocalcemia  (most 
cases were typically asymptomatic and transient, although 4 patients had symptoms, and one patient 
required intravenous calcium treatment) and unexplained tachycardia. 
- Zoledronic acid-treated patients experienced a higher incidence of lower extremity long bone (femur, 
tibia) fractures than pamidronate-treated patients. Although the reason for this excess fracture risk is 
of uncertain clinical significance, this is a point of concern.  
BALANCE 
The  MAH  has  supported  its  application  with  two  randomized  controlled  clinical  trials  investigating 
zoledronic  acid  treatment  of  children  1  to  17  years  of  age  with  severe  osteogenesis  imperfecta  (OI) 
(Protocol study H2202 and H2202E1, respectively).  
The  estimated  effect  on  BMD  zoledronic  acid  as  well  as  regarding  sustained  reductions  in  serum 
markers of bone resorption and bone formation was similar to pamidronate. However, the hallmark of 
OI is the occurrence of fractures and the present studies were neither designed nor powered to estimate 
the  efficacy  of  Zometa  on  fractures.  BMD  has  not  been  demonstrated  to  be  a  meaningful  surrogate 
marker  for  clinical  efficacy  in  osteogenesis  imperfecta.  In  this  study,  no  meaningful  positive  effects 
were demonstrated on the clinically relevant parameters pain and new fractures.  
It  is  not  clear  that  the  key  efficacy  parameter  “improvement  in  BMD  at  12  months  from  baseline” 
translated into clinical benefit for patients with osteogenesis imperfecta in terms of less fractures, less 
disability and less chronic bone pain. The pivotal study H2202 was neither designed nor powered to 
estimate  the  efficacy  of  zoledronic  acid  on  fractures  or  other  clinically  relevant  outcome  measures. 
This lack of a clear relationship between surrogate and clinical efficacy parameter was also reflected 
by a high rate of new fractures after start of the two bisphosphonates.  
Furthermore, the CHMP questioned the choice of comparator. Regarding the use of pamidronate as the 
active control the applicant argued that this selection was an acknowledgement of the product’s ability 
to  alter  the  natural  disease  course,  improve  the  clinical  status  and  quality  of  life  in  children  and  are 
referring  to  two  studies.  The  study  by  Glorieux  1998  showed  that  Cyclical  i.v.  treatment  with 
pamidronate was associated with a marked increase in BMD and physical activity increased markedly 
in these patients and decreased fracture rate. This study was an observational and uncontrolled study.  
In the study by Plotkin children younger than 3 years old pamidronate infusion every 2-4 months over 
a  increased  BMD,  and  decreased  the  rate  of  fracture.  This  was  also  an  observational  study  using  a 
group  of  “historical  controls”.  Despite  the  use  of  bisphosponates  in  clinical  practice  (off-label),  the 
45 
 
 
 
scientific evidence for pamidronate in this indication is quite weak with regards to placebo-controlled 
studies:  
-  the  lack  of  a  placebo-controlled  clinical  study  in  an  indication  without  a  well-established 
pharmacological therapy was not sufficiently justified.  
- in the absence of a well quantified effect of pamidronate versus placebo the choice of non-inferiority 
margin required further justification (see CPMP/EWP/2158/99).  
-  it  has  not  been  established  that  the  study  has  adequate  assay  sensitivity,  so  that  any  important 
differences between active agents could be detected.  
Therefore, the CHMP emphasized the weakness of the study design and considered this to be a major 
limitation of the application having a major impact on the benefit risk assessment of the proposed new 
indication. Recent reviews are pertinent to the above stated comments in that they focus on the effects 
of  bisphosphonates  in  children  with  OI  and  osteoporosis.  These  publications  underline  the  fact  that 
despite a large body of published observations, only very few studies have a sufficiently high level of 
internal validity to be truly informative. These studies confirm improvement in BMD. There is, on the 
other  hand,  limited  evaluation  of  broader  treatment  impacts  on  clinical  features  such  as  deformities, 
need for orthopaedic surgery, pain, functioning, quality of life. More studies evaluating drug choices, 
optimal  dosing,  duration  of  treatment,  post-treatment  morbidities  and  long-term  side  effects  are 
necessary. 
The safety profile of zoledronic acid in the present trials of a paediatric population is comparable to 
the known safety profile established with Zometa in the adult population. No new or unexpected safety 
findings were disclosed. It is however important to noted that the dosing and dosing schedule differs 
and  that  the  present  study  was  not  blinded  or  placebo  controlled.  Furthermore  in  comparison  with 
pamidronate,  zoledronic  acid  seems  to  be  associated  with  more  pronounced  risks  for  acute  phase 
tachycardia.  Also  zoledronic  acid-treated  patients 
reactions,  hypocalcemia  and  unexplained 
experienced a higher incidence of lower extremity long bone (femur, tibia) fractures than pamidronate-
treated patients. 
From a clinical point of view a number of drawbacks with regard to the study population, choice of 
comparator  drug,  randomization  and  primary  objective  (Lumbar  spine  BMD)  as  well  as  safety 
concerns are present. The application to extend the indication of intravenous zoledronic acid (Zometa) 
for  the  treatment  of  children  with  severe  OI  was  found  not  approvable  since  a  clearly  positive 
benefit/risk balance in patients with severe OI in the paediatric age is not sufficiently corroborated by 
the submitted data and discussion provided by the MAH. 
Thus, the CHMP considered that the overall Benefit-Risk Ratio of Zometa in the applied extension of 
indications is negative.  
In acknowledgment of the objections and concerns raised by the CHMP, the MAH proposed during 
the procedure to modify the scope of this application to request approval of paediatric information on 
the  paediatric  studies  in  SPC  section  5.1  together  with  changes  in  other  relevant  sections  of  the  PI 
(4.2,  4.4  and  5.2  and  package  leaflet)  to  reflect  the  available  paediatric  study  data.  Further,  the 
MAH informed the Committee that the company no longer seeks approval for the initially requested 
severe osteogenesis imperfecta indication.  
In  conclusion,  the  extension  of  indication  in  SPC  section  4.1  for  the  “treatment  of  severe  OI  in 
paediatric  patients  aged  1  to  17  years”  was  not  acceptable.  However,  the  CHMP  considered  that 
information  on  the  clinical  studies  performed  could  be  added  to  SPC  section  5.1.  Therefore,  the 
changes to SPC section 5.1 as well as the related sections 4.2, 4.4 and 5.2 of the SPC and in the PL 
were accepted by the CHMP to be included in accordance with the Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 of 
the European parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006. 
1.5 Significance of Paediatric Studies 
The CHMP  noted that the PDCO  adopted on 12 December 2008 a positive Opinion on Compliance 
(EMEA-C-024-PIP01-07) with the agreed Paediatric Investigational Plan (PIP) (Decision P/32/2008) 
adopted on 24 June 2008) under Article 23 of Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 as amended for Zometa 
(zoledronic acid).  
46 
 
 
The  CHMP  is  of  the  opinion  that  studies  H2202  and  H2202E1,  which  are  contained  in  the  agreed 
Paediatric  Investigation  Plan  and  have  been  completed  after  26  January  2007,  are  considered  as 
significant. The assessment criteria of the significance of studies, as defined in Section 3 - Title 4.2 of 
the  European  Commission  Communication  "Guideline  on  the  format  and  content  of  applications  for 
agreement or modification of a paediatric investigation plan and requests for waivers or deferrals and 
concerning  the  operation  of  compliance  check  and  on  criteria  for  assessing  significant  studies" 
(2008/C  243/01)  has  been  fulfilled,  taken  into  account  the  study  type  of  clinical  studies  H2202  and 
H2202E1:  
(1) Comparative efficacy studies (randomized/ active control or placebo) 
Study H2202 was a randomized, active-controlled openlabel, multi-center phase III clinical trial 
that  evaluated  the  safety  and  efficacy  of  intravenous  zoledronic  acid  compared  to  intravenous 
pamidronate in paediatric patients (1-17 years) with severe osteogenesis imperfecta. 
Study  H2202E1  was  one-year  randomized,  openlabel,  parallel-group  multi-center  safety  and 
efficacy study extending the treatment to paediatric patients with severe osteogenesis imperfecta 
who completed first year of treatment in study H2202. 
(2) Prospective clinical safety studies 
Studies  H2202  and  H2202E1  are  prospective  studies  that  collected  key  clinical  safety 
information (tolerability, general safety and renal safety) which makes a major contribution to 
the safe use on the use of zoledronic acid and pamidronate in the study population." 
1.6 Changes to the Product Information - User Testing 
An update of SPC section 5.1 has been performed to include clinical trial results in the treatment of 
severe osteogenesis imperfecta in paediatric patients aged 1 to 17 years. SPC sections 4.2, 4.4, 4.8 and 
5.2 have been revised as well considering the available data in paediatric patients. Furthermore, SPC 
section 4.4 has been amended with a warning regarding the concomitant use of Aclasta. 
In addition, changes to SPC section 4.3, 4.6, 4.8 have been performed to align with the QRD template. 
Annex II has been updated with the RMP standard text reflecting the latest agreed version number.  
User Testing 
The  package  leaflet  has  been  revised  based  on  the  results  of  a  Readability  Testing.  The  MAH 
submitted  with  this  application  the  final  report  comprising  the  results  of  consultations  with  target 
patient groups, dated 2007. The basis for this Zometa user testing was the package leaflet as submitted 
in the Type II variation application EMEA/H/C/336/II/021 with which the MAH applied for the new 
indication  “Prevention  of  fracture  and  bone  loss  in  postmenopausal  women  with  early-stage  breast 
cancer treated with aromatase inhibitors”. This application was subsequently withdrawn by the MAH.  
The  package  leaflet  for  Zometa  has  been  through  a  pilot  and  two  rounds  of  user  tests.  Out  of  the 
20 respondents that were recruited for the user test, 9 were cancer patients or their caretakers and 11 
were healthy volunteers. The participant’s age range was between 19 and 68 years. 
The questionnaire used in the test procedure was composed of 12 key points of information relating to 
specific  safety  and  compliance  issues  in  connection  with  the  use  of  Zometa.  Question  selection 
ensured that points of information were asked for sections 1 to 4 of the PL. 
The user testing and readability of the Zometa package leaflet (PL) was considered satisfactory. The 
methodology met the requirements of the Readability Guideline and the data were well recorded. The 
weaknesses of the PL identified by the interviewed population were addressed appropriately and led to 
amendments of some parts of the PL in order to improve readability. Furthermore, rephrasing of some 
passages of the PL were performed in order to facilitate patient friendly language. 
47 
 
 
 
 
 
 
II.  CONCLUSION 
On 17 December 2009 the CHMP considered this Type II variation to be acceptable and agreed on the 
amendments  to  be  introduced  in  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics,  Annex  II  and  Package 
Leaflet. 
Furthermore, the CHMP takes note that the agreed Paediatric Investigation Plan is fully completed and 
that the PDCO issued an Opinion on compliance. The CHMP reviewed the paediatric data of studies 
subject  to  this  plan  and  the  results  of  these  studies  are  reflected  in  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics and, as appropriate, the Package Leaflet. 
In accordance with Article 45(3) of Regulation EC (No) 1901/2006, significant studies in the agreed 
paediatric investigation plan have been completed after the entry into force of that Regulation. 
Follow-up measures undertaken by the Marketing Authorisation Holder  
As requested by the CHMP, the MAH agreed to submit the follow-up measures as listed below and to 
submit  any  variation  application  which  would  be  necessary  in  the  light  of  compliance  with  these 
commitments (see Letter of Undertaking attached to this report): 
Area 
Nonclinical 
Description 
The MAH commits to conduct a test on lumbriculus (OECD 225) 
and submit the results as follow-up to the ERA. 
Due date 
31/08/2010 
48 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
