EMA/681281/2015  
EMEA/H/C/000336 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zometa 
Zoledronic acid 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zometa. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Zometa. 
What is Zometa? 
Zometa is a medicine that contains the active substance zoledronic acid. It is available as a powder 
(4mg) and solvent, and as a concentrate (4mg/5ml), both of which are made up into a solution for 
infusion (drip into a vein), and as a pre-prepared solution for infusion (4mg/100ml). 
What is Zometa used for? 
Zometa can be used to prevent bone complications in adults with advanced cancer that is affecting the 
bone. This includes fractures (breaks in the bone), spinal compression (when the spinal cord is 
compressed by the bone), bone disorders needing radiotherapy (treatment with radiation) or surgery, 
and hypercalcaemia (high levels of calcium in the blood). Zometa can also be used to treat the 
hypercalcaemia caused by tumours. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Zometa used? 
Zometa must only be used by a doctor who has experience in the use of this type of medicine given 
into a vein. 
The usual dose of Zometa is one infusion of 4 mg over at least 15 minutes. When used to prevent bone 
complications, the infusion can be repeated every three to four weeks, and patients should also take 
supplements of calcium and vitamin D. A lower dose is recommended for patients with bone 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2015. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
metastases (when cancer has spread to the bone) if they have mild to moderate problems with their 
kidneys. It is not recommended for patients with severe kidney problems. 
How does Zometa work? 
The active substance in Zometa, zoledronic acid, is a bisphosphonate. It stops the action of the 
osteoclasts, the cells in the body that are involved in breaking down the bone tissue. This leads to less 
bone loss. The reduction of bone loss helps to make bones less likely to break, which is useful in 
preventing fractures in cancer patients with bone metastases. 
Patients with tumours can have high levels of calcium in their blood, released from the bones. By 
preventing the breakdown of bones, Zometa also helps to reduce the amount of calcium released into 
the blood. 
How has Zometa been studied? 
Zometa has been studied in over 3,000 adults with bone metastases in three main studies looking at 
its ability to prevent bone damage. Zometa was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in two of 
the studies, and with pamidronate (another bisphosphonate) in the third. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients who developed at least one new ‘skeletal event’ over 13 
months. This included any bone complications needing treatment with radiotherapy or surgery, any 
fractures or any spinal compression. 
Zometa has also been compared with pamidronate in two main studies involving a total of 287 adults 
with hypercalcaemia caused by tumours. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of 
patients whose calcium levels had returned to normal within 10 days after treatment. 
What benefit has Zometa shown during the studies? 
In the first two studies of patients with bone metastases, the number of patients who developed a new 
skeletal event was lower with Zometa (33 to 38%) than with placebo (44%). In the third study, 
Zometa was as effective as pamidronate: 44% of the patients receiving Zometa had at least one 
skeletal event, compared with 46% of those receiving pamidronate. 
In patients with hypercalcaemia, Zometa was more effective than pamidronate. Looking at the results 
of the two studies together, 88% of the patients receiving Zometa had normal calcium levels within 10 
days after treatment, compared with 70% of those receiving pamidronate. 
What is the risk associated with Zometa? 
The most common side effect with Zometa (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) is hypophosphataemia 
(low blood phosphate levels). Osteonecrosis of the jaw (damage to the bones of the jaw, which could 
lead to pain, sores in the mouth or loosening of teeth) has been reported uncommonly (seen in 
between 1 and 10 patients in 1,000). For the full list of all side effects reported with Zometa, see the 
package leaflet. 
Zometa must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to zoledronic acid, other 
bisphosphonates or any of the other ingredients. Zometa should not be used in pregnant or breast-
feeding women. 
Zometa  
EMA/681281/2015  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
Why has Zometa been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Zometa’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be given 
marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zometa? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Zometa is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Zometa, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
In addition, the company that markets Zometa will provide a card to inform patients about the risk of 
osteonecrosis of the jaw and to instruct them to contact their doctor if they experience symptoms. 
Other information about Zometa 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zometa on 20 March 2001.  
The full EPAR for Zometa can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Zometa, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist.  
This summary was last updated in 11-2015. 
Zometa  
EMA/681281/2015  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
