21 April 2017 
EMA/321878/2017  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): zoledronic acid (indicated for cancer and fractures) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003149/201608 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 September 2015 to 31 August 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions  
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for zoledronic acid (indicated for 
cancer and fractures), the scientific conclusions of the CHMP are as follows:  
The analysis of the individual safety reports from clinical trials, spontaneous reports and literature 
retrieved 62 cases of osteonecrosis of other anatomical sites in association with zoledronic acid, with 
the majority of events occurring in the hip/femur (46). The occurrence of osteonecrosis is 
multifactorial and is associated with various risk factors. There are no site specific risk factors for 
osteonecrosis apart from additional oral risk factors for osteonecrosis of the jaw. There is 
preponderance of specific location (head of femur, humerus and medial condyle of femur) due to 
local anatomical features. The cases from safety database did report multiple risk factors including 
underlying malignancy, bone metastases; concomitant therapy with steroids, angiogenesis 
inhibitors, radiotherapy but the exact underlying cause for the osteonecrosis was not ascertained. 
The reports of osteonecrosis at other sites with zoledronic acid suggest similarity in reporting 
frequency (femur>knee>humerus) as compared to the commonly affected sites of osteonecrosis 
based on anatomical factors. The time to onset for occurrence of osteonecrosis also has similar 
pattern when compared to osteonecrosis of the jaw/external auditory canal. The contributive role of 
zoledronic acid therapy in these cases could not be excluded. Therefore, the product information 
should be updated to reflect in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC a warning on osteonecrosis of 
other anatomical sites and add this adverse reaction with a frequency very rare. The package leaflet 
is updated accordingly.  
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for zoledronic acid (indicated for cancer and fractures) the 
CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk balance of the medicinal product(s) containing 
zoledronic acid (indicated for cancer and fractures) is unchanged subject to the proposed changes to 
the product information. 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
EMA/321878/2017  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
