15 December 2022 
EMA/CHMP/78061/2023  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the 
terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): zonisamide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003152/202203 
Period covered by the PSUR: 31/2020 to 31/03/2022 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR(s) for zonisamide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
‘Use in pregnancy’ is an important potential risk for zonisamide. Zonisamide must not be used during 
pregnancy or in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception unless clearly 
necessary and only if the potential benefit is considered to justify the risk to the foetus. Clinical data on 
the potential risks of congenital malformation and neurodevelopmental disorders associated with the use 
of zonisamide during pregnancy are very limited and these risks remain unknown. The current product 
information indicates that the potential risk of zonisamide use during pregnancy in humans is unknown, 
however, it does not specifically refer to the risks of congenital malformation and neurodevelopmental 
disorders. It is considered that the product information should clearly reflect current available scientific 
knowledge in relation to these potential risks, to ensure healthcare professionals and patients are 
adequately informed of what is known about the risks associated with use during pregnancy. 
Furthermore, the risk minimisation measures in relation to use in women of childbearing potential and in 
pregnancy set out in the product information require amendment. Noting the requirement for women of 
childbearing potential to use effective contraception throughout treatment and the uncertainties about 
the risks to the foetus associated with use during pregnancy, pregnancy testing should be considered 
prior to initiation of treatment to exclude pregnancy, as is recommended for other antiepileptic drugs. 
Moreover, the product information should clearly reflect that re-evaluation of antiepileptic therapy 
should take place prior to conception and before contraception is discontinued, whilst the need for 
urgent review by the patient’s treating doctor in the event of suspected or confirmed pregnancy should 
be reflected clearly in the product information.  The PRAC concluded that the product information of 
products containing zonisamide should be amended accordingly. 
The CHMP agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for zonisamide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-risk 
balance of the medicinal product(s) containing zonisamide is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation(s) should be varied. 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation(s)  
EMA/CHMP/78061/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
 
