10 November 2016 
EMA/859790/2016  
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Scientific conclusions and grounds for the variation to the terms of the 
marketing authorisation(s) 
Active substance(s): zonisamide 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/PSUSA/00003152/201603 
Period covered by the PSUR: 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2017. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Scientific conclusions 
Taking into account the PRAC Assessment Report on the PSUR for zonisamide, the scientific 
conclusions of CHMP are as follows:  
An article published during the interval reported on a case of angle closure and myopic shift 
secondary to zonisamide where the author noted the association with this type of reaction and other 
sulphonamide derivatives such as topiramate. Following a review of the literature and cumulative 
reports of ocular related terms, the MAH concluded that a causal association between secondary 
angle closure glaucoma and zonisamide is possible.  
Five cases were presented by the MAH where the time to onset was within hours/days of zonisamide 
initiation or dose increase, most of the patients were young (20s-40s plus one 7 year old child) 
without a history of eye disorders and resolution/improvement occurred shortly after discontinuation 
of zonisamide. The paediatric patient was also taking another sulfa containing medicine 
(trichlormethiazide). These five cases did not include the original literature report which concerned a 
39-year-old woman who presented with sudden vision loss with a concurrent bilateral frontal 
headache. No changes in health were reported other than initiating zonisamide for refractory 
migraines 2 weeks prior. Ocular history was significant only for low myopia. With discontinuation of 
zonisamide, the patient experienced full recovery.  
An overview of all terms reported within the Eye Disorders SOC (n = 114 reports) included reports 
which may be related symptoms of this reaction such as vision blurred (n=22), visual impairment 
(n=16), visual acuity reduced (n=7), ocular discomfort (n=2), ocular hyperaemia (n=2) and myopia 
(n=4).  
Zonegran is a benzisoxazole derivative, which contains a sulfonamide group. Angle closure 
glaucoma secondary to sulfa derived medicines is acknowledged in the literature and it is thought 
that the mechanism relates to choroidal swelling that pushes the iris or ciliary body forward or 
deforms the iris so that it is retracted into the angle. The product information for topiramate and 
other sulfa derived medicines includes a warning in SmPC section 4.4 and listed terms in SmPC 
section 4.8. 
Information is available on six well documented cases suggestive of a causal association between 
zonisamide and angle closure glaucoma while other reports have been received with terms possibly 
relating to this reaction. Although these numbers are small given the post-marketing exposure of 
zonisamide (1.7 million patient years cumulatively), the cases are sufficiently well documented and 
the association is also supported by the literature regarding sulfonamide derived medicines. 
Therefore, in view of the data presented in the reviewed PSUR, the PRAC considers that changes to 
the product information of medicinal products containing zonisamide are warranted. The CHMP 
agrees with the scientific conclusions made by the PRAC. 
Grounds for the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation 
On the basis of the scientific conclusions for zonisamide the CHMP is of the opinion that the benefit-
risk balance of the medicinal product containing zonisamide is unchanged subject to the proposed 
changes to the product information 
The CHMP recommends that the terms of the marketing authorisation should be varied. 
EMA/859790/2016  
Page 2/2 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
