ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 25 mg of zonisamide.  
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 50 mg of zonisamide.  
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
Each hard capsule contains 100 mg of zonisamide. 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Hard capsule. 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
A white opaque body and a white opaque cap, marked ‘Z 25’ in black containing white/almost white 
powder. Each hard capsule is approximately 14.4 mm in length. 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
A white opaque body and a white opaque cap, marked ‘Z 50’ in red containing white/almost white 
powder. Each hard capsule is approximately 15.8 mm in length. 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
A white opaque body and a white opaque cap, marked ‘Z 100’ in black containing white/almost white 
powder. Each hard capsule is approximately 19.3 mm in length. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1 
Therapeutic indications 
Zonisamide Mylan is indicated as: 
•  monotherapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in 
• 
adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy (see section 5.1); 
adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in 
adults, adolescents, and children aged 6 years and above. 
4.2 
Posology and method of administration 
Posology - adults 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dosage escalation and maintenance 
Zonisamide Mylan may be taken as monotherapy or added to existing therapy in adults. The dose 
should be titrated on the basis of clinical effect. Recommended escalation and maintenance doses are 
given in Table 1. Some patients, especially those not taking CYP3A4-inducing agents, may respond to 
lower doses. 
Withdrawal 
When Zonisamide Mylan treatment is to be discontinued, it should be withdrawn gradually (see section 
4.4). In clinical studies of adult patients, dose reductions of 100 mg at weekly intervals have been used 
with concurrent adjustment of other antiepileptic medicine doses (where necessary). 
Table 1.  
Adults – recommended dosage escalation and maintenance regimen 
Treatment 
Regimen 
Monotherapy - 
Newly diagnosed 
adult patients 
Titration Phase 
Week 1 + 2  Week 3 + 4 
Week 5 + 6 
100 mg/day 
(once a day) 
200 mg/day  
(once a day) 
300 mg/day  
(once a day) 
Usual Maintenance 
Dose 
300 mg per day  
(once a day). 
If a higher dose is 
required: increase at 
two-weekly intervals in 
increments of 100 mg up 
to a maximum of 500 mg. 
Adjunctive therapy 
- with CYP3A4- 
inducing agents (see 
section 4.5) 
- without 
CYP3A4-inducing 
agents; or with renal 
or hepatic impairment 
Week 1 
Week 2 
Week 3 to 5 
50 mg/day  
(in two divided 
doses) 
100 mg/day 
(in two divided 
doses) 
Increase at 
weekly intervals 
in increments of 
100 mg 
300 to 500 mg per day 
(once a day or two divided 
doses). 
Week 1 + 2  Week 3 + 4  Week 5 to 10 
50 mg/day (in 
two divided 
doses) 
100 mg/day (in 
two divided 
doses) 
Increase at two-
weekly intervals 
in increments of 
up to 100 mg 
300 to 500 mg per day 
(once a day or two divided 
doses). 
Some patients may 
respond to lower doses. 
General dosing recommendations for Zonisamide Mylan in special patient populations 
Paediatric population (aged 6 years and above) 
Dosage escalation and maintenance 
Zonisamide Mylan must be added to existing therapy for paediatric patients aged 6 years and above. 
The dose should be titrated on the basis of clinical effect. Recommended escalation and maintenance 
doses are given in Table 2. Some patients, especially those not taking CYP3A4-inducing agents, may 
respond to lower doses. 
Physicians should draw the attention of paediatric patients and their parents/carers to the Patient Alert 
Box (in the package leaflet) on preventing heat stroke (see section 4.4: Paediatric Population). 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paediatric population (aged 6 years and above) – recommended dosage escalation 
Titration Phase 
Usual Maintenance Dose 
Table 2.  
and maintenance regimen 
Treatment 
Regimen 
Adjunctive therapy 
- with CYP3A4- 
inducing agents 
(see section 4.5) 
Week 1 
1 mg/kg/day 
(once a day) 
Weeks 2 to 8 
Increase at weekly 
intervals in 
increments of 
1 mg/kg 
Patients of 
weight 
20 to 55 kga 
6 to 8 mg/kg/day 
(once a day) 
Patients of 
weight > 55 kg 
300 – 
500 mg/day 
(once a day) 
300 – 
500 mg/day 
(once a day) 
Week 1 + 2  Weeks ≥ 3 
- without 
CYP3A4-inducing 
agents 
1 mg/kg/day 
(once a day) 
Increase at two-
weekly intervals 
in increments of 
1 mg/kg 
6 to 8 mg/kg/day 
(once a day) 
Note: 
a.  To ensure a therapeutic dose is maintained the weight of a child should be monitored and the dose 
reviewed as weight changes occur up to a weight of 55 kg.  The dose regime is 6-8 mg/kg/day up 
to a maximum dose of 500 mg/day. 
The safety and efficacy of zonisamide in children aged below 6 years or those below 20 kg have not yet 
been established. 
There are limited data from clinical studies in patients with a body weight of less than 20 kg. Therefore 
children aged 6 years and above and with a body weight less than 20 kg should be treated with caution. 
It is not always possible to precisely achieve the calculated dose with the commercially available 
capsule strengths of zonisamide. In these cases it is therefore recommended that the zonisamide total 
dose should be rounded up or down to the nearest available dose that can be achieved with 
commercially available capsule strengths of zonisamide (25 mg, 50 mg and 100 mg). 
Withdrawal 
When zonisamide treatment is to be discontinued, it should be withdrawn gradually (see section 4.4). 
In clinical studies of paediatric patients, down-titration was completed by dose reductions at weekly 
intervals in increments of about 2 mg/kg (i.e. in accordance with the schedule in Table 3). 
Table 3.  
schedule 
Weight 
Paediatric population (aged 6 years and above) – recommended down-titration 
Decrease at weekly intervals in increments of: 
20 – 28 kg 
25 to 50 mg / day* 
29 – 41 kg 
50 to 75 mg / day* 
42 – 55 kg 
100 mg / day* 
>55 kg 
100 mg / day* 
Note: 
* 
All doses are once daily. 
Elderly 
Caution should be exercised at initiation of treatment in elderly patients as there is limited information 
on the use of zonisamide in these patients. Prescribers should also take account of the safety profile of 
zonisamide (see section 4.8). 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Renal impairment 
Caution must be exercised in treating patients with renal impairment, as there is limited information on 
use in such patients and a slower titration of Zonisamide Mylan might be required. Since zonisamide 
and its metabolites are excreted renally, it should be discontinued in patients who develop acute renal 
failure or where a clinically significant sustained increase in serum creatinine is observed. 
In  subjects  with  renal  impairment,  renal  clearance  of  single  doses  of  zonisamide  was  positively 
correlated with creatinine clearance. The plasma AUC of zonisamide was increased by 35% in subjects 
with creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min. 
Hepatic impairment 
Use in patients with hepatic impairment has not been studied. Therefore use in patients with severe 
hepatic impairment is not recommended. Caution must be exercised in treating patients with mild to 
moderate hepatic impairment, and a slower titration of Zonisamide Mylan may be required. 
Method of administration 
Zonisamide Mylan hard capsules are for oral use. 
Effect of food 
Zonisamide Mylan may be taken with or without food (see section 5.2). 
4.3 
Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1 or to 
sulfonamides. 
4.4 
Special warnings and precautions for use 
Unexplained rash 
Serious rashes occur in association with zonisamide therapy, including cases of 
Stevens-Johnson syndrome. 
Consideration must be given to discontinuing zonisamide in patients who develop an otherwise 
unexplained rash.  All patients who develop a rash while taking zonisamide must be closely supervised, 
with additional levels of caution applied to those patients receiving concomitant antiepileptic agents 
that may independently induce skin rashes. 
Withdrawal seizures 
In accordance with current clinical practice, discontinuation of zonisamide in patients with epilepsy 
must be accomplished by gradual dose reduction, to reduce the possibility of seizures on withdrawal. 
There are insufficient data for the withdrawal of concomitant antiepileptic medicines once seizure 
control with zonisamide has been achieved in the add-on situation, in order to reach monotherapy with 
zonisamide. Therefore, withdrawal of concomitant anti-epileptic medicinal products must be 
undertaken with caution. 
Sulfonamide reactions 
Zonisamide is a benzisoxazole derivative, which contains a sulfonamide group. Serious immune based 
adverse reactions that are associated with medicinal products containing a sulfonamide group include 
rash, allergic reaction and major haematological disturbances, including aplastic anaemia, which very 
rarely can be fatal. Cases of agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, leucopenia, aplastic anaemia, 
pancytopenia and leucocytosis have been reported.  There is inadequate information to assess the 
relationship, if any, between dose and duration of treatment and these events. 
Acute myopia and secondary angle closure glaucoma 
A syndrome consisting of acute myopia associated with secondary angle closure glaucoma has been 
reported in adult and paediatric patients receiving zonisamide. Symptoms include acute onset of 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decreased visual acuity and/or ocular pain. Ophthalmologic findings can include myopia, anterior 
chamber shallowing, and ocular hyperaemia (redness) and increased intraocular pressure. This 
syndrome may be associated with supraciliary effusion resulting in anterior displacement of the lens 
and iris, with secondary angle closure glaucoma. Symptoms may occur within hours to weeks of 
initiating therapy. Treatment includes discontinuation of zonisamide, as rapidly as possible in the 
judgment of the treating physician, and appropriate measures to reduce intraocular pressure. Elevated 
intraocular pressure of any aetiology, if left untreated, can lead to serious sequelae including 
permanent vision loss. Caution should be used when treating patients with history of eye disorders 
with zonisamide. 
Suicide ideation and behaviour 
Suicidal ideation and behaviour have been reported in patients treated with anti-epileptic agents in 
several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled trials of anti-epileptic medicinal 
products has also shown a small increased risk of suicidal ideation and behaviour.  The mechanism of 
this risk is not known and the available data do not exclude the possibility of an increased risk for 
zonisamide. 
Therefore, patients should be monitored for signs of suicidal ideation and behaviours and appropriate 
treatment should be considered.  Patients (and caregivers of patients) should be advised to seek 
medical advice should signs of suicidal ideation or behaviour emerge. 
Kidney stones 
Some patients, especially those with a predisposition to nephrolithiasis, may be at increased risk for 
renal stone formation and associated signs and symptoms such as renal colic, renal pain or flank pain. 
Nephrolithiasis may lead to chronic kidney damage. Risk factors for nephrolithiasis include prior stone 
formation, a family history of nephrolithiasis and hypercalciuria. None of these risk factors can 
reliably predict stone formation during zonisamide treatment. In addition, patients taking other 
medications associated with nephrolithiasis may be at increased risk. Increasing fluid intake and urine 
output may help reduce the risk of stone formation, particularly in those with predisposing risk factors. 
Metabolic acidosis 
Hyperchloraemic, non-anion gap, metabolic acidosis (i.e. decreased serum bicarbonate below the 
normal reference range in the absence of chronic respiratory alkalosis) is associated with zonisamide 
treatment. This metabolic acidosis is caused by renal bicarbonate loss due to the inhibitory effect of 
zonisamide on carbonic anhydrase. Such electrolyte imbalance has been observed with the use of 
zonisamide in placebo-controlled clinical trials and in the post-marketing period. Generally, 
zonisamide-induced metabolic acidosis occurs early in treatment although cases can occur at any time 
during treatment.  The amounts by which bicarbonate is decreased are usually small – moderate 
(average decrease of approximately 3.5 mEq/l at daily doses of 300 mg in adults); rarely patients can 
experience more severe decreases. Conditions or therapies that predispose to acidosis (such as renal 
disease, severe respiratory disorders, status epilepticus, diarrhoea, surgery, ketogenic diet, or medicinal 
products) may be additive to the bicarbonate lowering effects of zonisamide. 
The risk of zonisamide induced metabolic acidosis appears to be more frequent and severe in younger 
patients. Appropriate evaluation and monitoring of serum bicarbonate levels should be carried out in 
patients taking zonisamide who have underlying conditions which might increase the risk of acidosis, 
in patients who are at an increased risk of adverse consequences of metabolic acidosis and in patients 
with symptoms suggestive of metabolic acidosis. If metabolic acidosis develops and persists, 
consideration should be given to reducing the dose or discontinuing zonisamide (by gradual 
discontinuation or reduction of a therapeutic dose) as osteopenia may develop. 
If the decision is made to continue patients on zonisamide in the face of persistent acidosis, alkali 
treatment should be considered. 
Metabolic acidosis has the potential to lead to hyperammonaemia, which has been reported with or 
without encephalopathy during zonisamide treatment. The risk for hyperammonaemia may be increased 
in patients concomitantly taking other medications that can cause hyperammonaemia (e.g. valproate), or 
who have an underlying urea cycle disorder or reduced hepatic mitochondrial activity. In patients who 
develop unexplained lethargy or changes in mental status during treatment with zonisamide, it is 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommended to consider hyperammonaemic encephalopathy and to measure ammonia levels.  
Zonisamide should be used with caution in adult patients being treated concomitantly with carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate or acetazolamide, as there are insufficient data to rule out a 
pharmacodynamic interaction (see also section 4.4 Paediatric Population and section 4.5). 
Heat stroke 
Cases of decreased sweating and elevated body temperature have been reported mainly in paediatric 
patients (see section 4.4 Paediatric Population for full warning). Caution should be used in adults when 
zonisamide is prescribed with other medicinal products that predispose patients to heat related 
disorders; these include carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and medicinal products with anticholinergic 
activity (see also section 4.4 Paediatric Population).  
Pancreatitis 
In patients taking zonisamide who develop the clinical signs and symptoms of pancreatitis, it is 
recommended that pancreatic lipase and amylase levels are monitored. If pancreatitis is evident, in the 
absence of another obvious cause, it is recommended that discontinuation of zonisamide be considered 
and appropriate treatment initiated. 
Rhabdomyolysis 
In patients taking zonisamide, in whom severe muscle pain and/or weakness develop either in the 
presence or absence of a fever, it is recommended that markers of muscle damage be assessed, 
including serum creatine phosphokinase and aldolase levels. If elevated, in the absence of another 
obvious cause such as trauma or grand mal seizures, it is recommended that zonisamide 
discontinuation be considered and appropriate treatment initiated. 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment with zonisamide 
and for one month after discontinuation (see section 4.6).  Zonisamide must not be used in women of 
childbearing potential not using effective contraception unless clearly necessary and only if the 
potential benefit is considered to justify the risk to the foetus. Specialist medical advice should be 
given to women treated with zonisamide who are of childbearing potential. The woman should be 
fully informed of and understand the possible effects of zonisamide on the foetus and these risks 
should be discussed with the patient in relation to the benefits before starting treatment. Before the 
initiation of treatment with Zonisamide Mylan in a woman of childbearing potential, pregnancy testing 
should be considered. Women planning a pregnancy should meet with their specialists to reassess 
treatment with zonisamide and to consider other therapeutic options prior to conception and before 
contraception is discontinued. Women of childbearing potential should be counselled to contact her 
doctor immediately if she becomes pregnant or thinks she may be pregnant and is taking Zonisamide 
Mylan. Physicians treating patients with zonisamide should ensure that patients are fully informed 
about the need to use appropriate effective contraception and should use clinical judgement when 
assessing whether oral contraceptives (OCs), or the doses of the OC components, are adequate based 
on the individual patient’s clinical situation. 
Body weight 
Zonisamide may cause weight loss. A dietary supplement or increased food intake may be considered 
if the patient is losing weight or is underweight whilst on this medication. If substantial undesirable 
weight loss occurs, discontinuation of zonisamide should be considered. Weight loss is potentially 
more serious in children (see section 4.4. Paediatric Population). 
Paediatric population 
The warnings and precautions mentioned above are also applicable to adolescent and paediatric 
patients.  The warnings and precautions mentioned below are more relevant to paediatric and 
adolescent patients. 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heat stroke and dehydration 
Preventing overheating and dehydration in children 
Zonisamide can cause children to sweat less and overheat and if the child is not treated this can 
lead to brain damage and death. Children are most at risk especially in hot weather. 
The child should stay cool especially in hot weather 
The child must avoid  heavy exercise especially when the weather is hot 
The child must drink plenty of cold water 
The child must not take any of these medicines: carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (like 
When a child is taking zonisamide: 
• 
• 
• 
• 
topiramate and acetazolamide), and anticholinergic agents (like clomipramine, hydroxyzine, 
diphenhydramine, haloperidol, imipramine and oxybutynin). 
IF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING OCCUR, THE CHILD NEEDS URGENT MEDICAL 
ATTENTION: 
The skin feels very hot with little or no sweating, or the child becomes confused or has muscle 
cramps, or the child’s heartbeat or breathing become rapid. 
•  Take the child to a cool, shaded place 
•  Keep the child's skin cool with water 
•  Give the child cold water to drink 
Cases of decreased sweating and elevated body temperature have been reported mainly in paediatric 
patients. Heat stroke requiring hospital treatment was diagnosed in some cases.  Heat stroke requiring 
hospital treatment and leading to death has been reported. Most reports occurred during periods of 
warm weather. Physicians should discuss with patients and their carers the potential seriousness of heat 
stroke, situations in which it might arise, as well as action to take in the event of any signs or 
symptoms. Patients or their carers must be warned to take care to maintain hydration and avoid 
exposure to excessive temperatures and strenuous physical exercise depending on the condition of the 
patient. Prescribers should draw the attention of paediatric patients and their parent/carers to the advice 
in the Packaging Leaflet on preventing heat stroke and overheating in children as provided. In the 
event of signs or symptoms of dehydration, oligohydrosis, or elevated body temperature, 
discontinuation of zonisamide should be considered. 
Zonisamide should not be used as co-medication in paediatric patients with other medicinal products that 
predispose patients to heat related disorders; these include carbonic anhydrase inhibitors and medicinal 
products with anticholinergic activity. 
Body weight 
Weight loss leading to deterioration of general condition and failure to take anti-epilepsy medication 
has been related to a fatal outcome (see section 4.8). Zonisamide is not recommended for paediatric 
patients who are underweight (definition in accordance with the WHO age adjusted BMI categories) or 
have a decreased appetite. 
The incidence of decreased body weight is consistent across age groups (see section 4.8); however, 
given the potential seriousness of weight loss in children, weight should be monitored in this 
population. A dietary supplement or increased food intake should be considered if the patient is failing 
to gain weight in accordance with growth charts, otherwise zonisamide should be discontinued. 
There are limited data from clinical studies in patients with a body weight of less than 20 kg. Therefore 
children aged 6 years and above with a body weight of less than 20 kg should be treated with caution. 
The long term effect of weight loss in the paediatric population on growth and development is 
unknown. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metabolic acidosis 
The risk of zonisamide induced metabolic acidosis appears to be more frequent and severe in paediatric 
and adolescent patients. Appropriate evaluation and monitoring of serum bicarbonate levels should be 
carried out in this population (see section 4.4 - Metabolic acidosis for full warning; see section 4.8 for 
incidence of low bicarbonate).  The long term effect of low bicarbonate levels on growth and 
development is unknown. 
Zonisamide should not be used as co-medication in paediatric patients with other carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitors such as topiramate and acetazolamide (see section 4.5). 
Kidney stones 
Kidney stones have occurred in paediatric patients (see section 4.4 Kidney stones for full warning). 
Some patients, especially those with a predisposition to nephrolithiasis, may be at increased risk for 
renal stone formation and associated signs and symptoms such as renal colic, renal pain or flank pain. 
Nephrolithiasis may lead to chronic kidney damage. Risk factors for nephrolithiasis include prior stone 
formation, a family history of nephrolithiasis and hypercalciuria. None of these risk factors can reliably 
predict stone formation during zonisamide treatment. Increasing fluid intake and urine output may help 
reduce the risk of stone formation, particularly in those with predisposing risk factors. Renal 
ultrasound should be performed at the discretion of the physician. In the event kidney stones are 
detected, zonisamide should be discontinued. 
Hepatic dysfunction 
Increased levels of hepatobiliary parameters such as alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate 
aminotransferase (AST), gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT) and bilirubin have occurred in paediatric 
and adolescent patients, without any consistent pattern in the observations of values above the upper 
limit of normal. Nevertheless, if a hepatic event is suspected, liver function should be evaluated and 
discontinuation of zonisamide should be considered. 
Cognition 
Cognitive impairment in patients affected by epilepsy has been associated with the underlying 
pathology and/or the administration of anti-epileptic treatment. In a zonisamide placebo-controlled 
study conducted in paediatric and adolescent patients, the proportion of patients with impaired 
cognition was numerically greater in the zonisamide group compared with the placebo group. 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
Effect of zonisamide on cytochrome P450 enzymes 
In vitro studies using human liver microsomes show no or little (< 25%) inhibition of cytochrome P450 
isozymes 1A2, 2A6, 2B6, 2C8, 2C9, 2C19, 2D6, 2E1 or 3A4 at zonisamide levels approximately 
two-fold or greater than clinically relevant unbound serum concentrations.  Therefore, zonisamide is 
not expected to affect the pharmacokinetics of other medicinal products via cytochrome P450-mediated 
mechanisms, as demonstrated for carbamazepine, phenytoin, ethinylestradiol and desipramine in vivo. 
Potential for zonisamide to affect other medicinal products 
Anti-epileptic medicinal products 
In epileptic patients, steady-state dosing with zonisamide resulted in no clinically relevant 
pharmacokinetic effects on carbamazepine, lamotrigine, phenytoin, or sodium valproate. 
Oral contraceptives 
In clinical studies in healthy subjects, steady-state dosing with zonisamide did not affect serum 
concentrations of ethinylestradiol or norethisterone in a combined oral contraceptive. 
Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors 
Zonisamide should be used with caution in adult patients treated concomitantly with carbonic 
anhydrase inhibitors such as topiramate and acetazolamide, as there are insufficient data to rule out a 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
possible pharmacodynamic interaction (see section 4.4). 
Zonisamide should not be used as co-medication in paediatric patients with other carbonic anhydrase 
inhibitors such as topiramate and acetazolamide (see section 4.4: Paediatric population). 
P-gp substrate 
An in vitro study shows that zonisamide is a weak inhibitor of P-gp (MDR1) with an IC50 of 
267 µmol/l and there is the theoretical potential for zonisamide to affect the pharmacokinetics of 
substances which are P-gp substrates. Caution is advised when starting or stopping zonisamide 
treatment or changing the zonisamide dose in patients who are also receiving medicinal products which 
are P-gp substrates (e.g. digoxin, quinidine). 
Potential medicinal product interactions affecting zonisamide 
In clinical studies co-administration of lamotrigine had no apparent effect on zonisamide 
pharmacokinetics.  The combination of zonisamide with other medicinal products that may lead to 
urolithiasis may enhance the risk of developing kidney stones; therefore the concomitant 
administration of such medicinal products should be avoided. 
Zonisamide is metabolised partly by CYP3A4 (reductive cleavage), and also by N-acetyl-transferases 
and conjugation with glucuronic acid; therefore, substances that can induce or inhibit these enzymes 
may affect the pharmacokinetics of zonisamide: 
- 
- 
Enzyme induction: Exposure to zonisamide is lower in epileptic patients receiving 
CYP3A4-inducing agents such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, and phenobarbitone.  These 
effects are unlikely to be of clinical significance when zonisamide is added to existing therapy; 
however, changes in zonisamide concentrations may occur if concomitant CYP3A4-inducing 
anti-epileptic or other medicinal products are withdrawn, dose adjusted or introduced, an 
adjustment of the zonisamide dose may be required. Rifampicin is a potent CYP3A4 inducer. 
If co-administration is necessary, the patient should be closely monitored and the dose of 
zonisamide and other CYP3A4 substrates adjusted as needed. 
CYP3A4 inhibition: Based upon clinical data, known specific and non-specific CYP3A4 
inhibitors appear to have no clinically relevant effect on zonisamide pharmacokinetic exposure 
parameters. Steady-state dosing of either ketoconazole (400 mg/day) or cimetidine 
(1200 mg/day) had no clinically relevant effects on the single-dose pharmacokinetics of 
zonisamide given to healthy subjects. Therefore, modification of zonisamide dosing should not 
be necessary when co-administered with known CYP3A4 inhibitors. 
Paediatric population 
Interaction studies have only been performed in adults. 
4.6 
Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Women of childbearing potential 
Women of childbearing potential must use effective contraception during treatment with zonisamide, 
and for one month after discontinuation. 
Zonisamide must not be used in women of childbearing potential not using effective contraception 
unless clearly necessary and only if the potential benefit is considered to justify the risk to the foetus.   
Specialist medical advice should be given to women treated with zonisamide who are of childbearing 
potential. The woman should be fully informed of and understand the possible effects of Zonisamide 
Mylan on the foetus and these risks should be discussed with the patient in relation to the benefits 
before starting treatment. Pregnancy testing in women of childbearing potential should be considered 
prior to initiating treatment with zonisamide. Women planning a pregnancy should meet with their 
specialists to reassess treatment with zonisamide and to consider other therapeutic options prior to 
conception and before contraception is discontinued.  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As with all antiepileptic medicines, sudden discontinuation of zonisamide should be avoided as this 
may lead to breakthrough seizures that could have serious consequences for the woman and the unborn 
child. The risk of birth defect is increased by factor 2 to 3 in the offspring of mothers treated with an 
antiepileptic medicinal product. The most frequently reported are cleft lip, cardiovascular 
malformations and neural tube defect. Multiple antiepileptic medicinal product therapy may be 
associated with a higher risk of congenital malformations than monotherapy. 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data from the use of zonisamide in pregnant women. Studies in animals have shown 
reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). In humans the potential risk of major congenital malformations 
and neurodevelopmental disorders is unknown. 
Data from a registry study suggest an increase in the proportion of babies born at a low birth weight 
(LBW), pre-term or small for gestational age (SGA). These increases are from about 5% to 8% for 
LBW, from about 8% to 10% for pre-term birth and from about 7% to 12% for SGA, all compared with 
mothers treated with lamotrigine monotherapy. 
Zonisamide must not be used during pregnancy unless clearly necessary and only if the potential benefit 
is considered to justify the risk to the foetus. If zonisamide is prescribed during pregnancy, patients 
should be fully informed of the potential harm to the foetus and use of the minimal effective dose is 
advised along with careful monitoring. 
Breast-feeding 
Zonisamide is excreted in human milk; the concentration in breast milk is similar to maternal plasma. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue/abstain from 
zonisamide therapy. Due to the long retention time of zonisamide in the body, breast-feeding must not 
be resumed until one month after zonisamide therapy is completed. 
Fertility 
There are no clinical data available on the effects of zonisamide on human fertility. Studies in animals 
have shown changes in fertility parameters (see section 5.3). 
4.7 
Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
No studies on the effects on the ability to drive and use machines have been performed. However, 
given that some patients may experience drowsiness or difficulty with concentration, particularly early 
in treatment or after a dose increase, patients must be advised to exercise caution during activities 
requiring a high degree of alertness, e.g., driving or operating machines. 
4.8 
Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
Zonisamide has been administered to over 1,200 patients in clinical studies, more than 400 of whom 
received zonisamide for at least 1 year.  In addition there has been extensive post-marketing experience 
with zonisamide in Japan since 1989 and in the USA since 2000. 
It should be noted that zonisamide is a benzisoxazole derivative, which contains a sulfonamide group. 
Serious immune based adverse reactions that are associated with medicinal products containing a 
sulfonamide group include rash, allergic reaction and major haematological disturbances including 
aplastic anaemia, which very rarely can be fatal (see section 4.4). 
The most common adverse reactions in controlled adjunctive-therapy studies were somnolence, 
dizziness and anorexia.  The most common adverse reactions in a randomised, controlled monotherapy 
trial comparing zonisamide with carbamazepine prolonged release were decreased bicarbonate, 
decreased appetite, and decreased weight.  The incidence of markedly abnormally low serum 
bicarbonate (a decrease to less than 17 mEq/l and by more than 5 mEq/l) was 3.8%. The incidence of 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
marked decreases in weight of 20% or more was 0.7%. 
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions associated with zonisamide obtained from clinical studies and post-marketing 
surveillance are tabulated below.  The frequencies are arranged according to the following scheme: 
very common 
common 
uncommon 
rare 
very rare 
not known 
≥ 1/10 
≥ 1/100 to < 1/10 
≥ 1/1,000 to < 1/100 
≥ 1/10,000 to < 1/1,000 
< 1/10,000 
cannot be estimated from the available data 
Table 4.  
clinical studies and post-marketing surveillance 
Adverse reactions associated with zonisamide obtained from adjunctive use 
Very 
Common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very Rare 
System Organ 
Class (MedDRA 
terminology) 
Infections and 
infestation 
Blood and 
lymphatic system 
disorders 
Pneumonia 
Urinary tract 
infection 
Ecchymosis 
Agranulocytosis 
Aplastic anaemia 
Leucocytosis 
Leucopoenia 
Lymphadenopathy 
Pancytopenia, 
Thrombocytopenia 
Drug-induced 
hypersensitivity 
syndrome  
Drug rash with 
eosinophilia and 
systemic symptoms 
Metabolic acidosis 
Renal tubular acidosis 
Hallucination 
Amnesia 
Coma 
Grand mal seizure 
Myasthenic syndrome 
Neuroleptic malignant 
syndrome 
Status epilepticus 
Immune system 
disorders 
Hypersensitivity   
Metabolism and 
nutrition 
disorders 
Psychiatric 
Disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Anorexia 
Hypokalaemia 
Anger 
Aggression 
Suicidal ideation 
Suicide attempt 
Convulsion 
Agitation 
Irritability 
Confusional 
state 
Depression 
Ataxia 
Dizziness 
Memory 
impairment 
Somnolence 
Affect lability 
Anxiety 
Insomnia 
Psychotic 
disorder 
Bradyphrenia 
Disturbance in 
attention 
Nystagmus 
Paraesthesia 
Speech disorder 
Tremor 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
System Organ 
Class (MedDRA 
terminology) 
Very 
Common 
Eye disorders 
Diplopia 
Respiratory, 
thoracic and 
mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary 
disorders 
Skin and 
subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
Musculoskeletal 
and connective 
tissue disorders 
Renal and 
urinary 
disorders 
General 
disorders and 
administration 
site conditions 
Investigations 
Decreased 
bicarbonate 
Injury, 
poisoning and 
procedural 
complications 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very Rare 
Angle closure 
glaucoma 
Eye pain 
Myopia 
Vision blurred 
Visual acuity reduced 
Dyspnoea 
Pneumonia aspiration 
Respiratory disorder 
Hypersensitivity-type 
Pneumonitis 
Pancreatitis 
Vomiting 
Abdominal pain 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia 
Nausea 
Rash 
Pruritus 
Alopecia 
Cholecystitis 
Cholelithiasis 
Hepatocellular damage 
Anhidrosis 
Erythema multiforme 
Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome 
Toxic epidermal 
necrolysis 
Rhabdomyolysis 
Nephrolithiasis  Calculus urinary  Hydronephrosis 
Renal failure 
Urine abnormality 
Fatigue 
Influenza-like 
illness 
Pyrexia 
Oedema 
peripheral 
Weight 
decreased 
Blood creatine 
phosphokinase 
increased 
Blood creatinine 
increased 
Blood urea increased 
Liver function tests 
abnormal 
Heat stroke 
In addition there have been isolated cases of Sudden Unexplained Death in Epilepsy Patients (SUDEP) 
receiving zonisamide. 
Table 5.  
Adverse reactions in a randomised, controlled monotherapy trial comparing 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
zonisamide with carbamazepine prolonged release 
System Organ Class 
(MedDRA terminology†) 
Infections and 
infestation 
Blood and lymphatic 
disorders 
Metabolism and 
nutrition disorders 
Psychiatric Disorders 
Nervous system 
disorders 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic 
and mediastinal 
disorders 
Gastrointestinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous 
tissue disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site 
conditions 
Investigations 
Very Common  Common 
Uncommon 
Urinary tract infection 
Pneumonia 
Leucopenia 
Thrombocytopenia 
Hypokalaemia 
Confusional state 
Acute psychosis 
Aggression 
Suicidal ideation 
Hallucination 
Nystagmus 
Speech disorder 
Tremor 
Convulsion 
Respiratory disorder 
Abdominal pain 
Cholecystitis acute 
Pruritus 
Ecchymosis 
Urine analysis 
abnormal 
Decreased appetite 
Agitation 
Depression 
Insomnia 
Mood swings 
Anxiety 
Ataxia 
Dizziness 
Memory impairment 
Somnolence 
Bradyphrenia 
Disturbance in attention 
Paraesthesia 
Diplopia 
Constipation 
Diarrhoea 
Dyspepsia  
Nausea  
Vomiting 
Rash 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Irritability 
Weight decreased 
Blood creatinine 
phosphokinase increased 
Alanine aminotransferase 
increased 
Aspartate 
aminotransferase 
increased 
Decreased 
bicarbonate 
† MedDRA version 13.1 
Additional information on special populations 
Elderly 
A pooled analysis of safety data on 95 elderly subjects has shown a relatively higher reporting 
frequency of oedema peripheral and pruritus compared to the adult population. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Review of post-marketing data suggests that patients aged 65 years or older report a higher frequency 
than the general population of the following events: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and Drug 
Induced Hypersensitivity syndrome (DIHS). 
Paediatric population 
The adverse event profile of zonisamide in paediatric patients aged 6 to 17 years in placebo-controlled 
clinical studies was consistent with that of adults. Among 465 subjects in the paediatric safety database 
(including a further 67 subjects from the extension phase of the controlled clinical trial) there were 
7 deaths (1.5%; 14.6/1000 person-years): 2 cases of status epilepticus, of which one was related to 
severe weight loss (10% within 3 months) in an underweight subject and subsequent failure to take 
medication; 1 case of head injury/haematoma, and 4 deaths in subjects with pre-existing functional 
neurological deficits for various causes (2 cases of pneumonia-induced sepsis/organ failure, 1 SUDEP 
and 1 head injury). A total of 70.4% of paediatric subjects who received ZNS in the controlled study or 
its open label extension had at least one treatment-emergent bicarbonate measurement below 
22 mmol/L. The duration of low bicarbonate measurements was also long (median 188 days). 
A pooled analysis of safety data on 420 paediatric subjects (183 subjects aged 6 to 11 years, and 
237 subjects aged 12 to 16 years with a mean duration of exposure of approximately 12 months) has 
shown a relatively higher reporting frequency of pneumonia, dehydration, decreased sweating, 
abnormal liver function tests, otitis media, pharyngitis, sinusitis and upper respiratory tract infection, 
cough, epistaxis and rhinitis, abdominal pain, vomiting, rash and eczema, and fever compared to the 
adult population (particularly in subjects aged below 12 years) and, at a low incidence, amnesia, 
creatinine increased, lymphadenopathy, and thrombocytopenia. The incidence of a decrease in body 
weight of 10% or more was 10.7% (see section 4.4). In some cases of weight decrease there was a 
delay in transition to the next Tanner stage and in bone maturation. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It 
allows continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare 
professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. 
4.9 
Overdose 
Symptoms 
There have been cases of accidental and intentional overdose in adult and paediatric patients. In some 
cases, the overdoses were asymptomatic, particularly where emesis or lavage was prompt. In other 
cases, the overdose was followed by symptoms such as somnolence, nausea, gastritis, nystagmus, 
myoclonus, coma, bradycardia, reduced renal function, hypotension and respiratory depression. A very 
high plasma concentration of 100.1 μg/ml zonisamide was recorded approximately 31 hours after a 
patient took an overdose of zonisamide and clonazepam; the patient became comatose and had 
respiratory depression, but recovered consciousness five days later and had no sequelae. 
Management 
No specific antidotes for zonisamide overdose are available.  Following a suspected recent overdose, 
emptying the stomach by gastric lavage or by induction of emesis may be indicated with the usual 
precautions to protect the airway. General supportive care is indicated, including frequent monitoring 
of vital signs and close observation. Zonisamide has a long elimination half-life so its effects may be 
persistent. Although not formally studied for the treatment of overdose, haemodialysis reduced plasma 
concentrations of zonisamide in a patient with reduced renal function, and may be considered as 
treatment of overdose if clinically indicated. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1 
Pharmacodynamic properties 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: Antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX15 
Zonisamide is a benzisoxazole derivative. It is an anti-epileptic medicine with weak carbonic 
anhydrase activity in-vitro.  It is chemically unrelated to other anti-epileptic agents. 
Mechanism of action 
The mechanism of action of zonisamide is not fully elucidated, but it appears to act on 
voltage-sensitive sodium and calcium channels, thereby disrupting synchronised neuronal firing, 
reducing the spread of seizure discharges and disrupting subsequent epileptic activity. Zonisamide also 
has a modulatory effect on GABA-mediated neuronal inhibition. 
Pharmacodynamic effects 
The anticonvulsant activity of zonisamide has been evaluated in a variety of models, in several species 
with induced or innate seizures, and zonisamide appears to act as a broad-spectrum anti-epileptic in 
these models. Zonisamide prevents maximal electroshock seizures and restricts seizure spread, 
including the propagation of seizures from cortex to sub-cortical structures and suppresses 
epileptogenic focus activity. Unlike phenytoin and carbamazepine however, zonisamide acts 
preferentially on seizures originating in the cortex. 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
Monotherapy in partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation 
Efficacy of zonisamide as monotherapy was established in a double-blind, parallel group, 
non-inferiority comparison to carbamazepine prolonged release (PR) in 583 adult subjects with newly 
diagnosed partial seizures with or without secondary generalised tonic-clonic seizures. Subjects were 
randomised to carbamazepine and zonisamide received treatment for a duration of up to 24 months 
depending on response. Subjects were titrated to the initial target dose of 600 mg carbamazepine or 
300 mg of zonisamide. Subjects who experienced a seizure were titrated to the next target dose i.e. 
800 mg carbamazepine or 400 mg of zonisamide. Subjects who experienced a further seizure were 
titrated to the maximal target dose of 1200 mg carbamazepine or 500 mg zonisamide. Subjects who 
were seizure-free for 26 weeks at a target dose level continued on this dose for another 26 weeks. Main 
outcomes of this study are presented in this table: 
Table 6. 
Efficacy results for Monotherapy Study 310 
n (ITT population) 
Six months seizure freedom 
PP-population* 
ITT-population 
<  4 seizures during 3 month 
baseline period 
>  4 seizures during 3 month 
baseline period 
Twelve months seizure freedom 
PP-population 
ITT-population 
<  4 seizures during 3 month 
baseline period 
Zonisamide  Carbamazepine 
281 
300 
79.4% 
69.4% 
71.7% 
83.7% 
74.7% 
75.7% 
Diff 
CI95% 
-4.5% 
-12.2% ; 3.1% 
-6.1% 
-13.6% ; 1.4% 
-4.0% 
-11.7% ; 3.7% 
52.9% 
68.9% 
-15.9% 
-37.5% ; 5.6% 
67.6% 
55.9% 
57.4% 
74.7% 
62.3% 
64.7% 
-7.9% 
- 17.2% ; 1.5% 
-7.7% 
- 16.1% ; 0.7% 
-7.2% 
-15.7% ; 1.3% 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
>  4 seizures during 3 month 
baseline period 
44.1% 
48.9% 
-4.8% 
-26.9% ; 17.4% 
Seizure  Sub-type 
(6  month 
seizure freedom-PP population) 
All partial 
Simple partial 
Complex partial 
All generalized Tonic-Clonic 
Secondary Tonic-Clonic 
Generalized Tonic-Clonic 
76.4% 
72.3% 
76.9% 
78.9% 
77.4% 
85.7% 
86.0% 
75.0% 
93.0% 
81.6% 
80.0% 
92.0% 
-9.6% 
-19.2% ; 0.0% 
-2.7% 
-20.0% ; 14.7% 
-16.1% 
-26.3% ; -5.9% 
-2.8 
-11.5% ; 6.0% 
-2.6% 
-12.4% ; 7.1% 
-6.3% 
-23.1% ; 10.5% 
PP = Per Protocol Population; ITT = Intent To Treat Population 
*Primary endpoint 
Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation in 
adults 
In adults, efficacy has been demonstrated with zonisamide in 4 double-blind, placebo-controlled studies 
of periods of up to 24 weeks with either once or twice daily dosing.  These studies show that the 
median reduction in partial seizure frequency is related to zonisamide dose with sustained efficacy at 
doses of 300-500 mg per day. 
Paediatric population 
Adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial seizures, with or without secondary generalisation, in 
adolescent and paediatric patients (aged 6 years and above) 
In paediatric patients (aged 6 years and above), efficacy has been demonstrated with zonisamide in a 
double-blind, placebo-controlled study, which included 207 subjects and had a treatment duration of 
up to 24 weeks. A 50% or greater reduction from baseline in seizure frequency during the 12-week 
stable dose period was seen in 50% of the zonisamide-treated subjects and 31% of the patients on 
placebo. 
Specific safety issues that were encountered in the paediatric studies were: decreased appetite and 
weight loss, decreased bicarbonate levels, increased risk of kidney stones and dehydration. All these 
effects and specifically weight loss may have deleterious implications for growth and development, 
and may lead to general deterioration of health. Altogether, data on effects on long-term growth and 
development are limited. 
5.2 
Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Zonisamide is almost completely absorbed after oral administration, generally reaching peak serum or 
plasma concentrations within 2 to 5 hours of dosing.  The first-pass metabolism is believed to be 
negligible.  Absolute bioavailability is estimated to be approximately 100%. Oral bioavailability is not 
affected by food, although peak plasma and serum concentrations may be delayed. 
Zonisamide AUC and Cmax values increased almost linearly after single dose over the dose range of 
100-800 mg and after multiple doses over the dose range of 100-400 mg once daily. The increase at 
steady state was slightly more than expected on the basis of dose, probably due to the saturable binding 
of zonisamide to erythrocytes. Steady state was achieved within 13 days.  Slightly greater than 
expected accumulation occurs relative to single dosing. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
Zonisamide is 40 – 50 % bound to human plasma proteins, with in vitro studies showing that this is 
unaffected by the presence of various antiepileptic medicinal products (i.e., phenytoin, phenobarbitone, 
carbamazepine, and sodium valproate). The apparent volume of distribution is about 1.1 – 1.7 l/kg in 
adults indicating that zonisamide is extensively distributed to tissues. Erythrocyte/plasma ratios are 
about 15 at low concentrations and about 3 at higher concentrations. 
Biotransformation 
Zonisamide is metabolised primarily through reductive cleavage of the benzisoxazole ring of the parent 
drug by CYP3A4 to form 2-sulfamoylacetylphenol (SMAP) and also by N-acetylation. Parent drug and 
SMAP can additionally be glucuronidated. The metabolites, which could not be detected in plasma, are 
devoid of anticonvulsant activity. There is no evidence that zonisamide induces its own metabolism. 
Elimination 
Apparent clearance of zonisamide at steady-state after oral administration is about 0.70 l/h and the 
terminal elimination half-life is about 60 hours in the absence of CYP3A4 inducers. The elimination 
half-life was independent of dose and not affected by repeat administration. Fluctuation in serum or 
plasma concentrations over a dosing interval is low (< 30%).  The main route of excretion of 
zonisamide metabolites and unchanged drug is via the urine. Renal clearance of unchanged zonisamide 
is relatively low (approximately 3.5 ml/min); about 15 - 30 % of the dose is eliminated unchanged. 
Linearity / non-linearity 
Zonisamide exposure increases with time until steady state is achieved by approximately 8 weeks. 
When comparing the same dose level, subjects of higher total body weight appear to have lower 
steady-state serum concentrations, but this effect appears to be relatively modest.  Age (≥ 12 years) 
and gender, after adjustment for body weight effects, have no apparent effect on zonisamide 
exposure in epileptic patients during steady-state dosing.  There is no need for dose adjustment with 
any of the AEDs including CYP3A4 inducers. 
Pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship 
Zonisamide lowers the 28-day average seizure frequency and the decrease is proportional (log-linear) 
to zonisamide average concentration. 
Special patient groups 
Renal impairment 
Renal clearance of single doses of zonisamide was positively correlated with creatinine clearance.  The 
plasma AUC of zonisamide was increased by 35% in subjects with creatinine clearance < 20 ml/min (see 
also section 4.2.). 
Hepatic impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of zonisamide in patients with impaired liver function have not been adequately 
studied. 
Elderly 
No clinically significant differences were observed in the pharmacokinetics between young (aged 
21-40 years) and elderly (65-75 years). 
Children and adolescents (5-18 years) 
Limited data indicate that pharmacokinetics in children and adolescents dosed to steady state at 1, 7 or 
12 mg/kg daily, in divided doses, are similar to those observed in adults, after adjustment for 
bodyweight. 
5.3 
Preclinical safety data 
Findings not observed in clinical studies, but seen in the dog at exposure levels similar to clinical use, 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
were liver changes (enlargement, dark-brown discolouration, mild hepatocyte enlargement with 
concentric lamellar bodies in the cytoplasm and cytoplasmic vacuolation) associated with increased 
metabolism. 
Zonisamide was not genotoxic and has no carcinogenic potential. 
Zonisamide caused developmental abnormalities in mice, rats, and dogs, and was embryolethal in 
monkeys, when administered during the period of organogenesis at zonisamide dosage and maternal 
plasma levels similar to or lower than therapeutic levels in humans. 
In a repeated-dose oral toxicity study in juvenile rats, at exposure levels similar to those observed in 
paediatric patients at the maximum recommended dose, decreases in body weight and changes in renal 
histopathology and clinical pathology parameters and behavioural changes were observed.  Changes in 
renal histopathology and clinical pathology parameters were considered to be related to carbonic 
anhydrase inhibition by zonisamide.  The effects at this dose level were reversible during the recovery 
period. At a higher dose level (2-3-fold systemic exposure compared to therapeutic exposure) renal 
histopathological effects were more severe and only partially reversible. Most adverse effects observed 
in the juvenile rats were similar to those seen in the repeated-dose toxicity studies of zonisamide in 
adult rats, but renal tubular hyaline droplets and transitional hyperplasia were observed in the juvenile 
study only.  At this higher dose level, juvenile rats showed a decrease in growth, learning, and 
developmental parameters.  These effects were considered likely related to the decreased body weight 
and exaggerated pharmacologic effects of zonisamide at the maximum tolerated dose. 
In rats, decreased numbers of corpora lutea and implantation sites were observed at exposure levels 
equivalent to the maximum therapeutic dose in humans; irregular oestrus cycles and a decreased 
number of live foetuses were observed at exposure levels three times higher. 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1 
List of excipients 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg and 100 mg hard capsules 
Capsule contents 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Hydrogenated vegetable oil 
Capsule shells 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
Gelatin 
Printing ink 
Shellac 
Black iron oxide (E172) 
Potassium hydroxide 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
Capsule contents 
Microcrystalline cellulose 
Sodium laurilsulfate 
Hydrogenated vegetable oil 
Capsule shells 
Titanium dioxide (E171) 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gelatin 
Printing ink 
Shellac 
Iron oxide Red (E172) 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3 
Shelf life 
36 months 
6.4 
Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special storage conditions. 
6.5 
Nature and contents of container 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg and 50 mg hard capsules 
PVC-PVdC/Aluminium foil blisters in cardboard cartons containing 14, 28 and 56 capsules. 
PVC-PVdC/Aluminium foil perforated unit dose blisters in cardboard cartons containing 14 x 1 capsules. 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
PVC-PVdC/Aluminium foil blisters in cardboard cartons containing 28, 56, 98 and 196 capsules. 
PVC-PVdC/Aluminium foil perforated unit dose blisters in cardboard cartons containing 56 x 1 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6 
Special precautions for disposal 
No special requirements for disposal. 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material should be disposed of in accordance with local 
requirements. 
7. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
8. 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S) 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/16/1093/001 
EU/1/16/1093/002 
EU/1/16/1093/003 
EU/1/16/1093/004 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/16/1093/005 
EU/1/16/1093/006 
EU/1/16/1093/007 
EU/1/16/1093/008 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
EU/1/16/1093/009 
EU/1/16/1093/010 
EU/1/16/1093/011 
EU/1/16/1093/012 
EU/1/16/1093/013 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation: 31 March 2016 
Date of latest renewal: 01 December 2020 
10. 
DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency:  http://www.ema.europa.eu 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE  
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. 
MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Noucor Health, S.A. 
Av. Camí Reial, 51-57 
ES-08184 – Palau-solità i Plegamans 
Barcelona 
Spain 
B. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
C. 
AUTHORISATION  
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of  PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of Union 
reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and any 
subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
D. 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
•  Risk management plan (RMP) 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities 
and interventions detailed in the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any agreed subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
•  At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of an 
important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
zonisamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each hard capsule contains 25 mg zonisamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsules 
Blisters: 
14 hard capsules 
28 hard capsules 
56 hard capsules 
Unit Dose Blisters: 
14 x 1 hard capsules 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNINGS, IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/16/1093/001 
EU/1/16/1093/002 
EU/1/16/1093/003 
EU/1/16/1093/004 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC 
SN 
NN
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
zonisamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules. 
zonisamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each hard capsule contains 50 mg zonisamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsules 
Blisters: 
14 hard capsules 
28 hard capsules 
56 hard capsules 
Unit Dose Blisters: 
14 x 1 hard capsules 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Oral use 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNINGS, IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/16/1093/005 
EU/1/16/1093/006 
EU/1/16/1093/007 
EU/1/16/1093/008 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC 
SN 
NN
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
zonisamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING 
OUTER CARTON 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules. 
zonisamide 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE 
Each hard capsule contains 100 mg zonisamide. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Hard capsules 
Blisters: 
28 hard capsules 
56 hard capsules 
98 hard capsules 
196 hard capsules 
Unit Dose Blisters: 
56 x 1 hard capsules 
5. 
METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use 
Oral use 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED 
6. 
OUT OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNINGS, IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10. 
SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11. 
NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER 
EU/1/16/1093/009 
EU/1/16/1093/010 
EU/1/16/1093/011 
EU/1/16/1093/012 
EU/1/16/1093/013 
13. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14. 
GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg  
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – HUMAN READABLE DATA 
18. 
PC 
SN 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NN
34 
 
MINIMUM PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON BLISTERS OR STRIPS 
BLISTER PACK 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
zonisamide 
2. 
NAME OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
3. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
4. 
BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
5. 
OTHER 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules 
zonisamide 
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you start taking this medicine because it contains 
important information for you. 
-  Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
- 
- 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only.  Do not pass it on to others.  It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What Zonisamide Mylan is and what it is used for 
2.  What you need to know before you take Zonisamide Mylan 
3.  How to take Zonisamide Mylan 
4.  Possible side effects 
5.  How to store Zonisamide Mylan 
6.  Contents of the pack and other information 
What Zonisamide Mylan is and what it is used for 
1. 
Zonisamide Mylan contains the active substance zonisamide, and is used as an antiepileptic medicine. 
Zonisamide Mylan is used to treat seizures that affect one part of the brain (partial seizure), which may 
or may not be followed by a seizure affecting all of the brain (secondary generalisation). 
Zonisamide Mylan may be used: 
• 
•  with other antiepileptic medicines to treat seizures in adults, adolescents, and children aged 6 years 
on its own to treat seizures in adults 
and above. 
2. 
What you need to know before you take Zonisamide Mylan 
Do not take Zonisamide Mylan 
- 
- 
if you are allergic to zonisamide or any of the other ingredients of this medicine (listed in section 6). 
if you are allergic to other sulfonamide medicines. Examples include: sulfonamide 
antibiotics, thiazide diuretics, and sulfonylurea antidiabetes medicines. 
Warnings and precautions 
Zonisamide Mylan belongs to a group of medicines (sulfonamides) which can cause severe allergic 
reactions, severe skin rashes, and blood disorders, which very rarely can be fatal (see section 4. Possible 
Side Effects). 
A small number of people being treated with antiepileptics such as zonisamide have had thoughts of 
harming or killing themselves. If at any time you have these thoughts, immediately contact your doctor. 
Serious rashes occur in association with zonisamide therapy, including cases of Stevens-Johnson 
syndrome. 
The use of Zonisamide Mylan may lead to high levels of ammonia in the blood which could lead to a 
change in brain function, especially if you are also taking other medicines which can increase ammonia 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
levels (for example valproate), have a genetic disorder causing build-up of too much ammonia in the 
body (urea cycle disorder), or if you have liver problems. Tell your doctor immediately if you become 
unusually drowsy or confused. 
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking Zonisamide Mylan if you: 
- 
are younger than 12 years old, as you may be at greater risk of decreased sweating, heat stroke, 
pneumonia and liver problems.  If you are younger than 6 years old, Zonisamide Mylan is not 
recommended for you 
are elderly, as your dose of Zonisamide Mylan may need adjusting, and you may be more likely to 
develop an allergic reaction, severe skin rash, swelling of the feet and legs, and itchiness when 
taking Zonisamide Mylan (see section 4 Possible Side Effects) 
suffer from liver problems, as your dose of Zonisamide Mylan may need adjusting 
have eye problems such as glaucoma 
suffer from kidney problems as your dose of Zonisamide Mylan may need adjusting 
have previously suffered from kidney stones, as you may be at increased risk of developing more 
kidney stones. Reduce the risk of kidney stones by drinking sufficient water 
live in a place or are on holiday in a place where the weather is warm. Zonisamide Mylan can make 
you perspire less, which can cause your body temperature to increase. Reduce the risk of 
overheating by drinking sufficient water and keeping cool 
are underweight, or have lost a lot of weight as Zonisamide Mylan can cause you to lose more 
weight. Tell your doctor as this may need to be monitored. 
are pregnant or could become pregnant (see section ‘pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility’ for 
further information). 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
If any of these applies to you, tell your doctor before you take Zonisamide Mylan. 
Children and adolescents 
Talk to your doctor about the following risks:  
Preventing overheating and dehydration in children 
Zonisamide Mylan can cause your child to sweat less and overheat and if your child is not treated this 
can lead to brain damage and death. Children are most at risk especially in hot weather. 
keep your child cool especially in hot weather 
your child must avoid heavy exercise especially when the weather is hot 
give your child plenty of cold water to drink 
your child must not take these medicines: 
When your child is taking Zonisamide Mylan: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (like topiramate and acetazolamide), and anticholinergic agents (like 
clomipramine, hydroxyzine, diphenhydramine, haloperidol, imipramine and oxybutynin). 
If your child’s skin feels very hot with little or no sweating, becomes confused, has muscle cramps, or 
your child’s heartbeat or breathing becomes rapid: 
- 
take your child to a cool, shaded place 
- 
sponge your child’s skin with cool (not cold) water 
- 
give your child cold water to drink 
- 
seek urgent medical assistance. 
•  Body weight: You should monitor your child’s weight every month and see your doctor as soon as 
possible if your child is not gaining enough weight.  Zonisamide Mylan is not recommended for 
children who are underweight or have a small appetite, and should be used with caution in those 
below 20 kg. 
Increased acid level in the blood and kidney stones: Reduce these risks by ensuring that your child 
drinks enough water and is not taking any other medicine which could cause kidney stones (see 
Other medicines).  Your doctor will monitor your child’s blood bicarbonate levels and kidneys 
37 
• 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(see also section 4). 
Do not give this medicine to children below the age of 6 years because it is not known for this age 
group whether the potential benefits are greater than the risks. 
Other medicines and Zonisamide Mylan 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are taking, have recently taken or might take any other 
medicines, including medicines obtained without a prescription. 
- 
Zonisamide Mylan should be used carefully in adults when taken with medicines that can cause 
kidney stones, like topiramate or acetazolamide. In children, this combination is not 
recommended. 
Zonisamide Mylan could possibly increase your blood levels of medicines like digoxin and 
quinidine, and so a reduction in their dose may be required. 
- 
-  Other medicines like phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbitone and rifampicin can decrease your 
blood levels of Zonisamide Mylan, which may require an adjustment of your dose of Zonisamide 
Mylan. 
Zonisamide Mylan with food and drink 
Zonisamide Mylan can be taken with or without food. 
Pregnancy, breast-feeding and fertility 
If you are a woman of childbearing age you must use adequate contraception while taking, and for one 
month after stopping, Zonisamide Mylan. 
If you are planning a pregnancy, talk to your doctor before you stop contraception and before you 
become pregnant about the possibility of switching to other suitable treatments. If you are or think you 
might be pregnant, tell your doctor straight away. You should not stop your treatment without discussing 
this with your doctor. 
You must only take Zonisamide Mylan during your pregnancy if your doctor tells you to. Research has 
shown an increased risk of birth defects in children of women taking anti-epileptic medicines. The risk 
of birth defects or neurodevelopmental disorders (problems with brain development) for your child 
after taking Zonisamide Mylan during your pregnancy is unknown. A study showed that babies born to 
mothers using zonisamide during pregnancy were smaller than expected for their age at birth, compared 
with babies born to mothers treated with lamotrigine monotherapy. Make sure you are fully informed 
about the risks and the benefits of using zonisamide for epilepsy during pregnancy. 
Do not breast-feed whilst taking, or for one month after stopping Zonisamide Mylan. 
There are no clinical data available on the effects of zonisamide on human fertility. Studies in animals 
have shown changes in fertility parameters. 
Driving and using machines 
Zonisamide Mylan may affect your concentration, ability to react/respond, and may make you feel sleepy, 
particularly at the beginning of your treatment or after your dose is increased. Be especially careful while 
driving or operating machinery if Zonisamide Mylan affects you in this way. 
Zonisamide Mylan contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per capsule, that is to say essentially ‘sodium-
free’. 
3. 
How to take Zonisamide Mylan 
Always take this medicine exactly as your doctor or pharmacist has told you.  Check with your 
doctor or pharmacist if you are not sure. 
The recommended adult dose 
38 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
When you take Zonisamide Mylan on its own: 
- 
- 
- 
The starting dose is 100 mg taken once a day. 
This may be increased by up to 100 mg at intervals of two weeks. 
The recommended dose is 300 mg once a day. 
When you take Zonisamide Mylan with other antiepileptic medicines: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
The starting dose is 50 mg daily taken in two equal doses of 25 mg. 
This may be increased by up to 100 mg at intervals of one to two weeks. 
The recommended daily dose is between 300 mg and 500 mg. 
Some people respond to lower doses. The dose may be increased more slowly if you experience 
side effects, are elderly or if you suffer from kidney or liver problems.  
Use in children (aged 6 to 11 years) and adolescents (aged 12 to 17 years) weighing at least 
20 kg: 
- 
- 
- 
The starting dose is 1 mg per kg of body weight taken once a day. 
This may be increased by 1 mg per kg of body weight at intervals of one to two weeks. 
The recommended daily dose is 6 to 8 mg per kg for a child with a body weight of up to 55 kg or 
300 to 500 mg for a child with a body weight more than 55 kg (which ever dose is lower) taken 
once a day. 
Example: A child who weighs 25 kg should take 25 mg once a day for the first week, and then increase 
the daily dose by 25 mg at the start of each week until a daily dose between 150 to 200 mg is reached. 
If you feel that the effect of Zonisamide Mylan is too strong or too weak, talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Zonisamide Mylan capsules must be swallowed whole with water. 
Do not chew the capsules. 
Zonisamide Mylan can be taken once or twice daily, as instructed by your doctor. 
If you take Zonisamide Mylan twice a day, take half the daily dose in the morning and half in the 
evening. 
If you take more Zonisamide Mylan than you should 
If you may have taken more Zonisamide Mylan than you should, tell a carer (relative or friend), your 
doctor or pharmacist immediately, or contact your nearest hospital casualty department, taking your 
medicine with you.  You may become sleepy and could lose consciousness. You might also feel sick, 
have a sore stomach, muscle twitches, eye movement, feel faint, have a slowed heartbeat, and reduced 
breathing and kidney function.  Do not try to drive. 
If you forget to take Zonisamide Mylan 
- 
- 
If you forget to take a dose, don’t worry: take the next dose when it is due. 
Do not take a double dose to make up for a forgotten dose. 
If you stop taking Zonisamide Mylan 
- 
Zonisamide Mylan is meant to be taken as a long-term medicine.  Do not reduce your dose or 
stop your medicine unless your doctor tells you to. 
If your doctor advises you to stop taking Zonisamide Mylan your dose will be reduced gradually 
to lower the risk of more seizures. 
- 
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
39 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zonisamide Mylan belongs to a group of medicines (sulfonamides) that can cause severe allergic 
reactions, severe skin rashes, and blood disorders, which very rarely can be fatal. 
Contact your doctor immediately if you: 
- 
have difficulty breathing, a swollen face, lips or tongue, or a severe skin rash as these symptoms 
may indicate that you are having a severe allergic reaction 
have signs of overheating - high body temperature but little or no sweating, rapid heartbeat and 
breathing, muscle cramps, and confusion 
have thoughts of harming or killing yourself.  A small number of people being treated with anti- 
epileptics such as Zonisamide Mylan have had thoughts of harming or killing themselves 
have pain in your muscles or a feeling of weakness, as this may be a sign of abnormal muscle 
breakdown which can lead to kidney problems 
get a sudden pain in your back or stomach, have pain on urinating (passing water) or notice blood in 
your urine, as this may be a sign of kidney stones 
develop visual problems such as eye pain or blurred vision while taken zonisamide. 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Contact your doctor as soon as possible if you: 
- 
- 
have an unexplained skin rash, as this could develop into a more severe skin rash or skin peeling 
feel unusually tired or feverish, have a sore throat, swollen glands, or find that you bruise more 
easily, as this may mean you have a blood disorder 
have signs of increased acid level in the blood- headaches, drowsiness, shortness of breath and 
loss of appetite. Your doctor may need to monitor or treat this. 
- 
Your doctor may decide that you should stop using Zonisamide Mylan. 
The most common side effects of Zonisamide Mylan are mild. They occur during the first month of 
treatment and usually decrease with continued treatment.  In children ages 6 – 17 years old, side effects 
were consistent with those described below with the following exceptions:  pneumonia, dehydration, 
sweating decreased (common), abnormal liver enzymes (uncommon), middle ear infection, sore throat, 
sinus and chest infections, cough, nosebleeds, runny nose, stomach pain, vomiting, rash, eczema and 
fever. 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
- 
agitation, irritability, confusion, depression 
poor muscle coordination, dizziness, poor memory, sleepiness, double vision 
loss of appetite, decreased blood levels of bicarbonate (a substance that prevents your blood from 
becoming acidic). 
Common (may affect up to 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
difficulty sleeping, strange or unusual thoughts, feeling anxious or emotional 
slowed thoughts, loss of concentration, speech abnormalities, abnormal skin sensation (pins and 
needles), tremor, involuntary movement of the eyes 
- 
kidney stones 
- 
skin rashes, itching, allergic reactions, fever, tiredness, flu-like symptoms, hair loss 
- 
ecchymosis (a small bruise caused by blood leaking from broken blood vessels in the skin) 
- 
loss of weight, nausea, indigestion, stomach pains, diarrhoea (loose stools), constipation 
- 
swelling of the feet and legs 
- 
vomiting 
-  mood swings 
- 
- 
increased blood levels of creatinine (a waste product that your kidneys should normally remove) 
increased levels of liver enzymes in the blood. 
Uncommon (may affect up to 1 in 100 people): 
- 
- 
- 
- 
anger, aggression, thoughts of suicide, suicide attempt 
gall bladder inflammation, gallstones 
urinary stones 
lung infection / inflammation, urinary tract infections 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 
- 
- 
- 
low blood potassium levels, convulsions/seizures 
breathing disorders 
hallucinations 
abnormal urine tests. 
Very rare (may affect up to 1 in 10,000 people): 
-  memory loss, coma, neuroleptic malignant syndrome (inability to move, sweating, fever, 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
incontinence), status epilepticus (prolonged or repeated seizures) 
shortness of breath, inflammation of the lungs 
inflammations of the pancreas (severe pain in the stomach or back) 
liver problems, kidney failure 
severe rashes or skin peeling (at the same time you may feel unwell or develop a fever) 
abnormal muscle breakdown (you may feel pain or weakness in your muscles) which can lead to 
kidney problems 
swollen glands, blood disorders (reduction in the number of blood cells, which can make infection 
more likely and can make you look pale, feel tired and feverish, and bruise more easily) 
decreased sweating, overheating 
problems with your urine 
increased blood levels of creatine phosphokinase or urea which can be seen in a blood test 
abnormal results from liver function tests 
glaucoma, which is a blockage of fluid in the eye causing increased pressure in the eye. Eye pain, 
blurred vision or decreased vision may occur and can be signs of glaucoma. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist.  This includes any possible side effects not 
listed in this leaflet.  You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system listed in 
Appendix V. By reporting side effects you can help provide more information on the safety of this 
medicine. 
5. 
How to store Zonisamide Mylan 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the blister and the carton after EXP. 
The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special storage conditions. 
Do not throw away any medicines via wastewater or household waste.  Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use.  These measures will help protect the environment. 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What Zonisamide Mylan contains: 
Zonisamide 25 mg hard capsules: 
The active substance is zonisamide. Each capsule contains 25 mg of zonisamide. 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
- 
- 
capsule contents: microcrystalline cellulose, hydrogenated vegetable oil and sodium 
laurilsulfate 
capsule shell: gelatin and titanium dioxide (E171) 
printing ink: shellac, black iron oxide (E172) and potassium hydroxide. 
Zonisamide 50 mg hard capsules: 
The active substance is zonisamide. Each capsule contains 50 mg of zonisamide. 
41 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
- 
- 
capsule contents: microcrystalline cellulose, hydrogenated vegetable oil and sodium 
laurilsulfate 
capsule shell: gelatin and titanium dioxide (E171) 
printing ink: shellac and iron oxide red (E172) 
Zonisamide 100 mg hard capsules: 
The active substance is zonisamide. Each capsule contains 100 mg of zonisamide. 
The other ingredients are: 
- 
- 
- 
capsule contents: microcrystalline cellulose, hydrogenated vegetable oil and sodium 
laurilsulfate 
capsule shell: gelatin and titanium dioxide (E171) 
printing ink: shellac, black iron oxide (E172) and potassium hydroxide. 
What Zonisamide Mylan looks like and contents of the pack 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg hard capsules have a white body and a white cap, marked ‘Z 25’ in black and 
contain a white/almost white powder. 
Zonisamide Mylan 50 mg hard capsules have a white body and white cap, marked ‘Z 50’ in red and 
contain a white/almost white powder. 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg hard capsules have a white body and white cap, marked ‘Z 100’ in black and 
contain a white/almost white powder. 
Zonisamide Mylan 25 mg and 50 mg are available in blister packs of 14, 28, 56 capsules and perforated 
unit dose blister packs of 14 x 1 capsules. 
Zonisamide Mylan 100 mg are available in blister packs of 28, 56, 98 and 196 capsules and perforated 
unit dose blister packs of 56 x 1 capsules. 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Mylan Pharmaceuticals Limited 
Damastown Industrial Park,  
Mulhuddart, Dublin 15,  
DUBLIN 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Noucor Health, S.A. 
Av Cami Reial 51-57 
08184 Palau-Solita i Plegamans – Barcelona 
Spain 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder: 
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
България 
Майлан ЕООД 
Тел: + 359 2 44 55 400 
Lietuva 
Mylan Healthcare UAB  
Tel: + 370 5 205 1288 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg 
Mylan bvba/sprl 
Tél/Tel: + 32 (0)2 658 61 00 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Česká republika 
Viatris CZ s.r.o. 
Tel: + 420 222 004 400 
Danmark 
Viatris ApS 
Tlf: + 45 28 11 69 32 
Deutschland 
Viatris Healthcare GmbH 
Tel: + 49 800 0700 800 
(Belgique/Belgien) 
Magyarország 
Mylan EPD Kft 
Tel: + 36 1 465 2100 
Malta 
V.J. Salomone Pharma Ltd 
Tel: + 356 21 22 01 74 
Nederland 
Mylan BV 
Tel: + 31 (0)20 426 3300  
Eesti  
BGP Products Switzerland GmbH Eesti filiaal  
Tel: + 372 6363 052 
Norge 
Viatris AS 
Tlf: + 47 66 75 33 00 
Ελλάδα 
Generics Pharma Hellas ΕΠΕ  
Τηλ:  + 30 210 993 6410 
España 
Viatris Pharmaceuticals S.L.U. 
Tel: + 34 900 102 712 
France 
Viatris Santé 
Tél: + 33 4 37 25 75 00 
Hrvatska 
Viatris Hrvatska d.o.o.  
Tel: + 385 1 23 50 599 
Ireland 
Mylan Ireland Limited 
Tel: + 353 1 8711600 
Ísland 
Icepharma hf. 
Sími: + 354 540 8000 
Italia 
Mylan Italia S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 612 46921 
Κύπρος 
Varnavas Hadjipanayis Ltd 
Τηλ: + 357 2220 7700 
Latvija 
Mylan Healthcare SIA  
Tel: + 371 676 055 80 
Österreich 
Arcana Arzneimittel GmbH 
Tel: + 43 1 416 2418 
Polska 
Mylan Healthcare Sp. z o.o. 
Tel: + 48 22 546 64 00 
Portugal 
Mylan, Lda. 
Tel: + 351 214 127 200 
România  
BGP Products SRL 
Tel: + 40 372 579 000 
Slovenija 
Viatris d.o.o. 
Tel: + 386 1 23 63 180 
Slovenská republika 
Viatris Slovakia s.r.o. 
Tel: + 421 2 32 199 100 
Suomi/Finland 
Viatris Oy 
Puh/Tel: + 358 20 720 9555  
Sverige 
Viatris AB 
Tel: + 46 855 522 750 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland) 
Mylan IRE Healthcare Limited  
Tel: + 353 18711600 
This leaflet was last revised in MM/YYYY 
43 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu 
44 
 
 
