EMA/434158/2023 
EMEA/H/C/006375 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus (zoonotic influenza 
vaccine [H5N1] [surface antigen, inactivated, 
adjuvanted]) 
An overview of Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus and why it is authorised in 
the EU 
What is Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus and what is it used for? 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus is a vaccine used in adults to protect against flu caused by the 
H5N1 (‘bird flu’) strain of the influenza A virus. Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus contains parts of 
influenza (flu) viruses that have been inactivated.  
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus contains a flu strain called A/turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (H5N1)-like 
strain (NIBRG-23) (clade 2.2.1). 
This medicine is the same as Aflunov, which is already authorised in the EU. The company that makes 
Aflunov has agreed that its scientific data can be used for Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus 
(‘informed consent’). 
How is Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus used? 
The vaccine is given as two single doses, injected into the muscles of the upper arm, at least three 
weeks apart. In the event of an officially declared pandemic caused by the H5N1 strain of the influenza 
A virus, people who have already been vaccinated with Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus (with one or 
two doses) may be given only one more dose, instead of the two doses recommended for unvaccinated 
people.  
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus can only be obtained with a prescription and should be used 
according to official recommendations issued at national level by public health bodies. 
For more information about using Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus, see the package leaflet or 
contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
How does Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus work? 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus is given before or during a flu pandemic to protect against a new 
strain of flu.  
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
A flu pandemic happens when a new strain of the flu virus has spread because people do not have 
immunity (protection) against it. Health experts are concerned that a future flu pandemic could be 
caused by the H5N1 strain of the virus, an infection that can spread from birds to humans (a ‘zoonotic’ 
infection).  
Vaccines work by preparing the immune system (the body’s natural defences) to defend itself against a 
specific viral disease. This vaccine contains some parts of the H5N1 virus that has first been inactivated 
(killed) so that it does not cause any disease. When a person is given the vaccine, the immune system 
recognises parts of the virus in the vaccine as ‘foreign’ and makes antibodies against them. If, later, 
the vaccinated person comes into contact with the virus, these antibodies, together with other 
components of the immune system, will be able to kill the virus and help protect against the disease.  
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus contains an adjuvant, a substance that helps strengthen the 
immune response to the vaccine. 
What benefits of Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus have been shown in 
studies? 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus has been shown to produce sufficient antibodies to stimulate an 
immune response and protect against H5N1.  
Two main studies using a strain called A/Vietnam/1194/2004 (H5N1)-like strain (NIBRG-14) provided 
data on vaccination with Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus in healthy adults aged below and above 60 
years. In one study involving 3,372 people, subjects were given either a seasonal flu vaccine followed 
by two doses of Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus three weeks apart, or placebo (a dummy vaccine) 
followed by two doses of an adjuvanted seasonal vaccine three weeks apart. In the first study, 21 days 
after the second injection, around 90% of people aged below 60 years and around 80% of those aged 
above 60 years had levels of antibodies that would protect them against H5N1.  
In the second study involving 240 people, subjects were given Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus using 
different vaccination schedules. The studies looked at the ability of the vaccine to trigger the 
production of antibodies (‘immunogenicity’) against the flu virus. This study established that Zoonotic 
influenza vaccine Seqirus should be given as two doses at least three weeks apart.  
A third study, using a vaccine with strain A/turkey/Turkey/1/2005 (H5N1)-like strain (NIBRG-23), was 
carried out in 343 adults aged below and above 60 years. The study showed that 21 days after the 
second injection, around 70% of adults below 60 years and around 64% of adults above 60 years 
achieved an acceptable antibody response. 
What are the risks associated with Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus, see the package 
leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus (which may affect more than 1 
patient in 10) include headache, myalgia (muscle pain), reactions at the site of injection (swelling, 
pain, redness and hardening of the skin), tiredness, chills and feeling generally unwell.  
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus should not be given to patients who have had an anaphylactic 
reaction (severe allergic reaction) to any of the components of the vaccine, including those found at 
trace (very low) levels (egg or chicken protein, ovalbumin [a protein in egg white], kanamycin or 
neomycin sulphate [antibiotics], formaldehyde, hydrocortisone and cetyltrimethylammonium bromide). 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus (zoonotic influenza vaccine [H5N1] [surface 
antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted])  
EMA/434158/2023 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
However, it may be appropriate to give the vaccine to these patients during a pandemic, if facilities for 
resuscitation are immediately available. 
Why is Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus authorised in the EU? 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus was shown to produce sufficient antibodies to stimulate an immune 
response and protect against H5N1. The European Medicines Agency therefore decided that Zoonotic 
influenza vaccine Seqirus’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for use in the 
EU.  
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus have been included in the summary of product 
characteristics and the package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus are continuously monitored. 
Suspected side effects reported with Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus are carefully evaluated and 
any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 9 
October 2023. 
Further information on Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zoonotic-influenza-vaccine-seqirus.  
This overview was last updated in 10-2023. 
Zoonotic influenza vaccine Seqirus (zoonotic influenza vaccine [H5N1] [surface 
antigen, inactivated, adjuvanted])  
EMA/434158/2023 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
