13 February 2013 
EMA/78658/2013 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Zostavax 
Zoster vaccine (live) 
Procedure no: EMEA/H/C/000674/A-20/0052 
Note 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with all information of a commercially confidential nature 
deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416 
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 3 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 3 
2.1. Clinical aspects .................................................................................................... 4 
2.1.1. Zostavax vaccination in pregnancy ...................................................................... 4 
2.1.2. Zostavax vaccination in immunocompromised individuals ....................................... 4 
2.2. Product information .............................................................................................. 5 
3. Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment ...................................... 5 
4. Overall conclusion ................................................................................... 6 
5. Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation .................................... 6 
Assessment report  
EMA/78658/2013  
Page 2/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
On the basis of the most recent published data on rubella containing vaccines, in particular when 
administered to pregnant women, it was considered justified to review whether all monovalent and 
multivalent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccines should remain contraindicated in 
pregnant women as vaccination in some individual cases may outweigh the risk. 
Published data indicated also that other groups of subjects than pregnant women could benefit from a 
MMRV vaccine (e.g. patients with deficiency or specific pneumococcal antibody deficiency) and 
therefore the contraindication for immunocompromised individuals needed also to be reviewed. 
In  view  of  the  above,  the  European  Commission  initiated  a  procedure  under  Article  20  of  Regulation 
(EC) No 726/2004 for Zostavax. The European Commission requested the CHMP on 15 March 2012 to 
assess  the  above  concerns  and  its  impact  on  the  benefit/risk  for  Zostavax,  to  give  its  opinion  on 
measures  necessary  to  ensure  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  Zostavax,  and  to  conclude  whether  the 
marketing  authorisation  for  this  medicinal  product  should  be  maintained,  varied,  suspended  or 
withdrawn. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
Zostavax is a live attenuated zoster vaccine. It is indicated for prevention of herpes zoster (“zoster” or 
shingles) and herpes zoster-related postherpetic neuralgia and for immunization of individuals 50 years 
of age or older. Zostavax  has been authorised by the European Commission for prevention of herpes 
zoster and herpes zoster-related post-herpetic neuralgia since 19 May 2006. 
On the basis of the most recent published data on rubella containing vaccines, in particular when 
inadvertently administered to pregnant women, it was considered justified to review whether all 
monovalent and multivalent measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccines which included 
Zostavax should remain contraindicated in pregnant women as vaccination in some individual cases 
may outweigh the risk.  
In addition, published data also indicated that some groups of individuals other than pregnant women 
could benefit from Zostavax and therefore the current contraindication for immunocompromised 
subjects needed to be reviewed. 
Evidence from post marketing surveillance and published literature that focused on risk of spontaneous 
abortion, miscarriage, stillbirth, immaturity and low birth weight in women susceptible to varicella, and 
risk of congenital varicella syndrome (CVS) were considered for the review of the contraindication on 
pregnancy. 
Regarding the contraindication on immunocompromised subjects, an assessment of the experience 
with MMRV vaccines concerning safety in subjects with various types of immune deficiencies (e.g. T-
cell defects, sub-class deficiencies etc.) was provided. 
Relevant data is discussed below.  
Assessment report  
EMA/78658/2013  
Page 3/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1.  Clinical aspects 
2.1.1.  Zostavax vaccination in pregnancy 
Vaccination with Zostavax is contraindicated in pregnant women. Therefore, only limited data are 
available on inadvertent exposure of pregnant women.  
Data from the routine pharmacovigilance and enhanced surveillance through the Varicella-Zoster Virus 
(VZV)-Pregnancy Registry have indicated four reports of inadvertent exposure to Zostavax within 3 
months before or at any time during pregnancy. Out of these, three were live births and one was lost 
to follow-up. Together with other varicella containing vaccines included in the VZV-Pregnancy Registry, 
no case of CVS following vaccination with live attenuated varicella virus vaccine have been reported 
and no pattern has been identified regarding timing of vaccination exposures or clustering by type of 
individual birth defects. However, it was noted by the CHMP that although no evidence of CVS as a 
consequence of vaccination has been reported, data were too limited to draw any conclusion. 
As the prevalence of varicella antibodies increased with age, the foetal susceptibility to CVS is minimal 
following vaccination with Zostavax due to high VZV seroprevalence rates of women of 50 years and 
older. 
The CHMP concluded that the available data are insufficient to determine the actual risk to the foetus 
when vaccinating seronegative women with live attenuated virus vaccines. Having considered all 
available data and although the data from the VZV-Pregnancy Registry and spontaneous reports did 
not show evidence of CVS in pregnant women inadvertently vaccinated with a varicella containing 
vaccine, the data were too limited and not well documented to recommend any change to the current 
contraindication in pregnant women.  
The CHMP therefore concluded that varicella vaccination should continue to be contraindicated in 
pregnant women.Taken into account that Varicella vaccination induces a fast immune response that 
makes post-exposure prophylaxis possible, based on available evidence and as reflected in WHO 
recommendation1, the CHMP considered that there are sufficient data to reduce the period post-
vaccination where pregnancy should be avoided. The product information is therefore amended 
accordingly to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination instead of 3 
months. 
2.1.2.  Zostavax vaccination in immunocompromised individuals 
Vaccination of immunocompromised individuals with live attenuated viral varicella vaccines is 
contraindicated, however some subjects may benefit from vaccination. 
Based on evidence available from clinical trial with Zostavax and post marketing safety surveillance 
with a zoster live attenuated virus vaccine (Oka strain of VZV), the CHMP considered the 
contraindication of Zostavax in immunocompromised subjects justified.  
Zostavax has been evaluated in one study in mild-to-moderate immunocompromised patients on 
chronic/systemic doses of corticosteroids where no specific concerns were reported following 
vaccination among any of the immunocompromised subjects. Another ongoing study is assessing 
Zostavax in HIV patients on potent combination antiretroviral therapy with conserved immune 
function.  
1 World  Health  Organization. 
http://www.who.int/immunization/wer7332varicella_Aug98_position_paper.pdf Ref Type: Internet Communication 
paper.1998;73:241-248.Available 
vaccines:  WHO 
Varicella 
position 
on 
Assessment report  
EMA/78658/2013  
Page 4/7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
From post-marketing safety surveillance, it was noted that the reported adverse events (AEs) of 
immunocompromised or possibly immunocompromised subjects were similar to those reported in 
immunocompetent individuals. In addition, no clinically important patterns or trends have been 
identified, and there have been no reports of disseminated VZV infections or reports of others AEs in 
which the presence of Oka vaccines-strain VZV has been identified via PCR through the VZV 
identification program.  
The CHMP considered to keep the wording of the product information of Zostavax unchanged for 
immunocompromised subjects as it is indicated for immunization of individuals 50 years of age or older 
against zoster virus and used at higher dose than other varicella live attenuated vaccines. 
Taking into account the overall available data, there is no sufficient evidence at this stage to amend 
the product information. The CHMP therefore concluded to maintain the contraindication and keep the 
special warnings unchanged. 
The CHMP also reviewed specifically the subpopulation of patients having various IgG subclass 
deficiencies and concluded that they are not able to develop an appropriate antibody response to 
vaccines including varicella vaccines and that there is a risk of serious adverse events from the use of 
lives attenuated viral vaccines in this group of patients. The CHMP also concluded that the 
contraindication should remain in this specific subpopulation. 
In view of the above, the CHMP did not warrant a change in the product information for Zostavax 
regarding the vaccination in immunocompromised individuals.  
2.2.  Product information 
The CHMP recommended the following amendments to be introduced in the summary of product 
characteristics (SmPC) and package leaflets (PL). 
Summary of product characteristics  
The section 4.3 (Contraindications) and section 4.6 (Fertility, pregnancy and lactation) of the SmPC 
should be amended in order to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following 
vaccination instead of 3 months.  
In addition, in section 4.4 (Special warnings and precautions for use) the wording on pregnancy should 
be deleted. 
Package Leaflet 
In line with the recommendation made in the SmPC, the section “Pregnancy and breastfeeding” 
should be amended in order to reflect that pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following 
vaccination instead of 3 months. In addition, any wording on pregnancy and breastfeeding should be 
deleted from the section “Warnings and precautions”. 
3.  Overall discussion and benefit/risk assessment 
Zostavax is a live attenuated zoster vaccine which is indicated for prevention of herpes zoster (“zoster” 
or  shingles)  and  herpes  zoster-related  postherpetic  neuralgia  and  for  immunization  of  individuals  50 
years  of  age  or  older.  Vaccination  with  Zostavax  is  contraindicated  in  pregnant  women  and  in 
immunocompromised subjects. 
Assessment report  
EMA/78658/2013  
Page 5/7 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP reviewed all available evidence regarding these specific populations, notably data from post-
marketing surveillance including data from published literature and available guidance, such as the 
WHO recommendation.  
Regarding vaccination in pregnant women, it was noted that Zostavax is contraindicated in pregnant 
women and therefore only limited data of spontaneous abortion, malformations, varicella syndrome 
(CVS) following vaccination were available. Evidence of transplacental transmission of varicella wild-
type virus is known. The evidence to date does not indicate a safety concern with respect to 
spontaneous abortion or congenital malformations related to the inadvertent administration of lives 
attenuated varicella vaccines in pregnant women. In addition, no cases of CVS have been reported in 
post-marketing surveillance or in published literature. However, it was noted by the CHMP that follow-
up data of children of pregnant mothers exposed to varicella vaccines virus were lacking and too poorly 
documented to draw any conclusion. 
The CHMP considers that an estimated theoretical risk of CVS cannot be ruled out. It was also noted 
that available guidance, such as WHO recommendations, takes into account this theoretical teratogenic 
risk and states that live attenuated varicella containing vaccines should be avoided in principle in 
pregnant women.  
The CHMP concluded that the contraindication of Zostavax in pregnant women remains. However, the 
CHMP considered that there are sufficient data to amend the product information and reflect that 
pregnancy should be avoided for 1 month following vaccination instead of 3 months, in line with 
current WHO recommendations.  
Regarding vaccination of immunocompromised subjects with Zostavax the CHMP considered that 
Zostavax should continue to be contraindicated and did not warrant a change in the product 
information for this special population.  
4.  Overall conclusion 
Having considered the overall submitted data provided by the MAH, the CHMP concluded that Zostavax 
should remain contraindicated during pregnancy. However, the CHMP was of the opinion that the 
current data were sufficient to amend the product information in order to reflect that pregnancy should 
be avoided for 1 month following vaccination instead of 3 months.  
With regard to the immunocompromised patients, the CHMP concluded that in view of the available 
data vaccination with Zostavax should continue to be contraindicated in this population and did not 
warrant a change in the product information. 
The CHMP recommended the amendment to the terms of the marketing authorisation for Zostavax for 
which the revised summary of product characteristics and package leaflet are set out respectively in 
annexes I and IIIB of the opinion. 
The scientific conclusions and the grounds for the amendment of the SmPC, Annex II and package 
leaflet are set out in Annex II of the opinion. 
5.  Conclusion and grounds for the recommendation 
Whereas 
• 
the CHMP considered the procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, for 
Zostavax initiated by the European Commission.  
Assessment report  
EMA/78658/2013  
Page 6/7 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
the CHMP reviewed all available data regarding use in pregnant women and in 
immunocompromised patients of varicella containing vaccines, including the most recent 
publications and data from post-marketing surveillance for varicella live attenuated vaccines. 
The CHMP concluded 
• 
• 
• 
that the data provided were too limited and poorly documented to draw any conclusion and 
therefore Zostavax should remain contraindicated during pregnancy. 
that the data were sufficient to amend the product information to mention that pregnancy 
should be avoided for 1 month (instead of 3 months) following vaccination.  
that the contraindication and the special warnings in the product information for 
immunocompromised individuals should remain unchanged.  
The CHMP has therefore recommended the variation to the terms of the marketing authorisation for 
Zostavax in accordance to the Product Information set out in annexes I, II and IIIB.  
Assessment report  
EMA/78658/2013  
Page 7/7 
 
 
 
 
 
