EMA/314982/2023 
EMEA/H/C/005825 
Ztalmy (ganaxolone) 
An overview of Ztalmy and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Ztalmy and what is it used for? 
Ztalmy is a medicine used to treat epileptic seizures in children from 2 to 17 years of age who have a 
condition known as cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) deficiency disorder. These patients can 
continue taking Ztalmy when they become adults if a clear benefit has been observed.  
The medicine is used in combination with other anti-epileptic medicines. 
CDKL5 deficiency disorder is rare, and Ztalmy was designated an ‘orphan medicine’ (a medicine used 
in rare diseases) on 13 November 2019. Further information on the orphan designation can be found 
on the EMA website. 
Ztalmy contains the active substance ganaxolone. 
How is Ztalmy used? 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription, and treatment should be started and supervised 
by a doctor who has experience in treating patients with epilepsy. 
Ztalmy is available as a liquid to be taken by mouth and is usually given three times a day. The dose is 
determined by the patient’s weight.  
For more information about using Ztalmy, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
How does Ztalmy work? 
The active substance in Ztalmy, ganaxolone, mimics the action of a substance in the body called 
allopregnanolone. It switches on so-called GABA receptors, which reduces excessive electrical activity 
in the brain and thus lowers the number of seizures. 
What benefits of Ztalmy have been shown in studies? 
A main study showed that Ztalmy reduces the frequency of seizures in children and adolescents with 
CDKL5 deficiency disorder who are taking at least one other epilepsy medicine. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2023. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The study involved a total of 101 patients with CDKL5 deficiency disorder and compared Ztalmy with 
placebo (a dummy treatment), both given in addition to existing epilepsy medicines. 
On average, the monthly number of major seizures was reduced by 29% in the group of patients 
treated with Ztalmy, and by 6% in the group treated with placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Ztalmy? 
For the full list of side effects and restrictions with Ztalmy, see the package leaflet. 
The most common side effects with Ztalmy (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) include 
sleepiness and fever. 
Why is Ztalmy authorised in the EU? 
The main study showed that Ztalmy is effective at reducing the number of seizures in children with 
CDKL5 deficiency disorder. The side effects are considered manageable. The European Medicines 
Agency therefore decided that Ztalmy’s benefits are greater than its risks and it can be authorised for 
use in the EU. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Ztalmy? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Ztalmy have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Ztalmy are continuously monitored. Suspected side effects 
reported with Ztalmy are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Ztalmy 
Ztalmy received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 26 July 2023. 
Further information on Ztalmy can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/ztalmy  
This overview was last updated in 06-2023. 
Ztalmy (ganaxolone)  
EMA/314982/2023 
Page 2/2 
 
 
 
