ANNEX I 
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of 
new safety information. Healthcare professionals are asked to report any suspected adverse reactions. 
See section 4.8 for how to report adverse reactions. 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ZTALMY 50 mg/mL oral suspension 
2. 
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE COMPOSITION 
Each mL of oral suspension contains 50 mg of ganaxolone. 
Excipients with known effect 
Each mL of oral suspension contains: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
0.92 mg of sodium benzoate 
0.00068 mg benzoic acid 
0.00023 mg benzyl alcohol 
1.02 mg methyl parahydroxybenzoate 
0.2 mg propyl parahydroxybenzoate 
For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. 
3. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM 
Oral suspension. 
White to off-white suspension. 
4. 
CLINICAL PARTICULARS 
4.1  Therapeutic indications 
ZTALMY is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of epileptic seizures associated with cyclin-
dependent kinase-like 5 (CDKL5) deficiency disorder (CDD) in patients 2 to 17 years of age. 
ZTALMY may be continued in patients 18 years of age and older.  
4.2  Posology and method of administration 
Treatment should be initiated and supervised by physicians with experience in the treatment of 
epilepsy. 
Posology 
Children and adolescents 
ZTALMY should be titrated gradually to achieve individual clinical response and tolerability. Any 
patient not tolerating the dosing steps shown in the tables below, can be maintained at the lower dose 
for additional days before advancing to the next dose. If the next dose is still not tolerated, patients can 
drop back to the previous lower dose.  
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is recommended that total daily dose is administered in 3 equal doses throughout the day. If this is 
not tolerated by a patient, the dose can be adjusted to manage symptoms (e.g., somnolence), provided 
that the total daily dose is administered. 
Patients weighing ≤ 28 kg 
The recommended maximum daily dose is 63 mg/kg/day given in three separate doses (every 8 hours). 
A minimum dose of 33 mg/kg/day is generally required. 
The recommended titration schedule for patients weighing 28 kg or less is shown below: 
Week 
Dose 
(given 3 times a day) 
mL/kg per single dose 
Total daily dose 
Week 1 
Week 2 
Week 3 
Week 4 – ongoing 
6 mg/kg  
11 mg/kg  
16 mg/kg  
21 mg/kg  
0.12 
0.22 
0.32 
0.42 
18 mg/kg 
33 mg/kg 
48 mg/kg 
63 mg/kg 
Patients weighing > 28 kg 
The recommended maximum daily dose is 1 800 mg per day given in three separate doses (every 
8 hours). A minimum dose of 900 mg/day is generally required.  
The recommended titration schedule for patients weighing more than 28 kg is shown below: 
Week 
Dose 
(given 3 times a day) 
mL per single dose 
Total daily dose 
Week 1 
Week 2 
Week 3 
Week 4 – ongoing 
150 mg  
300 mg  
450 mg  
600 mg  
3 
6 
9 
12 
450 mg 
900 mg 
1 350 mg 
1 800 mg 
Adults 
The efficacy and safety of treatment initiation with ZTALMY in patients aged over 17 years have not 
yet been established. In adolescents in whom a clear treatment benefit has been demonstrated, 
treatment may be continued into adulthood. However, treatment initiation in adults is not 
recommended as efficacy and safety have not yet been established in this population (see sections 5.1 
and 5.2) 
Discontinuation 
If ZTALMY must be discontinued, the dose should be decreased gradually. For patients weighing 
28 kg or less, the decrease in total daily dose should be 15 mg/kg every four days. For patients 
weighing more than 28 kg, the decrease in total daily dose should be 450 mg every four days. 
ZTALMY may be stopped immediately and without down-titration in the case of an emergency, 
however, a down-titration is recommended to minimize the risk of increased seizure frequency and 
status epilepticus. 
Missed doses 
Missed doses may be taken up to 4 hours before the next scheduled dose. When the next dose is 
due in less than 4 hours, it is recommended to skip the dose and to continue with the next 
scheduled dose. 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Special populations 
Elderly 
There is no information on the use of ZTALMY in patients with CDD who are 65 years of age and 
over. Doses in elderly patients should be chosen carefully based on clinical status and concomitant 
medicinal products. Close clinical monitoring is recommended when initiating treatment in the elderly. 
Renal impairment 
ZTALMY can be administered to patients with mild, moderate, or severe renal impairment without 
dose adjustment. There is no experience in patients with end-stage renal disease. It is not known if 
ZTALMY is dialysable (see section 5.2). 
Hepatic impairment 
Dose adjustment is not required in patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) or moderate (Child-Pugh B) 
hepatic impairment (see section 4.4). 
For patients with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) the initial target dose should be one-half 
the recommended target dose. The dose titration should be performed as detailed in the table(s) below.  
The dose in patients with severe hepatic impairment weighing 28 kg or less is shown below: 
Week 
Week 1 
Week 2 
Week 3 
Week 4 – ongoing 
Dose  
(given 3 times a day) 
3 mg/kg 
5.5 mg/kg 
8 mg/kg 
10.5 mg/kg 
mL/kg per single dose 
Total daily dose 
0.06 
0.11 
0.16 
0.21 
9 mg/kg 
16.5 mg/kg 
24 mg/kg 
31.5 mg/kg 
The dose in patients with severe hepatic impairment weighing more than 28 kg is shown below: 
Week 
Week 1 
Week 2 
Week 3 
Week 4 – ongoing 
Dose  
(given 3 times a day) 
75 mg 
150 mg 
225 mg 
300 mg 
mL per single dose 
Total daily dose 
1.5 
3 
4.5 
6 
225 mg 
450 mg 
675 mg 
900 mg 
Higher or lower doses may be considered in patients with severe hepatic impairment based on 
individual clinical response and tolerability.  
Paediatric population 
There is no relevant use of ZTALMY in infants below 6 months of age. The safety and efficacy of 
ZTALMY in children aged less than 2 years have not yet been established. No data are available. 
Method of administration 
Oral use only. No data are available on the feasibility of administration through an enteral feeding 
tube. 
ZTALMY must be taken with or shortly after meals and each dose should be administered with similar 
types of food, if possible (see section 5.2). Do not mix with food or drinks prior to administration. 
ZTALMY should only be administered using the reusable oral dosing syringes provided in each pack 
for a more accurate dose administration. 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each 12 mL reusable oral syringe is graduated in 0.25 mL increments (each 0.25 mL increment 
corresponds to 12.5 mg ganaxolone) and each 3 mL reusable oral dosing syringe is graduated in 
0.1 mL increments (each 0.1 mL increment corresponds to 5 mg ganaxolone). The calculated dose 
should be rounded to the nearest graduated increment. If the calculated dose is 3 mL (150 mg) or less, 
the smaller 3 mL oral syringe should be used. If the calculated dose is more than 3 mL (150 mg) the 
larger 12 mL oral syringe should be used. 
4.3  Contraindications 
Hypersensitivity to the active substance or to any of the excipients listed in section 6.1. 
4.4  Special warnings and precautions for use 
Somnolence and sedation 
ZTALMY causes somnolence and sedation (see sections 4.5 and 4.8).  
Other Central Nervous System (CNS) depressants, including concomitantly used anti-seizure 
medicinal products, opioids, antidepressants, and alcohol, could potentiate the somnolence and 
sedation effect. 
Suicidal behaviour and ideation 
Suicidal behaviour and ideation have been reported in patients treated with anti-epileptic drugs 
(AEDs) in several indications. A meta-analysis of randomised placebo-controlled trials with AEDs has 
shown a small increased risk of suicidal behaviour and ideation. The mechanism of this risk is not 
known. The available data do not exclude the possibility of an increased risk with ganaxolone. 
Patient’s caregivers should be advised to monitor for signs of suicidal behaviour and ideation, or 
self-harm behaviour during treatment and when changes in the treatment regimen become necessary. 
Caregivers should be advised to seek medical advice should any signs of suicidal behaviour and 
ideation, or self-harm emerge. 
Alcohol use 
In animal models, ganaxolone has been shown to potentiate the effects of alcohol. Patients should not 
use alcohol during treatment (see section 4.5). 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Concomitant use with strong cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 inducers e.g. carbamazepine, 
phenobarbital, phenytoin, primidone, rifampicin and St John’s Wort should be avoided as they can 
reduce ganaxolone exposure (see section 4.5). 
Hepatic impairment 
An increase in ganaxolone exposure was seen in patients with severe hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh C) (see section 5.2). A dosage adjustment is recommended in these patients 
(see section 4.2). 
Abuse 
ZTALMY has potential for abuse (see section 5.3). 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dependence 
It was not possible to assess physical dependence during clinical trials with ganaxolone; animal studies 
suggest that abrupt discontinuation of ganaxolone may cause withdrawal symptoms (see sections 5.1 
and 5.3). It is therefore recommended that ganaxolone be tapered according to the dosage 
recommendations unless symptoms warrant immediate discontinuation (see section 4.2). 
Excipients with known effect 
This medicinal product contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per each daily dose, that is to say 
essentially ‘sodium-free’. 
This medicinal product contains 0.92 mg sodium benzoate and 0.00068 mg benzoic acid in each mL. 
Benzoate salt and benzoic acid may increase jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn 
babies (up to 4 weeks old). 
This medicinal product contains 0.00023 mg benzyl alcohol in each mL. Benzyl alcohol may cause 
allergic reactions. Benzyl alcohol has been linked with the risk of severe side effects including 
breathing problems (called “gasping syndrome”) in young children. Do not give to your newborn baby 
(up to 4 weeks old), unless recommended by your doctor. Do not use for more than a week in young 
children (less than 3 years old), unless advised by your doctor or pharmacist. Increased risk due to 
accumulation in young children. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice if you are pregnant or 
breast‑feeding, or if you have a liver or kidney disease. This is because large amounts of benzyl 
alcohol can build-up in your body and may cause side effects (called “metabolic acidosis”). 
This medicinal product contains 1.02 mg methyl parahydroxybenzoate and 0.2 mg propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate in each mL. Methyl parahydroxybenzoate and propyl parahydroxybenzoate may 
cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed). 
4.5 
Interaction with other medicinal products and other forms of interaction 
CYP3A4 inducers 
Coadministration with a strong CYP3A4 inducer will decrease ganaxolone exposure. 
Concomitant use of rifampicin decreased the AUC0-inf of ganaxolone by approximately 57-68%. 
Enzyme inducing antiepileptics (e.g., carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital, and primidone) and 
St. John’s Wort may result in similarly lower plasma exposures of ganaxolone. In patients on a stable 
dose of ganaxolone or in patients initiating or increasing the dose of concomitant enzyme-inducing 
antiepileptic drugs or St. John’s Wort a dose increase may be necessary; however, do not exceed the 
maximum daily dose (see section 4.4). 
CYP3A4 inhibitors 
Coadministration of ganaxolone with itraconazole, a strong CYP3A4 inhibitor, increased the 
ganaxolone AUC by 17% in healthy subjects (the Cmax was unchanged). The changes in ganaxolone 
exposures when coadministered with strong, moderate, or weak CYP3A4 inhibitors are not expected 
to be clinically significant. 
UGT inhibitors 
Ganaxolone is a substrate for UGT1A3, UGT1A6, UGT1A9, and UGT2B15. No formal drug-drug 
interaction studies have been conducted with ganaxolone in combination with UGT inhibitors such as 
valproate. Dose reduction of ganaxolone and/or the UGT inhibitor may be necessary when given in 
combination. 
6 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oral contraceptives 
The potential interaction of ganaxolone with oral contraceptives has not been investigated. 
Ethanol interaction 
Concomitant use with CNS depressants (including alcohol) may increase the risk of sedation and 
somnolence (see section 4.4). Patients should be prohibited from drinking alcohol during treatment. 
4.6  Fertility, pregnancy and lactation 
Pregnancy 
There are limited data on the use of ganaxolone in pregnant women. Animal studies are insufficient 
with respect to reproductive toxicity (see section 5.3). 
ZTALMY is not recommended during pregnancy and in woman of childbearing potential not using 
contraception. 
Breast-feeding 
Ganaxolone and its metabolites are excreted in human milk. Based on an average milk intake, the 
calculated maximum relative infant dose of ganaxolone is approximately 1% of the maternal dose. 
The effect of ganaxolone on breastfed newborns/infants is unknown, A risk to the suckling child 
cannot be excluded. 
A decision must be made whether to discontinue breast-feeding or to discontinue ZTALMY taking 
into account the benefit of breast feeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. 
Fertility 
There are no human data on the effect of ganaxolone on fertility. Animal studies are insufficient with 
respect to fertility (see section 5.3). 
4.7  Effects on ability to drive and use machines 
ZTALMY has a moderate to major influence on the ability to drive and use machines because it may 
cause somnolence, sedation and sedation-related adverse reactions, such as fatigue and ataxia, and 
other CNS-related events such as dizziness (see section 4.4). Patients should be advised not to drive or 
use machines (see section 4.8). 
4.8  Undesirable effects 
Summary of the safety profile 
The  most  commonly  reported  adverse  drug  reactions  in  clinical  trials  in  patients  with  CDD  include 
somnolence (29.4%) and pyrexia (23.5%).  
Tabulated list of adverse reactions 
Adverse reactions reported with ganaxolone in a clinical trials in patients with CDD with an average 
exposure duration of 411.5 days (N = 102) are listed in the table below by System Organ Class and 
frequency. 
The frequencies are defined as follows: very common (≥ 1/10), common (≥ 1/100 to < 1/10); 
uncommon (≥ 1/1  000 to < 1/100); rare (≥ 1/10  000 to < 1/1  000); not known (cannot be estimated 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from the available data). Within each frequency grouping, adverse reactions are presented in order of 
decreasing seriousness. 
System organ class 
Nervous system disorders 
Very common 
Somnolence 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
General disorders and 
administration site conditions 
Pyrexia 
Description of selected adverse reactions 
Common 
Sedation 
Hypersomnia 
Lethargy 
Drooling 
Salivary hypersecretion  
Somnolence and sedation 
ZTALMY can cause somnolence and sedation. In a placebo-controlled study for CDD, the incidence 
of somnolence and sedation was 31.4%, and 3.9% respectively in patients treated with ZTALMY, 
compared with 15.7%, and 3.9% respectively in patients treated with placebo. These adverse reactions 
appear early in treatment and are dose-related; symptoms may decrease with continued treatment. 
Reporting of suspected adverse reactions 
Reporting suspected adverse reactions after authorisation of the medicinal product is important. It allows 
continued monitoring of the benefit/risk balance of the medicinal product. Healthcare professionals are 
asked to report any suspected adverse reactions via the national reporting system listed in Appendix V. 
4.9  Overdose 
There is limited clinical trial experience regarding overdose. Adverse events of the central nervous 
system (e.g., somnolence, sedation) have been reported to be dose dependent. 
In the event of overdose, the patient should be observed and appropriate symptomatic treatment given, 
including monitoring of vital signs. 
5. 
PHARMACOLOGICAL PROPERTIES 
5.1   Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group:  Antiepileptics, other antiepileptics, ATC code: N03AX27. 
Mechanism of action 
Ganaxolone is a methyl analogue of the endogenous neurosteroid allopregnanolone. Ganaxolone is a 
neuroactive steroid that positively and allosterically modulates gamma-aminobutyric acid type A 
(GABAA) receptors in the CNS by interacting with a recognition site that is distinct from other 
allosteric GABAA receptor modulators. 
The precise mechanism by which ganaxolone exerts its therapeutic effects in the treatment of seizures 
associated with CDD is unknown, but its anticonvulsant effects are thought to result from this 
modulation of GABAA receptor function providing constant, or tonic, modulation of GABA-mediated 
inhibitory neurotransmission. 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clinical efficacy and safety 
The efficacy to treat seizures associated with CDD in patients 2 years and older was established 
in a single, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled study in patients aged 2 to 19 years 
(Study 1042-CDD-3001). 
Patients enrolled in Study 1042-CDD-3001 had a molecular confirmation of pathogenic or likely 
pathogenic CDKL5 variant, their seizures were inadequately controlled by at least 2 previous 
concomitant AED medicinal products, and they had a minimum of 16 seizures of primary seizure type 
per 28 days in each 1-month period during the 2-month period prior to screening. 
Totally, 101 patients were enrolled into the study (51 placebo and 50 study drug). Patients were mostly 
female (79.2%; consistent with the demographics of CDD) and aged between 2 and 19 years (mean 
[standard deviation (SD)]: 7.26 [4.55]) with the majority being paediatric (children 2 to 11 years 
[82.2%], adolescents [16.8%]), concomitant AEDs s were given to 96% patients. The mean (SD) 
number of concomitant AEDs used by subjects was 2.2 (1.14) in the placebo group and 2.6 (1.40) in 
the ganaxolone group. The most frequent (≥ 10 patients) concomitant AEDs were valproate, 
levetiracetam, clobazam and vigabatrin. 
The primary efficacy endpoint was the percentage change from baseline in 28-day frequency of major 
motor seizures during the 17-week double blind treatment phase. Major motor seizures include 
bilateral tonic, bilateral clonic, atonic, generalized tonic-clonic and focal to bilateral tonic-clonic 
seizures. At baseline, the mean (SD) number of major motor seizures over 28-days was 104.8 (173.53) 
for placebo and 117.2 (138.62) for ganaxolone.  
At the end of the 13-week maintenance phase, there was a statistically significant difference in the 
median percent change from baseline in major motor seizure frequency for patients treated with 
ganaxolone compared to patients receiving placebo (see Table 1). 
Table 1 
Study 1042-CDD-3001 Change in frequency of major motor seizures per 
28 days in the 13-week maintenance phase 
28-Day seizure frequency for primary seizure types, 
N 
13-Week Maintenance, Median Percent change (SD) 
Wilcoxon Test p-value 
Response Rate, N 
n (%) 
Difference (95% CI) 
p-valuea 
Placebo 
51 
Ganaxolone 
49 
-6.49  
(-26.77, 38.46) 
50 
6 (12.0) 
-29.39 
(-65.78, 1.30) 
0.0097 
49 
15 (30.6) 
18.6 (2.0, 34.9) 
0.0283 
CI=95% confidence interval. 
a Response is defined as at least 50% reduction from baseline in 28-day Seizure Primary Seizures 
Frequency. P-value is based on Fisher’s Exact test. 
The cumulative response curve shows that ganaxolone produced greater reductions than placebo in 
seizure frequency at all response rates (see Figure 1). 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 
Study 1042-CDD-3001 Cumulative Responder Curves of 28-Day Seizure 
Frequency for Primary Seizure Types - 13-Week Maintenance Phase, 
Intent-to-Treat Population 
 Ganaxolone (N = 49) 
 Placebo (N = 49) 
s
t
n
e
i
t
a
P
f
o
%
% Reduction in Primary Seizure Frequency 
Open-label data 
CDD patients who participated in the double-blind phase of 1042-CDD-3001 could continue the study 
and participate in an open-label extension phase. The primary objective of the open-label extension 
phase was long-term safety and tolerability of ganaxolone. To enter the open-label extension phase, 
patients underwent a blinded cross-titration to a maximum daily dose of 63 mg/kg/day in patients 
<28 kg or 1800 mg/day in patients who were at least 28 kg. Data are reported for 88 patients who 
participated in the open-label extension phase and received ganaxolone for up to 3.5 years. A total of 
47.7% of patients discontinued study participation during the open-label extension phase, 
predominantly due to withdrawal by subject/parent (17.0%), lack of efficacy (15.9%) and adverse 
events (11.4%). 
Adult population 
The CDD population in Study 1042-CDD-3001 predominantly consisted of paediatric patients. 
Two patients were 19 years old at the time of study enrolment (one randomised to placebo, one to 
ganaxolone). Seven patients turned 18 years of age during the open-label extension phase of the study. 
For these patients (n=9), the median percent change in major motor seizure frequency from baseline to 
their last 3 months in the open-label phase was -32.1% (range -86.2% to 72.7%). 
 Paediatric population 
The European Medicines Agency has deferred the obligation to submit the results of studies with 
ZTALMY in one or more subsets of the paediatric population in CDKL5 deficiency disorder 
(see section 4.2 for information on paediatric use). 
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2  Pharmacokinetic properties 
Absorption 
Ganaxolone is rapidly absorbed, with a time to maximum observed plasma concentration (Tmax) of 
2.0 to 3.0 hours at steady state (Css). Css is achieved within 2 to 3 days. Ganaxolone undergoes 
first-pass metabolism, the absolute bioavailability of ganaxolone suspension is approximately 13%. 
Paediatric patients aged 2 to < 6 years (median body weight 14.8 kg), aged 6 to < 12 years (median 
body weight 22.6 kg), and aged 12 to < 18 years (median body weight 36.1 kg) had a Cmax of 247, 269, 
and 293 ng/mL and AUC0-24 of 3903, 3998, and 4106 ng*h/mL, respectively, when given a dose 
of 21 mg/kg with a maximum of 600 mg three times a day. Cmax and AUC0-24 in adult patients was 
292 ng/mL and 4100 ng*h/mL, respectively.  
Co-administration of ganaxolone with a high-fat meal increased Cmax by 2-fold and AUC by 3-fold 
when compared to fasted levels. The effect of different types of food is not known. 
Distribution 
Ganaxolone is extensively distributed throughout the body and its volume of distribution is 
approximately 580 L. Ganaxolone is approximately 99% protein bound in serum. 
Biotransformation 
Ganaxolone is extensively metabolized in humans, and over 50 Phase 1 and Phase 2 metabolites 
have been detected. The ganaxolone metabolite pattern at steady state has not yet been characterised. 
The steady state metabolite pattern may be different from single dose given the long t1/2 of ganaxolone. 
Ganaxolone is metabolised by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5; CYP2B6, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, UGT1A3, 
UGT1A6, UGT1A9, UGT2B7, and UGTB15.  
Major metabolite (M2) was identified and demonstrated no activity at the GABAA receptor. 
Elimination 
The half-life (t½) for ganaxolone at steady state was 7.8 to 10.1 hours. Following a single oral dose of 
300 mg [14C]-ganaxolone to healthy male subjects, 55% of the total radioactivity was recovered in 
feces (2% as unchanged ganaxolone) and 18% of the total radioactivity dose was recovered in urine. 
Metabolites of ganaxolone may have a longer t½ than ganaxolone, up to 230 hours. 
Ganaxolone is excreted in breast milk, concentrations were approximately 4-fold higher than in 
plasma (see section 4.6). 
Dose proportionality and accumulation 
The pharmacokinetics of ganaxolone are generally linear between 200 mg and 600 mg (or their 
paediatric equivalent). When dosing three times a day, Cmax and AUCtau accumulation ratios are 
1.5-fold and 1.7-fold, respectively. 
Special populations 
Effect of age, sex, race 
Population pharmacokinetic analyses demonstrated that there were no clinically relevant effects of 
age, sex, or race on exposure to ganaxolone. CL, V, and maximum absorbed dose all follow an 
allometric relationship with weight. No clinically relevant effects were observed in children with body 
weight below 28 kg due to weight-based dosing. Population pharmacokinetic simulations indicate that 
the ganaxolone exposure in adults was reversely correlated with body weight. The clinical relevance is 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
currently unknown as the efficacy and safety have only been demonstrated for CDD paediatric patients 
with a low body weight.  
Paediatric population 
The observed pharmacokinetic exposures in patients in study 1042-CDD-3001 were comparable 
across the age groups 2 to less than 6 years of age (mean weight 14.8 kg, n=45), 6 to less than 12 years 
of age (mean weight 22.6 kg, n=28), and 12 to less than 18 years of age (mean weight 36.1 kg, n=16), 
and greater than 18 years of age (mean weight 35.1 kg, n=2). There are no pharmacokinetic data in 
children less than 2 years of age. 
Renal impairment 
The pharmacokinetics of ganaxolone were not significantly altered in patients with severe renal 
impairment. Following oral administration of a single 300 mg dose in subjects with severe renal 
impairment (creatinine clearance between 15 and 30 mL/min), the AUC0-inf of ganaxolone decreased 
8% and Cmax decreased 11% as compared to that in subjects with normal renal function (creatinine 
clearance ≥90 mL/min as estimated by Cockcroft-Gault). Patients with end-stage renal disease were 
not studied. 
Hepatic impairment  
The influence of hepatic impairment on the pharmacokinetics of ganaxolone was studied following a 
single oral dose of 300 mg. No clinically significant effects on the exposures of ganaxolone were 
observed following administration in patients with mild (Child-Pugh A) and moderate (Child-Pugh B) 
hepatic impairment. Patients with severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment had an approximately 
5.8-fold increase in AUC0-inf as compared to those with normal hepatic function (see section 4.2). 
Drug interaction studies 
In vitro assessment of drug interactions 
In vitro studies with ganaxolone demonstrated that no other pharmacokinetic interactions are expected. 
Ganaxolone is not an inhibitor or an inducer of CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, 
CYP2D6, or CYP3A4. In vitro, ganaxolone did not inhibit UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A4, UGT1A6, 
UGT1A9, and UGT2B7. Ganaxolone does not inhibit BCRP, P-gp, MATE1, MATE2-K, OAT1, 
OAT3, OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1, OATP1B3 or BSEP. Ganaxolone is not a substrate for BCRP, P-gp, 
OCT1, OCT2, OATP1B1 or OATP1B3.  
5.3  Preclinical safety data 
Non-clinical data reveal no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety 
pharmacology repeated dose toxicity, and genotoxicity. 
Repeated dose toxicity 
Primary effects in animals were central nervous system clinical observations (e.g., sedation), which 
were dose-limiting and attributed to exaggerated pharmacology. 
In the 12-month repeat-dose toxicology study in dogs, a dose-dependent increase in heart rate at 
≥ 3 mg/kg/day (similar to clinical exposure levels) was observed and there were incidences of sinus 
tachycardia at higher doses. There were no changes in QTc intervals, blood pressure parameters, or 
histopathologic correlates. 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carcinogenicity/ genotoxicity 
Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with ganaxolone. Ganaxolone is not considered 
genotoxic. 
Reproductive and developmental toxicity 
The reproductive and developmental toxicity studies are of limited value since exposure levels were 
far below clinically relevant levels. 
In the fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, alterations in estrous cyclicity occurred. 
In the combined embryo-foetal development and pre- and post-natal development study in rats, 
gestation length was slightly lengthened and slight delays in offspring growth and related 
developmental milestones occurred. 
Studies in lactating rats indicate that ganaxolone and its metabolites are excreted in milk with 
concentrations generally higher in milk compared with plasma. 
It is not known if ganaxolone crosses the placenta. 
Juvenile toxicity  
Histological changes in juvenile rats were similar to those in adult rats on an AUC exposure basis. 
Sedation occurred at lower exposures in adults than in juvenile animals. Decreased bodyweight gain 
and a delay in sexual maturation occurred in juvenile males and females, with no effects on oestrous 
cyclicity or any fertility or reproductive parameters. Exposure levels in juvenile animals were similar 
or lower to the clinical exposure levels. 
Ganaxolone administration caused a dose-dependent increase in neurodegeneration in multiple brain 
regions, consistent with findings from other GABA modulators. There were no functional, 
neurobehavioural consequences of this effect in the 13-week juvenile study. Exposure levels in 
juvenile animals were similar or lower to the clinical exposure levels. 
Abuse 
Ganaxolone shares an internal/subjective interoceptive cue with benzodiazepines and dose-
dependently supported self-administration in a rodent model of reward, suggesting ganaxolone has 
reinforcing characteristics similar to benzodiazepines. 
Dependence 
Animal studies suggest that abrupt discontinuation of ganaxolone may cause withdrawal symptoms. 
Studies with metabolites 
Based on in vitro data, a potential hormonal effect of metabolite M2 at clinical exposures cannot be 
excluded. In a 4-week repeat-dose toxicity study with direct administration of M2, acinar atrophy and 
decreased secretion in the prostate gland and seminal vesicle glands was observed in male rats, which 
correlated with decreased prostate gland weight. This occurred at levels slightly above clinical 
exposure levels, and the clinical relevance remains unknown.  
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
PHARMACEUTICAL PARTICULARS 
6.1  List of excipients 
Hypromellose (E464) 
Polyvinyl alcohol (E1203) 
Sodium lauryl sulfate (E487) 
Methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218) 
Propyl parahydroxybenzoate (E216) 
Sodium benzoate (E211) 
Citric acid, anhydrous (E330) 
Sodium citrate dihydrate (E311) 
Artificial cherry flavour (including propylene glycol [E1520] and benzyl alcohol [E1519]) 
Sucralose (E955) 
Simethicone emulsion (simethicone, polysorbate 65, methylcellulose, polyethylene 
glycolmonostearate, glycerol monostearate, xanthan gum, benzoic acid [E210], sorbic acid, and 
purified water) 
Purified water 
6.2 
Incompatibilities 
Not applicable. 
6.3  Shelf life 
2 years. 
Use within 30 days of first opening the bottle. 
6.4  Special precautions for storage 
This medicinal product does not require any special temperature storage conditions. 
6.5  Nature and contents of container  
High-density polyethylene (HDPE) bottle with a polypropylene (PP) child resistant (CR) cap lined 
with an induction foil liner packed into a carton along with calibrated reusable oral dosing syringes 
(HDPE plunger and polypropylene barrel), and a bottle adaptor(s) (low-density polyethylene). 
Each carton contains either: 
- 
one 110 mL-bottle with two 3 mL oral dosing syringes, two 12 mL oral dosing syringes, and one 
bottle adaptor, or  
five 110 mL-bottles with five 12 mL oral dosing syringes, and five bottle adaptors.    
- 
Each 12 mL syringe is graduated in 0.25 mL increments and each 3 mL syringe is graduated in 0.1 mL 
increments.  
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
6.6  Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
Any unused medicinal product or waste material (including any used/unused bottle adaptors and 
reusable oral dosing syringes) should be disposed of in accordance with local requirements. 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Marinus Pharmaceuticals Emerald Limited 
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
8.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1743/001 
EU/1/23/1743/002 
9. 
DATE OF FIRST AUTHORISATION/RENEWAL OF THE AUTHORISATION 
Date of first authorisation:  
10.  DATE OF REVISION OF THE TEXT 
Detailed information on this medicinal product is available on the website of the European Medicines 
Agency http://www.ema.europa.eu. 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX II 
A. 
B. 
C. 
D. 
MANUFACTURER(S) RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH 
RELEASE 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY 
AND USE 
OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE 
MARKETING AUTHORISATION 
CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO 
THE SAFE AND EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL 
PRODUCT 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A.  MANUFACTURER RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH RELEASE 
Name and address of the manufacturer responsible for batch release 
Orion Corporation Orion Pharma  
Joensuunkatu 7 
FI-24100 Salo 
Finland 
B.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SUPPLY AND USE  
Medicinal product subject to restricted medical prescription (see Annex I: Summary of Product 
Characteristics, section 4.2). 
C.  OTHER CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS OF THE MARKETING 
AUTHORISATION 
• 
Periodic safety update reports (PSURs) 
The requirements for submission of PSURs for this medicinal product are set out in the list of 
Union reference dates (EURD list) provided for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and any subsequent updates published on the European medicines web-portal. 
The marketing authorisation holder (MAH) shall submit the first PSUR for this product within 
6 months following authorisation. 
D.  CONDITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SAFE AND 
EFFECTIVE USE OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT   
• 
Risk management plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in 
the agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation and any agreed 
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
•  Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new information 
being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the result of 
an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached. 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ANNEX III 
LABELLING AND PACKAGE LEAFLET 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. LABELLING 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE OUTER PACKAGING  
OUTER CARTON  
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ZTALMY 50 mg/mL oral suspension 
ganaxolone 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL contains 50 mg of ganaxolone. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218), propyl parahydroxybenzoate (E216), sodium 
benzoate (E211), artificial cherry flavour (including benzyl alcohol [E1519]), simethicone emulsion 
(including benzoic acid [E210]). See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral suspension 
1 bottle pack:  
1 x 110 mL bottle  
2 x 12 mL reusable oral dosing syringes  
2 x 3 mL reusable oral dosing syringes  
1 bottle adaptor 
5 bottle pack: 
5 x 110 mL bottles  
5 x 12 mL reusable oral dosing syringes 
5 bottle adaptors 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use.  
Oral use 
Shake well before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard unused portion 30 days after first opening. 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Marinus Pharmaceuticals Emerald Limited 
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1743/001 
EU/1/23/1743/002 
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
ZTALMY 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
2D barcode carrying the unique identifier included. 
21 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
PC  
SN 
NN  
22 
 
 
PARTICULARS TO APPEAR ON THE IMMEDIATE PACKAGING 
BOTTLE LABEL 
1. 
NAME OF THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT 
ZTALMY 50 mg/mL oral suspension 
ganaxolone 
2. 
STATEMENT OF ACTIVE SUBSTANCE(S) 
Each mL contains 50 mg of ganaxolone. 
3. 
LIST OF EXCIPIENTS 
Also contains: E218, E216, E211, E1519, E210. See leaflet for further information. 
4. 
PHARMACEUTICAL FORM AND CONTENTS 
Oral suspension 
110 mL 
5.  METHOD AND ROUTE OF ADMINISTRATION 
Read the package leaflet before use. Oral use 
Shake well before use. 
6. 
SPECIAL WARNING THAT THE MEDICINAL PRODUCT MUST BE STORED OUT 
OF THE SIGHT AND REACH OF CHILDREN 
Keep out of the sight and reach of children. 
7. 
OTHER SPECIAL WARNING(S), IF NECESSARY 
8. 
EXPIRY DATE 
EXP 
Discard 30 days after first opening. 
Discard by: ___/___/___ 
9. 
SPECIAL STORAGE CONDITIONS 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.  SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSED MEDICINAL PRODUCTS 
OR WASTE MATERIALS DERIVED FROM SUCH MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, IF 
APPROPRIATE 
11.  NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER 
Marinus Pharmaceuticals Emerald Limited 
10 Earlsfort Terrace  
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
12.  MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER(S)  
EU/1/23/1743/001 
EU/1/23/1743/002  
13.  BATCH NUMBER 
Lot 
14.  GENERAL CLASSIFICATION FOR SUPPLY 
15. 
INSTRUCTIONS ON USE 
16. 
INFORMATION IN BRAILLE 
17. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER – 2D BARCODE 
18. 
UNIQUE IDENTIFIER - HUMAN READABLE DATA 
24 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
B. PACKAGE LEAFLET 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Package leaflet: Information for the patient 
ZTALMY 50 mg/mL oral suspension  
ganaxolone 
This medicine is subject to additional monitoring. This will allow quick identification of new 
safety information. You can help by reporting any side effects you or the patient may get. See the end 
of section 4 for how to report side effects.  
Read all of this leaflet carefully before you or your child start taking this medicine because it 
contains important information. 
- 
- 
- 
Keep this leaflet. You may need to read it again. 
If you have any further questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
This medicine has been prescribed for you only. Do not pass it on to others. It may harm them, 
even if their signs of illness are the same as yours or your child’s. 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor, or pharmacist. This includes any possible side 
effects not listed in this leaflet. See section 4. 
- 
What is in this leaflet 
1.  What ZTALMY is and what it is used for 
2.  What you or your child need to know before taking ZTALMY 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
How to take ZTALMY 
Possible side effects 
How to store ZTALMY 
Contents of the pack and other information 
1.  What ZTALMY is and what it is used for 
ZTALMY contains the active substance ganaxolone, a neuroactive steroid that works by attaching to 
specific receptors and stops the brain from having epileptic seizures. 
ZTALMY is used to treat a rare epileptic seizure disorder called ‘cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 
(CDKL5) deficiency disorder’ (CDD) in patients 2  to 17 years of age.  If ZTALMY is helping to treat 
your seizures, it can still continue to be used when you or your child turns 18. 
ZTALMY is used in combination with other anti-epileptic medicines.  
This medicine will reduce the number of daily epileptic seizures you or your child may experience. 
2.  What you or your child need to know before taking ZTALMY 
Do not take ZTALMY if you are allergic to ganaxolone or any of the other ingredients of this 
medicine (listed in section 6). 
Warnings and precautions  
Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking ZTALMY if: 
• 
you or your child feel drowsy 
ZTALMY can cause drowsiness or sleepiness, or the feeling of being overly calm and relaxed 
(i.e. feeling sedated). Talk to your doctor or pharmacist before taking ZTALMY if you have any 
concerns about these effects or if you are taking central nervous system depressants such as 
other medicines to treat seizures, opioids, antidepressants or alcohol, as these can increase the 
sleepiness and sedative effects of ZTALMY. 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
you or your child have had thoughts about harming or killing yourself 
If you notice unusual changes in your mood or behaviour or have thoughts of harming or killing 
yourself, contact your doctor straightaway.  
If you are caring for a child with CDD, look out for any unusual changes in their mood or 
behaviour or anything they say that could mean they are thinking about self-harming or killing 
themselves. If you notice any of these, contact your doctor straightaway.  
you or your child have a history of alcohol or drug addiction 
ZTALMY has the potential to be abused or used for the wrong purpose. Talk to your doctor or 
pharmacist before taking ZTALMY if you have a medical history of alcohol or drug abuse. 
you or your child have severe liver problems 
Your doctor will monitor you closely during treatment and may reduce your dose of ZTALMY. 
Children and adolescents 
ZTALMY must not be given to children under the age of 2 years since there is no information on use 
in children below this age.  
Other medicines and ZTALMY 
Tell your doctor or pharmacist if you or your child are taking, have recently taken or might take any 
other medicines. Taking ZTALMY with certain other medicines may cause side effects, affect how 
other medicines work or affect how ZTALMY works.  
Do not start or stop taking other medicines without talking to your doctor or pharmacist first. 
Tell your doctor if you or your child are taking any of the following medicines, as your dose of 
ZTALMY may need to be adjusted: 
- 
- 
- 
- 
Valproate-containing medicines, which are used to treat epilepsy, they may require your dose of 
ZTALMY to be lower; 
Medicines that may reduce how ZTALMY works may require your dose of ZTALMY to be 
higher: 
Other antiepileptic or anticonvulsant medicines such as carbamazepine, phenytoin, 
phenobarbital and primidone; 
Antibiotics such as rifampicin; 
St. John’s Wort (Hypericum perforatum), a herbal remedy used for mild depression. 
The interaction between this medicine and oral contraceptives has not been investigated. Talk to your 
doctor if you are taking oral contraceptives. 
ZTALMY with alcohol 
Alcohol should not be consumed as it can increase the sleepiness and sedative effects of ZTALMY. 
Pregnancy 
If you are pregnant or think you may be pregnant, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice before 
taking this medicine.  
ZTALMY is not recommended if you are pregnant or a women of child-bearing potential and not 
using contraception.  
Breast-feeding 
Do not use ZTALMY whilst breast-feeding unless your doctor decides the benefits of taking 
ZTALMY outweighs any potential risks.  
Driving and using machines 
ZTALMY can make you feel drowsy/sleepy. If affected, do not drive, ride a bicycle or operate a 
machine until you feel more alert. 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ZTALMY contains sodium 
This medicine contains less than 1 mmol sodium (23 mg) per each mL, that is to say, it is essentially 
‘sodium-free’. 
ZTALMY contains sodium benzoate and benzoic acid 
This medicine contains 0.92 mg sodium benzoate and 0.00068 mg benzoic acid in each mL. Sodium 
benzoate and benzoic acid may increase jaundice (yellowing of the skin and eyes) in newborn babies 
(up to 4 weeks old). 
ZTALMY contains benzyl alcohol 
This medicine contains 0.00023 mg benzyl alcohol in each mL. Benzyl alcohol may cause allergic 
reactions. Benzyl alcohol has been linked with the risk of severe side effects including breathing 
problems (called “gasping syndrome”) in young children. Do not give to your newborn baby (up to 
4 weeks old), unless recommended by your doctor. Do not use for more than a week in young children 
(less than 3 years old), unless advised by your doctor or pharmacist. Increased risk due to 
accumulation in young children. Ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice if you are pregnant or 
breast‑feeding, or if you have a liver or kidney disease. This is because large amounts of benzyl 
alcohol can build-up in your body and may cause side effects (called ‘metabolic acidosis’). 
ZTALMY contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate and propyl parahydroxybenzoate  
This medicinal product contains 1.02 mg methyl parahydroxybenzoate and 0.2 mg propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate in each mL which may cause allergic reactions (possibly delayed). 
3. 
How to take ZTALMY 
ZTALMY is given under supervision of a doctor experienced in the treatment of epilepsy. Always 
take this medicine exactly as your doctor has told you. Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you 
are not sure.  
It is an oral suspension (a liquid to be swallowed). Your doctor or pharmacist will tell you how much 
(in mL) of the oral suspension to take each day, and how many times a day you should take it. 
Your doctor will calculate the dose according to your body weight. You may start on a low dose 
that your doctor gradually increases over time.  
If you have severe hepatic impairment, your doctor will start you on a lower dose and follow a 
different titration schedule.  
Patient weighing less than or equal to 28 kg 
You or your child will gradually have your dose increased over 4 weeks until you receive the 
recommended maximum daily dose of 63 mg/kg/day given in three separate doses every 8 hours. 
Patient weighing more than 28 kg 
You or your child will gradually have your dose increased over 4 weeks until you receive the 
recommended maximum daily dose of 1 800 mg/day given in three separate doses every 8 hours. 
It is recommended that you take 3 equal doses throughout the day. However, ZTALMY can make you 
feel sleepy, and your doctor may decide you should be given a lower dose during the daytime and a 
higher dose in the evening to avoid any sleepy effects during the daytime. 
Talk to your doctor if you are unsure of your dose or if you think it may need to be changed.  
How to take ZTALMY 
• 
Take the medicine with or shortly after meals 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
If possible, try to take with similar types of food (e.g. similar fat content) so you get the same 
effect each time 
Do not mix ZTALMY with food or drink 
To ensure an accurate dose, please use the reusable oral dosing syringes provided in each pack. 
Instructions for use 
Each single-bottle pack is supplied with:  
One bottle of oral suspension closed with a child resistant cap 
Two 12 mL and two 3 mL reusable oral dosing syringes  
One bottle adaptor 
ZTALMY is also supplied in a pack with five bottles of oral suspension, five 12 mL reusable oral 
dosing syringes and five bottle adaptors. Please note that the pack containing five bottles of ZTALMY 
does not include a 3 mL reusable oral dosing syringe.  
• 
• 
Ask your doctor, pharmacist or nurse if you are not sure how to prepare or take the prescribed 
dose of ZTALMY.  
You will receive 12 mL and 3 mL reusable oral dosing syringes in the single-bottle pack. If 
your dose is 3 mL or less, use the smaller 3 mL syringes to take your medicine. If your dose is 
more than 3 mL use the larger 12 mL syringes to take your dose.  
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
Always use the correct reusable oral dosing syringe provided with ZTALMY to make sure you 
measure the right amount of ZTALMY. Do not use a household spoon. Do not mix ZTALMY 
with food or drink to administer. 
Each 3 mL dosing syringe may be used for 16 consecutive days. After 16 days, throw away the 
used dosing syringe and use the spare syringe contained in the carton. 
Use ZTALMY within 30 days of first opening the bottle. There is space on the bottle label for 
you to write down the date for discarding the bottle after opening so you do not forget.  
After 30 days, discard any ZTALMY that has not been used, and use a new bottle. 
Preparing the bottle: 
1.  Hold the bottle in your hand and 
shake it up and down well for 
1 minute. 
Always shake the bottle well for 
1 minute then let the bottle stand for 
1 minute so that any foam that builds 
up during shaking can settle before 
measuring and giving each dose of 
ZTALMY. This helps you measure 
the correct amount of medicine. 
NOTE: This step is for each dose of 
the medicine. 
2.  Remove the child-resistant cap on 
the bottle by pushing the cap down 
whilst turning the cap to the left 
(anti-clockwise). 
3.  Puncture and peel off the induction 
seal from the bottle. 
NOTE: This step is only for the first 
use of the bottle. 
4.  Hold the bottle tight with one hand 
while pushing the bottle adaptor 
firmly into the neck of the bottle 
with the other hand, and make sure it 
is fully inserted. The adaptor could 
come off and cause choking if it is 
not fully inserted. 
NOTE: Do not remove the press-in 
bottle adapter from the bottle after it 
is inserted. 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preparing the dose: 
5.  Insert the tip of the correct reusable 
oral dosing syringe fully into the 
bottle adaptor, and with the oral 
syringe in place, turn the bottle 
upside down. 
It is important that you use the correct 
reusable oral dosing syringe to measure 
your dose: 
• 
If your dose is 3 mL (150 mg) or 
less, you should use the smaller 
3 mL syringe.  
If your dose is more than 3 mL 
(150 mg), you should use the larger 
12 mL syringe.  
• 
6.  Slowly pull back the plunger of the 
syringe, so the volume (number of 
mL) of oral suspension needed is 
drawn into the syringe. Line up the 
end of the plunger with the volume 
marking required, as shown 
opposite. 
If there is an air bubble in the 
syringe, push the liquid back into the 
bottle whilst keeping the bottle 
upside down, and repeat Step 6 until 
the bubble has gone. 
7.  Turn the bottle the right side up, and 
carefully remove the oral syringe 
from the adaptor. 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Taking or giving ZTALMY: 
8.  Place the tip of the oral syringe 
inside the cheek, and gently push the 
plunger to release the medicine. 
Do not push the plunger forcefully 
or direct the medicine to the back of 
the mouth or throat. 
9.  Screw the child resistant cap back on 
the bottle tightly, by turning the cap 
to the right (clockwise). You do not 
need to remove the bottle adaptor; 
the cap will fit over it. 
10.  Wash the oral syringe immediately 
after use.  Remove the plunger from 
the barrel of the syringe, and rinse 
both parts using room temperature 
tap water.   
Warning:  
Do not use bleach or any other 
harsh cleaning solutions. 
Do not wash the oral syringe in a 
dishwasher. 
11.  Shake off any water from both 
syringe parts and allow them to air-
dry separately until the next use. 
Make sure both parts are completely 
dry before placing the plunger back 
into the syringe barrel for the next 
use. If both parts are not completely 
dry before the next dose, use the 
appropriate spare syringe provided 
in the pack.  
When using the 12 mL syringe 
accompanying each bottle, do not 
throw away the reusable oral 
syringes until the bottle is empty. 
When using the 3 mL syringe, 
discard after 16 days.   
12.  Repeat steps 1-3 and 6-12 for each 
next dose. 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If you take more ZTALMY than you should 
If you accidentally take more ZTALMY than you should, tell a doctor or pharmacist immediately, 
or contact your nearest hospital casualty department, and take the medicine with you. You may feel 
drowsy or sleepy from taking too much medicine.  
If you forget to take ZTALMY 
If you forget to take a dose, the missed dose may be taken up to 4 hours before the next scheduled 
dose. When the next dose is due in less than 4 hours, it is recommended to skip the dose and continue 
with the next scheduled dose.  
If you stop taking ZTALMY 
Do not reduce the dose or stop taking ZTALMY without first talking to your doctor. Stopping this 
treatment abruptly could increase your seizures. The doctor will explain how to gradually stop taking 
ZTALMY.  
If you have any further questions on the use of this medicine, ask your doctor or pharmacist. 
4. 
Possible side effects 
Like all medicines, this medicine can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. 
You may get the following side effects with this medicine. Tell the doctor if you have any of the 
following: 
Very common (may affect more than 1 in 10 people): 
- 
- 
feeling drowsy or sleepy; 
fever. 
Common (may affect more than 1 in 100 people):  
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
feeling overly calm or relaxed; 
feeling excessively tired during the day or sleeping longer than usual at night;  
lack of energy; 
drooling; 
producing more saliva than usual. 
Reporting of side effects 
If you get any side effects, talk to your doctor or pharmacist. This includes any possible side effects 
not listed in this leaflet. You can also report side effects directly via the national reporting system 
listed in Appendix V. By reporting side effects, you can help provide more information on the safety 
of this medicine. 
5.  How to store ZTALMY 
Keep this medicine out of the sight and reach of children. 
Do not use this medicine after the expiry date which is stated on the carton and the bottle label after 
EXP. The expiry date refers to the last day of that month. 
This medicine does not require any special temperature storage conditions. Discard any unused 
medicine 30 days after first opening. 
Do not throw away any medicines in the wastewater or household waste. Ask your pharmacist how to 
throw away medicines you no longer use. These measures will help protect the environment. 
33 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. 
Contents of the pack and other information 
What ZTALMY contains 
- 
The active substance is ganaxolone. Each mL of oral suspension contains 50 mg of ganaxolone. 
- 
The other ingredients are: hypromellose (E464), polyvinyl alcohol (E1203), sodium lauryl 
sulfate (E487), methyl parahydroxybenzoate (E218), propyl parahydroxybenzoate (E216), 
sodium benzoate (E211), citric acid anhydrous (E330), sodium citrate dihydrate (E311), 
artificial cherry flavour (including propylene glycol [E1520] and benzyl alcohol [E1519]), 
sucralose (E955), simethicone emulsion (simethicone, polysorbate 65, methylcellulose, 
polyethelene, glycolmonostearate, glycerol monostrearate, xanthan gum, benzoic acid [E210], 
sorbic acid and purified water), purified water (see also section 2 ‘ZTALMY contains sodium’; 
‘ZTALMY contains sodium benzoate’, ‘ZTALMY contains benzoic acid’, ‘ZTALMY contains 
benzyl alcohol’, and ‘ZTALMY contains methyl parahydroxybenzoate and propyl 
parahydroxybenzoate’). 
What ZTALMY looks like and contents of the pack 
ZTALMY is a white to off-white oral suspension.  It comes in a plastic bottle which has a plastic 
child-resistant cap. Each bottle contains 110 mL of oral suspension. 
ZTALMY is supplied in packs of either: 
- 
one bottle of oral suspension, two 12 mL and two 3 mL oral dosing syringes, and one bottle 
adaptor; or  
five bottles of oral suspension, five 12 mL oral dosing syringes, and five bottle adaptors.  
- 
Not all pack sizes may be marketed. 
Marketing Authorisation Holder 
Marinus Pharmaceuticals Emerald Limited 
10 Earlsfort Terrace 
Dublin 2 
D02 T380 
Ireland 
Manufacturer 
Orion Corporation Orion Pharma  
Joensuunkatu 7 
FI-24100 Salo  
Finland 
For any information about this medicine, please contact the local representative of the Marketing 
Authorisation Holder.  
België/Belgique/Belgien 
Luxembourg/Luxemburg  
Orion Pharma BVBA/SPRL 
Tél/Tel: +32 (0)15 64 10 20 
Nederland 
Orion Pharma BVBA/SPRL 
Tel: +32 (0)15 64 10 20 
Česká republika 
Orion Pharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 703 305 
Danmark 
Orion Pharma A/S 
Tlf: +45 8614 00 00 
Eesti 
Orion Pharma Eesti Oü  
Tel: +372 6 644 550 
España 
Orion Pharma S.L. 
Tel: + 34 91 599 86 01 
34 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deutschland  
Österreich 
Orion Pharma GmbH 
Tel: + 49 40 899 6890 
Ελλάδα 
Orion Pharma Hellas M.E.Π.E 
Τηλ: + 30 210 980 3355 
France 
Orion Pharma  
Tél: +33 (0) 1 85 18 00 00 
Ísland 
Vistor hf. 
Simi: +354 535 7000 
Κύπρος 
Lifepharma (ZAM) Ltd 
Τηλ.: +357 22056300  
Lietuva 
UAB Orion Pharma 
Tel: +370 5 276 9499 
Norge 
Orion Pharma AS 
Tlf: + 47 4000 4210 
Portugal 
Orionfin Unipessoal Lda 
Tel: + 351 21 154 68 20 
Hrvatska 
Orion Pharma d.o.o.   
Tel: +386 (0) 1 600 8015  
Malta 
Salomone Pharma  
Tel: +356 21220174   
Slovenská republika 
Orion Pharma s.r.o. 
Tel: +420 234 703 305 
България 
Orion Pharma Poland Sp z.o.o.  
Tel.: + 48 22 8333177  
This leaflet was last revised in:  
Ireland 
Orion Pharma (Ireland) Ltd. 
c/o Allphar Services Ltd.  
Tel: + 353 1 428 7777 
Italia 
Orion Pharma S.r.l. 
Tel: + 39 02 67876111 
Latvija 
Orion Corporation  
Orion Pharma pārstāvniecība 
Tel: +371 20028332 
Magyarország 
Orion Pharma Kft. 
Tel.: +36 1 239 9095 
Polska 
Orion Pharma Poland Sp. z.o.o. 
Tel.: + 48 22 8 333 177 
Slovenija 
Orion Pharma d.o.o. 
Tel: +386 (0) 1 600 8015 
Suomi/Finland 
Orion Corporation 
Puh/Tel: + 358 10 4261 
România 
Orion Corporation 
Tel: + 358 10 4261 
United Kingdom (Northern Ireland): 
Orion Pharma (Ireland) Ltd. 
c/o Allphar Services Ltd.  
Tel: +353 1 428 7777 
Sverige 
Orion Pharma AB 
Tel: + 46 8 623 6440 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other sources of information 
Detailed information on this medicine is available on the European Medicines Agency web site: 
http://www.ema.europa.eu.  
36 
