EMA/784359/2017  
EMEA/H/C/004407 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zubsolv 
buprenorphine / naloxone 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zubsolv. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Zubsolv. 
For practical information about using Zubsolv, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Zubsolv and what is it used for? 
Zubsolv is a medicine used in adults and adolescents aged over 15 years to treat dependence on opioid 
(narcotic) drugs such as heroin or morphine.  
Zubsolv is used in individuals who are also receiving medical, social and psychological support and who 
have agreed to be treated for their addiction. It contains the active substances buprenorphine and 
naloxone. 
Zubsolv is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substances, but Zubsolv contains these at different strengths. The reference medicine for 
Zubsolv is Suboxone. 
How is Zubsolv used? 
Because Zubsolv can be misused or cause addiction, it can only be obtained by ‘special’ prescription 
and must be used under the supervision of a doctor who has experience in the management of opioid 
addiction. 
Zubsolv is available as tablets of various strengths (0.7 mg/0.18 mg, 1.4 mg/0.36 mg, 
2.9 mg/0.71 mg, 5.7 mg/1.4 mg, 8.6 mg/2.1 mg, 11.4 mg/2.9 mg). The tablets are taken once a day 
by placing them under the tongue and allowing them to dissolve for up to 10 minutes.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
On the first day of treatment, the recommended daily dose is one or two tablets of Zubsolv 
1.4 mg/0.36 mg or 2.9 mg/0.71 mg. During the next days, the doctor may increase the dose 
depending on the patient’s response, but the daily dose should not be higher than 17.2 mg 
buprenorphine. Once the patient has been stabilised, the maintenance dose may be reduced gradually 
if the patients agrees, and eventually treatment may be stopped.  
For more information, see the package leaflet. 
How does Zubsolv work? 
Zubsolv contains two active substances: buprenorphine, a partial opioid agonist (it acts like an opioid 
drug but less powerfully), and naloxone, an opioid antagonist (it counteracts the effects of opioid 
drugs). 
Sublingual tablets containing buprenorphine alone have been available in the EU since the mid-1990s 
for the treatment of opioid addiction. However, buprenorphine tablets have been misused by drug 
addicts who dissolve the tablets and inject themselves with the resulting solution. The addition of 
naloxone helps prevent the misuse of the medicine. This is because, when injected, naloxone 
counteracts the effects of opioids, causing the patient to experience acute withdrawal symptoms. 
What benefits of Zubsolv have been shown in studies? 
The company provided data from studies with the reference medicine Suboxone and from the 
published literature showing the benefits of buprenorphine and naloxone in the treatment of opioid 
dependence. 
A study involving 125 healthy volunteers showed that some strengths of the Zubsolv tablets produced 
a lower level of the active substances in the body than the reference product and therefore the two 
medicines cannot be used interchangeably. The study also showed that Zubsolv tablets dissolved faster 
and had a better taste than the reference medicine.  
What are the risks associated with Zubsolv? 
The most common side effects with Zubsolv (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are 
constipation and symptoms of drug withdrawal such as insomnia (difficulty sleeping), headache, 
nausea (feeling sick), hyperhidrosis (excessive sweating) and pain. Serious side effects include 
seizures (fits), vomiting, diarrhoea and abnormal results of blood tests for liver function. For the full 
list of side effects reported with Zubsolv, see the package leaflet. 
Zubsolv must not be used in patients with severe respiratory insufficiency (inability to breathe 
properly), severe liver problems, acute alcoholism (excessive alcohol consumption) or delirium tremens 
(a condition caused by alcohol withdrawal). It must also not be used with the medicines naltrexone and 
nalmefene, other opioid antagonists used for the treatment of alcohol or opioid dependence. For the 
full list of restrictions, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zubsolv approved? 
Combining buprenorphine and naloxone is an established strategy for managing opioid dependence 
which prevents misuse of the medicine. As for Suboxone, the European Medicines Agency decided that 
Zubsolv’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. 
Since Zubsolv does not produce the same amounts of buprenorphine and naloxone in the blood as the 
reference medicine, the medicines cannot be used interchangeably. 
Zubsolv  
EMA/784359/2017 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zubsolv? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zubsolv have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Zubsolv 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zubsolv on 10 November 2017. 
The full EPAR for Zubsolv can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Zubsolv, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2017. 
Zubsolv  
EMA/784359/2017 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
