EMA/813620/2015  
EMEA/H/C/001089 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zutectra 
human hepatitis-B immunoglobulin 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zutectra. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Zutectra. 
What is Zutectra? 
Zutectra is a solution for injection. It is available as a prefilled syringe containing 500 international 
units (IU) of the active substance, human hepatitis B immunoglobulin. 
What is Zutectra used for? 
Zutectra is used in adults who have had a liver transplant because of liver failure that was caused by 
hepatitis B infection. Zutectra is used to prevent re-infection with the hepatitis B virus in patients 
without active infection (i.e. those who test negative for the presence of the hepatitis B protein 
(HBsAg) and for hepatitis B DNA (HBV-DNA)). The use of standard antiviral medicines to prevent 
hepatitis B re-infection should be considered together with Zutectra. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Zutectra used? 
Zutectra is given as an injection under the skin once a week or every 2 weeks. The recommended dose 
normally ranges from 500 IU to 1,000 IU, and exceptionally up to 1,500 IU. The dose is established 
based on the patient’s blood levels of antibodies against the hepatitis B virus. 
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2016. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Zutectra treatment starts at least one week after the liver transplant. Before starting Zutectra, the 
patient will need to receive medicines that contain the same active substance as in Zutectra, but given 
into a vein. 
Zutectra injections can be given by the patients themselves or their caregiver once they have been 
trained appropriately. The patient or caregiver will also be trained on how to keep a treatment diary 
and what to do if severe side effects occur. For full details, see the summary of product characteristics 
(also part of the EPAR). 
How does Zutectra work? 
The active substance in Zutectra, human hepatitis B immunoglobulin, is a purified antibody extracted 
from human blood. Antibodies are proteins naturally found in the blood that help the body to fight 
infections and other diseases. Zutectra prevents the patient from being re-infected with hepatitis B by 
keeping the blood levels of human hepatitis B immunoglobulins high enough, so that they can attach to 
the virus and stimulate the immune system to destroy it. 
How has Zutectra been studied? 
Zutectra has been studied in one main study involving 30 adults who had undergone liver transplants. 
Zutectra treatment was started at least three months after the liver transplant. The main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients who had a blood level of hepatitis B immunoglobulin above 
100 IU per litre after 18 to 24 weeks. This level is considered adequate to protect against re-infection 
with the hepatitis B virus. 
In another study in 49 patients, Zutectra was given at least one week (approximately 8-11 days) after 
the liver transplant. The main measure of effectiveness was the number of patients in whom treatment 
failed, defined as blood levels of hepatitis B immunoglobulins falling below 100 IU per litre or re-
infection by hepatitis B virus during the 24 weeks of treatment. 
What benefit has Zutectra shown during the studies? 
Zutectra has been shown to be effective at maintaining antibody levels required to protect against 
hepatitis B re-infection.  
In the first study, all 23 of the patients who completed treatment had antibody levels above 100 IU per 
litre. In the second study, all of the 49 patients had antibody levels above 100 IU per litre and none of 
them was re-infected during the 24 weeks of treatment. 
What is the risk associated with Zutectra? 
The most common side effects with Zutectra (seen in between 1 and 10 patients in 100) are reactions 
at the injection site, such as pain, urticaria (itchy rash), haematoma (blood under the skin) and 
erythema (reddening of the skin). For the full list of all side effects reported with Zutectra, see the 
package leaflet. 
Zutectra must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to the active substance, to any 
of the other ingredients or to human immunoglobulins. Zutectra must not be given into a blood vessel. 
Why has Zutectra been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Zutectra’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that Zutectra 
be given marketing authorisation. 
Zutectra  
EMA/813620/2015 
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zutectra? 
A risk management plan has been developed to ensure that Zutectra is used as safely as possible. 
Based on this plan, safety information has been included in the summary of product characteristics and 
the package leaflet for Zutectra, including the appropriate precautions to be followed by healthcare 
professionals and patients. 
Other information about Zutectra 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Zutectra on 
30 November 2009.  
The full EPAR for Zutectra can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Zutectra, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 12-2015. 
Zutectra  
EMA/813620/2015 
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
