3 August 2012 
EMA/525140/2012 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment report 
Zyclara 
imiquimod 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/002387 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with  
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of contents 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 4 
1.1. Submission of the dossier.................................................................................... 4 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product ....................................................... 4 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 5 
2.1. Introduction ...................................................................................................... 5 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 6 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 10 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 15 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 19 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 26 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance............................................................................................ 34 
3. Benefit-risk balance .............................................................................. 37 
4. 
Recommendation
................................................................................. 39 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 2/39
 
 
 
 
 
List of abbreviations 
CHMP: Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use  
EMA: European medicines agency 
GCP: Good Clinical Practice 
ERA: Environmental Risk Assessment 
MA: Marketing Authorisation 
MAH: Marketing authorisation holder 
SmPC: Summary of product characteristics 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 3/39
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The applicant Meda AB submitted on 22 June 2011 an application for Marketing Authorisation to the 
European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Zyclara, through the centralised procedure under Article 3 (3) of 
Regulation (EC) No. 726/2004– ‘Hybrid of a Centrally authorised product’. The eligibility to the 
centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 27 July 2010. 
The application concerns a hybrid medicinal product as defined in Article 10(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC 
and refers to a reference product for which a Marketing Authorisation is or has been granted in the 
Union on the basis of a complete dossier in accordance with Article 8(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: topical treatment of clinically typical, visible or 
palpable actinic keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in adults. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Hybrid application (Article 10(3) of Directive No 2001/83/EC). 
The application submitted is composed of administrative information, complete quality data and 
appropriate clinical data. 
Information on paediatric requirements 
Not applicable 
Information on the reference medicinal product 
The chosen reference product is: 
  Medicinal product which is or has been authorised in accordance with Community provisions in 
accordance with Community provisions in force for not less than 6/10 years in the EEA:  
 
Product name, strength, pharmaceutical form:          Aldara 5% cream 
  Marketing authorisation holder:           MEDA AB, Solna, Sweeden 
  Date of authorisation:  18/09/1998             
  Marketing authorisation granted by: Community 
  Community Marketing authorisation number:     EU/1/98/080/001-002       
Licensing status 
Zyclara has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the United States and Canada on 29/03/2010 and 
05/01/2010 respectively. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP was: 
Rapporteur: 
Robert James Hemmings 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 4/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 22 June 2011.  
The procedure started on 20 July 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 7 October 2011.  
  During the meeting on 17 November 2011 the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions 
to be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on 19 
November 2011.  
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 16   February 
2012. 
 
The  Rapporteur  circulated  the  Assessment  Report  on  the  applicant’s  responses  to  the  List  of 
Questions to all CHMP members on 30 March 2012.  
  During the CHMP meeting on 19 April 2012 the CHMP agreed on a list of outstanding issues to be 
addressed in writing by the applicant. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Outstanding Issues on 22 
May 2012. 
  During the meeting on 20 June 2012, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific  discussion  within  the  Committee,  issued  a  positive  opinion  for  granting  a  Marketing 
Authorisation to Zyclara on 21 June 2012. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
The Marketing Authorisation application for Zyclara, 3.75% cream, is a hybrid application made 
according to Article 10(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC. The proposed product differs from the reference 
product, Aldara 5% cream, in therapeutic indication and strength. These differences, together with the 
fact that the pharmaceutical form is a topical cream, make it necessary to carry out new clinical 
studies as bioequivalence cannot be demonstrated through bioavailability studies. 
Imiquimod is an immune response modifier. Saturable binding studies suggest that a membrane 
receptor for imiquimod exists on responding immune cells. Imiquimod has no direct antiviral activity. 
In animal models imiquimod is effective against viral infections and acts as an antitumour agent 
principally by induction of alpha interferon and other cytokines. The induction of alpha interferon and 
other cytokines following imiquimod cream application to genital wart tissue has also been 
demonstrated in clinical studies. Increases in systemic levels of alpha interferon and other cytokines 
following topical application of imiquimod were demonstrated in a pharmacokinetic study. 
These statements have received further support in the last years [Schön & Schön 2007, Schön & 
Schön 2008]. It may now be considered as established that the so-called toll-like receptors (TLR) 7 
and 8 are the main targets of imiquimod. Imiquimod as the lead compound of the imidazoquinolines 
yields a TLR7/8-mediated activation of the central transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (nfκB), 
which leads to induction of proinflammatory cytokines and other mediators. Cutaneous dendritic cells 
are the primary responsive cell type and initiate a strong T-helper-cell (Th1) weighted antitumoural 
cellular immune response. Recent research has shown that dendritic cells themselves acquire direct 
antitumoural activity upon stimulation by imiquimod. In addition, there are a number of secondary 
effects on the molecular and cellular level that can be explained through the activation of TLR7/8. The 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 5/39
 
 
 
 
proinflammatory activity of imiquimod, but not resiquimod, appears to be augmented by suppression 
of a regulatory mechanism, which normally limits inflammatory responses. This is achieved 
independently of TLR7/8 through interference with adenosine receptor signalling pathways. Finally, at 
higher concentrations imiquimod exerts Bcl-2- and caspase-dependent proapoptotic activity against 
tumour cells. 
The proposed indication for Zyclara 3.75% (imiquimod) cream is different from the reference product 
and includes topical treatment of clinically typical, nonhyperkeratotic, nonhyperpertrophic, visible or 
palpable actinic keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in immunocompetent adults. During 
assessment, and due to absence of active controlled studies, this indication was limited to second line 
treatment being the approved indication: Topical treatment of clinically typical, nonhyperkeratotic, 
nonhyperpertrophic, visible or palpable actinic keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in 
immunocompetent adults, when other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less 
appropriate. 
The recommended dose per application is up to 2 sachets, containing 9.375 mg imiquimod in 250 mg 
cream (3.75%) each, once daily before bedtime to the skin of the affected area for two treatment 
cycles of 2 weeks each separated by a 2-week no-treatment cycle or as directed by the physician. The 
cream should remain on the skin for approximately 8 hours. The product is not to be used in children/ 
adolescents below 18 years of age as no data are available. The prescriber should demonstrate the 
proper application technique to the patient to maximize the benefit of Zyclara cream therapy. 
The active substance, imiquimod, has well established safety and efficacy and has been on the market 
since 1998 as 5% cream. 
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Zyclara is a white to faintly yellow topical cream base, formulated as oil-in-water vanishing cream 
base. Is packaged in a form, fill and seal multi-layer laminate single dose sachet. Each sachet contains 
250 mg of imiquimod 3.75% topical cream.  The pack sizes include 14, 28 and 56 sachets.   
2.2.2.  Active substance 
The active substance is imiquimod, chemical name 1-(2-Methylpropyl)-1H-imidazo [4,5-c] quinolin-4-
amine; 4-Amino-1-isobutyl-1H-imidazo [4,5-c] quinolone. The corresponding molecular formula is 
C14H16N4. The molecule does not contain any chiral centres and no polymorphic forms. 
Imiquimod is not described in any pharmacopoeial monograph.   
It is an odourless, white to off-white crystalline solid, practically insoluble in water and common 
organic solvents as free base, but becomes soluble as a salt form. Its solubility decreases with 
increasing pH. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 6/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Imiquimod has the following structural formula: 
Manufacture 
Imiquimod is synthesised according to the same process currently approved for use in Aldara 5% 
Cream. It is synthesized in six main steps, including a purification step, using well defined starting 
materials.  
Stability data have been provided for 6 batches of the drug substance and the result support the 
proposed retest period of 2 years when stored below 30 °C in double polyethylene bags in cardboard 
kegs. 
Adequate in-process controls are applied at each stage of the synthesis. In general, the specifications 
and control methods for intermediate products, starting materials and reagents have been presented.  
Batch analysis data are provided on 3 batches produced with the proposed synthetic route, and the 
batch analysis data show that the active ingredient can be manufactured reproducibly. 
Specification 
The drug substance specification as tested by the active substance manufacturer is identical to that 
currently approved for imiquimod used in the reference product. 
As there is no monograph of imiquimod in the Ph.Eur., the applicant developed its own specification 
and test methods for the quality control. Control tests include appearance, identification, loss on 
drying, heavy metals, residue on ignition, chloride residue, iron content, platinum content, assay on 
dried basis, purity and residual solvents.  
At the time of the CHMP Opinion the analytical methods used were not fully validated. For this reason 
the CHMP issued a recommendation to the applicant to complete the validation of these analytical 
methods. However this raises no concern about the safety of the active substance as the results of 
batch analysis comply with the specification.  
The limits set for specification parameters are acceptable and in line with batch results, stability 
studies and CHMP/ICH guidelines. The analytical methods used are sufficiently described and fully 
validated in line with the CHMP/ICH requirements. 
The acceptance criteria for impurities, including limits for organic impurities, inorganic impurities and 
residual solvents, are defined. The limits were evaluated and found to be acceptable from the point of 
view of safety. No genotoxic impurities were detected in the batches of the active substance. No 
solvents are carried over from early steps of the synthesis.   
Results of analysis of three batches of the active substance were provided. Compliance with the 
specification was demonstrated.  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 7/39
 
 
 
 
 
Stability 
Stability data of one batch of the active substance up to 60 months and of several batches up to 24 
months of storage at 25°C/60% relative humidity (RH) and 6 months at 40°C/75% RH were provided. 
The stability parameters measured include UV assay, HPLC assay, LOD and HPLC purity. 
The stability data support the proposed retest period of 2 years when stored in double polyethylene 
bags in a cardboard keg as secondary packaging. 
2.2.3.  Finished medicinal product 
Pharmaceutical development 
The aim was to develop an imiquimod cream formulation at lower concentrations using the same 
excipients as the currently marketed Aldara 5% cream, with emphasis on physical and chemical 
stability, imiquimod solubility, similar emollient properties and dose proportionate imiquimod delivery.  
This lower strength optimized formulation would be used daily, for a much shorter therapy regimen 
and with less potential side effects. 
Zyclara 3.75% cream contains the same active ingredient and excipients which are of the same quality 
as that of Aldara Cream 5%. The quantity of the excipients in both formulations is identical with the 
exception of the following changes to the proposed formulation when compared to Aldara: 
  A reduction in the level of the active substance  
  A reduction in the level of isostearic acid  
  A corresponding gain in purified water  
This change in the formulation is considered acceptable for the development of a lower strength 
formulation. 
At the time of the CHMP Opinion the analytical method used for controlling one of the excipients was 
not fully validated. For this reason the CHMP issued a recommendation to the applicant to complete the 
validation of this analytical method. However this raises no concern about the safety of the finished 
product as the results of batch analysis comply with the specification.  
Adventitious agents 
Not applicable 
Manufacture of the product 
The manufacturing process for Zyclara is essentially the same as that of the reference product Aldara. 
It uses standard pharmaceutical techniques for topical creams i.e. dissolution, mixing and heating of 
imiquimod in the oily phase and dissolution of the preservative in the aqueous phase followed by 
mixing both phases. 
The manufacturing process has been satisfactorily validated with respect to bulk cream manufacture, 
filling and sachet assembly for three validation batches. 
The batch analysis data show that this medicinal product can be manufactured reproducibly according 
to the agreed finished product specification 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 8/39
 
 
 
 
Product specification  
The product specifications include methods for appearance (visual), identification (HPLC, IV), assay 
(HPLC), drug related impurities (HPLC), pH, viscosity, minimum fill weight and microbial purity (Ph 
Eur). 
The finished product specifications have been justified and all methods of analysis have been described 
and adequately validated. 
Stability of the product 
Stability data were provided on 3 batches of the finished products packed in sachets as intended for 
marketing. The batches were manufactured at the proposed site to the proposed formulation and 
manufacturing process. The stability studies included  36 months at long term conditions (25°C ± 
2°C/60% RH ± 5°C) and 6 months under accelerated conditions (40°C ± 2°C/75% RH ± 5°C). The 
parameters tested the same as those for release of the finished product. 
Based on available stability data, the proposed shelf life and storage conditions as stated in the SmPC 
are acceptable. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, and pharmaceutical aspects 
The  active  substance  imiquimod  is  well  known  and  has  been  in  the  market  since  1998.  The 
manufacturing  process  has  essentially  been  the  same  since  then  and  both  active  substance  and 
finished product manufacturing processes are well controlled. 
Information on development, manufacture and control of the active substance and finished product has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  consistency  and 
uniformity  of  important  product  quality  characteristics,  and  these  in  turn  lead  to  the  conclusion  that 
the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in the clinic. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The quality of this product is considered to be acceptable when used in accordance with the conditions 
defined  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform  clinical 
performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way.  
2.2.6.  Recommendation(s) for future quality development   
The CHMP has issued two recommendations to the company. One regarding the finalisation of 
validation of the analytical methods of the drug substance specification. The second one refers to the 
finalisation of the validation of an analytical method for controlling one of the excipients of the finished 
product. These two issues raise no concerns as batch analysis data for the drug substance and the 
finished product comply with specification. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 9/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects   
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Since the applicant (MEDA AB) of Zyclara is the same as the Marketing Authorisation Holder of the 
reference medicinal product centrally authorised, Aldara, the same non-clinical data was made 
available. .  
The non-clinical aspects of Zyclara SmPC are in line with the SmPC of the reference product, Aldara. 
The impurity profile has been discussed and was considered acceptable.  
Therefore, the CHMP agreed that no further non-clinical studies are required. The following sections 
summarise the available non-clinical information from the dossier of the reference medicinal product. 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
The pharmacodynamic action of imiquimod has been studied in vitro and in vivo.  
In cultured murine cells imiquimod induced cytokine secretion in a wide variety of cell types including 
spleen, bone marrow, liver, peritoneal exudate and alveolar macrophages. The pattern of cytokines 
differed between the cell types. Studies with mouse macrophages produced results consistent with a 
cell surface receptor for imiquimod. Further in vitro studies showed that imiquimod is a potent inducer 
of cytokines in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC). Its two metabolites were also potent 
inducers. Induction occurred 1-2 hours after exposure and generally peaked after 8 hours.  
In a study of the mode of action, cytokine gene expression in a human epidermal carcinoma cell line 
(COLO-16) and human keratinocytes following exposure to imiquimod was determined. There was both 
stimulation (1 g/ml) and down-regulation (10 g/ml) of IL-6 and IL-8 mRNA synthesis. Further 
experiments with keratinocytes showed that, of the 5 cytokines assayed, IL-8 was present in the 
supernatant whereas there was little or no effect in cultures of melanocytes or fibroblasts. In this 
instance, imiquimod was substantially less potent than Poly I:C (50 g/ml). 
The ability of imiquimod to stimulate cytokine production was confirmed in in vivo studies conducted 
mainly in mice (both normal and immunodeficient), but also in rats, guinea pigs and Cynomolgous 
monkeys. The results confirm the ability of imiquimod to stimulate cytokine production. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
Antiviral activity has been examined in cell cultures and in in vivo animal infection models. In vitro 
imiquimod inhibited rhinovirus 1A, respiratory syncytial virus and varicella zoster virus as assessed by 
50% plaque reduction in virus infected cells. In guinea pigs a single oral dose (5 mg/kg) was effective 
against primary genital herpes (HSV-2) infection. Under certain conditions intravaginal imiquimod 
reduced latent neural HSV-2 in ganglia and also recurrences, with early or prolonged treatment being 
of respective importance. 
In other animal infection models, imiquimod was effective against Rift Valley fever and Banzi viruses 
(in mice) and yellow fever virus (in Cynomolgous monkeys). With regard specifically to HPV, imiquimod 
administered at 5 mg/kg i.p. to mice implanted with tumours expressing the HPV 16 E7 gene reduced 
the weight of tumours by up to 84%. 
Imiquimod was shown to be an effective anti-tumour agent in mice implanted with a number of 
different tumour cell types.   
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 10/39
 
 
 
 
Safety pharmacology programme 
Imiquimod has been assessed in safety pharmacology tests both in vitro and in vivo. Although there 
were a number of findings in the intravenous dog study (cardiac stimulation, central nervous system 
stimulation and some autonomic nervous system inhibition), none of the effects found raised any 
safety concerns.   
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic profile of imiquimod was studied in rats, rabbits, and monkeys, the main species 
used in the preclinical program. Following oral administration imiquimod was rapidly absorbed. 
Following repeated dermal administration of 1 or 5 mg/kg imiquimod during a 4 week rat toxicity 
study, the systemic exposure to imiquimod or its metabolites was minimal. No imiquimod or metabolite 
was detected in the plasma of the low dose group, low doses of the metabolite S-26704 were found at 
5 mg/kg (approximately 25 times the clinical dose).  
Distribution studies were conducted in rats (pigmented and non-pigmented) and monkeys with 
radiolabelled compound administered orally. Distribution was wide and rapid in both species with 
higher levels in the organs of elimination (liver, kidney and gall bladder) compared to the plasma after 
72 hours. In pigmented rats high concentrations were found in the skin and eye and were still high 72 
hours after dosing, indicating non-specific melanin binding. In pregnant rabbits 14 C-imiquimod was 
administered intravenously. Radiolabel was present in the uteri, placentae, amniotic fluid and foetuses. 
The exact distribution within the foetus as determined by whole body autoradiography has not been 
established.  
There are relatively few animal data on metabolites. In rat urine, however, radiochromotography of 
untreated urine revealed 3 peaks increasing to 6-7 following hydrolysis with -glucuronidase. The 
structure of the two major metabolites formed by hydroxylation, S-26704 and S-27700, was 
determined from human urine. They are also found in rat and monkey. Excretion is via the urinary and 
biliary routes.  
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity  
Single dose toxicity of imiquimod was studied in mice, rats and monkeys. These studies indicated a 
high degree of safety. Adverse effects were limited to the central nervous system resulting in a number 
of clinical signs, usually convulsions, prior to death. 
In two dermal toxicity studies in rabbits with doses of 2000 and 5000 mg/kg under occlusion there 
were no deaths and no signs of toxicity other than mild transient erythema at the application site. 
Repeat dose toxicity  
Repeated dose toxicity of imiquimod after oral administration was studied in rats and monkeys up to 6 
months. In both studies, the only adverse effects apart from slight effects on body weight and food 
consumption were considered to be the result of exaggerated pharmacological activity, i.e. hyperplasia 
of B- and T-cell lymphoid tissue, increased number of plasma cells, enlargement of spleen and lymph 
nodes, Kupffer cell hyperplasia, mononuclear/macrophage cell accumulation or proliferation. These 
included over-stimulation and in some animals subsequent down-regulation of lymphoid tissue. These 
effects were reversed during a recovery period during which animals were not dosed. There were no 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 11/39
 
 
 
 
other target organs and a No Observed Adverse Effect Level (NOAEL) of 3 mg/kg was established in 
both species. 
In light of the potential for increases in systemic exposure, the CHMP requested the Applicant to 
discuss the available animal PK data with respect to the measured pharmacokinetic parameters in the 
pivotal clinical trial. In response, the Applicant has provided the following data and safety margin 
calculations at the no observable adverse effect level (NOAEL).   
Table 1: PK data for imiquimod 3.75% and calculated safety margins 
Genotoxicity 
In a standard battery of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity tests, imiquimod lacked genotoxic potential. 
Carcinogenicity 
The carcinogenic potential of imiquimod following dermal application was assessed in mice over 18 
months. Benign squamous cell tumours (including papillomas and keratocarcinomas) were detected in 
the skin at the application site in 4 control and 3 high dose animals. In addition, lymphosarcomas at 
the application site were found in one control and in high dose animals. There were no differences 
between control and high dose animals in the incidence of other tumours or non-neoplastic lesions.   
Reproduction toxicity 
In a general reproductive performance and fertility study and teratogenicity study in rats, dams 
showed moderate signs of toxicity including decreased body weight gain and food consumption, 
tremors and/or convulsions. In pups there was decreased body weight and/or retarded ossification. 
There were no adverse effects on the reproductive performance of the F0 generation nor any effects on 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 12/39
 
 
 
 
 
the post-natal development and reproductive performance of the F1 generation. In a general 
reproductive performance and fertility study in rabbits, the only signs of toxicity were tremors and 
convulsions in the dams. There were no effects on the pups. 
Local tolerance 
Dermal toxicity studies, where imiquimod was applied three times per week, were conducted in rats 
(up to 4 months), and mice (up to 4 months). In rats significantly decreased body weight and 
increased spleen weight were observed at 0.5 and 2.5 mg/kg, and local skin irritation (severe 
erythema, slight to moderate oedema, desquamation and scabbing) more severe than that seen in 
humans was observed. Histopathological examination revealed epidermal inflammation with epidermal 
ulceration and hyperkeratosis. There was no good dose/response relationship and a No Observed Effect 
Level (NOEL) was not established. In treated mice spleen weight was increased, however, was not 
attributed to systemic exposure to imiquimod and its metabolites which is negligible following dermal 
administration. In mice there was a better dose/response and a NOEL of 0.4 mg/kg (approximately 
twice the clinical exposure).  
Other toxicity studies 
Ocular and skin irritation studies in the rabbit were conducted with imiquimod and imiquimod cream. 
The results indicate that imiquimod itself is not irritant and that the cream is in general only mildly 
irritant. 
Vaginal irritancy of 1% and 5% imiquimod creams has been assessed in rats and rabbits. In rabbits 
there was no vaginal irritation. In rats there was no histopathological evidence of vaginal irritation 
however there were monocytic infiltrates below the vaginal epithelium, increased spleen weight and 
lymphoid hyperplasia consistent with the pharmacological activity of the compound. 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Currently, the reference product is the only imiquimod-containing product on the market in Europe and 
the Applicant is the sole MAH for imiquimod products.  Aldara is supplied in packs of 250 mg cream, 
one of which may be applied for each treatment.   
 
 
 
For genital warts, Aldara is applied 3 times a week for up to 16 weeks. 
For small basal cell carcinomas, the cream is applied 5 times a week for 6 weeks. 
For actinic keratoses, it is applied three times a week, for one or two four-week courses, with four 
weeks between courses. 
Zyclara (imiquimod) Cream 3.75% is supplied in single-use sachets. Patients should be prescribed no 
more than 56 sachets for the total 2-cycle treatment course. Up to 2 sachets (500 mg cream) may be 
applied to the treatment area at each application (corresponding to 18.75 mg imiquimod).   
As there are no other MAHs for imiquimod-containing products, the Applicant argues that the recent 
sales figures for Aldara represent the total use of the active substance in Europe.  The applicant argues 
further that because no new indications are being sought, there should be no increase in the medical 
use of the active ingredient and thus no change to the market penetration is expected.   
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 13/39
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): Imiquimod 
CAS-number (if available): 
PBT screening 
Result 
Conclusion 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
OECD117 
2.19 
Not potential PBT  
K ow 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC  surfacewater , default or 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
literature) 
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class) 
Value 
0.0048 
Unit 
g/L 
Conclusion 
Below 0.01 
threshold  
N 
2.3.6.  Discussion on non-clinical aspects 
Non-clinical data from the reference product dossier revealed no special hazard for humans based on 
conventional studies of safety pharmacology, mutagenicity and teratogenicity. 
The concentration of active ingredient in the proposed product is lower than that in the reference 
product and there is no reason to assume that the former will present more of a toxic risk than the 
latter.  It is also accepted that there are no concerns in respect of the excipients.  The impurities 
comply with the Note for Guidance on Impurities in New Drug Products (CPMP/ICH/2738/99) and none 
require toxicological qualification.  No discussion has been provided on the potential for substances 
leaching from the packaging into the product.  However, the multi-layer laminate used for imiquimod 
3.75% cream is identical to the laminate approved for Aldara® 5% cream.  For the inner layer of the 
sachet foil, a statement of compliance with European Directive 90/128/EEC is included hence there are 
no toxicological concerns.  
In light of the potential for increases systemic exposure, the CHMP requested the Applicant to discuss 
the available animal PK data that explore the safety of the measured mean Cmax (0.323±0.159 ng/ml 
and total exposure (AUC 0-24 = 5.964 g hr/ml) for imiquimod in treated patients at the end (day 21) of 
the PK trial (GW01-0706). In response, the Applicant has provided data from repeat-dose toxicity 
studies in rats and monkeys and has calculated safety margins at the no observable adverse effect 
level (NOAEL).  The calculated safety margins (between 12 and 102, refer to Table 1) were considered 
satisfactory by the CHMP. 
Further to the CHMP request, the Applicant has provided three separate calculations of the PEC sufacewater 
for imiquimod, all of which are below the action limit and hence indicate that there will be no risk to 
the environment, and that further work is not necessary.  The CHMP considers that the original ERA 
submitted based on actual sales figures is likely to provide the most realistic estimate of the 
PEC sufacewater.  This figure was corroborated by the use of independently published figures on the 
amount of imiquimod sold.  A third calculation, using yet another mean of deriving the PECsufacewater,  
also led to the same conclusion.  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 14/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.7.  Conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
The CHMP accepts the Applicant’s view that no new non-clinical studies are required. This is in 
accordance with the relevant guideline and additional non clinical studies were not considered 
necessary. 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. 
The  applicant  has  provided  a  statement  to  the  effect  that  clinical  trials  conducted  outside  the 
community were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.   
  Tabular overview of clinical studies  
The indication claimed by the applicant is: 
Imiquimod cream is indicated for the topical treatment of clinically typical, visible or palpable actinic 
keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in adults. 
Due to the absence of active-controlled trials, the indication as adopted by the CHMP is: 
Zyclara is indicated for the topical treatment of clinically typical, nonhyperkeratotic, 
nonhyperpertrophic, visible or palpable actinic keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in 
immunocompetent adults, when other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less 
appropriate. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 15/39
 
 
 
 
 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The pharmacokinetic program was designed to support the use of 3.75% imiquimod cream in patients 
with  actinic  keratoses  when  the  cream  is  applied  on  a  daily  basis.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  the 
imiquimod  cream,  as  a  5%  formulation,  have  been  studied  previously  in  patients  with  both  actinic 
keratoses and external genital warts, but never when applied at a daily frequency. Study GW01-0706 
was designed to characterise the serum level profile and pharmacokinetics of daily topical applications 
of  3.75%  imiquimod  cream  under  maximal  use  conditions. Serum  concentrations  of imiquimod  and 2 
alkyl  hydroxylated  metabolites,  S-26704  and  S-27700  were  measured  for  evaluation  of  studied  AK 
patients  with  a  disease  severity  towards  the  upper  end  of  the  proposed  indication  using  the  maximal 
dosing  regimen  (two  sachets  once  daily  for  three  weeks),  and  applied  to  the  body  surface  areas  that 
are consistent with the patients studied in the Phase 3 clinical studies (entire face or balding scalp). 
Study  GW01-0706  was  an  open  label,  single  centre,  non-randomised  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  study  in 
adult  patients  with  actinic  keratoses  (AKs),  and  it  is  the  only  pharmacokinetic  study  included  in  this 
application  that  utilised  the  to-be-marketed  3.75%  imiquimod  cream  formulation.  The  study  was 
designed  to  quantify  the  pharmacokinetic  profile  of  imiquimod  and  its  metabolites  following  3  weeks 
(21  days)  of  daily  applications  of  3.75%  imiquimod  cream  in  adult  patients  with  actinic  keratoses 
(AKs). The study was conducted under maximal use conditions (dose, duration, disease severity, and 
application  areas)  in  a  population  that  had  at  least  10  AK  lesions  in  the  application  area.  The 
application  area  was  the  entire  face  (exclusive  of  nares,  vermilion,  periocular  areas  and  ears)  and/or 
the  entire  balding  scalp;  areas  estimated  as  approximately  200  cm2,  each.  If  the  area  of  the  entire 
balding scalp was less than 200 cm2, the forehead area was included in order for the entire treatment 
area to be approximately 200 cm2. The daily dose was 2 sachets of 3.75% imiquimod cream applied to 
the relevant treatment area once daily for three continuous weeks (21 Days). 
Patients  stayed  at  the  study  centre  overnight  at  treatment  initiation  (Day  1,  1st  dose),  and  end  of 
treatment (Day 21, last dose) visits for collection of a 24-hour serum PK profile. During the domiciled 
periods  of  initiation  (Day  1),  and  end  of  treatment  (Day  20-21)  visits,  serum  PK  samples  were 
collected  predose  and  at  planned  time  points  through  24  hours  post  dose.  At  the  end  of  treatment 
(Day 21), additional PK samples were taken at approximately 48 and 72 hours post application. Single 
serum  samples  for  PK  analyses  of  trough  concentrations  were  obtained  at  Day  7  and  Day  14  (in  the 
morning prior to dosing). 
Adverse  events,  study  medication  accountability,  and  dosing  compliance  were  reviewed  at  each  visit. 
Routine  clinical  laboratory  assessments  (serum  chemistry,  haematology  and  urinalysis)  were 
performed at Screening, Day 1 (predose), and the end of study visits. 
At  total  of  19  patients  (14  males  and 5  females)  with  at  least  10  actinic  keratoses  (AKs)  on  the  face 
and/or  balding  scalp  participated  in  the  trial,  and  18  patients  completed  treatment.  One  patient 
discontinued prematurely due to an adverse event, and one patient missed a dose on Day 20 and was 
therefore excluded from the evaluation of Day 21 data. 
Serum  concentrations  of  imiquimod  (R-837)  were  relatively  low  in  patients  treated  with  daily 
applications  of  imiquimod  3.75%  cream  for  up  to  21  days.  While  serum  concentrations  of  two 
imiquimod  metabolites  (S-26704  and  S-27700  combined)  were  measured  throughout  the  study,  very 
few  samples  had  concentrations  above  the  lower  limit  of  quantitation  (LLOQ).  Therefore,  these  data 
were  too  sparse  to  assess.  The  single-dose  and  steady-state  pharmacokinetics  of  imiquimod  are 
summarised in the following table.  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 16/39
 
 
 
 
 
Table  3:  Single-dose  and  Steady-state  Pharmacokinetics  of  3.75%  Imiquimod  Cream  (Study  GW01-
0706) 
Peak exposure (C max) and total exposure (AUC0-24) for imiquimod (R-837) were higher on Day 21 than 
Day  1  when  analysing  all  patients  in  the  pharmacokinetic  population.  The  mean  accumulation  ratios, 
RC max  and  RAUC,  for  all  patients  in  the  pharmacokinetic  population  were  2.810  and  3.873, 
respectively. The serum concentration profile on Day 21 was relatively flat across the dosage interval, 
and mean C max (0.323±0.159 ng/ml) was less than twice the level of mean C min (0.199±0.109 ng/ml). 
The mean effective half-life for accumulation was 55.3 hours and the mean observed elimination half-
life was 29.3 hours on Day 21. Analysis of trough concentrations over time indicated that steady-state 
conditions  were  achieved  between  Day  7  and  Day  14,  which  was  consistent  with  the  time  to  steady 
state predicted from the observed elimination half-life (approximately 6 days) and the effective half-life 
for accumulation (approximately 12 days). 
In a comparison of female and male patients who applied imiquimod 3.75% cream to the face, serum 
pharmacokinetics for imiquimod (R-837) were very similar for both groups on Day 21. In a comparison 
of scalp and face applications in male patients, imiquimod (R-837) C max and AUC 0-24 were lower on Day 
21 in patients who applied study medication to balding scalp rather than to the face. Analyses of the 
subgroups were limited by wide variability in the data, small overall numbers, and a large disparity in 
group sizes (female/male comparison of 4 versus  10 patients, and scalp/face comparison of 3 versus 
10 patients). 
In  conclusion,  the  amount  of  imiquimod  (R-837)  absorbed  into  systemic  circulation  after  topical 
application of imiquimod 3.75% cream to the face and/or scalp once daily for up to 21 days was low; 
peak  and  total  serum  imiquimod  concentrations  increased  3-  to  4-fold  between  Day  1  and  Day  21. 
Steady  state  was  achieved  by  Day  14.  Cmax  and  AUC 0-24  on  Day  21  appeared  to  be  similar  in  female 
and  male  patients  and  lower  in  male  patients  who  applied  imiquimod  3.75%  cream  to  balding  scalp 
rather  the  face.  Imiquimod  metabolites  (S-26704  and  S-27700  combined)  were  measured,  but  the 
data were too sparse to assess. 
  Bioavailability 
Pharmacokinetic profiles were obtained following single-dose and repeat-dose administration of 3.75% 
imiquimod cream in Study GW01-0706. The mean (SD) accumulation ratios calculated from Cmax and 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 17/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
AUC 0-24  were  2.810  (1.514)  and  3.873  (2.153),  respectively.  The  mean  effective  half-life  for 
accumulation was 55.3 hours and the mean observed elimination half-life was 29.3 hours on Day 21. 
Analysis  of  trough  concentrations  over  time  indicated  that  steady-state  conditions  were  achieved 
between  Day  7  and  Day  14,  which  is  consistent  with  the  time  to  steady  state  predicted  from  the 
observed  elimination  half-life  (approximately  6  days)  and  the  effective  half-life  for  accumulation 
(approximately 12 days). 
The  following  table  compares  the  PK  of  the  already  licensed  product  Aldara®  (imiquimod  5%  cream) 
with that of the 3.75% cream.  
Table  4:  Summary  of  Systemic  Exposure  at  Steady-State  Following  Administration  of  3.75%  or  5% 
Imiquimod Cream [Mean (SD) Serum Imiquimod Cmax and AUC ss] 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
No clinical pharmacodynamic studies were submitted. 
2.4.4.  Discussion on clinical pharmacology 
Pharmacokinetic profiles were obtained following single-dose and repeat-dose administration of 3.75% 
imiquimod cream in Study GW01-0706. Compared to Aldara 5% cream 2 sachets applied x3/week to 
scalp, ~20% higher exposure is expected with Zyclara. The relative exposure is approximately 3 times 
higher when Zyclara is compared to Aldara 1 sachet applied x3/week. According to the European SmPC 
of  Aldara,  the  most  clinically  serious  adverse  event  reported  following  multiple  oral  doses  of  200  mg 
(content  of  approximately  21  sachets  of  Zyclara)  was  hypotension  which  resolved  following  oral  or 
intravenous fluid administration. Therefore, despite relatively higher exposure compared to Aldara, the 
overall  systemic  exposure  with  Zyclara  does  not  seem  excessive.  These  findings,  in  conjunction  with 
safety  findings  from  submitted  clinical  trials,  including  the  one  year  observational  study  GW01-0803, 
indicate that the higher systemic exposure with Zyclara does not lead to major safety concerns.  
No  data  on  special  populations  or  interactions  with  other  medicines  have  been  provided.  The  low 
systemic  exposure  and  the  post-marketing  data  obtained  from  this  and  the  higher  strength  of  the 
same active substance (Aldara 5% cream) are reasonably reassuring.  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 18/39
 
 
 
 
 
The  pharmacodynamic  section  of  the  SmPC  is  based  on  data  obtained  from  studies  on  Aldara  5% 
cream. Given that the same active substance is used in this product, this was considered acceptable. 
2.4.5.  Conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Data  obtained  from  Study  GW01-0706  is  considered  adequate  to  further  characterise  the  PK  of  this 
product. Bridging to Aldara 5% cream data for the PD section of the SmPC (section 5.1) with regard to 
the mechanism of action is acceptable.  
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
2.5.1.  Main studies 
The  data  to  support  this  application  come  from  4  clinical  studies  with  2  investigational  formulations 
(Imiquimod 2.5% and 3.75% creams), 2 pairs of identically designed studies, with each pair having a 
different treatment regimen: Studies GW01-0702 and GW01-0704 had 2-week treatment schedules as 
per  the  proposed  SmPC,  whereas  GW01-0703  and  GW01-0705  had  3-week  treatment  schedules  and 
are considered as supportive studies accordingly. 
GW01-0702 and GW01-0704: A phase 3, randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, 
multicentre, efficacy and safety study of four weeks of treatment with imiquimod creams for 
actinic keratoses 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Patients had 5 to 20 typical visible or palpable AKs in an area that exceeded 25 cm2 on either the face 
or the balding scalp (but not both). Three hundred and nineteen (319) patients with AK were treated. 
Actinic  keratosis  lesions  in  the  defined  treatment  area  (face/balding  scalp)  were  counted  by  qualified 
investigators at baseline and at each study visit to determine treatment efficacy. They were diagnosed 
by  clinical  inspection  as  per  usual  clinical  practice.  The  same  evaluator  was  to  count  and  record  the 
number of AK lesions present in the treatment area throughout the whole study.  
Treatments 
The scheduling of treatment schedules for the trials are shown below.  
Table 5: Visit schedule of the 2-weeks studies GW01-0702 and GW01-0704 
Study  medication was  applied in  a  thin  layer  once  daily  to  the treatment  area  (the  entire  face  or  the 
balding  scalp,  but  not  both),  avoiding  the  periocular  area,  lips,  and  nares.  This  allowed  patients  to 
treat a larger area of sun-damaged skin, including any subclinical lesions that may have been present 
in the treatment area. As the treatment area was determined to be either the full face or balding scalp, 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 19/39
 
 
 
 
 
patients  did  not  need  to  remember  the  outline  of  a  fixed  (25  cm2)  patch  of  skin  designated  for 
treatment.  
A maximum of 2 sachets of study medication, total 500 mg cream including 18.75 mg imiquimod, was 
applied daily for 2 week treatment cycles separated by a 2-week no-treatment cycle.  
In addition, all patients who showed complete clearance at the end of one of the 2 pivotal studies were 
invited to be monitored for one year. 
Objectives 
The  studies  were  designed  to  compare  the  efficacy  of  the  individual  imiquimod  cream  formulations 
3.75% and 2.5% to vehicle.  
Outcomes/endpoints 
For all studies the primary endpoint was the proportion of patients for whom the AKs were completely 
cleared. For Studies 0702 and 0704 this was at 14 weeks. Secondary endpoints were partial clearance 
rates (75% reduction in AKs) and the percent change in total number of lesions from baseline. 
Randomisation 
Eligible patients were centrally randomised to placebo, imiquimod 2.5%, or imiquimod 3.75% (1:1:1). 
Statistical methods 
For  the  purposes  of  the  comparison  of  imiquimod  to  placebo  the  hypothesis  testing  was  planned  and 
performed using a hierarchical procedure (modified Bonferroni-Holm procedure). 
Missing  data  were  handled  using  Last  observation  Carried  Forward  (LOCF).  Additional  analysis  of  the 
primary  efficacy  variable  was  performed  in  which  all  missing  observations  were  considered  “not 
cleared”  (i.e.  counted  as  failures).  The  Cochran-Mantel-Haenzel  test,  adjusting  for  site,  was  used  to 
analyse the data. To control for the 2 doses, Hochberg’s modification of the Bonferroni procedure was 
used. After this, the 2 doses were tested against each other at the 5% level. 
Results 
Baseline data 
The patient disposition tables for all 4 studies are shown below: 
Table 6: Patient disposition in study 0702 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 20/39
 
 
 
 
Table 7: Patient disposition in study 0704 
Participant flow 
Participant flow for the GW01-0702 and GW01-0704 studies 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 21/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outcomes and estimation 
The tables below summarise the primary efficacy data of the 2 studies submitted. 
Table 8: Percentage of patients with complete clearance at end of pivotal study 0702 
Table 9: Percentage of patients with complete clearance at end of pivotal study 0704 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 22/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the combined trials the complete clearance rate of the full face or balding scalp under Zyclara 
3.75% cream was 35.6 % (57/160 patients, CI 28.2%, 43.6 %) under vehicle 6.3% (10/159 patients, 
CI 3.1%, 11.3%) at the 8-week post-treatment visit. 
Supportive studies 
GW01-0703 and GW01-0705: A phase 3, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, 
multicenter, efficacy and safety study of six weeks of treatment with imiquimod creams for 
actinic keratoses 
These 2 studies have the same design as the pivotal studies, the only difference being the treatment 
regimen of 3-week cycle instead of 2-week cycle. 
End  of  study  (EOS,  8  weeks  post  end  of  treatment,  Week  17  based  on  study  design)  was  the  time 
point  used  for  evaluation  of  the  primary  (complete  clearance)  and  two  secondary  (partial  clearance, 
percent AK lesion reduction) efficacy endpoints. 
Table 10: Visit schedule of the 3-weeks studies GW01-0703 and GW01-0705  
The baseline data are shown below. 
Table 11: Patient disposition in study 0703 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 23/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12: Patient disposition in study 0705 
The tables below summarise the primary efficacy data 
Table 13: Percentage of patients with complete clearance at end of study 0703 
Table 14: Percentage of patients with complete clearance at end of study 0705 
Study  GW01-0803  was  a  follow-up  observational  study  to  evaluate  sustained  clearance  rates  of 
actinic  keratoses  up  to  one  year  after  completion  of  studies  GW01-0702,  GW01-0703,  GW01-0704, 
and  GW01-0705.  At  the  12  month  follow-up  timepoint,  the  sustained  clearance  rate  was  40.5%  in 
patients  previously  treated  with  the  3.75%  2-week  treatment  cycle  regimen.  Overall,  slightly  higher 
rates  of  sustained  complete  clearance  were  observed  in  patients  previously  treated  with  imiquimod 
3.75% versus 2.5% and with 3-week versus 2-week treatment cycle regimens. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 24/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 15: Sustained complete clearance rate of actinic keratosis lesions in the previous treatment area 
(2-week treatment cycle regimen, all evaluable patients) 
Table 16: Sustained complete clearance rate of actinic keratosis lesions in the previous treatment area 
(3-week treatment cycle regimen, all evaluable patients) 
Study  GW01-0901  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study,  in  which 
the  efficacy  and  safety  of  imiquimod  3.75%  cream  following  cryosurgery  to  treat  clinically  typical 
visible  or  palpable  AK  lesions  on  the  face  was  compared  with  that  of  placebo  cream.  The 
cryosurgery/imiquimod  3.75%  group 
achieved 
significantly  greater 
efficacy 
than 
the 
cryosurgery/placebo  group  in  terms  of    percent  reduction  of  all  AK  lesions,  cryosurgery-treated  AK 
lesions,  and  non-cryosurgery-treated  AK  lesions  from  baseline  to  Week  26/end  of  study  (EOS)  in  the 
ITT  population.  The  primary  endpoint,  percent  reduction  from  baseline  to  Week  26/EOS  of  all  AK 
lesions, showed a median percent reduction of 86.5% with imiquimod 3.75% treatment compared with 
a 50.0% reduction with placebo treatment. 
2.5.2.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of the clinical studies submitted were considered appropriate for this hybrid 
application. The choice of primary and secondary endpoints and the inclusion/exclusion criteria were 
also considered acceptable. 
The  statistical  methods  used  to  analyse  the  data  are  acceptable.  The  use  of  LOCF  may  not  be 
appropriate  and  the  use  of  missing  =  failure  may  be  more  appropriate.  The  Applicant  has  presented 
both  analyses  which  was  considered  sufficient.  The  procedure  to  control  the  Type  I  error  was 
acceptable. 
The Applicant has adequately described the patient population. There were very little missing data and 
thus the sensitivity analyses should provide similar results to the main analyses. There did not appear 
to be a difference between the doses, or the reasons for withdrawal, either within or between studies. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 25/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicant has provided clear statistical evidence of efficacy over placebo for both doses. The pre-
specified primary analysis using LOCF (not shown) showed similar results. Although none of the studies 
showed  a  formal  separation  of  the  doses,  the  studies  were  never  powered  to  do  this  and  3  of  the  4 
studies show a clear numerical separating.  
It is also noted that in general there does not seem to be a substantial benefit using 3-week treatment 
as opposed to 2-week treatment. Whilst this should be treated with caution as cross-trial comparisons 
are  non-randomised  comparisons,  the  evidence  generated  to  date  does  suggest  there  is  little  benefit 
from the longer treatment regimen and thus the one proposed by the applicant is acceptable. 
All  secondary  endpoints  (not  shown)  showed  very  similar  results,  with  highly  significant  effects  over 
placebo and no statistical difference between doses, albeit with a numerical difference. 
No overall differences in safety or effectiveness were observed between patients 65 years or older and 
the younger patients.  
2.5.3.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
Superior  efficacy  of  Zyclara  3.75%  cream  in  comparison  to  placebo  in  the  treatment  of  AK  has  been 
demonstrated.  Given  that  Zyclara  is  not  intended  for  interchangeable  use  with  Aldara,  formal 
therapeutic equivalence data are not deemed necessary. However, lack of active comparator data to a 
first line treatment, limits the use of Zyclara to second line therapy as is the case with the reference 
product, Aldara. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
Patient exposure 
The safety database on Imiquimod 3.75% cream includes 969 patients. Approximately 85% showed a 
transitory  increase  in  AK  lesions  count  during  one  course  of  treatment.  The  lesions  decreased  during 
the treatment interval and the treatment free follow-up periods. The patient population enrolled in the 
study were predominantly male, Caucasian, elderly, with multiple AKs over a wide area of sun-exposed 
facial or scalp skin and thus reflecting the target population of AK patients. 
The  study  program  excluded  pregnant  and  lactating  women,  patients  with  renal,  hepatic  or  cardiac 
impairments,  patients  with  polymorphism,  and  children  (there  were  no  participants  under  the  age  of 
33).  In  addition,  patients  who  were  treated  with  immune-modulators  or  immunosuppressive  therapy 
were excluded (only inhaled/ intranasal steroids were permitted). 
Adverse events  
The drug exposure for Imiquimod 3.75% cream using the recommended regimen of daily treatment for 
2x2  weeks  was  higher  (18.75  mg/  day)  than  the  exposure  for  the  currently  licensed  Imiquimod  5% 
cream (12.5 mg/ treatment day). No new safety signals were identified during the pivotal clinical trial 
program.  Most  patients  experienced  local  skin  reactions,  which  subsided  with  completion  of  each 
treatment cycle. Some patients discontinued as a result of adverse events.  
Table 17: Exposure in the 2 pivotal studies (GW01-0702 and GW01-0704) and studies GW01-0703 and 
2-week regimen 
3-week regimen 
GW01-0705  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 26/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.75%  
2.5% 
VEH 
3.75% 
2.5% 
VEH 
Duration of treatment [days] 
N 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
160 
26.3 (4.5) 
28 
160 
27.6 (2.0) 
28 
159 
26.9 (3.8) 
28 
161 
38.4 (7.4) 
42 
164 
39.5 (6.9) 
42 
163 
41.1 (3.8) 
42 
Total amount of drug used [mg] 
Mean (SD) 
Median 
Theoret.Max.    
Rest periods taken by patients 
400 (125) 
436 
525 
291 (79) 
325 
350 
N 
% 
17 
10.6 
11 
6.9 
- 
- 
- 
0 
0 
571 (180) 
591 
788 
410 (126) 
459 
525 
44 
27.2 
28 
17.1 
- 
- 
- 
0 
0 
11% of patients receiving imiquimod 3.75% cream in the proposed 2-week regimen during the pivotal 
studies required periods of treatment interruption due to adverse events.  
A range of adverse reactions concerning the reproductive system and breast disorders are included in 
the  EU  SmPC  for  Aldara.  Imiquimod  3.75%  cream  is  not  indicated  for  perianal  and  genital  warts. 
However, due to a potential of off-label use, adverse reactions of the reproductive system and breast 
disorders should be included in the SmPC for imiquimod 3.75% cream. 
As expected, higher rates of AEs were observed with active treatment compared to vehicle with a dose 
and duration dependent pattern (higher rate of AEs in 3.75% vs 2.5% cream and in 3 week vs 2 week 
duration  of  treatment).  The  AEs  reported  were  generally  consistent  with  those  previously  identified 
with Aldara 5%. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Table 18: All Serious Adverse Events in 2-Week Treatment Cycle Studies 
The incidence of SAEs was low and they were mostly unrelated to Zyclara. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 27/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  following  table  presents  data  reflecting  the  exposure  to  Zyclara  or  vehicle  in  the  pivotal  studies 
(frequencies  very  common  to  uncommon  and  at  greater  frequency  after  vehicle)  and  the  experience 
with imiquimod 5% cream.  
System organ class 
Frequency 
Adverse reactions 
Infections and infestations 
Blood and lymphatic system disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Frequency not 
known 
Common 
Frequency not 
known 
Immune system disorders 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
Rare 
Common 
Psychiatric disorders 
Common 
Uncommon 
Nervous system disorders 
Common 
Eye disorders 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
disorders 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
Gastrointestinal disorders 
Skin and subcutaneous tissue disorders 
Uncommon 
Uncommon 
Frequency not 
known 
Common 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Common 
Uncommon 
Rare 
Frequency not 
known 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
disorders 
Common 
General disorders and administration 
site conditions 
Uncommon 
Very common 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Herpes simplex 
Infection 
Pustules 
Skin infection 
(While  serious  sequelae  have  not  resulted, 
the  possibility  of  infection  in  broken  skin 
should always be considered) 
Lymphadenopathy 
Haemoglobin decreased 
White blood cell count decreased 
Neutrophil count decreased 
Platelet count decreased 
Exacerbation of autoimmune conditions 
Anorexia 
Blood glucose increased 
Insomnia  
Depression 
Irritability 
Headache 
Dizziness 
Conjunctival irritation 
Eyelid oedema 
Nasal congestion 
Pharyngo laryngeal pain 
Hepatic enzyme increased 
Nausea 
Diarrhoea 
Vomiting 
Dry mouth 
Erythema 
Scab 
Skin exfoliation 
Skin oedema 
Skin ulcer 
Skin hypopigmentation 
Dermatitis 
Face oedema 
Remote site dermatologic reaction 
(Rare cases of remote site dermatologic 
reactions, including erythema multiforme, 
have been reported from clinical trials with 
imiquimod 5% cream therapy) 
Alopecia 
(Clinical studies investigating the use of 
imiquimod 5% cream for the treatment of 
actinic keratosis have detected a 0.4% 
(5/1214) frequency of alopecia at the 
treatment site or surrounding area.) 
Erythema multiforme 
Stevens Johnson syndrome 
Cutaneous lupus erythematosus 
Skin hyperpigmentation 
Myalgia 
Arthralgia 
Back pain 
Pain in extremity 
Application site erythema  
Application site scabbing 
Application site exfoliation 
Page 28/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common 
Uncommon  
Application site dryness 
Application site oedema 
Application site ulcer 
Application site discharge 
Application site reaction  
Application site pruritus  
Application site pain 
Application site swelling 
Application site burning 
Application site irritation 
Application site rash 
Fatigue 
Pyrexia 
Influenza-like illness 
Pain 
Chest pain 
Application site dermatitis 
Application site bleeding 
Application site papules 
Application site paraesthesia 
Application site hyperaesthesia 
Application site inflammation 
Application site scar 
Application site skin breakdown 
Application site vesicles 
Application site warmth 
Asthenia 
Chills 
Lethargy 
Discomfort 
Inflammation 
The long-term safety of imiquimod was assessed in study GW01-0803 which was a one year 
observational follow-up to Studies GW01-0702, GW01-0703, GW01-0704, and GW01-0705. The safety 
results of this study are summarised below. 
Table 19: Summary of the GW01-0803 safety results 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 29/39
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
Clinical laboratory analysis results were similar in both the 2-week and 3-week treatment cycle studies. 
Examination  of  the  shift  tables  for  laboratory  data  revealed  no  trends.  For  most  of  the  haematology, 
chemistry, and urinalysis variables, the majority of patients were normal at screening and at the end of 
the  study.  Occasional  shifts  from  within  the  normal  range  to  above  or  below  the  limits  of  the  normal 
range  were  observed  in  all  3  treatment  groups  for  most  laboratory  tests  in  both  the  pivotal  and 
supportive studies.  
Safety in special populations 
Adverse events were examined in the pivotal and supportive studies by demographic subpopulations. 
The incidence of AEs tended to be somewhat higher in patients with Fitzpatrick skin type I or II than in 
those with type III-VI, and in patients who treated the face than in those who treated the balding scalp 
in the active treatment groups, but there were no other apparent trends within the subgroups. Of note, 
approximately half of the study populations was 65 years or older. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
No  interaction  studies  have  been  performed.  This  includes  studies  with  immunosuppressive  drugs. 
Interactions  with  systemic  drugs  would  be  limited  by  the  minimal  percutaneous  absorption  of 
imiquimod  cream.  Due  to  its  immunostimulating  properties,  imiquimod  cream  should  be  used  with 
caution in patients who are receiving immunosuppressive medicinal products. 
The concomitant use of Zyclara and any other imiquimod creams in the same treatment area should be 
avoided since they contain the same active ingredient (imiquimod) and may increase the risk for and 
severity of local skin reactions. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 30/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
In the pivotal studies, 6 patients reported 9 AEs that led to discontinuation from the study: 2 patients 
in the 3.75% imiquimod group, 1 patient in the 2.5% imiquimod group, and 3 patients in the placebo 
group.  Five  of  these  events  were  considered  to  be  related  or  probably  related  to  study  treatment  by 
the investigator. None of the AEs leading to withdrawal from the 2-week treatment cycle studies were 
categorized as SAEs. 
Post marketing experience 
Cumulative post-marketing experience since 1997 was available for Imiquimod 5%. The MEDA safety 
database for imiquimod in all indications contained a total of 3282 individual medically confirmed case 
reports. Of these, 407 cases were serious and unlisted. 
As of 27 April 2010, a PSUR covering information from both, Aldara 5% and Zyclara (Imiquimod 3.75% 
cream) was issued. According to this PSUR, no new relevant safety findings have been identified from 
postmarketing  adverse  events  reports  coincident  with  the  appearance  of  imiquimod  3.75%  cream  on 
the  market  in  the  US  and  Canada.  These  safety  data  are  in  accordance  with  the  safety  information 
presented in the proposed SmPC. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
Clinical safety of the reference product (Aldara 5% cream) in the treatment of actinic keratosis is well-
established.  
With respect to tolerability and safety of the 2-week versus 3-week treatment regimens, similar dose-
response relationship was seen with respect to local skin reactions and certain systemic reactions that 
are  considered  to  be  attributable  to  local  cytokine  release  triggered  by  imiquimod.  In  contrast  to  the 
efficacy  estimates,  the  incidence  of  adverse  reactions  appeared  to  be  higher  in  the  3-week  regimen 
than in the 2-week regimen. For instance, the number of rest periods taken, mainly triggered by local 
skin and applications site reactions, increased strongly from the 2-week (10.6% of patients) to the 3-
week regimen (27.2% of patients). 
Therefore,  the  Applicant  primarily  proposed  for  the  3.75%  strength  to  be  applied  daily  (up  to  two 
sachets) for 2 treatment cycles of 2 weeks each, separated by a 2-week treatment pause. 
Zyclara at the proposed posology leads to a higher systemic exposure compared to Aldara when used 
for the treatment of AK. This higher exposure did not lead to any new safety signals during the pivotal 
clinical  trials  with  Zyclara.  It  is  also  noted  that  the  clinical  development  program  of  Zyclara  did  not 
include a formal head to head comparison with Aldara. However, the applicant following CHMP request, 
provided this comparison. 
With respect to local skin reactions, the following comparison of Zyclara versus Aldara data is provided 
in Table 20. It shows that the incidence of severe local skin reactions is not consistently different when 
using Zyclara 3.75% in the 2-week regimen compared to using Aldara 5% in the 1-2 COT regimen. 
Such outcome is to be expected given the known qualitatively comparable efficacy. Note that many of 
these skin reactions were already present at baseline as signs of severity of the target disease AK, 
although often only of mild and never of severe severity. Therefore, the threshold “severe” is most 
sensitive for such a comparison. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 31/39
 
 
 
 
Table 20: Comparison of severe local skin reactions in the treatment area 
During therapy and until healed, affected skin is likely to appear noticeably different from normal skin.  
Local skin reactions are common but these reactions generally decrease in intensity during therapy or 
resolve  after  cessation  of  imiquimod  cream  therapy.  Rarely,  intense  local  inflammatory  reactions 
including skin weeping or erosion can occur after only a few applications of imiquimod cream.  
There  is  an  association  between  the  complete  clearance  rate  and  the  intensity  of  local  skin  reactions 
(e.g.  erythema).  These  local  skin  reactions  may  be  related  to  the  stimulation  of  local  immune 
response. Furthermore, imiquimod has the potential to exacerbate inflammatory conditions of the skin. 
If required by the patient’s discomfort or the intensity of the local skin reaction, a rest period of several 
days  may  be  taken.  Treatment  with  imiquimod  cream  can  be  resumed  after  the  skin  reaction  has 
moderated.  The  intensity  of  the  local  skin  reactions  tend  to  be  lower  in  the  second  cycle  than  in  the 
first treatment cycle with Zyclara. 
The  other  important  expected  part  of  side  effects  are  systemic  reactions  attributable  to  a  spillover  of 
local cytokine release into systemic circulation, summarised in the following tables. 
Table 21: Comparison of potential systemic events 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 32/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 22: Comparison of potential systemic events, confined to 2-week regimen 
Flu-like systemic signs and symptoms may accompany, or even precede, intense local skin reactions 
and may include fatigue, nausea, fever, myalgias, arthralgias, and chills. An interruption of dosing or 
dose adjustment should be considered. Imiquimod should be used with caution in patients with 
reduced haematologic reserve. 
The safety and efficacy of Zyclara in immunocompromised patients (e.g. organ transplant patients) 
and/or patients with autoimmune conditions have not been established. Therefore, imiquimod cream 
should be used with caution in these patients (see section 4.5). Consideration should be given to 
balancing the benefit of imiquimod treatment for these patients with the risk associated either with the 
possibility of organ rejection or graft-versus-host disease or a possible worsening of their autoimmune 
condition. 
No data are available on re-treating actinic keratoses that have cleared after two cycles of treatment 
and subsequently recur. 
For imiquimod no clinical data on exposed pregnancies are available. Animal studies do not indicate 
direct or indirect harmful effects with respect to pregnancy, embryonal/foetal development, parturition 
or postnatal development. 
Zyclara should be used during pregnancy only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the 
foetus. 
The long-term safety aspect was assessed in study GW01-0803. During this follow-up study, basal cell 
carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma were the most frequently reported AEs in the study. 
Squamous cell or basal cell carcinoma was reported in 4 patients in the 3.75% imiquimod, 3-week 
treatment cycle regimen and basal cell carcinoma was reported in 1 patient in the 2.5% imiquimod, 2-
week treatment cycle regimen. 3 out of 4 of these patients had a reported history of basal cell or 
squamous cell carcinoma. On all 4 occasions, the investigators’ assessment of causality was ‘not 
related’ (in 1 case ‘probably not related’) to study medication. 
These results were not alarming and could hardly be linked to slightly higher systemic exposure seen 
with  Zyclara.  However,  the  applicant  was  requested  to  include  the  two  studies  X-03016-3271  and  
X-03016-3284,  implemented  as  part  of  the  Aldara  (imiquimod  5%)  RMP,  in  the  RMP  of  Zyclara  to 
gather long-term data on recurrences of actinic keratosis and progression to superficial squamous cell 
carcinoma. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 33/39
 
 
 
 
 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
Safety of Zyclara in the treatment of AK at the proposed posology and for the duration of pivotal 
clinical trials has been demonstrated. A comparison between AE and SAE data of Zyclara vs Aldara 
indicate local skin reactions for both treatments are comparable and reactions are mostly reflective of 
the therapeutic action of imiquimod. Comparative data for 2-week regimen – in line with the proposed 
duration of treatment – shows that the rates of systemic AEs are generally low for both treatments, 
and numerically slightly in favour of Zyclara (with the exception of lymphadenopathy which was seen 
in 1.9% of patients who received the 3.75% cream compared to 0.8% of those who received Aldara). 
It can be concluded that the safety profile of Zyclara is comparable to that of Aldara. 
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The CHMP considered that the Pharmacovigilance system as described by the applicant fulfils the 
legislative requirements.  
The applicant must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance is in place and functioning before the 
product is placed on the market. 
Risk management plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 34/39
 
 
 
 
Table 22: Summary of the risk management plan 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 35/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CHMP, having considered the data submitted, was of the opinion that the below pharmacovigilance 
activities in addition to the use of routine pharmacovigilance are needed to investigate further some of 
the safety concerns:  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 36/39
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
To submit the final study report for study X-03016-3271 investigating the 
November 2013 
long term effect of Aldara in the treatment of actinic keratoses on the 
face or scalp. 
To submit the final study report for study X-03016-3284 investigating the 
March 2016 
long term effect of Aldara in the treatment of actinic keratoses on the 
face or scalp with respect to the risk of progression to in-situ and invasive 
squamous cell carcinoma. 
PSUR submission 
On the basis of the safety data submitted, the CHMP considered that the PSUR submission schedule 
should follow the PSUR schedule for the reference product (Aldara, imiquimod 5%), which currently is 
on a 3-yearly cycle. 
The next data lock point for the reference medicinal product is 26 January 2014. 
User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target patient groups on the package leaflet submitted by the 
applicant show that the package leaflet meets the criteria for readability as set out in the Guideline on 
the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-risk balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects  
Compared to Aldara (5% imiquimod), Zyclara has lower concentration of the active substance (3.75% 
imiquimod), allowing the treatment of areas larger than 25 cm2 and a higher number of lesions. The 
daily dosing regimen with Zyclara, compared to dosing on a certain number of days in the week for 
Aldara, is more intuitive and more easily followed by patients potentially improving compliance with 
treatment. 
Data from pivotal trials have established superior short term efficacy compared to placebo. The 
average response rate across the 4 pivotal studies was approximately 35% for Zyclara, compared to 
5% for placebo. All results were highly statistically significant.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
Although efficacy and safety of Zyclara versus placebo at the given strength and proposed posology 
was demonstrated through 2 pivotal trials, comparative efficacy of Aldara and Zyclara is less clear, as 
the 2 have never been compared in head to head trials. The efficacy and safety of Zyclara vs a well 
established first line treatment has never been assessed and such comparison is limited to the use of 
historical data which has known limitations. However, as long as Zyclara remains a second line 
therapy, as is the case with the reference product, Aldara, this approach (comparison vs placebo only) 
can be acceptable.  
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 37/39
 
 
 
 
Risks  
Unfavourable effects 
The clinical safety of Zyclara is comparable to that of the reference product (Aldara 5% cream) in the 
treatment of actinic keratosis, which is well-established and includes local skin reactions as well as flu-
like  systemic  signs  and  symptoms  (fatigue,  nausea,  fever,  myalgias,  arthralgias,  and  chills) 
attributable to local cytokine release from the immune-stimulatory action of imiquimod.  
The long-term safety aspect was assessed during study GW01-0803 which was a one year 
observational follow-up to Studies GW01-0702, GW01-0703, GW01-0704, and GW01-0705. During this 
follow-up study, basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma were the most frequently reported 
AEs in the study. Squamous cell or basal cell carcinomas were reported in 4 patients in the 3.75% 
imiquimod, 3-week treatment cycle regimen and basal cell carcinoma was reported in 1 patient in the 
2.5% imiquimod, 2-week treatment cycle regimen. Three out of 4 of these patients had a reported 
history of basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma. On 3 occasions, the investigators’ assessment of 
causality was ‘not related’ to study medication and on 1 occasion ‘probably not related’. These results 
are not alarming and, given that they occurred within weeks to months after the treatment was 
stopped, it is unlikely the development of squamous cell carcinoma is causally related to slightly higher 
systemic exposure seen with Zyclara.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Compared to Aldara 5% cream 2 sachets applied 3 times per week, around 20% higher systemic 
exposure is expected with Zyclara. The relative systemic exposure is approximately 3 times higher 
when Zyclara is compared to Aldara 1 sachet applied 3 times per week. According to the European 
SmPC of Aldara, the most clinically serious adverse event reported following accidental ingestion of 
200 mg (content of approximately 21 sachets of Zyclara) was hypotension which resolved following 
oral or intravenous fluid administration. Therefore, despite relatively higher exposure compared to 
Aldara, the overall systemic exposure with Zyclara does not seem excessive.  
These findings, in conjunction with safety findings from submitted clinical trials, including the one year 
observational study GW01-0803, indicate that the higher systemic exposure with Zyclara does not lead 
to major safety concerns. However, lack of data on long-term exposure (beyond the duration of the 
submitted clinical trials) limits the ability to detect differences in the rates of uncommon AEs compared 
to Aldara. In view of uncertainties with regard to the rates of progression to squamous cell carcinoma, 
long-term data on recurrence of actinic keratosis and progression to squamous cell carcinoma, the 
applicant has agreed to include the two studies X-03016-3271 and X-03016-3284, implemented as 
part of the Aldara (imiquimod 5%) RMP, in the RMP for Zyclara to gather long-term data on 
recurrences of actinic keratosis and progression to superficial squamous cell carcinoma. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Overall, the data presented show that Zyclara 3.75% (imiquimod) is an effective treatment for actinic 
keratosis.  The  use  of  Zyclara  over  the  duration  of  the  presented  clinical  trials  did  not  raise  safety 
issues.  Compared  to  Aldara,  the  posology  of  Zyclara  is  easier  to  follow,  potentially  improving 
compliance. It also allows for treating a larger surface area and, therefore, higher number of lesions. 
The Benefit/Risk of Zyclara is considered to be favourable. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 38/39
 
 
 
 
4. Recommendation 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the benefit-risk balance of Zyclara in the topical treatment of clinically typical, nonhyperkeratotic, 
nonhypertrophic, visible or palpable actinic keratoses (AK) of the full face or balding scalp in 
immunocompetent adults, when other topical treatment options are contraindicated or less appropriate 
is favourable and therefore recommends the granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the 
following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Pharmacovigilance System  
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
Risk management system  
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the marketing authorisation 
and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  At the request of the EMA 
PSUR cycle 
The PSUR cycle for the product will follow PSURs submission schedule for the reference medicinal 
product. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
Not applicable 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product 
to be implemented by the member states. 
Not applicable. 
Zyclara 
Assessment report  
EMA/525140/2012 
Page 39/39
 
 
 
 
 
