EMA/780973/2017 
EMEA/H/C/000179 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zyclara 
imiquimod 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zyclara. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Zyclara. 
For practical information about using Zyclara, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Zyclara and what is it used for? 
Zyclara is a cream used to treat actinic keratosis on the face and balding parts of the scalp. Actinic 
keratosis is a precancerous, abnormal skin growth that develops after too much exposure to sunlight. 
Zyclara is used to treat adults whose immune system (the body’s natural defences) is working 
normally when other skin treatments for actinic keratosis cannot be used or are less appropriate. It 
contains the active substance imiquimod at 3.75% strength (100 mg cream contains 3.75 mg 
imiquimod). 
Zyclara is a ‘hybrid medicine’. This means that it is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ containing the 
same active substance, but Zyclara is available in a different strength. The reference medicine for 
Zyclara is Aldara, which contains imiquimod at 5% strength. 
How is Zyclara used? 
Zyclara is available as a 3.75% cream in individual sachets. It can only be obtained with a prescription. 
One or two sachets of Zyclara are applied in a thin layer to the affected areas of the face or balding 
scalp once a day before bedtime. The cream should remain on the skin overnight (for about 8 hours) 
before being washed off. Daily treatment should continue for 2 weeks. This is followed by a 2-week 
break without treatment and then a further 2 weeks of treatment. For further information, see the 
package leaflet. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The patient’s response to treatment should be evaluated 8 weeks after the end of treatment, and a 
third 2-week course may be considered if needed. If actinic keratosis does not improve enough with 
Zyclara, a different treatment should be tried. 
If actinic keratosis is cleared after two 2-week courses but then it comes back, it can be treated again 
with one or two 2-week treatment courses provided these are given after a break of at least 12 weeks 
from the original treatment. 
How does Zyclara work? 
The active substance in Zyclara cream, imiquimod, is an immune response modifier. This means that it 
uses the immune system to bring about its effect. When imiquimod is applied to the skin, it acts locally 
on the immune system to trigger the release of cytokines, including interferon. These substances help 
to kill the abnormal cells in the skin that lead to keratosis. 
What benefits of Zyclara have been shown in studies? 
Zyclara has been shown to be effective in clearing actinic keratosis from the skin in two main studies 
involving 479 patients with actinic keratosis on the face and scalp. Two doses of Zyclara (2.5% and 
3.75%) were compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in these studies, and the main measure of 
effectiveness was the number of patients whose skin was completely cleared of the actinic keratosis 
after treatment. Around 36% of patients treated with Zyclara 3.75% cream in the two studies had 
complete clearance compared with around 6% of patients treated with placebo. Zyclara at a lower 
strength (2.5%) had a lower clearance rate than the 3.75% strength. 
What are the risks associated with Zyclara? 
Most patients using Zyclara experience side effects on the skin where the medicine was applied (most 
commonly redness, scab formation, dryness and shedding of the skin). About 11% of patients in 
studies with Zyclara required treatment to be interrupted due to this kind of side effect on the skin. 
Some other side effects, including headache and tiredness, were also reported. For the full list of side 
effects and restrictions with Zyclara, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zyclara approved? 
The European Medicines Agency concluded that Zyclara 3.75% cream has been shown to be effective 
at clearing actinic keratosis from the skin and that its use did not raise significant safety concerns. 
Treatment with Zyclara has the advantage of being easier to adhere to than Aldara treatment because 
it has a simpler dosing regimen. In addition, its lower strength allows it to be used across larger areas 
of the skin and thereby treat more of the affected skin. 
The Agency therefore decided that Zyclara’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that 
it be given marketing authorisation. 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zyclara? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zyclara have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Zyclara  
EMA/780973/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
Other information about Zyclara 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zyclara on 23 August 2012. 
The full EPAR for Zyclara can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Zyclara, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
The full EPAR for the reference medicine can also be found on the Agency’s website. 
 This summary was last updated in 12-2017. 
Zyclara  
EMA/780973/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
