EMEA/H/C/003843 
Zydelig (idelalisib) 
An overview of Zydelig and why it is authorised in the EU 
What is Zydelig and what is it used for? 
Zydelig is a cancer medicine that is used to treat chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL, a cancer of a 
type of white blood cells called B lymphocytes) and follicular lymphoma (another cancer that affects B 
lymphocytes).  
In CLL, Zydelig is used in combination with another medicine (rituximab or ofatumumab) in patients 
who have received at least one previous treatment and in patients whose cancer cells have genetic 
mutations (changes) called 17p deletion or TP53 mutation and who cannot be treated with any other 
therapy. 
In follicular lymphoma, Zydelig is used on its own in patients whose disease has not improved with two 
previous treatments. 
Zydelig contains the active substance idelalisib. 
How is Zydelig used? 
Zydelig can only be obtained with a prescription and it should be prescribed by a doctor experienced in 
using cancer medicines. 
Zydelig is available as 100 mg and 150 mg tablets. The recommended dose is 150 mg twice a day, and 
treatment should be continued for as long as the patient improves or remains stable and the side 
effects are tolerable. If the patient has severe side effects, treatment must be stopped and can be re-
started at a lower dose of 100 mg twice a day.  
All patients treated with Zydelig should also be given preventive medication against the lung infection 
Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia, and this should be continued for up to 6 months after stopping 
treatment with Zydelig. Patients should also be monitored for infection and have regular blood tests to 
measure the level of white blood cells. Zydelig should not be started in patients with any generalised 
infection (infection that has spread with symptoms affecting the whole body, such as fever and chills). 
For more information about using Zydelig, see the package leaflet or contact your doctor or 
pharmacist. 
Official address  Domenico Scarlattilaan 6  ●  1083 HS Amsterdam  ●  The Netherlands 
Address for visits and deliveries  Refer to www.ema.europa.eu/how-to-find-us  
Send us a question  Go to www.ema.europa.eu/contact   Telephone +31 (0)88 781 6000 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency,2019. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
How does Zydelig work? 
The active substance in Zydelig, idelalisib, blocks the effects of an enzyme called PI3K-delta. This 
enzyme plays a role in the growth, migration and survival of white blood cells but is overactive in blood 
cancers, where it enables the survival of the cancer cells. By targeting this enzyme and blocking its 
effects, idelalisib causes death of the cancer cells, thereby delaying or stopping the progression of the 
cancer. 
What benefits of Zydelig have been shown in studies? 
In a main study of 220 patients with previously treated CLL, Zydelig was more effective at treating the 
cancer than placebo (a dummy treatment) when both were given in combination with rituximab: 75% 
of patients taking Zydelig had an improvement in their disease compared with 15% of patients 
receiving placebo. Zydelig was also more effective than placebo in patients who had a specific genetic 
mutation in their cancer cells that makes them unsuitable for certain other therapies. 
Zydelig with ofatumumab was more effective than ofatumumab alone in the treatment of CLL. In a 
study of 261 previously treated CLL patients, it took over 16 months on average before the disease got 
worse in patients treated with Zydelig plus ofatumumab, compared with 8 months in those treated 
with ofatumumab alone. 
Another main study evaluated Zydelig in patients with different lymphomas, including 72 patients with 
follicular lymphoma that had failed two previous treatments. Zydelig was effective, with 54% of 
patients with follicular lymphoma having either a complete or partial response to treatment. 
What are the risks associated with Zydelig? 
The most common side effects with Zydelig (which may affect more than 1 in 10 people) are infections 
(including lung infection caused by Pneumocystis jirovecii, and cytomegalovirus infections), 
neutropenia (low levels of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell), lymphocytosis (increased levels of 
lymphocytes, another type of white blood cell), diarrhoea, blood tests showing changes in the liver, 
rash, fever and increased blood fat levels.  
For the full list of side effects  and restrictions of Zydelig, see the package leaflet. 
Why is Zydelig authorised in the EU? 
The European Medicines Agency noted that data from the main studies showed high response rates 
with Zydelig in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia and follicular lymphoma. Zydelig was also 
effective in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia patients whose cancer cells have the 17p deletion or TP53 
mutation, who usually have a poor outcome.  
In addition, the safety of the medicine was considered acceptable. The Agency therefore concluded 
that Zydelig’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that it be approved for use in the 
EU. 
Zydelig (idelalisib)  
EMA/405154/2019  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zydelig? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zydelig have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
As for all medicines, data on the use of Zydelig are continuously monitored. Side effects reported with 
Zydelig are carefully evaluated and any necessary action taken to protect patients. 
Other information about Zydelig 
Zydelig received a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU on 18 September 2014.  
Further information on Zydelig can be found on the Agency’s website: 
ema.europa.eu/medicines/human/EPAR/zydelig.  
This overview was last updated in 12-2019.  
Zydelig (idelalisib)  
EMA/405154/2019  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
