Summary of risk management plan for Zykadia (ceritinib)
This is a summary of the risk management plan (RMP) for ceritinib. The RMP 
details important risks of ceritinib, and how these risks can be minimized, and 
how more information will be obtained about ceritinib’s risks and uncertainties 
(missing information).
Ceritinib summary of product characteristics (SmPC) and its package leaflet 
give  essential  information  to  healthcare  professionals  and  patients  on  how 
ceritinib should be used. 
This summary of the RMP for ceritinib should be read in the context of all this 
information  including the assessment report of the evaluation and its plain-
language summary, all which is part of the European Public Assessment Report 
(EPAR). 
Important  new  concerns  or  changes  to  the  current  ones  will  be  included  in 
updates of ceritinib’s RMP.
I. The medicine and what it is used for
Zykadia  contains  ceritinib  as  the  active  substance  and  it  is  used  for  the 
following indications:
 Zykadia as monotherapy is indicated for the treatment of adult patients 
with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with crizotinib.
 Zykadia as monotherapy is indicated for the first line treatment of adult 
patients with anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) positive advanced non-
small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
The recommended dose of ceritinib is 450 mg once daily with food at the same 
time each day.
Further information about the evaluation of ceritinib’s benefits can be found 
in ceritinib’s EPAR, including in its plain-language summary, available on the
EMA website, under the medicine’s webpage link to the EPAR summary landing 
page on the EMA webpage. 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/rmp-summary/zykadia-epar-
risk-management-plan-summary_en.pdf
II. Risks associated with the medicine and activities to 
minimize or further characterize the risks
Important  risks  of  ceritinib,  together  with  measures  to  minimize  such  risks 
and the proposed studies for learning more about ceritinib’s risks, are outlined 
below.
Measures to minimize the risks identified for medicinal products can be:
 Specific  information,  such  as  warnings,  precautions,  and  advice  on 
correct use, in the package leaflet and SmPC addressed to patients and 
healthcare professionals;

Important advice on the medicine’s packaging;
 The authorised pack size — the amount of medicine in a pack is chosen 
so to ensure that the medicine is used correctly;
 The  medicine’s  legal  status  — the  way  a  medicine  is  supplied  to  the 
patient (e.g. with or without prescription) can help to minimize its risks.
Together, these measures constitute routine risk minimization measures.
In  addition  to  these  measures,  information  about  adverse  reactions  is 
collected continuously and regularly analysed, including PSUR assessment so 
that immediate action can be taken as necessary. These measures constitute 
routine pharmacovigilance activities. 
If  important  information  that  may  affect  the  safe  use  of  ceritinib’s  not  yet 
available, it is listed under ‘missing information’ below.
II.A List of important risks and missing information
Important  risks  of  ceritinib  are  risks  that  need  special  risk  management 
activities  to  further  investigate  or  minimize  the  risk,  so  that  the  medicinal 
product can be safely taken. Important risks can be regarded as identified or 
potential. Identified risks are concerns for which there is sufficient proof of a 
link  with  the  use  of  ceritinib.  Potential  risks  are  concerns  for  which  an 
association with the use of this medicine is possible based on available data, 
but this association has not been established yet and needs further evaluation. 
Missing  information  refers  to  information  on  the  safety  of  the  medicinal 
product that is currently missing and needs to be collected (e.g. on the long-
term use of the medicine);
Table-1
List of important risks and missing information
Important identified 
risks
None
Important potential 
risks
Risk  for  patients  with  severe  hepatic  impairment  (including 
lack of efficacy)
Missing information
Pregnant  and  lactating  women,  and  women  of  childbearing 
potential
II.B Summary of important risks
The safety information in the proposed Product Information is aligned to the reference medicinal 
product.
Table-2
Important potential risk: Risk for patients with severe 
hepatic impairment (including lack of efficacy)
Evidence for linking 
the risk to the 
medicine
Risk factors and risk 
groups
Risk minimization 
measures
Preclinical studies indicated that ceritinib clearance pathways 
are likely to have some hepatic involvement. Biliary excretion is 
expected to have the largest role in the hepatic component of 
drug elimination, with a potential more minor role of hepatic 
metabolic enzymes. Therefore, alterations of hepatobiliary 
excretory and metabolic activities might lead to higher 
exposures and greater drug accumulation of ceritinib in the 
hepatically impaired population. The effect of ceritinib in 
patients with various degrees of hepatic impairment was 
studied in the Study A2110, which demonstrated similar 
effects. 
The mean systemic exposure (AUCinf) to ceritinib was increased 
in subjects with severe hepatic impairment as compared to 
healthy subjects; physiology-based PK modeling, however, 
predicted the exposure to ceritinib to be similar between 
patients and healthy subjects under steady-state conditions. No 
relevant increase in exposure was seen in patients with 
moderate hepatic impairment.
Patients with severe hepatic impairment patients who receive 
ceritinib. 
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4 and 4.5
Additional risk minimization measures
None
Table-3
Missing information: Pregnant and lactating women, and 
women of childbearing potential
Risk minimization 
measures
Routine risk minimization measures
SmPC Section 4.6 and Section 5.3
Additional risk minimization measures
None
II.C Post-authorisation development plan
II.C.1 Studies which are conditions of the marketing authorisation
There are no studies, which are conditions of the marketing authorization or 
specific obligation of ceritinib.
II.C.2. Other studies in post-authorization development plan
Table-4
Other studies in the post-authorization development plan
Study short name 
Rationale and study objectives
The primary objective is to compare the antitumor activity 
of ceritinib versus reference chemotherapy, as measured 
by PFS determined by a (BIRC).
LDK378A2303, A Phase III, 
multicenter, randomized, 
open-label study of oral 
LDK378 versus standard 
chemotherapy in adult 
patients with ALK 
rearranged (ALK-positive) 
advanced non-small cell 
lung cancer who have been 
treated previously with 
chemotherapy (platinum 
doublet) and crizotinib.
Status: Ongoing.
