European Medicines Agency  
Zyllt 
clopidogrel 
EPAR summary for the public 
EMEA/H/C/1058 
This document is a summary of the European Public Assessment Report (EPAR). It explains how 
the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the studies performed, to 
reach their recommendations on how to use the medicine. 
If you need more information about your medical condition or your treatment, read the Package 
Leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. If you want more 
information on the basis for the CHMP recommendations, read the Scientific Discussion (also 
part of the EPAR). 
What is Zyllt? 
Zyllt is a medicine that contains the active substance clopidogrel. It is available as pink, round tablets 
(75 mg). 
Zyllt is a ‘generic medicine’. This means that Zyllt is similar to a ‘reference medicine’ already 
authorised in the European Union (EU) called Plavix. For more information on generic medicines, see 
the question-and-answer document here. 
What is Zyllt used for? 
Zyllt is used in adults to prevent atherothrombotic events (problems caused by blood clots and 
hardening of the arteries). Zyllt can be given to the following groups of patients: 
•  patients who have recently had a myocardial infarction (heart attack). Zyllt can be started between 
a few days and 35 days after the attack; 
•  patients who have had a recent ischaemic stroke (stroke caused by failure of the blood supply to 
part of the brain). Zyllt can be started between seven days and six months after the stroke; 
•  patients with peripheral arterial disease (problems with blood flow in the arteries); 
•  patients who have a condition known as ‘acute coronary syndrome’, when it should be given with 
aspirin (another medicine that prevents blood clots), including patients who have had a stent 
inserted (a short tube placed in an artery to prevent it closing up). Zyllt can be used in patients 
who are having myocardial infarction with ‘ST segment elevation’ (an abnormal reading on the 
electrocardiogram or ECG) when the doctor thinks that they would benefit from the treatment. It 
can also be used in patients who do not have this abnormal reading on the ECG, if they have 
unstable angina (a severe type of chest pain) or have had a ‘non-Q-wave’ myocardial infarction. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Zyllt used? 
The standard dose of Zyllt is one 75 mg tablet once a day, taken with or without food. In acute 
coronary syndrome, Zyllt is used together with aspirin and treatment generally starts with a loading 
dose of four 75 mg tablets. This is then followed by the standard 75 mg dose once a day for at least 
four weeks (in ST segment elevation myocardial infarction) or for up to 12 months (in non-ST 
segment elevation syndrome). 
7 Westferry Circus, Canary Wharf,  London  E14 4HB, UK 
Tel. (44-20) 74 18 84 00  Fax (44-20) 74 18 84 16 
E-mail: mail@emea.europa.eu     http://www.emea.europa.eu 
© European Medicines Agency, 2009. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How does Zyllt work? 
The active substance in Zyllt, clopidogrel, is an inhibitor of platelet aggregation. This means that it 
helps to prevent blood clots from forming. When the blood clots, this is due to special cells in the 
blood called platelets aggregating (sticking together). Clopidogrel stops the platelets aggregating by 
blocking a substance called ADP from attaching to a special receptor on their surface. This stops the 
platelets becoming ‘sticky’, reducing the risk of a blood clot forming and helping to prevent another 
heart attack or stroke. 
How has Zyllt been studied? 
Because Zyllt is a generic medicine, studies have been limited to tests to determine that it is 
bioequivalent to the reference medicine, Plavix. Two medicines are bioequivalent when they produce 
the same levels of the active substance in the body. 
What are the benefit and risk of Zyllt? 
Because Zyllt is a generic medicine and is bioequivalent to the reference medicine, its benefit and risk 
are taken as being the same as those of the reference medicine. 
Why has Zyllt been approved? 
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) concluded that, in accordance with 
EU requirements, Zyllt has been shown to have comparable quality and to be bioequivalent to Plavix. 
Therefore, the CHMP’s view was that, as for Plavix, the benefit outweighs the identified risk. The 
Committee recommended that Zyllt be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Zyllt: 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the EU for Zyllt to 
Krka, d.d., Novo mesto on 28 September 2009. 
The full EPAR for Zyllt can be found here. 
This summary was last updated in 07-2009. 
2/2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
