London, 25 April 2014 
EMA/384213/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Zypadhera 
olanzapine 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/000890/II/0022 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all commercially confidential information deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 5 February 2014 an application for a variation. 
This application concerns the following medicinal product: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
Zypadhera 
olanzapine 
See Annex A 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
C.I.4 
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Type 
II 
The MAH has proposed an update of sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC in order to reflect the level 
of data available in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) or schizophrenia 
following the completion of a long-term safety study, in fulfilment of the requirement laid down in 
Article 46 of the paediatric regulation.     
In addition, administrative updates to the reconstitution instructions in the SmPC and PL to align 
with information provided by the manufacture of the kit needles and syringes are proposed. 
Finally, a correction to the pharmacotherapeutic group in line with the WHO ATC index and a 
correction to a listed excipient of the Zypadhera solvent are proposed. 
The requested variation proposed amendments to the Summary of Product Characteristics, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Rapporteur: 
Janne Komi 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
5 February 2014 
24 February 2014 
Rapporteur’s variation assessment report circulated 
25 March 2014 
on: 
CHMP opinion: 
25 April 2014 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Olanzapine  is  an  antipsychotic,  antimanic  and  mood  stabilising  agent  that  demonstrates  a  broad 
pharmacologic  profile  across  a  number  of  receptor  systems.  Olanzapine  exhibits  a  range  of 
receptor  affinities  for  serotonin  5HT2A/2C,  5HT3,  5HT6;  dopamine  D 1-  D 5;  cholinergic  muscarinic 
receptors M1-M5; α1 adrenergic receptors; and histamine H1 receptors.  
Zyprexa (olanzapine coated tablets and powder for solution for injection (rapid-acting, RAIM)) was 
first  authorised  in  European  Union  on  27th  September  1996.  Oral  and  RAIM  formulations  are 
marketed  in  121  countries.  Zypadhera  (powder  and  solvent  for  prolonged  release  suspension  for 
Zypadhera 
EMA/384213/2014 
Page 2/7 
 
  
  
injection)  was  authorised  in  Europe  on  19th  November  2008.  It  is  marketed  in  106  countries 
worldwide.  Zypadhera  is  indicated  in  maintenance  treatment  of  adult  patients  with  schizophrenia 
sufficiently stabilised during acute treatment with oral olanzapine. The effectiveness of Zypadhera 
in  the  treatment  and  maintenance  treatment  of  schizophrenia  is  consistent  with  the  established 
effectiveness  of  the  oral  formulation  of  olanzapine.  In  the  EU,  olanzapine  is  indicated  in  adult 
patients only. 
2.2.  Quality  aspects 
This variation includes a correction to the list of excipient of Zypadhera solvent. Module 3.2.P.3.2 
states  that  the  solvent  contains  carmellose  sodium.  In  the  current  package  information 
croscarmellose  sodium  is  listed  as  an  excipient  of  Zypadhera  solvent  and  this  information  will  be 
now  corrected  (SmPC,  PL,  labelling).  The  error  has  been  in  place  since  the  initial  MA  approval  in 
November 2008. The variation also updates the reconstitution instructions in the SmPC and PL to 
align  with  information  provided  by  Smiths  Medical,  the  manufacturer  of  the  kit  needles  and 
syringes. 
2.3.  Clinical Safety aspects 
This  variation  results  from  previous  assessment  according  to  Art.  46  of  the  paediatric  regulation 
and 
is 
related 
to  ongoing  worksharing  process 
for  Zyprexa  and  Zyprexa  Velotab 
(EMEA/H/C/XXX/WS/485).  Relevant  data  submitted  for  the  issue  has  been  assessed  thoroughly 
within process EMEA/H/C/XXX/WS/485. This is a parallel process to stay in line with Zyprexa and 
Zyprexa Velotab. The changes proposed in the SmPC sections 4.4 and 5.1 of Zypadhera are exactly 
the  same  as  proposed  and  assessed  as  approvable  in  the  SmPC  sections  4.4  and  5.1  of  Zyprexa 
(excluding RAIM) and Zyprexa Velotab in worksharing process EMEA/H/C/XXX/WS/485. 
2.4.   Discussion 
The results of study HGMX provide additional data on the long-term safety of olanzapine treatment 
in  adolescents.  Previous  long-term  data  in  adolescents  have  extended  to  32  weeks  of  treatment 
(McCormack 2010) but were open-label and uncontrolled. Results of study HGMX extend the data 
in adolescents to 52 weeks and support the findings from the previous studies of up to 32 week’s 
duration.  The  data  of  olanzapine  from  study  HGMX  were  also  open-label  and  uncontrolled. 
Therefore, these findings should be interpreted with caution.  
The  findings  from  study  HGMX  do  not  change  the  overall  benefit-risk  profile  of  olanzapine  in 
adolescents. However, evaluating the relevant sections of the SmPC in light of the newly available 
data,  the  MAH  proposes  modifications  to  SmPC  sections  4.4  and  5.1  to  remove  or  correct 
statements  regarding  the  availability  of  long-term  data  in  the  paediatric  population.  Sections  4.2 
and 4.8 of the SmPC contain paediatric information that the MAH does not propose to change. 
2.5.  Changes to the Product Information 
The MAH proposed the following changes to the Product Information (PI), in the SmPC of 
Zypadhera  (deleted as strikethroughs and additions as underlined)  to which the CHMP agreed: 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Paediatric population 
Zypadhera  
EMA/334758/2014 
Page 3/7 
  
  
Olanzapine is not indicated for use in the treatment of children and adolescents. Studies in patients 
aged 13-17 years showed various adverse reactions, including weight gain, changes in metabolic 
parameters and increases in prolactin levels. Long-term outcomes associated with these events 
have not been studied and remain unknown (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
Pharmacotherapeutic group: psycholeptics, diazepines, oxazepines, and thiazepines and oxepines, 
ATC code N05A H03. 
… 
Paediatric population 
ZYPADHERA has not been studied in the paediatric population. Controlled efficacy data The 
experience in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) is are limited to short term oral olanzapine  
studies efficacy data in schizophrenia (6 weeks) and mania associated with bipolar I disorder (3 
weeks), involving less than 200 adolescents.  
Olanzapine was used as a flexible dose starting with 2.5 and ranging up to 20 mg/day. During 
treatment with olanzapine, adolescents gained significantly more weight compared with adults. The 
magnitude of changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and prolactin (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8) were greater in adolescents than in adults. There are no controlled data on 
maintenance of effect or and limited data on long term safety (see sections 4.4 and 4.8). 
Information on long term safety is primarily limited to open-label, uncontrolled data.  
6.1  List of excipients  
… 
Croscarmellose sodium 
… 
In addition the following similar changes are proposed into section 6.6 and Instructions for Health 
Care Professionals: 
6.6 Special precautions for disposal and other handling 
…STEP 3: Reconstituting ZYPADHERA 
1.  Loosen the powder by lightly tapping the vial.  
2.  Open the pre-packaged Hypodermic syringe and needle with needle protection device. Peel 
blister  pouch  and  remove  device.  Attach  a  syringe  (if  not  already  attached)  to  the  Luer 
connection  of  Insure  needle  is  firmly  seated  on  the  device  with  an  easy  twisting  motion. 
Seat the needle firmly on the device with a push and a clockwise twist, then pull the needle 
cap  straight  away  from  the  needle.  Failure  to  follow  these  instructions  may  result  in  a 
needlestick injury. 
3.  Withdraw the pre-determined solvent volume (Step 2) into the syringe. 
4.  Inject the solvent volume into the powder vial. 
5.  Withdraw air to equalize the pressure in the vial.  
6.  Remove the needle, holding the vial upright to prevent any loss of solvent.  
7.  Engage  the  needle  safety  device.  Press  the  needle  into  the  sheath  using  a  one-handed 
technique.  Perform a one-handed technique by GENTLY pressing the sheath against a flat 
surface.    AS  THE  SHEATH  IS  PRESSED  (Fig.  1),  THE  NEEDLE  IS  FIRMLY  ENGAGED  INTO 
THE SHEATH (Fig.ure 1 and 2) 
Zypadhera  
EMA/334758/2014 
Page 4/7 
  
  
 
8.  Visually  confirm  that  the  needle  is  fully  engaged  into  the  needle  protection  sheath.  (Figure 
3)  Only  remove  the  device  with  the  engaged  needle  from  the  syringe  when  required  by  a 
specific  medical  procedure.  Remove  by  grasping  the  Luer  hub  of  the  needle  protection  device 
with  thumb  and  forefinger,  keeping  the  free  fingers  clear  of  the  end  of  the  device  containing 
the needle point (Fig. 3). 
… 
Administration 
STEP 1: Injecting ZYPADHERA 
… 7. Engage the needle safety device. (Fig.ure 1 and 2) … 
The CHMP considered that the proposed changes are approvable. The proposed changes in the PL, 
instructions  for  the  HCPs  and  labelling  are  in  line  with  those  proposed  in  the  SmPC  sections  6.1 
and 6.6. 
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk 
balance 
This is a parallel procedure with ongoing worksharing process for Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab to 
fulfill  the  requirements  of  Article  46  of  the  paediatric  regulation  following  the  completion  of  the 
study  HGMX  (F1D-MC-HGMX),  ‘A  Long-Term,  Open-Label,  Safety  Study  of  Oral  Olanzapine  in 
Adolescents with Bipolar I Disorder (Manic or Mixed Episodes) or Schizophrenia’, and to update the 
SmPC in order to reflect the level of safety data now available in this patient population, and to be 
in line with Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab.  
Relevant  data  submitted  for  the  issue  has  been  assessed  thoroughly  within  parallel  process 
EMEA/H/C/xxxx/WS/0485. The changes proposed in the SmPC sections 4.4 and 5.1 of Zypadhera 
are exactly the same as proposed and assessed as approvable in the SmPC sections 4.4 and 5.1 of 
Zyprexa 
(excluding  RAIM) 
and  Zyprexa  Velotab 
in 
the 
  worksharing  process 
EMEA/H/C/xxxx/WS/0485. 
In  principle,  the  proposed  clinical  amendments  to  the  Product  Information  provide  updated 
information from current knowledge gathered from results from uncontrolled study among children 
and adolescents of 13 to 17 years, and that no controlled long-term data on maintenance of effect 
or safety exists. In EU, olanzapine is not indicated in the treatment of adolescents. The  proposed 
clinical changes in the Product Information sections 4.4 and 5.1 are approvable. 
This variation also includes corrections to the pharmacotherapeutic group in line with the WHO ATC 
index and to the list of excipient of Zypadhera solvent, and updates the reconstitution instructions 
in the SmPC and PL to align with information provided by the manufacturer of the kit needles and 
syringes. These changes are also approvable.  
Zypadhera  
EMA/334758/2014 
Page 5/7 
  
  
 
 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation acceptable 
and therefore recommends the variations to the terms of the Marketing Authorisation, concerning 
the following change(s): 
Variation(s) requested 
C.I.4 
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Type 
II 
Update  of  sections  4.4  and  5.1  of  the  SmPC  in  order  to  reflect  the  level  of  data  available  in 
adolescents  with  bipolar  I  disorder  (manic  or  mixed  episodes)  or  schizophrenia  following  the 
completion of a long-term safety study, in fulfilment of the requirement laid down in Article 46 of 
the paediatric regulation.     
In  addition,  administrative  updates  to  the  reconstitution  instructions  in  the  SmPC  and  PL  to  align 
with information provided by the manufacture of the kit needles and syringes were proposed.   
The MAH took also the opportunity to implement editorial changes with this variation. 
The  requested  variation  proposed  amendments  to  the  Summary  of  Product  Characteristics, 
Labelling and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided 
for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and  published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
Conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal 
product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the  
agreed  RMP  presented  in  Module  1.8.2  of  the  Marketing  Authorisation  and  any  agreed  
subsequent updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
Zypadhera  
EMA/334758/2014 
Page 6/7 
  
  
 
  
• 
Additional risk minimisation measures 
An education program to the health care professionals (HCP) (doctors-nurses-pharmacist) shall 
address, 
Education about the 2 intramuscular formulations of olanzapine, including packaging differences 
1)   Description of post injection syndrome  
– 
–  Description of reconstitution and proper administration technique 
–  Recommendation for a 3-hour on-site observation period post injection 
–  Recommendation that, immediately prior to a patient leaving the health care facility, it should 
be confirmed that the patient is alert, oriented, and absent of any signs or symptoms of 
overdose 
–  Recommendation that the 3-hour observation period should be extended as clinically 
appropriate for patients who exhibit any signs or symptoms consistent with olanzapine 
overdose 
–  Recommendation for informing patients that for the remainder of the day of the injection, they 
should not drive or operate machinery, should be vigilant for signs and symptoms of a post 
injection syndrome event, and should be able to obtain assistance if needed 
–  Description of the most common symptoms reported with olanzapine overdose that represent 
the clinical manifestation in post injection syndrome events 
–  Recommendation for appropriate monitoring until the event resolves if an event should occur 
2)   Recommendations for monitoring of patients for glucose, lipids, and weight 
−  Promote awareness of appropriate metabolic monitoring by distributing utilized published 
antipsychotic guidelines 
A patient card shall be distributed to all patients, including: 
–  Description of post injection syndrome  
–  Recommendation for a 3-hour on-site observation period post injection 
–  Recommendation for informing patients that for the remainder of the day of the injection, they 
should not drive or operate machinery, should be vigilant for signs and symptoms of a post 
injection syndrome event, and should be able to obtain assistance if needed 
–  Description of the most common symptoms reported with olanzapine overdose that represent 
the clinical manifestation in post injection syndrome events 
–  Recommendation for appropriate monitoring until the event resolves if an event should occur 
Zypadhera  
EMA/334758/2014 
Page 7/7 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
