EMA/407132/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000287 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zyprexa Velotab 
olanzapine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zyprexa Velotab. It explains 
how the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its 
opinion in favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of 
use for Zyprexa Velotab. 
What is Zyprexa Velotab? 
Zyprexa Velotab is a medicine that contains the active substance olanzapine. It is available as 
‘orodispersible’ tablets (5, 10, 15 and 20 mg). Orodispersible tablets are tablets that dissolve in the 
mouth. 
What is Zyprexa Velotab used for? 
Zyprexa Velotab is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has a 
number of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing 
things that are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Zyprexa Velotab is also 
effective in maintaining improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Zyprexa Velotab is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in 
adults. It can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in 
adults with bipolar disorder (a mental illness causing alternating periods of high mood and depression) 
who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
How is Zyprexa Velotab used? 
The recommended starting dose of Zyprexa Velotab depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg per 
day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the 
treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose 
can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds to and 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. The orodispersible 
tablets are taken by being placed on the tongue, where they disintegrate quickly in the saliva, or by 
mixing them in water before swallowing. Patients over 65 years of age and patients who have  reduced 
liver or kidney function may need a lower starting dose of 5 mg per day. 
How does Zyprexa Velotab work? 
The active substance in Zyprexa Velotab, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an 
‘atypical’ antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been 
available since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several 
different receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between 
brain cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It 
is thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 
5-hydroxytrypamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved 
in schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, 
reducing the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Zyprexa Velotab been studied? 
Zyprexa Velotab contains the same active substance as another medicine called Zyprexa that has been 
authorised in the European Union (EU) since 1996. Because of this, the studies done with Zyprexa 
were used to support the use of Zyprexa Velotab. Three studies were also carried to show that, when 
taken by mouth, the two medicines produce equivalent levels of olanzapine in the blood. 
What benefit has Zyprexa Velotab shown during the studies? 
Like Zyprexa, Zyprexa Velotab was more effective at improving symptoms than placebo (a dummy 
treatment). Zyprexa Velotab was as effective as the medicines that it was compared with for the 
treatment of adults with schizophrenia, the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes in adults, 
and the prevention of recurrence in adults with bipolar disorder. 
What is the risk associated with Zyprexa Velotab? 
The most common side effects with Zyprexa Velotab (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are 
somnolence (sleepiness), weight gain, orthostatic hypotension (sudden drop in blood pressure on 
standing up) and raised levels of prolactin (a hormone). For the full list of all side effects reported with 
Zyprexa Velotab, see the package leaflet. 
Zyprexa Velotab must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to olanzapine or any of 
the other ingredients. It must also not be used in patients at risk of narrow-angle glaucoma (raised 
pressure inside the eye). 
Why has Zyprexa Velotab been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Zyprexa Velotab’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that 
Zyprexa Velotab be given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Zyprexa Velotab 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zyprexa Velotab on 3 February 2000.  
Zyprexa Velotab  
EMA/407132/2013 
Page 2/3
 
 
 
 
The full EPAR for Zyprexa Velotab can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find 
medicine/Human medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about 
treatment with Zyprexa Velotab, read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your 
doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2013. 
Zyprexa Velotab  
EMA/407132/2013 
Page 3/3
 
 
 
 
