EMA/407171/2013  
EMEA/H/C/000115 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zyprexa 
olanzapine 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zyprexa. It explains how the 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) assessed the medicine to reach its opinion in 
favour of granting a marketing authorisation and its recommendations on the conditions of use for 
Zyprexa. 
What is Zyprexa? 
Zyprexa is a medicine containing the active substance olanzapine. It is available as tablets (2.5, 5, 7.5, 
10, 15 and 20 mg) and as a powder to be made up into a solution for injection. 
What is Zyprexa used for? 
Zyprexa is used to treat adults with schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a mental illness that has a number 
of symptoms, including disorganised thinking and speech, hallucinations (hearing or seeing things that 
are not there), suspiciousness and delusions (mistaken beliefs). Zyprexa is also effective in 
maintaining improvement in patients who have responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Zyprexa is also used to treat moderate to severe manic episodes (extremely high mood) in adults. It 
can also be used to prevent the recurrence of these episodes (when symptoms come back) in adults 
with bipolar disorder (a mental illness with alternating periods of high mood and depression) who have 
responded to an initial course of treatment. 
Zyprexa is usually taken by mouth as tablets, but the injection can be used for the rapid control of 
agitation or disturbed behaviour in adults with schizophrenia or a manic episode, when taking the 
medicine by mouth is not appropriate. 
The medicine can only be obtained with a prescription. 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7418 8416   
E-mail info@ema.europa.eu  Website www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2013. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How is Zyprexa used? 
The recommended starting dose of Zyprexa tablets depends on the disease being treated: 10 mg per 
day is used in schizophrenia and in the prevention of manic episodes, and 15 mg per day in the 
treatment of manic episodes, unless it is used with other medicines, in which case the starting dose 
can be 10 mg per day. The dose is adjusted according to how well the patient responds to and 
tolerates the treatment. The usual dose range is between 5 and 20 mg per day. 
The usual dose when using the injection is 10 mg as a single injection into a muscle. This can be 
followed if needed by a further injection of 5 or 10 mg two hours later. 
Lower doses may be needed for patients over 65 years of age (5 mg per day for the tablets and 2.5 to 
5 mg for the injection) and for patients who have reduced liver or kidney function (5 mg per day for 
both the tablets and injection). 
In all cases, the maximum dose of Zyprexa that can be given in a day, using tablets or injection, is 20 
mg. 
How does Zyprexa work? 
The active substance in Zyprexa, olanzapine, is an antipsychotic medicine. It is known as an ‘atypical’ 
antipsychotic because it is different from the older antipsychotic medicines that have been available 
since the 1950s. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it attaches to several different 
receptors on the surface of nerve cells in the brain. This disrupts signals transmitted between brain 
cells by ‘neurotransmitters’, chemicals that allow nerve cells to communicate with each other. It is 
thought that olanzapine’s beneficial effect is due to it blocking receptors for the neurotransmitters 5-
hydroxytrypamine (also called serotonin) and dopamine. Since these neurotransmitters are involved in 
schizophrenia and in bipolar disorder, olanzapine helps to normalise the activity of the brain, reducing 
the symptoms of these diseases. 
How has Zyprexa been studied? 
In schizophrenia, Zyprexa tablets have been studied in about 3,000 adults, in which their effectiveness 
was compared with that of placebo (a dummy treatment) or haloperidol (another antipsychotic 
medicine). All four studies lasted six weeks, but the patients stayed on the medicine for up to a year or 
more. 
In the treatment of acute manic episodes in adults with bipolar disorder, Zyprexa tablets were 
compared with placebo, haloperidol or valproate (another medicine used in manic episodes) in five 
studies, including one where patients were also receiving other medicines. In the prevention of manic 
episodes, Zyprexa tablets were studied in 1,162 adults. Their effectiveness was compared with that of 
placebo or lithium (another medicine used in bipolar disorder). 
The injection was studied in 581 adults with schizophrenia (compared with placebo or injected 
haloperidol) and 228 manic adults (compared with placebo or injected lorazepam, another medicine 
used in manic episodes). 
In all studies, the effectiveness of Zyprexa was assessed using various symptom-rating scales. 
What benefit has Zyprexa shown during the studies? 
In all studies, Zyprexa as tablets and as injections was more effective at improving symptoms than 
placebo. Zyprexa tablets were at least as effective as the medicines they were compared with for the 
treatment of schizophrenia (haloperidol), the treatment of moderate to severe manic episodes 
Zyprexa  
EMA/407171/2013 
Page 2/3
 
 
 
(haloperidol and valproate), and the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder 
(lithium). The injection was also shown to be more effective than lorazepam (at a relatively low dose) 
in manic patients, and as effective as haloperidol in schizophrenia. 
What is the risk associated with Zyprexa? 
The most common side effects with Zyprexa (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are somnolence 
(sleepiness), weight gain, orthostatic hypotension (sudden drop in blood pressure on standing up) and 
raised levels of prolactin (a hormone). For the full list of all side effects reported with Zyprexa, see the 
package leaflet. 
Zyprexa must not be used in people who are hypersensitive (allergic) to olanzapine or any of the other 
ingredients. It must also not be used in patients at risk of narrow-angle glaucoma (raised pressure 
inside the eye). 
Why has Zyprexa been approved? 
The CHMP decided that Zyprexa’s benefits are greater than its risks and recommended that Zyprexa be 
given marketing authorisation. 
Other information about Zyprexa 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zyprexa on 27 September 1996.  
The full EPAR for Zyprexa can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European public assessment reports. For more information about treatment with Zyprexa, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 05-2013. 
Zyprexa  
EMA/407171/2013 
Page 3/3
 
 
 
