London, 25 April 2014 
EMA/334375/2014 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
(olanzapine) 
Procedure No. EMEA/H/C/xxxx/WS/0485 
Marketing authorisation holder: Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Assessment report for paediatric use studies submitted according to Article 46 of 
Regulation (EC) No 1901/2006 
Assessment report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all commercially confidential information deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsimile +44 (0)20 7523 7455  
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.  Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Requested Type II variation 
Pursuant to Article 16 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1234/2008, Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
submitted to the European Medicines Agency on 6 November 2013 an application for a variation, 
following a worksharing procedure according to Article 20 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 
1234/2008. 
This application concerns the following medicinal products: 
Medicinal product: 
International non-proprietary name: 
Presentations: 
Zyprexa 
Zyprexa Velotab 
olanzapine 
olanzapine 
The following variation was requested: 
Variation requested 
C.I.4 
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
See Annex A 
See Annex A 
Type 
II 
The MAH has proposed to update the sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC in order to reflect the level 
of data available in adolescents with bipolar I disorder (manic or mixed episodes) or schizophrenia 
following the completion of a long-term safety study, in fulfilment of the requirement laid down in 
Article 46 of the paediatric regulation.  
The MAH has also taken the opportunity to align the Product Information with the Quality Review 
of  Documents  (QRD)  template  (Version  9)  and  to  update  the  list  of  local  representatives  in  the 
Package Leaflet.  
In addition, the MAH has corrected a mistake in the ATC code (section 5.1 of the SmPC) since the 
addition of “oxepines” to the pharmacotherapeutic group description was needed to comply with 
the WHO ATC index.  
The requested worksharing procedure proposed amendments to the Summary of Product 
Characteristics, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
Appointed Rapporteur for the WS procedure: 
Janne Komi 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab  
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 2/22 
 
  
  
  
 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment 
Submission date: 
Start of procedure: 
6 November 2013 
24 November 2013 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report 
20 December 2013 
circulated on: 
Request for supplementary information and 
23 January 2014 
extension of timetable adopted by the CHMP on: 
MAH’s responses submitted to the CHMP on: 
5 March 2014 
Rapporteur’s preliminary assessment report on the 
21 March 2014 
MAH’s responses circulated on: 
CHMP opinion: 
25 April 2014 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Olanzapine is an antipsychotic, antimanic and mood stabilising agent that demonstrates  a broad 
pharmacologic  profile  across  a  number  of  receptor  systems.  Olanzapine  exhibits  a  range  of 
receptor  affinities  for  serotonin  5HT 2A/2C,  5HT3,  5HT6;  dopamine  D 1-  D 5;  cholinergic  muscarinic 
receptors  M1-M5;  α1  adrenergic  receptors;  and  histamine  H1  receptors.  Zyprexa  (olanzapine 
coated  tablets  and  powder  for  solution  for  injection  (rapid-acting,  RAIM))  was  first  authorised  in 
European Union on 27th September 1996. Zyprexa Velotab (orodispersible tablets) was authorised 
in Europe on 3rd February 2000. Oral and RAIM formulations are marketed in 121 countries.  
In the EU, Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab are indicated in adults for the treatment of schizophrenia 
(including maintenance treatment), for the treatment of moderate to severe manic episode and in 
prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder whose manic episode has responded to 
olanzapine. Zyprexa RAIM is indicated for the rapid control of agitation and disturbed behaviours 
in  patients  with  schizophrenia  or  manic  episode,  short-termly  when  oral  therapy  is  not 
appropriate.  
In the US, olanzapine was approved in 2009 for the treatment of schizophrenia or manic or mixed 
episodes  associated  with  bipolar  I  disorder  in  patients  13  to  17  years  of  age.  In  the  EU, 
olanzapine is indicated in adult patients only.  
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 3/22 
  
  
2.2  Background 
The  MAH  conducted  a  phase  IV  study  HGMX  as  a  condition  to  the  US  adolescent  approval  and  to 
fulfill  the  EU  planned  pharmacovigilance  action  to  evaluate  the  long-term  safety  of  olanzapine  in 
adolescents,  
In 2007 the MAH submitted type II variations for Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab that included data 
from 2 randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies of oral olanzapine in patients 13 to 17 
years of age. Study F1D-MC-HGIN (HGIN), evaluated efficacy of oral olanzapine for the treatment 
of  adolescent  patients  suffering  from  schizophrenia;  study  F1D-MC-HGIU  (HGIU),  evaluated 
efficacy of oral olanzapine for the treatment of adolescent patients suffering from bipolar mania.  
•  Study  HGIN  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
parallel  study  comparing  the  efficacy of  once-daily  oral  olanzapine  with  placebo  in 
adolescent patients (aged 13-17) with schizophrenia. The study included a 6-week, 
acute  treatment  period  followed  by  a  26-week,  open-label  period  (i.e.  up  to  32 
week).  
•  Study  HGIU  was  a  multicenter,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled, 
parallel  study  comparing  the  efficacy  of  once-daily  oral  olanzapine  2.5  to  20 
mg/day with placebo in adolescent patients (aged 13-17) with bipolar I disorder. In 
study  HGIU  a  3-week  acute  period  was  followed  by  a  26-week  open-label  period 
(i.e. up to 29 week).  
Placebo-controlled  database  in  studies  HGIN  and  HGIU  included  268  patients  (olanzapine  n=179, 
placebo n=89). 
In  addition  to  these,  the  dossier  included  pharmacokinetic  and  safety  data  from  2  supportive 
studies (F1D-MC-HGMF (HGMF) and F1D-MC-LOAY (LOAY).  
•  Study HGMF was a 4-week, open-label pharmacokinetic study of adolescents aged 
13-17 years with schizophrenia or bipolar I disorder.  
•  Study LOAY was an open-label safety and efficacy study which included adolescents 
aged  12-21  years  with  schizophrenia,  schizoaffective  disorder  or  schizophreniform 
disorder. The study included a 6-week, open-label treatment phase followed by an 
18-week,  open-label  extension  phase  for  patients  who  responded  to  treatment  at 
week  6  (i.e. up  to  24  week).  Only  patients  13-17  years  of  age  were  included  into 
pooled olanzapine adolescent database. 
The pooled adolescent olanzapine exposure database was constituted of these studies HGIN, HGIU, 
HGMF  and  LOAY,  and  includes  information  on  454  adolescent  patients  (13-17  years)  exposed  to 
olanzapine  up  to  32  weeks.  This  database  was  previously  used  in  the  making  of  the  adverse 
reaction table for paediatric population in SmPC section 4.8 and as a reference when analysing the 
safety  data  from  the  HGMX  study.  Also,  slightly  larger  adolescent  metabolic  database  (FDA 
Metabolic  Response  December  2007,  submitted  to  EMA  on  04  August  2008)  was  used,  which,  in 
addition  to  the  subjects  in  the  pooled  olanzapine  adolescent  database,  included  35  additional 
adolescent  patients  pulled  from  olanzapine  studies  for  indications  other  than  bipolar  disorder  or 
schizophrenia.  
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 4/22 
  
  
2.3. Clinical Efficacy aspects  
2.3.1. Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Study  HGMX  was  a  global,  multicenter  (total  of  29 centers  in  Germany,  Poland,  USA,  Puerto  Rico 
and  Russia),  open-label,  uncontrolled  single-drug-arm,  52-week  study  to  evaluate  the  long-term 
safety  and  effectiveness  of  olanzapine  in  the  treatment  of  adolescent  patients  (aged  13-17)  with 
schizophrenia or manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.  
The  study  was  conducted  in  accordance  with  GCP,  Declaration  of  Helsinki  and  ethical  guidelines. 
First patient was enrolled on 30th September 2009 and the last patient completed on 7th May 2013. 
HGMX clinical study report, approved on 5th November 2013.  
The primary objectives of study HGMX were to assess in adolescent patients with bipolar I disorder 
manic or mixed episode) or schizophrenia:  
1) whether an intense behavioral weight intervention program  was superior to a standard 
behavioral weight intervention program in mitigation of weight gain (efficacy) as assessed 
by overall mean change from baseline body mass index (BMI), and  
2) the overall safety of olanzapine for up to approximately 52 weeks of treatment. 
The secondary objectives of this study were:  
- 
- 
- 
- 
to  assess  the  mean  change  in  BMI  of 2  intervention  programs  for  patients  with  at least  6 
months of data.  
to  assess  the  time  to  event  for  7%,  15%,  and  25%  weight  gain  between  patients 
randomized to either an intense or standard behavioral weight intervention program.  
to assess the mean change from baseline in waist circumference for all patients.  
to  assess  the  efficacy  of  oral  olanzapine  treatment  in  adolescents,  as  measured  using 
psychiatric assessments including rating scales that assess symptoms of bipolar I disorder 
(Young  Mania  Rating  Scale,  YMRS)  or  schizophrenia  (Brief  Psychiatric  Rating  Scale  for 
Children,  BPRS-C)  and  clinical  global  evaluations  (Clinical  Global  Impression  of 
Improvement/Severity, CGI-I/CGI-S). 
Patients  recruited  in  screening  period  (period  I,  duration  of  2-14  days)  were  inpatients  or 
outpatients  who met DSM-IV-TR  criteria for schizophrenia or  bipolar I disorder with acute current 
manic or mixed episode. Diagnosis was confirmed with the Kiddie Schedule for Affective Disorders 
and  Schizophrenia  for  School  Aged  Children-Present  and  Lifetime  (K-SADS-PL).  Patients  with 
schizophrenia  had  to  have  a  BPRS-C  total  score  >30  at  baseline  (i.e.  at  visits  1  and  2),  with  an 
item score ≥3 for hallucinations, delusions or peculiar fantasies. Patients with bipolar disorder were 
required  to  have  a  YMRS  total  score  of  ≥15  at  baseline.  These  cutoff  scores  reflect  standard 
thresholds to ensure a homogenous population with acute symptoms. 
Concomitant use  of  other  antipsychotics  or  medicinal  products  for  mood  stabilization  used  for  the 
bipolar I disorder or schizophrenia was prohibited. Such medications needed to be discontinued at 
least 2 days prior to visit 2 (i.e. when olanzapine was to be initiated). Concomitant medications for 
the purpose of control or reduction of weight were not allowed during the study. Psychostimulants 
and  other  agents  with  potential  weight  effects  were  allowed  if  the  patient  had  been  on  a  stable 
dose  for  at  least  2  weeks  before  visit 1.  If  a  need  for  initiating  any  of  these  agents  was  required 
during  the  study,  continued  participation  or  discontinuation  was  to  be  evaluated  with  the  sponsor 
prior to this occurring. Use of benzodiazepines was allowed. 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 5/22 
  
  
Eligible  patients  were  to  begin  treatment  with  open-label  olanzapine  (period  II  from  visit  2 
onwards), flexible doses between 2.5 and 20 mg once a day. A flexible dosing regimen was used to 
facilitate  the  chance  for  optimal  dosing  and  to  minimise  potential  adverse  events  (AEs).  Patient 
visits occurred twice in the first week, weekly for the next 3 weeks, every second week for the next 
4 weeks and then every 4 weeks for the remaining 44 weeks of the year-long trial. 
The standard intervention (negative control) consisted of a single counseling session (visit 2 only) 
with  basic  information  on  healthy  eating  and  exercise  habits  at  the  time  of  randomisation  for  the 
patient and the parent or caregiver. This standard program was designed to approximate a typical 
practice  situation.  The  intense  intervention  (active  control)  consisted  of  a  counseling  session  at 
each study visit for both the patient and the parent or caregiver. In addition to basic information, 
patients in the intense intervention group received a pedometer and daily lifestyle log for recording 
their  diet  and  physical  activity,  which  was  reviewed  at  each  session.  Patients  in  the  intense 
intervention who met criteria for obesity (tier 2) also received a bathroom scale for home use and 
additional information and guidance with an emphasis on calorie reduction and weight loss. 
Mean baseline weight and BMI were above average toward overweight. 57% of all patients were in 
the  healthy  range  and  24%  of  all  patients  met  criteria  for  obesity  at  baseline.  Patients  in  the 
bipolar subset had a mean baseline BMI about 3 kg/m2 higher, weighted over 5 kg more and had 
mean waist circumference over 8 cm wider than the schizophrenia subset at baseline. In standard 
group  a  mean  weight  was  over  5  kg  more  (p=0.042)  and  waist  circumference  over  5  cm  wider 
(p=0.016)  at  baseline  than  that  of  the  intense  group.  Baseline  BMI  did  not  differ  significantly 
between intervention groups. 
A total of 261 patients were screened. 205 patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio to a standard or 
intense  behavioural  weight  intervention  group  at  visit  2  (in  the  beginning  of  period  II).  In 
randomization,  region,  BMI  group  (obese  or  non-obese)  and  disease  group  were  taken  account. 
Two patients were not included in the final analyses: One  patient (an orphan) was removed from 
the  database  due  to  improper  consent  and  a  second  patient  was  mis-entered  in  the  system  but 
never had data collected.  
Final analyses are based on 203 patients (52 % males; 81 % white; mean age 15.8 years) treated 
with  olanzapine.  102  subjects  were  randomised  into  standard  weight  intervention  group  and  101 
into  intense  weight  intervention  group.    Of  87  (43  %  of  all)  patients  with  schizophrenia  44  were 
randomised  into  standard  and  43  in  intense  group.  116  (57  %  of  all)  patients  with  bipolar  I 
disorder were randomised equally in both groups (58 each). 
The patients diagnosed with schizophrenia were more likely to be male (63%) and from outside the 
US  (82%),  predominantly  from  Russia  (61%),  with  a  relatively  lower  proportion  of  non-white 
patients (9%). Patients diagnosed with bipolar disorder were more likely to be female (56%) and 
from the USA (96%), with a relatively higher proportion of non-white patients (27%). 
The  primary  analysis  was  an  assessment  of  the  efficacy  evaluated  by  overall  mean  change  from 
baseline  in  BMI  in  standard  behavioral  weight  intervention  program  compared  with  intense 
behavioral  weight  intervention  program  using  mixed-effects  model  repeated  measures  (MMRM) 
methodology. 
Safety  measures  included  collecting  vital  signs,  weight,  height,  waist  circumference,  AEs,  serious 
adverse  events  (SAEs),  concomitant  medications,  laboratory  measurements,  electrocardiograms 
(ECGs), and ratings on the Barnes Akathisia Rating Scale, Abnormal Involuntary Movements Scale 
(AIMS), Simpson-Angus Rating Scale and Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS). 
In  addition,  efficacy  of  olanzapine  to  the  disease  state  was  assessed  by  using  psychiatric 
assessments  including  rating  scales  (CGI-S  and  CGI-I  for  all  patients,  BPRS-C  for  patients  with 
schizophrenia, and YMRS for patients with bipolar disorder).  
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 6/22 
  
  
In  addition  to  BMI,  MMRM  analyses  were  performed  for  the  all  continuous  variables  with  multiple 
measurements.  The  primary  variable  BMI  was  also  evaluated  using  last-observation-carried-
forward (LOCF) methodology using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) to verify the robustness of the 
results.  For  baseline  characteristics,  analysis  of  variance  (ANOVA)  was  used.  For  categorical 
variables,  Fisher’s  exact  test  was  used  with  no  stratifying  variables,  and  the  Cochran-Mantel-
Haenszel  (CMH)  test  was  used  with  stratified  analyses.  The  intent-to-treat  (ITT)  population  was 
used in all analyses performed. All tests of intervention effects were conducted at a 2-sided alpha 
level of 0.05, unless otherwise stated. 
Post  hoc  analyses  were  conducted  to  explore  possible  differences  between  Tier  1  (non-obese  at 
baseline) and Tier 2 (obese at baseline) of the intense intervention with respect to efficacy of the 
weight intervention. Results were not provided in the dossier but are available upon request. 
2.3.2. Results 
Efficacy of the weight intervention  
Of 203 subjects 82 (40 %) completed the study HGMX. Of them 45 belonged to standard and 37 to 
intense behavioural weight intervention group. 43 (49%) patients with schizophrenia and 39 (34%) 
patients with bipolar I disorder completed the 52-week study. The average daily dose of olanzapine 
during the study was 10.75 mg and mean duration of exposure was 215 days. 
Estimated  6-month  discontinuation  rate  was  47.1%  for  the  standard  and  45.5%  for  the  intense 
group.  Estimated  1-year  discontinuation  rate  was  54.9%  for  the  standard  and  63.4%  for  the 
intense group. Median time for discontinuation was 238 days for standard and 211 days for intense 
group. The most frequent reason for discontinuation from the study was AE (19% in the standard 
and 15% in the intense group). The most frequent  AE leading to discontinuation was weight gain 
(8% standard, 6% intense). There were no statistically significant differences between intervention 
groups for completion rate or any of the reasons for discontinuation. 
The  study  did  not  achieve  its  primary  objective  of  demonstrating  the  superiority  of  the  intense 
weight  intervention  over  the  standard  weight  intervention:  There  was  no  statistically  significant 
difference between the interventions in overall mean change from baseline in BMI (p=0.134).  
From baseline to 52 weeks 
-  mean  change  in  BMI  was  +3.64  kg/m2  for  the  standard  group  and  +2.83  kg/m2  for  the 
intense group (p=0.150), and  
-  mean change in weight was +12.05 kg for the standard group and +9.63 kg for the intense 
group (p=0.148).  
None of the secondary measures achieved statistical significance between interventions either.  
Baseline-to-LOCF-endpoint  evaluation  of  mean  changes  in  patients  treated  for  at  least  6  months 
(n=109)  revealed  numeric  but  not  statistically  significant  differences  favouring  the  intense 
intervention: 
- 
in increases in BMI (3.36 kg/m2 standard, 2.99 kg/m2 intense, p=0.520) and  
-  weight (+10.97 kg standard, +9.82 kg intense, p=0.495).  
There were no statistically significant differences between intervention groups in the percentages of 
patients who gained clinically significant amounts of weight at any time or at endpoint.  
-  more patients in the standard group gained ≥15% of their baseline bodyweight compared 
to the intense group at endpoint (40% standard vs. 31% intense, p=0.187)  
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 7/22 
  
  
-  more  patients  in  the  standard  group  ended  the  study  in  the  obese  BMI  category  (36%) 
than did those in the intense group (27%).  
49%  of  all  patients  were  in  the  healthy  range  at  endpoint  (at  baseline  57%).  32%  of  all  patients 
met  criteria  for  obesity  at  endpoint  (at  baseline  24%).  Evaluation  of  the  highest  BMI  category 
indicated that for the standard group, 25.5% were in the obese category at baseline and 36.3% at 
endpoint, whereas for the intense group, 22.8% were in the obese category at baseline and 26.7% 
at  endpoint,  suggesting  that  the  intense  intervention  may  have  prevented  the  shift  into  the  most 
extreme category for at least some patients. 
There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  mean  change  in  waist  circumference,  which 
increased  by  approximately  7  cm  in  each  group  from  baseline  to  week  52.  No  statistically 
significant differences between intervention groups on BMI and weight were found across all of the 
demographic subgroups evaluated (gender, race, region and disease state). 
Efficacy of olanzapine  
Across all patients, mean CGI-S score at baseline was 4.5, indicating a moderately to markedly ill 
population. For the total group of patients, mean change from baseline to 52 weeks on the CGI-S 
was -2.15, indicating a substantial reduction in severity from moderately/markedly ill at baseline to 
borderline  ill  at  52  weeks.  CGI-I,  with  a  mean  score  of  1.78  at  52  weeks,  indicated  an 
improvement rating between much improved and very much improved.  
For the patients with schizophrenia, baseline BPRS-C total score was 45.4 (range from 31 to 74), 
indicating  an  acutely  psychotic  population.  Baseline  BPRS  score  in HGMX  was  lower  than in  study 
HGIN (approximately 50 points). For the patients with schizophrenia, mean change on the BPRS-C 
from  baseline  to  52  weeks  was  -32.51,  indicating  a  change  from  acutely  psychotic  at  baseline  to 
mildly  or  very  mildly  symptomatic  at  52  weeks.  These  results  were  roughly  comparable  to  those 
from  the  acute  and  open-label  extension  phases  of  a  previous  study  of  olanzapine  in  adolescents 
with schizophrenia (F1D-MC-HGIN; Kryzhanovskaya et al 2009a; McCormack 2010). There was no 
statistically  significant  difference  between  the  weight  intervention  groups  with  respect  to 
schizophrenia disease state efficacy. 
For the patients with bipolar disorder, baseline YMRS total score was 23.2 (range from 13 to 40), 
indicating  an  acutely  manic  population.  Baseline  YMRS  score  in  HGMX  was  lower  than  in  study 
HGIU (approximately 33 points). For the patients with bipolar disorder, mean change on the YMRS 
from  baseline  to  52  weeks  was  -16.74,  indicating  a  change  from  acute  mania  at  baseline  to  a 
remission  of  mania  at  52  weeks.  These  results  were  roughly  comparable  to  those  from  the  acute 
and  open-label  extension  phases  of  a  previous  study  of  olanzapine  in  adolescents  with  bipolar 
mania (F1D-MC-HGIU; Tohen et al 2007; McCormack 2010). 
There was a statistically significant difference between the weight intervention groups with respect 
to  bipolar  disease  state  efficacy.  Bipolar  patients  in  the  intense  group  showed  statistically 
significantly less improvement than in the standard group on both the YMRS (overall p=0.018) and 
the  CGI-S  (overall  p=0.016).  YMRS  mean  change  from  baseline  at  52  weeks  was  -17.66  for  the 
standard  group  and  -12.05  for  the  intense  group  (p=0.008),  and  CGI-S  mean  change  from 
baseline at 52 weeks was -2.20 for the standard group and -1.44 for the intense group (p=0.015). 
2.3.3. Discussion 
The  MAH  concluded  that  study  HGMX  did  not  demonstrate  superiority  of  the  intense  weight 
intervention.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between  the  standard  and  intense 
intervention  groups  on  the  primary  measure  of  BMI  or  on  any  of  the  secondary  measures  of 
weight-related outcomes. However, the consistent direction of modest numeric differences between 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 8/22 
  
  
groups  on  BMI  and  weight  suggest  that  some  individual  patients  may  have  gained  clinically 
meaningful benefit from the intense intervention. 
Results  of  weight  mitigation  programs  are  typically  modest  at  best,  particularly  when  the 
intervention  is  of  a  counseling  or  educational  type  nature  and  does  not  require  actual  dieting  or 
exercise but only counsels toward it. Systematic reviews of childhood obesity prevention programs 
found  that  none  of  the  home-based  programs  resulted  in  change  in  weight-related  outcomes 
(Showell et al. 2013), and few of the community-based programs resulted in such changes (Bleich 
et  al.  2013).  Programs  that  were  more  successful  were  for  younger  aged  children  and  included  a 
school-based  component  (Bleich  et  al  2013).  Somewhat  similar  to  the  intervention  program  in 
study  HGMX,  Daumit  et  al.  (2013)  conducted  a  behavioral  weight  intervention  versus  a  negative 
control  intervention  in  mentally  ill  adults  (predominantly  patients  with  schizophrenia  and  bipolar 
disorder). That study found that the differences between intervention groups in body weight at 6, 
12,  and  18  months  were  1.5  kg,  2.5  kg,  and  3.2  kg,  respectively.  The  magnitude  of  1-year 
difference  in  that  adult  study  is  thus  similar  to  the  magnitude  of  difference  in  the  present 
adolescent  study.  Daumit  et  al.  considered  the  observed  weight  differences  to  be  modest  but 
clinically relevant. 
Although  study  HGMX  was  an  open-label,  uncontrolled  study,  results  are  supportive  of  the 
effectiveness of olanzapine in the acute and long-term treatment of patients 13 to 17 years of age 
with bipolar I manic or mixed episodes or schizophrenia.  
These results were roughly comparable to those from the acute and open-label extension phases of 
previous  studies  of  olanzapine  in  adolescents  with  schizophrenia  (F1D-MC-HGIN;  Kryzhanovskaya 
et  al  2009a;  McCormack  2010)  and  with  bipolar  mania  (F1D-MC-HGIU;  Tohen  et  al  2007; 
McCormack 2010). There was no statistically significant difference between the weight intervention 
groups with respect to schizophrenia disease state efficacy. 
Bipolar  patients  in  the  intense  group  showed  statistically  significantly  less  improvement  than  the 
standard group on both the YMRS (overall p=0.018) and CGI-S (overall p=0.016). Although there 
is no clear explanation for this finding, several hypotheses exist. One possibility is that the intense 
intervention,  and  particularly  Tier  2  of  the  intense  intervention,  may  be  considered  aversive  or 
stressful for a myriad of reasons: pressure to change behaviors that are hard to change, pressure 
to produce “homework” that may or may not have been completed (daily lifestyle log), and focus 
on weight which may be embarrassing and may impact self-esteem. Patients with a mood disorder 
and depressive tendencies may be at higher risk for susceptibility to and negative impact from such 
stressors,  and  such  stressors  could  theoretically  trigger  a  bipolar  exacerbation.  A  second 
hypothesis might be that weight gain is a greater risk and also more of a social concern for patients 
with  bipolar  disorder  relative  to  patients  with  schizophrenia,  and  having  been  made  to  feel  more 
conscious  of  and  concerned  about  this  weight  gain  during  the  intense  intervention,  patients  with 
bipolar  disorder  in  the  intense  group  may  have  been  more  likely  to  stop  taking  their  medication 
periodically in an attempt to mitigate weight gain, which would place these patients at greater risk 
for  relapse.  A  third  but  less  likely  hypothesis  would  be  that  weight  gain  and  efficacy  are 
interrelated and that attempts to mitigate weight gain might result in some reduction in efficacy. 
Overall,  results  were  comparable  to  those  of  previous  studies  of  olanzapine  in  this  patient 
population. 
In  conclusion,  the  CHMP  considered  that  the  study  HGMX  did  not  demonstrate  the  superiority  of 
the  intense  weight  intervention.  On  the  measures  of  BMI  or  weight-related  outcomes  no 
statistically  significant  differences  were  found  between  the  standard  and  intense  intervention 
groups.  Patients  in  both  weight  intervention  groups  demonstrated  clinically  remarkable  mean 
increases  in  weight  and  body  mass  very  commonly  throughout  the  study.  More  patients  in  the 
standard  group  gained  at  least  15%  or  even  excessively,  over  25%  of  their  baseline  bodyweight 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 9/22 
  
  
compared  to  the  intense  group.  Mean  changes  in  BMI  and  weight  favored  numerically  but  not 
statistically  significantly  patients  treated  in  the  intense  intervention  group  from  the  most 
substantial  weight  gain.  Some  individual  patients  may  have  gained  clinically  meaningful  benefit 
from the intense intervention. 
Some  benefits  were  noted  in  adolescent  schizophrenia  and  bipolar  I  patients  receiving  olanzapine 
treatment during the study HGMX, but due to uncontrolled and open label design of this study, no 
strong  conclusions  can  be  drawn  of  efficacy.  Surprisingly,  bipolar  patients  in  the  intense  group 
improved statistically significantly less than patients in the standard group, assessed by YMRS and 
CGI-S. In EU, there are no indications for use of olanzapine in children or adolescents. 
2.4. Clinical Safety aspects  
2.4.1 Methods – analysis of data submitted 
Adverse events  
The  primary  safety  objective  of  study  HGMX  was  to  assess  in  adolescent  patients  with  bipolar  I 
disorder  manic  or  mixed  episode)  or  schizophrenia  the  overall  safety  of  olanzapine  for  up  to 
approximately 52 weeks of treatment. 
No  deaths  occurred  in  the  study  HGMX.  A  total  of  162  experienced  at  least  one  treatment-
emergent AEs (TEAE) (79.8%), with 140 of these having a AE that was rated by the investigator as 
possibly related to study drug. 
The most common reason for discontinuation (n=34, 16.7%) was due to AE. In study HGMX, 19% 
of  the  patients  in  the  standard  group  discontinued  and  15%  in  the  intense  group.  The  most 
common  AE  leading  to  discontinuation  was  weight  increased  (n=14,  7%).  Weight  gain  led  to 
discontinuation in study HGMX among 8% in standard and 6% in intense group. Other reasons for 
discontinuation  were:  Increased  TG,  increased  BMI,  abnormal  liver  test,  schizophrenia  and 
pregnancy  (two  of  each);  and  neuroleptic  malignant  syndrome  (NMS),  suicide  attempt, 
agranulosytosis,  neutropenia,  leukopenia,  pneumothorax,  increased  insulin,  dysphoria,  fall  and 
gastroduodenitis  (one  of  each).  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between 
intervention groups for completion rate or any of the reasons for discontinuation (p=0.445). 
Among all patients, the most common ADRs (>10%) were weight increased (25,6%), somnolence 
(21,2%),  headache  (19,2%),  increased  appetite  (14,3%)  and  nasopharyngitis  (12,3%).  In 
addition,  blood  insulin  increased  (8.4%),  fatigue  (7.4%),  blood  creatine  phosphokinase  increased 
(5.9%),  sedation  (5.4%)  and  vomiting  (5.4%)  were  reported  commonly  in  study  patients.  Blood 
insulin has not been collected or analysed in previous clinical trials. All the other events have been 
reported previously in adults and adolescents treated with olanzapine. 
Review  of  AE  terms  identified  several  terms  of  potential  clinical  significance.  Patients  with  those 
TEAEs are described briefly here:  
- 
Patient    had  a  SAE  of  NMS  leading  to  study  discontinuation  at  week  16.  Patient  was 
receiving  17.5  mg/day  olanzapine  and  was  hospitalized  with  hallucinations,  agitation, 
disorganized behavior and stereotypy, and subsequently developed fever and high CPK as 
well  as  elevated  liver  enzymes.  Study  drug  was  discontinued,  and  the  patient  recovered 
from the event of NMS 3 days later. Laboratory values had returned to the normal range 3 
weeks later.  
- 
Patient    had  2  episodes  of  convulsions,  1  of  mild  severity  at  week  4,  and  1  of  moderate 
severity  (“petit  mal  seizures”)  at  week  16.  Patient  had  a  pre-existing  condition  of 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 10/22 
  
  
bronchospasm.  Patient  was  receiving  multiple  concomitant  medications,  but  no  treatment 
was  reported  for  the  seizures  although  patient  later  received  treatment  for  headache  and 
migraine. Patient discontinued at week 44 due to treatment noncompliance.  
- 
Patient   had 2 episodes of convulsions, 1 of mild severity at week 8 lasting 15-20 seconds, 
and one of moderate severity 19 days later lasting 2-3 minutes. No preexisting conditions 
which  might  predispose  to  convulsion  were  reported.  Patient  was  treated  with  lorazepam. 
Patient was discontinued from the study 6 days later due to caregiver decision. No further 
information was available.  
- 
Patient      had  a  TEAE  of  agranulocytosis  which  led  to  study  discontinuation.  Patient  was 
diagnosed  with  sickle  cell  trait  and  had  an  abnormally  low  neutrophil  count  at  baseline. 
White  blood  cell  count  was  normal  at  baseline  and  lymphocytes  were  abnormally  high  at 
baseline  and  throughout  the  trial.  An  AE  agranulocytosis  was  reported  at  week  3  due  to 
absolute neutrophil count of 0.08 GI/L. Patient had been receiving olanzapine 2.5 mg/day. 
Study  drug  was  discontinued,  and  patient  was  retested  2  days  later,  at  which  time 
neutrophil count was 2.42 GI/L, consistent with patient’s Visit 2 baseline. Patient was also 
diagnosed with mild lymphadenopathy at that follow-up visit. 
A total of 5 patients were reported to have overdose or intentional overdose. All patients recovered 
from the events. Those cases were as follows:  
-  One  patient  was  hospitalized  for  an  intentional  severe  overdose  of  study  drug  and  was 
subsequently discontinued from the study. 
-  One  patient  took  an  intentional  mild  overdose  of  Tylenol  PM  (1  day)  and  completed  the 
study. 
-  One  patient  was  hospitalized  for  a  suicide  attempt  involving  an  intentional  overdose  of 
study drug and was subsequently discontinued from the study.  
- 
Two patients had repeated mild AEs described as “parent increased patient’s dose.” 
A total of 33 patients (16%) in study HGMX experienced 43 serious adverse events (SAEs); those 
which occurred in 2 or more patients were related to the schizophrenia or bipolar disease state or 
suicidal  ideation  (n=5)  or  suicide  attempt  (n=2).  Patients  in  the  HGMX  intense  group  had  more 
SAE bipolar exacerbations (n=6) than did patients in the HGMX standard (n=0) group (p=0.014). 
10  of  the  SAEs  were  for  a  single  patient  with  bipolar  disorder  in  the  intense  group  who  fell  or 
jumped from a 4 story building.  
Incidence  of  extrapyramidal  symptoms  (EPS)  was  low  at  baseline  and  throughout  the  study. 
Incidences  of  treatment-emergent  akathisia,  parkinsonism  and  dyskinesia  were  9%,  6%  and  1%, 
respectively, at any time, and 3%, 3% and 1%, respectively, at endpoint. Incidence of dyskinesia 
at any time in the pooled adolescent database (1%) was similar to that of study HGMX, but rates of 
akathisia and parkinsonism at any time were somewhat lower in the pooled database (6% and 2%, 
respectively) compared with study HGMX. 
Suicidality 
Rates of suicidal ideation and behavior were relatively low throughout the study, particularly given 
the  disease  states  and  the  length  of  the  study.  Based  on  the  C-SSRS,  13%  of  patients  (n=27) 
displayed suicidal ideation during the study and 3% (n=6) displayed suicidal behavior. There were 
no  completed  suicides.  The  pooled  database  did  not  collect  C-SSRS  data.  Comparison  of  rates 
indicated that 2.5% of patients in study HGMX had suicidal ideation, which was similar to the rate 
in  the  pooled  database  (2.4%).  A  total  of  2.5%  of  patients  in  study  HGMX  had  a  SAE  of  suicide 
attempt, which was higher than the rate of 0.4% in the pooled database. 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 11/22 
  
  
Weight and BMI 
In study HGMX mean change from baseline to LOCF-endpoint (anytime) in BMI was +2.53 kg/m2. 
Increase in BMI was +2.68 kg/m2 in the standard group and +2.31 kg/m2 in the intense group. In 
the pooled database a mean baseline-to-LOCF endpoint change in BMI was +2.31 kg/m2. 
In  study  HGMX  among  all  patients  mean  change  from  baseline  to  LOCF-endpoint  (anytime)  in 
weight was +8.12 kg (8.56 kg in the standard group and 7.40 kg for the intense group, p=.293), 
slightly greater than that reported in the pooled database (+7.35 kg). 
Mean  weight  gain  in  patients  in  study  HGMX  and  treated  for  at  least  6  months  was  +10.49  kg, 
slightly lower than seen in pooled database (+11.2 kg). The MAH suggests that rate of weight gain 
in adolescent patients treated with olanzapine starts to plateau as patients’  duration of treatment 
with olanzapine increases from 6 months to 1 year. Intense weight intervention appeared to result 
in an earlier plateauing of weight gain. 
There  was  a  numeric  but  not  statistically  significant  difference  in  incidence  of  the  AE  of  weight 
increased (30% standard, 21% intense, p=0.148), although this finding reached significance within 
female patients (female in standard group 46%, female in intense group 21%; p-value for gender 
interaction=0.028). 
During  study  HGMX,  a  total  of  68%  of  patients  gained  ≥7%  of  their  baseline  body  weight  at  any 
time.  40%  of  patients  gained  ≥15%,  and  21%  of  patients  gained  ≥25%,  of  their  baseline  body 
weight  at  any  time  during  study  HGMX.  There  was  no  statistically  significant  difference  between 
intervention  groups.  These  results  are  comparable  to  the  findings  from  the  pooled  adolescent 
metabolic  database,  which  reported  that  among  all  patients,  64%  gained  ≥  7%  of  their  baseline 
bodyweight, 32% gained ≥ 15%, and 14% gained ≥ 25%. Again, the percentages in study HGMX 
were somewhat higher, as would be expected due to the longer study duration. 
Laboratory measurements 
Mean baseline-to-endpoint changes in laboratory values in study HGMX were mostly small and not 
clinically  significant,  and  to  the  same  direction  as  to  those  observed  in  the  previous  pooled 
database. 
Changes in lipids were common in study HGMX, especially in HDL and triglycerides. The percentage 
of  patients  changing  from  normal  to  high  for  total  cholesterol  was  11%  at  any  time  and  0%  at 
endpoint,  and  for  LDL  cholesterol  was  10%  at  any  time  and  1%  at  endpoint.  The  percentage  of 
patients changing from normal to high for triglycerides was 47% at any time and 14% at endpoint. 
Change  from  normal/borderline  at  baseline  to  low  for  high  density  lipoprotein  (HDL)  cholesterol 
was  26%  at  any  time  and  10%  at  endpoint.  Change  from  normal  to  low  for  HDL  cholesterol  was 
5% at any time and 0% at endpoint. Patients in the intense group had more categorical changes to 
low  HDL  cholesterol  at  endpoint  compared  to  the  standard  group  (normal/borderline  to low:  16% 
intense vs. 5% standard, p=0.023). 
Mean  increases  in  total  and  LDL  cholesterol  were  lower  in  study  HGMX  despite  the  longer  study 
duration, whereas mean changes in HDL cholesterol and particularly for triglycerides were slightly 
greater than in the pooled adolescent database combined from earlier studies. Incidences for these 
potentially clinically significant changes in lipids at any time in the adolescent metabolic database 
were  generally  similar:    normal  to  high  total  cholesterol,  LDL  cholesterol  and  triglycerides  in  9%, 
9% and 32%, respectively, and normal to low HDL cholesterol in 0%.  
A total of 4% of patients had fasting glucose change from normal to high at any time, but 0% met 
this criterion at endpoint. Incidence of change from normal to high fasting glucose in the previous 
pooled  adolescent  database  was  1%  at  any  time  and  0%  at  endpoint.  60.5%  of  subjects  had 
treatment-emergent above normal insulin levels at any time. 20% had treatment-emergent above 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 12/22 
  
  
normal  insulin  levels  at  endpoint.  Also  decreases  in  insulin  were  noticed.  With  regard  to  insulin, 
insulin sensitivity can be strongly affected by changes at puberty (Amiel et al. 1986; Caprio et al. 
1989);  also,  fasting  status  may  be  less  reliable  in  adolescents,  making  the  findings  difficult  to 
interpret. No patients developed above normal hemoglobin A1c at any time, and there were no AEs 
indicative of associated diabetic symptomatology.  
Rates of treatment-emergent abnormal high hepatic enzyme values were higher at any time than 
at  endpoint,  as  also  observed  in  the  pooled  database,  consistent  with  the  transient  nature  of  the 
hepatic  increases  typically  observed  in  patients  treated  with  olanzapine.  In  study  HGMX,  hepatic 
analytes showed a transient peak at 3 weeks, similar to the peak observed in the pooled database. 
Incidence  of  potentially  clinically  significant  increases  in  hepatic enzymes  were  relatively low  (5% 
of  study  HGMX  patients  changed  from  normal  to  >3x  ULN  at  any  time  versus  9%  in  the  pooled 
database).  Only  1  patient  in  study  HGMX  developed  treatment-emergent  ALT  >5x  ULN,  which 
resolved and remained in the normal  range thereafter. Hepatic  changes were generally small and 
transient, with few patients experiencing potentially clinically significant increases.  
Changes in prolactin were common but generally small in study HGMX and also often resolved over 
the  course  of  the  study,  with  very  few  changes  associated  with  any  symptomatology.  Abnormal 
elevations  in  prolactin  occurred  in  27%  at  any  time  and  12%  at  endpoint,  and  no  patients 
developed  potentially  clinically  significant  elevations.  No  patients  developed  prolactin  elevations 
above  value  200  µg/l.  In  study  HGMX,  mean  changes  in  prolactin  were  generally  small  and 
transient, with patients showing a mean decrease at endpoint (-1.17 µg/l). In the pooled database 
mean prolactin at endpoint increased from baseline (+4.74 µg/l). In the pooled database incidence 
of  high  prolactin  was  56%.  The  overall  mean  changes  in  prolactin  appeared  consistent  with  the 
pattern observed in the pooled adolescent database. In both study HGMX and the pooled database, 
prolactin  levels  peaked  at  week  6  and  then  decreased  thereafter,  although  in  the  present  study, 
they continued to decrease below baseline levels on average. 
Very few patients had values of thyroid function above or below the normal range:  There was no 
evidence  of  clinically  significant  change  in  thyroid  function.  Means  at  baseline  and  endpoint 
indicated that patients were, on average, in the normal range at both time points. Mean change in 
TSH  of  +0.26  mU/l  was  statistically  significant  (p=0.016)  but  was  not  considered  clinically 
meaningful.  Mean  changes  in  T4  and  free  T4  were  not  statistically  significant.  A  total  of  1%  of 
patients had treatment-emergent above-normal TSH, but no patients with above-normal T4 or free 
T4. A total of 2% had below-normal TSH, and 1% had below-normal T4 or free T4. TSH was also 
measured in some patients in the pooled integrated database, but mean change to endpoint in that 
database indicated a small mean decrease in TSH. 
Vital signs and ECG 
Mean  changes  in  vital  signs  and  ECG  parameters  were  small  and  not  clinically  significant.  No 
patients  developed  corrected  QT  interval  (Fridericia  method  [QTcF])  ≥450  msec  or  had  a  change 
≥60 msec. Results were consistent with those of the pooled adolescent database.  
Small mean changes in heart rate were observed in study HGMX, consistent with the known profile 
of  olanzapine.  Patients  in  the  standard  group  had  a  greater  mean  increase  in  heart  rate  from 
baseline to 52 weeks (+8.79 bpm relative to +1.06 bpm for the intense group; p<.001). Heart rate 
in patients in the intense weight intervention group showed relatively little mean change, and the 
mean increase observed in the total group was driven primarily by the increase in heart rate of the 
patients  in  the  standard  group.  This  group  difference  would  appear  to  be  consistent  with  greater 
adoption  of  the  healthier  lifestyle  recommended  by  the  behavioral  weight  intervention  in  the 
intense group. 
Patients in the standard group had small mean increases in blood pressure compared to the intense 
group patients, who demonstrated little to no mean change in blood pressure from baseline. 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 13/22 
  
  
2.4.2 Results 
Overall  the  safety  profile  for  olanzapine  was  found  to  be  generally  consistent  with  the  profile 
observed  in  previous  studies  of  olanzapine  in  the  treatment  of  adolescent  patients.  The  most 
notable  exception  was  that  changes  in  prolactin  were  smaller  and  much  less  frequent  than  those 
observed  in  previous  studies  of  olanzapine  in  adolescents,  with  patients  in  the  present  study 
demonstrating  a  mean  decrease  in  prolactin  compared  to  previous  studies  which  found  mean 
increases. Mean increases in total and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol were smaller in the 
present study as well. 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  results  in  rates  and  nature  of  adverse  events,  suicidality,  weight- 
related parameters, laboratory measurements and vital signs from the study HGMX are generally in 
line with earlier results among adolescents.  
Increases in weight-related issues were very common and significant in nature, as noted in earlier 
studies among adolescents (and adults). In study HGMX versus overall pooled adolescent exposure 
database, the most common AEs were weight increased (26% vs. 32%), somnolence (21% vs. 20 
%), increased appetite (14% vs. 17%) and sedation (5% vs. 14%). Also, the most common reason 
for  discontinuation  was  weight  increased  (7%  in  HGMX  vs.  4%  in  pooled  database).  In  addition, 
approximately  2/3  of  adolescent  subjects  gained  more  than  7%  weight  from  their  baseline,  more 
than 1/3 gained more than 15% weight, and 1/5 gained excessively, more than 25% weight. 
In  overall  pooled  adolescent  exposure  database  7.7%  (vs  16%  in  HGMX)  of  olanzapine  treated 
adolescents experienced 1 or more SAE (worsening of bipolar disorder (n=4), worsening of bipolar 
I  disorder  (n=8),  worsening  of  schizophrenia  (n=6)  and  aggression  (n=3)).  In  overall  pooled 
adolescent exposure database 13 subjects experienced suicidal ideation (2.9% vs. 2.5% in HGMX), 
6 subjects behaved self-injuriously (1.3%),  2 subjects made preparatory acts toward committing 
suicide (0.4%) and  2 subjects attempted suicide (0.4% vs. 2.5% in HGMX). 
Changes in prolactin during study HGMX appeared less than in earlier studies. It seems that there 
were statistically significant but not clinically relevant changes in several laboratory measurements, 
such as increases in insulin, uric acid, TG, TSH and ALT, and decreases in HDL, fructosamine and 
bilirubin. Insulin has not been detected in previous adolescent studies. 
The  existing  pediatric  data  in  the  Product  Information  has  been  gathered  from  earlier  adolescent 
studies in patients treated up to 32 weeks. Only AEs which have occurred more frequently among 
adolescents  than  among  adults  have  been  included  into  PI.  The  PI  does  not  however  describe 
specifically AE or safety profile among adolescents. This is not crucial, as in EU, olanzapine is not 
indicated in the treatment of adolescents.  
The  MAH  proposed  no  safety  information  changes  into  PI.  The  CHMP  was  also  of  the  opinion  that 
safety issues reported in the study HGMX were already reflected adequately in the PI of olanzapine. 
2.4.3. Discussion 
The MAH’s conclusions on the study HGMX was that overall safety findings for the total group of 
patients were generally consistent with the known profile of olanzapine in adolescent patients 13 
to 17 years of age with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder, with increases in BMI and weight similar 
to what has been observed in previous studies of olanzapine in adolescents.  
The 40% study completion rate for study HGMX was as expected based on the length of the study, 
the patient population, and the known completion rate observed in previous shorter studies (55% 
in  the  32-week  Kryzhanovskaya  pooled  database).  In  both  HGMX  and  the  previous  pooled 
database,  the  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  was  due  to  AE  (17%  in  HGMX,  11%  in 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 14/22 
  
  
pooled database), and the most common AE leading to discontinuation was weight increased (7% 
in HGMX, 4% in pooled database). 
Consistent with the known profile of olanzapine in adolescents, changes in BMI were quite notable. 
Based on the WHO growth charts, typical growth in an adolescent over 1 year’s time equates to an 
annual  expected  increase  of  approximately  half  a  unit  of  BMI  (0.5  kg/m2).  In  study  HGMX,  mean 
baseline-to-LOCF  endpoint  change  in  BMI  was  +2.53  kg/m2  (+2.68  kg/m2  for  the  standard  and 
+2.31  kg/m2  for  the  intense  group),  representing  a  substantial  increase  beyond  normal  expected 
growth.  
Changes  in  weight  were  also  substantial  in  study  HGMX.  Results  were  similar  to  those  of  the 
previous  pooled  database,  which  reported  a  mean  baseline-to-LOCF  endpoint  change  in  weight  of 
+7.35 kg, with results from the HGMX intense group again appearing nearly the same as those of 
the shorter pooled database. Thus, while mean weight gain across all patients in study HGMX was 
somewhat  higher  than  observed  in  the  shorter  term  databases,  as  would  be  expected  based  on 
study duration, mean weight gain in those patients treated for at least 6 months was actually lower 
than  seen  in  the  previous  studies,  despite  the  longer  duration  of  study  HGMX.  This  suggests  that 
rate of weight gain in adolescent patients treated  with olanzapine slows and may start to plateau 
as patients’ time on olanzapine increases from 6 months to 1 year. Examination of the visitwise 
HGMX  weight  intervention  data  suggests  that  the  intense  weight  intervention  also  contributed  to 
this  lower  long-term  weight  change  and  appeared  to  result  in  an  earlier  plateauing  of  the  weight 
gain. 
Evaluation  of  potentially  clinically  significant  changes  in  weight  found  that  across  all  patients  in 
study  HGMX  are  comparable  to  the  findings  from  the  pooled  adolescent  metabolic  database.  The 
percentages in study HGMX were somewhat higher, as would be expected due to the longer study 
duration.  
Rates  of  suicidal  ideation  and  behavior  were  relatively  low  throughout  the  study.  Comparison  of 
rates  of  TEAEs  indicated  that  2.5%  of  patients  in  study  HGMX  had  suicidal  ideation,  which  was 
similar to the rate in the pooled database (2.4%). A total of 2.5% of patients in study HGMX had a 
SAE  of  suicide  attempt,  which  was  higher  than  the  rate  of  0.4%  in  the  pooled  database.  To  put 
these  rates  into  context,  a  2011  survey  of  US  high  school  students  as  part  of  the  Youth  Risk 
Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS) found that almost 8% of students had attempted suicide in 
the  30  days  prior  to  the  survey  (CDC  2012).  Among  young  patients  with  diagnoses  of  bipolar 
disorder or schizophrenia, rates of suicide attempt are even higher, with a recent study indicating a 
2-year  prevalence  of  12.4%  among  first-episode  patients  with  psychosis  9  to  17  years  of  age 
(Sanchez-Gistau  et  al.  2013)  and  another  indicating  a  5-year  prevalence  of  18%  among  patients 
with bipolar disorder 7 to 17 years of age (Goldstein et al. 2012). 
In  conclusion,  the  safety  of  olanzapine  for  up  to  52  weeks  in  patients  13  to  17  years  of  age 
diagnosed with schizophrenia or bipolar disorder was generally similar to that observed previously 
in adolescent patients treated for up to 32 weeks with olanzapine. The most notable difference was 
that  patients  in  study  HGMX  showed  an  overall  mean  decrease  in  prolactin  from  baseline,  with 
fewer  patients  developing  treatment-emergent  abnormal  high  prolactin  compared  with  previous 
adolescent  olanzapine  studies.  Mean  changes  in  hepatic  enzymes  and  total  and  LDL  cholesterol 
were slightly smaller despite the longer study duration, while mean changes in some lipids such as 
HDL cholesterol and triglycerides were slightly higher. 
Although not an explicit a priori hypothesis of the study, it might have been hoped that the intense 
intervention would yield greater health benefits than the standard intervention. However, the study 
was  unable  to  demonstrate  such  benefits.  Although  there  were  some  mild  but  statistically 
significant differences  between groups in heart rate and  blood pressure in the expected  direction, 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 15/22 
  
  
changes  to  the  lipid  profile  appeared  somewhat  contradictory,  with  apparent  worsening  in  some 
aspects of the lipid profile in the intense group. 
Demographic  subgroup  findings  with  respect  to  the  weight  interventions  might  bear  further 
exploration. The finding with regard to the greater number of SAEs of bipolar exacerbation in the 
intense  group  is  consistent  with  the  findings  on  the  disease  state  efficacy  scales.  The  MAH’s 
hypotheses around possible reasons for this difference have been discussed  previously in this AR 
(discussion  on  efficacy).  Another  subgroup  finding  of  interest,  however,  was  with  respect  to 
differences between males and females in the reporting of AEs of “weight increased” in each of 
the  weight  intervention  groups.  Males  in  the  intense  group  were  more  likely  to  have  this  AE 
reported  than  those  in  the  standard  group,  whereas  females  in  the  standard  group  were  more 
likely  to  have  this  AE  reported  than  those  in  the  intense  group.  Because  of  some  confounding  of 
demographic and disease state variables in this patient sample, further study would be needed to 
clarify  possible  gender  differences  in  outcomes.  In  any  case,  the  reasons  for  both  these 
demographic subgroup findings are not clear, and multiple hypotheses should be considered. One 
question which might be raised is whether there are differential psychological impacts of the weight 
counselling interventions on the genders and the patient subpopulations. 
There are a number of limitations to the present study. With regard to the disease state efficacy, 
the  open-label  uncontrolled  design  limits  the  ability  to  draw  strong  conclusions  about  efficacy. 
Nevertheless,  this  more  naturalistic  design  is  appropriate  for  the  long-term  evaluation  of  a 
medication and provides results which may be more generalizable to standard clinical practice. 
With  regard  to  the  behavioral  weight  intervention,  it  is  important  to  acknowledge  that  the 
interventions  were  office-based  counseling  programs  which  did  not  require  actual  changes  in 
patients’diet  and  exercise  behaviors.  Although  patients  were  to  keep  track  of  their  nutritional 
intake and physical activity in daily logs, these data were not formally collected for data analysis, 
and  no  information  was  collected  from  parents  or  caregivers  to  attempt  to  quantify  patients’ 
actual  level  of  adherence  to  the  recommendations  from  the  counseling  sessions.  Thus,  the  only 
conclusion that can be drawn with regard to the efficacy of the behavioral weight interventions was 
regarding  the  degree  to  which  exposure  to  each  intervention  resulted  in  differences  in  weight-
related outcomes, as opposed to the degree to which each program successfully changed diet and 
exercise  habits  or  the  degree  to  which  such  behavioral  changes  resulted  in  changes  in  weight-
related outcomes. 
Other limitations which should be mentioned are the baseline differences between the disease state 
populations  and  the  possible  confounding  of  disease  state  and  geographical  region.  The  patients 
with  bipolar  disorder  were  heavier  at  baseline  and  more  likely  to  have  a  family  history  of  obesity 
and metabolic disorders. At the same time, there was significant overlap between disease state and 
region as most of the bipolar patients were from the US. Thus, it is difficult to determine whether 
differences  between  the  disease  state  groups  can  be  attributed  to  the  disease  state  or  to  cultural 
differences  between  regions.  Although  this  confound  does  not  affect  the  overall  results  of  the 
study, it does make interpretation of some of the demographic subgroup analyses more difficult. 
2.5. Risk management plan 
2.5.1. PRAC advice 
The CHMP received the following PRAC advice on the submitted Risk Management Plan. 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 16/22 
  
  
PRAC Advice 
No  changes  to  safety  specification,  pharmacovigilance  plan  or  risk  minimisation  measures  are 
proposed. 
The RMP is acceptable with minor editorial changes required with the next update (see attached 
PRAC Advice). 
This advice is based on the following content of the Risk Management Plan: 
Safety concerns 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 17/22 
  
  
 
  
Pharmacovigilance plans 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 18/22 
  
  
 
Risk minimisation measures 
The CHMP endorsed this advice without changes. 
2.6. Changes to the Product Information 
The  MAH  proposed  the  following  changes  to  the  Product  Information  (PI)  of  Zyprexa  (excluding 
rapid-acting, RAIM) and Zyprexa velotab (deleted as strikethroughs and additions as underlined), 
to which the CHMP agreed: 
4.4 Special warnings and precautions for use 
Paediatric population 
Olanzapine is not indicated for use in the treatment of children and adolescents. Studies in patients 
aged  13-17  years  showed  various  adverse  reactions,  including  weight  gain,  changes  in  metabolic 
parameters  and  increases  in  prolactin  levels.  Long-term  outcomes  associated  with  these  events 
have not been studied and remain unknown (see sections 4.8 and 5.1). 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 19/22 
  
  
 
 
5.1 Pharmacodynamic properties 
Paediatric population 
Controlled efficacy data The experience in adolescents (ages 13 to 17 years) is are limited to short 
term studies efficacy data in schizophrenia (6 weeks) and mania associated with bipolar I disorder 
(3 weeks), involving less than 200 adolescents.  
Olanzapine  was  used  as  a  flexible  dose  starting  with  2.5  and  ranging  up  to  20  mg/day.  During 
treatment with olanzapine, adolescents gained significantly more weight compared with adults. The 
magnitude of changes in fasting total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, triglycerides, and prolactin (see 
sections 4.4 and 4.8) were greater in adolescents than in adults. There are  no controlled data on 
maintenance  of  effect  or  and  limited  data  on  long  term  safety  (see  sections  4.4  and  4.8). 
Information on long term safety is primarily limited to open-label, uncontrolled data.  
Moreover, the MAH has corrected a mistake in the ATC code as the addition of “oxepines “ to the 
pharmacotherapeutic group description was needed to comply with the WHO ATC index:  
The section 5.1 of the SmPC was therefore amended as follows: 
Pharmacotherapeutic  group:  diazepines,  oxazepines,  and  thiazepines  and  oxepines,  ATC  code: 
N05A H03.  
Changes were also made to the PI of Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab to bring it in line with the 
current QRD (version 9) template, which were reviewed and accepted by the CHMP. 
In addition the MAH took the opportunity to update the list of local representatives in the Package 
Leaflet.  
3.  Overall conclusion and impact on the benefit/risk 
balance 
This variation is a worksharing procedure to fulfill the requirements of Article 46 of the paediatric 
regulation  following  the  completion  of  the  study  HGMX  (F1D-MC-HGMX),  ‘A  Long-Term,  Open-
Label,  Safety  Study  of  Oral  Olanzapine  in  Adolescents  with  Bipolar  I  Disorder  (Manic  or  Mixed 
Episodes)  or  Schizophrenia’.  The  primary  objectives  of  study  HGMX  were  to  assess  the  overall 
safety of olanzapine for up to 52 weeks of treatment in adolescent patients with schizophrenia or 
manic  or  mixed  episodes  associated  with  bipolar  disorder  and  to  determine  whether  an  intense 
behavioral weight intervention was superior to a standard intervention in the mitigation of weight 
gain as assessed by overall mean change in BMI from baseline.  
Firstly, the study HGMX did not demonstrate the superiority of the intense weight intervention. On 
the measures of BMI or weight-related outcomes no statistically significant differences were found 
between the standard and intense intervention groups. Patients in both weight intervention groups 
demonstrated  clinically  remarkable  mean  increases  in  weight  and  body  mass  very  commonly 
throughout  the  study.  More  patients  in  the  standard  group  gained  at  least  15%  or  even 
excessively, over 25% of their baseline bodyweight compared to the intense group. Mean changes 
in  BMI  and  weight  favored  numerically  but  not  statistically  significantly  patients  treated  in  the 
intense  intervention  group  from  the  most  substantial  weight  gain.  Some  individual  patients  may 
have gained clinically meaningful benefit from the intense intervention. 
The safety findings in overall were in line with the known profile of olanzapine in adolescents that 
are already included into the Product Information of Zyprexa and Zyprexa Velotab. Weight gain as 
a  very  common  adverse  reaction  is  in  line  with  results  found  in  earlier  olanzapine  studies  among 
adolescents and adults.  
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 20/22 
  
  
Mean changes in laboratory analytes in study HGMX were generally similar to those observed in the 
previous pooled database. In the study HGMX mean changes in HDL and triglycerides were slightly 
greater  than  in  the  previous  adolescent  studies  described  in  the  pooled  adolescent  olanzapine 
exposure  database.    Elevations  in  lipids  (total  and  LDL  cholesterol  and  triglycerides)  are  included 
into the SmPC sections 4.4 and 4.8 as common adverse reaction among adults. The overall mean 
changes  in  prolactin  appeared  consistent  with  those  observed  in  the  pooled  adolescent  database. 
Mean  changes  in  vital  signs  and  ECG  parameters  were  small  and  not  clinically  significant.  No 
patients developed QTcF ≥ 450 msec or had a change ≥ 60 msec. Insulin has not been measured in 
previous  studies.  A  change  from  baseline  in  insulin  in  total  group  was  toward  increase.  No  cases 
with symptomatic diabetes were observed during this 52 week study. In the SmPC sections 4.4 and 
4.8,  development  or  exacerbation  of  diabetes  is  included  as  a  common  adverse  event  among 
adults. The other reported changes in some laboratory values were not clinically relevant. 
The  existing  pediatric  information  in  the  Product  Information  sections  has  been  gathered  from 
earlier  adolescent  studies  and  data.  Only  AEs  which  have  occurred  more  frequently  among 
adolescents than among adults have been included into SmPC section 4.8 by comparing adolescent 
and adult databases that  contained treatment up to 32 weeks. The PI does not however describe 
specifically AEs or safety profile among adolescents. This is not crucial, as in EU, olanzapine is not 
indicated in  the  treatment  of  adolescents.  Findings  from  this  study  HGMX  revealed  no  new  safety 
findings. 
Secondary  objectives  also  included  assessment  of  the  efficacy  of  olanzapine  in  the  treatment  of 
schizophrenia or bipolar mania. Some benefits were noted in adolescent schizophrenia and bipolar 
patients  receiving  olanzapine  treatment  during  the  study,  but  due  to  open  label  design  of  this 
study, no strong conclusions can be drawn of efficacy. Surprisingly, bipolar patients in the intense 
group  improved  statistically  significantly  less  than  patients  in  the  standard  group,  assessed  by 
YMRS  (p=0.018)  and  CGI-S  (p=0.016).  The  same  limitations  concerning  design  of  this  study  as 
described  earlier  apply  to  this  finding.  Moreover,  treatment  of  adolescents  aged  13-17  with 
olanzapine is not an approved indication in EU, assessment of the efficacy is beyond the scope of 
this application. 
In  conclusion,  the  proposed  amendments  to  the  Product  Information  provide  updated  information 
from  current  knowledge  gathered  from  results  from  uncontrolled  study  among  children  and 
adolescents  of 13 to 17  years, and that no controlled long-term data on maintenance of effect or 
safety exists. Therefore the CHMP considered that the proposed changes in the Product Information 
are  approvable.  The  CHMP  requested  an  updated  RMP,  which  was  submitted  by  the  MAH  and 
consecutively reviewed by PRAC during this procedure (as detailed earlier in this AR). 
4.  Recommendations 
Based on the review of the submitted data, the CHMP considers the following variation 
worksharing procedure acceptable and therefore recommends the variation(s) to the terms of the 
Marketing Authorisation, concerning the following change(s): 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 21/22 
  
  
Variation(s) requested 
C.I.4 
C.I.4 - Change(s) in the SPC, Labelling or PL due to new quality, 
preclinical, clinical or pharmacovigilance data 
Type 
II 
Update  of  sections  4.4  and  5.1  of  the  SmPC  in  order  to  reflect  the  level  of  data  available  in 
adolescents  with  bipolar  I  disorder  (manic  or  mixed  episodes)  or  schizophrenia  following  the 
completion of a long-term safety study, in fulfilment of the requirement laid down in Article 46 of 
the paediatric regulation.     
The  MAH  took  also  the  opportunity  to  align  the  Product  Information  with  the  Quality  Review  of 
Documents (QRD) template (Version 9), to update the list of local representatives in the Package 
Leaflet and to correct an editorial mistake concerning the ATC code.  
The  requested  worksharing  procedure  proposed  amendments  to  the  Summary  of  Product 
Characteristics, Annex II and Package Leaflet. 
Conditions and requirements of the marketing authorisation  
The marketing authorisation holder shall submit periodic safety update reports for this product in 
accordance with the requirements set out in the list of Union reference dates (EURD list) provided 
for under Article 107c(7) of Directive 2001/83/EC and published on the European medicines web-
portal. 
Conditions  or  restrictions  with  regard  to  the  safe  and  effective  use  of  the  medicinal 
product 
• 
Risk Management Plan (RMP) 
The MAH shall perform the required pharmacovigilance activities and interventions detailed in the 
agreed RMP presented in Module 1.8.2 of the Marketing Authorisation and any agreed subsequent 
updates of the RMP. 
An updated RMP should be submitted: 
• 
At the request of the European Medicines Agency; 
• 
information being received that may lead to a significant change to the benefit/risk profile or as the 
Whenever the risk management system is modified, especially as the result of new 
result of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached.  
If the submission of a PSUR and the update of a RMP coincide, they can be submitted at the same 
time. 
Zyprexa / Zyprexa Velotab 
EMA/334375/2014 
Page 22/22 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
