SCIENTIFIC DISCUSSION 
Invented name of the medicinal product: 
Zyprexa 
Marketing Authorisation Holder: 
Active substance: 
International Nonproprietary Name: 
Pharmaco-therapeutic group 
(ATC Code): 
Therapeutic indications: 
Pharmaceutical form: 
Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. 
Grootslag 1-5, 
NL-3991 RA, Houten 
The Netherlands 
Olanzapine 
Olanzapine 
Antipsychotic 
(NO5A H03) 
Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of 
schizophrenia. Olanzapine is effective in maintaining 
the clinical improvement during continuation therapy 
in patients who have shown an initial treatment 
response.Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of 
a moderate to severe manic episode. 
In patients whose manic episode has responded to 
olanzapine treatment, olanzapine is indicated for the 
prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar 
disorder (see section 5.1). 
ZYPREXA Powder for Solution for Injection is 
indicated for the rapid control of agitation and 
disturbed behaviours in patients with schizophrenia 
or manic episode, when oral therapy is not 
appropriate. Treatment with ZYPREXA Powder for 
Solution for Injection should be discontinued and the 
use of oral olanzapine should be initiated as soon as 
clinically appropriate. 
Coated  tablet,  Powder  for  solution  for  injection, 
Powder and solvent for solution for injection 
Strengths: 
2.5 mg, 5 mg, 7.5 mg, 10 mg, 15 mg and 20 mg 
Routes of administration: 
Oral use, Intramuscular use 
Packaging: 
Package sizes: 
High-density 
with 
polypropylene  caps.  Cartons  containing  aluminium 
blister strips. 
polyethylene 
bottles 
Vial (glass), Pre-filled syringe (glass) 
100 tablets in bottles (all strengths) 
28  tablets  in  blisters  (2.5,  5,  7.5,  10,  15  and  20  mg 
strengths) 
56 tablets in blisters (7.5 and 10 mg strengths) 
7 tablets in blisters (10 mg strength) 
1 or 10 vials of Powder for Solution for Injection in 
carton (10 mg strength) 
1  vial  of  Powder  for  Solution  for  Injection  and  1 
prefilled syringe of solvent for Solution for Injection 
in carton (10 mg strength) 
CPMP/0646/96 
1/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
1. 
Introduction 
Schizophrenia  is  defined  as  a  major  psychotic  disorder  characterised  by  disturbances  in  form  and 
content of thought, mood, behaviour, sense of self and relationship to the external world. It affects a 
relatively  high  proportion  of  the  population  (approx.  1%)  and  causes  severe  impairment  of  social 
functioning in the individuals for a long period of time, in light of the fact that the disease starts in the 
early years of adult life. 
The  first  attempt  to  specifically  treat  schizophrenic  disorders  was  in  1952 with chlorpromazine and, 
later, with other medications, like haloperidol (a butyrophenone) which became the standard drug for 
this  disease.  This  treatment  is  moderately  effective  against  positive  symptoms  (e.g.  delusions, 
hallucinations, disordered thinking, hostility and suspiciousness), but its use is limited by the lack of 
efficacy against negative symptoms (e.g. flattened affect, emotional and social withdrawal and poverty 
of  speech),  the  adverse  reactions  (in  particular  extrapyramidal  effects),  and  the  high  frequency  of 
refractory patients (up to 40 %). In the 1980s “atypical antipsychotics”, like risperidone and clozapine, 
showed some efficacy on negative symptoms and in refractory patients. 
is  an  antipsychotic  closely  related 
in  chemical  structure 
Olanzapine 
(thienobenzodiazepine  vs  dibenzodiazepine)  and  pharmacological  effects.  Taking  into  account  the 
deliberations of the CPMP Expert Working Group (June, 1996) and the most updated classifications 
of psychiatric disorders (DSM IV and ICD 10), the CPMP agreed in 1996 on the following indication:  
to  clozapine  both 
“Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Olanzapine is effective in maintaining the 
clinical  improvement  during  continuation  therapy  in  patients  who  have  shown  an  initial  treatment 
response.” 
The  adverse  effects  associated  with  older  typical  antipsychotic  drugs  such  as  haloperidol,  and 
especially  with 
in 
electrocardiograph  (ECG),  and  excessive  drowsiness.  These  adverse  effects  are  significantly  less 
common with newer atypical antipsychotic drugs (Remington and Kapur 2000).  
include  acute  dystonia,  abnormalities 
their  parenteral 
formulations, 
Parenteral formulations of such drugs are not currently available and patients with acute schizophrenia 
who require rapid tranquillisation or who refuse treatment with oral antipsychotic drugs must receive 
older, typical antipsychotic drugs. A parenteral formulation of olanzapine for intramuscular (IM) use 
was developed in an effort to improve therapy for patients with acute schizophrenia who require rapid 
tranquillisation  or  who  refuse  treatment  with  oral  antipsychotic  drugs.  In  March  2001,  the  CPMP 
agreed  the  following  indication    SPC  indication  for  the  parenteral  formulation  of  olanzapine  for  IM 
use: “ZYPREXA Powder for Solution for Injection is indicated for the rapid control of agitation and 
disturbed behaviours in patients with schizophrenia, when oral therapy is not appropriate. Treatment 
with  ZYPREXA  Powder  for  Solution  for  Injection  should  be  discontinued  and  the  use  of  oral 
olanzapine should be initiated as soon as clinically appropriate”. 
2. 
Overview of part II of the dossier: Chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
The  product  is  produced  by  organic  synthesis  in  four  phases;  formation  of  thieno  group,  arylation, 
reduction and ring closure and nucleophilic displacement to give olanzapine.  
The  chemical  structure  of  olanzapine  has  been  proven  by  means  of  X-ray  crystallography, 
1H, 13C-NMR, MS, IR, UV, elemental analysis and potentiometric titrations 
Although capsules were used during clinical trials only one pharmaceutical form (coated tables) was 
initially proposed for marketing. Three bioequivalence studies were carried out, demonstrating that the 
capsule, tablet and granule formulations of olanzapine are bioequivalent. The homogenisation process 
needed special consideration due to the small proportion of the active component in the tablet.  
CPMP/0646/96 
2/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the pharmaceutical development, olanzapine had a tendency to be sensitive to moisture and light. 
Thus,  in order to protect the product from moisture and light, the coated tablets are packed in cold-
form  aluminium  blisters  sealed  with  vinyl  coated  aluminium  foil  or  in  amber  coloured  polyethylene 
bottles with desiccant.  
The finished product is identified by comparison of its HPLC retention time and its UV spectrum to 
those  of  the  reference  standards  under  the  same  conditions.  The  potency  of  the  finished  products  is 
determined  by  liquid  chromatography  and  the  uniformity  of  content  conforms  to  Ph.  Eur. 
requirements. 
Clarification of issues related to several steps of the manufacturing process eg. the integrity of the drug 
substance form during the process, quality assays of raw materials, residuals of products used in the 
synthetic process, reinforcement of the in process control points, limits of tin content, use of control 
methods and long term stability. were required as a result of the scale-up of the production process for 
commercial supply. 
A shelf life of 24 months was considered acceptable for the coated tablets, which was updated to 36 
months after submission of additional stability data. 
Zyprexa 10 mg Powder for Solution for Injection is a yellow lyophilized powder in a clear glass type I 
vial. Itconsists of either a vial alone or a combination kit containing both a vial and a pre-filled diluent 
syringe.  Prior  to  intramuscular  injection,  the  drug  product  is  reconstituted  with  either  the  supplied 
diluent or commercially available Sterile Water for Injection and used within one hour. There were no 
major  objections  pertaining  to  Part  II  of  the  dossier  for  the  powder  for  solution  for  injection.  The 
specifications  and  analytical  methods  for  the  olanzapine  drug  substance  are  the  same  as  approved 
earlier  for  the  coated  tablets  with  additional  microbiological  testing  for  bacterial  endotoxins,  total 
aerobic microbial count, as well as mould and yeast. The release and shelf-life specifications for the 
powder for solution for injection and the diluent were considered acceptable. The applicant was to re-
evaluate the specifications after manufacturing of a minimum of 20 additional lots and after two years 
of stability data were available. A proposed shelf-life of 24 months specifications for the powder for 
solution for injection and the diluent were considered acceptable on the basis of stability results.  
3. 
Overview of part III of the dossier: Toxico-pharmacological aspects 
Pharmacodynamics 
Olanzapine  pharmacodynamics  were  extensively  studied.  The  pharmacodynamic  properties  of 
olanzapine  were  compared  with  the    two  antipsychotics;  haloperidol,  a  butyrophenone,  which  is 
usually  defined  as  the  ”reference”  antipsychotic  drug,  and  clozapine,  a  dibenzodiazepine,  which  is 
defined in the expert report as the closest antipsychotic to olanzapine. 
Effects relating to the proposed indications 
The in vitro and in vivo pharmacodynamic effects of olanzapine as regards binding (affinity constants 
on rat neuronal receptors in brain homogenates), effects on central neurotransmitters, and activity on 
behavioural models were studied. The mean binding affinity constants (Ki nM) for olanzapine on rat 
neuronal receptors were 31 and 11, for dopamine D1/D2 receptors, respectively, and 4 and 11 for 5-
HT2A  and  5-HT2C.  Binding  affinities  for  alpha-1  and  muscarinic  M1  receptors  are  19  and  1.9 
respectively. The binding profile in human brain homogenates was roughly similar to that in the rat 
brain. The increase of the concentrations of dopamine metabolites in the limbic areas (corpus striatum 
and  mesolimbic  system  of  the  rat),  suggests  that  olanzapine  blocks  the  post-synaptic  dopamine 
receptors, as has been observed with others antipsychotic agents. 
Olanzapine  has  been  extensively  studied  in  behavioural  models  for  neuroleptics:  apomorphine-
induced  climbing  behaviour,  apomorphine-induced  rotational  behaviour  in  rats  with  unilateral  brain 
lesion, conditioned avoidance response, amphetamine-induced locomotor activity, dopamine-induced 
CPMP/0646/96 
3/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
locomotor  activity  and  stereotyped  behaviour.  Most  experiments  have  been  performed  with  orally 
administered olanzapine in rats (at doses of 2.5 to 10 mg/kg). 
in  order 
As  extensive  preclinical  studies  had  been  performed  previously 
to  characterise 
pharmacological  properties  and  toxicological  profile  of  olanzapine,  only  additional  data  relevant  for 
the  evaluation  of  the  i.m.  dosing  of  olanzapine  was  submitted  for  the  Zyprexa  10  mg  powder  for 
solution  for  injection.  These  data  included  new  studies  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  olanzapine  after 
i.m. administration with comparison to the oral formulation of the drug; one subchronic toxicity study 
performed  in  dogs  and  studies  on  local  tolerance  of  the  olanzapine  solution.  Although  the 
pharmacodynamics  of  oral  olanzapine  had  been  investigated  in  the  original  dossier,  the  view  of  the 
CPMP was that it was necessary to request the applicant to investigate acute cardiovascular effects of 
IM olanzapine given the fact that olanzapine is absorbed faster after i.m. dosing and that considerable 
larger  drug  concentrations  are  reached.  This  safety  information  was  deemed  relevant  for  cases  of 
possible olanzapine overdose or interactions with other drugs. 
General pharmacodynamics 
At high doses (>10 mg/kg orally) olanzapine produced a global depressant CNS effect: i.e. a decrease 
in activity, sedation, catalepsy, ptosis, muscle incoordination, hypothermia and mydriasis. This effect 
was described in rats. At lower doses (0.3 mg/kg), minimal symptoms were observed.  
Olanzapine  produced no changes in threshold in pentylenetetrazol-induced  convulsions,  but  lowered 
the convulsive threshold in electroshock-induced convulsions. 
Olanzapine increased slow wave sleep and temporarily abolished REM sleep in cats (5 mg/kg) with 
REM sleep rebound. 
Olanzapine had no effect on memory acquisition and little effect on memory retention in mice (0.3 to 
10 mg/kg). 
Hypotension  was  described  in  anaesthetised  animals  (rats  and  cats)  when  the  iv  route  was  used 
(0.1  mg/kg).  Effects  on  blood  pressure  or  heart  rate  were  not  seen  in  conscious  rats  after  oral 
administration.  After  i.v.  infusion  or  bolus  injections  of  olanzapine,  no  QTc-prolongation  or 
bradycardia was observed in rats, cats or dogs. 
Spasmolytic activity was shown in guinea pig ileum in vitro and reduced gut motility occurred in mice 
(10 mg/kg). 
Slight  reduction  in  feeding  and  drinking  behaviour  was  described  with  the  highest  dose  tested  (2.5 
mg/kg). 
Olanzapine presented increased levels of prolactin in rats (0.3 to 10 mg/kg). Although no comparative 
studies are available, this is a well-known consequence of antipsychotic agent administration. 
In  behavioural  studies,  olanzapine  exhibited  preferential  5HT2  receptor  antagonism  compared  to 
dopamine  receptor  antagonism,  distinguishing  it  from  standard  antipsychotic  agents  such  as 
haloperidol.  Olanzapine  was  also  observed  to  have  properties  similar  to  those  of  the  atypical  agent 
clozapine,  e.g.  increases  in  punished  responding  and  substitution  in  a  drug  discrimination  assay.  In 
general, pharmacodynamic studies showed acceptable safety pharmacology. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic studies were carried out in rats, mice, dogs, and monkeys. The results are consistent 
with satisfactory absorption (bioavailability approximately 80 %), distribution (protein binding rate 81 
to  91  %)  and  extensive  metabolism  after  oral  dosing.  Following  i.m.  administration  in  dogs  and 
monkeys,  absorption  of  olanzapine  was  complete  and  absolute  bioavailability  was  considered  to  be 
about 100 %. The plasma AUC for olanzapine was two to three times greater after i.m. injection than 
CPMP/0646/96 
4/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
after an oral dose. Following single i.m. or i.v. doses of olanzapine, the elimination and the average 
terminal  plasma  elimination  half-lives  were  similar  to  that after oral administration. Following daily 
i.m. doses of olanzapine for 1 month, the pharmacokinetic parameters remained practically similar and 
no significant accumulation of the drug was evident. 
Great  inter  species  variation  was  observed  eg.  half-lives,  Cmax,  metabolites,  elimination  route. 
Therefore any direct extrapolation to human kinetics cannot be performed. 
Degradation  products  have  been  specifically  tested  but  did  not  exhibit  any  pharmacological  effects. 
Synthetic  impurities  were  measured  well  below  the  recommended  levels  and  failed  to  show  any 
pharmacological effect in dogs or rats. 
Toxicokinetic studies in rats (1 to 16 mg/kg) and dogs (2 to 10 mg/kg) were conducted as part of the 
chronic  toxicity  studies.  The  level  for  exposure  could  be  estimated  from  pharmacokinetic  data  and 
results of the comparison between AUC and administered dose. 
Olanzapine interactions have been studied mostly in human beings (see section 4). 
Toxicology 
The therapeutic dose of olanzapine used in humans is approximately 0.33 mg/kg.  
Single dose toxicity studies.  
Acute toxicity was conducted in mice, rats, Beagle dogs and Rhesus monkeys. Signs of CNS toxicity, 
hypoactivity,  coma,  leg  weakness,  tremor,  convulsions  and  ptosis  were  described  in  both  mice  and 
rats.  In  dogs  and  monkeys  there  were  no  deaths  after  single  oral  doses  of  25  to  100  mg/kg.  CNS 
depression  (3-5  days),  ataxia,  hypoactivity,  tremor, sedation,  lethargy,  increased  heart  rate, laboured 
respiration  and  miosis  were  seen  in  dogs.  In  Rhesus  monkeys,  at  all  doses,  sedation  and  prostration 
accompanied by anorexia were described. At 50 mg/kg loss of response to noise or touch was seen. At 
the highest dose, signs of toxicity persisted up to the fourth day following dosing. 
Repeated dose toxicity studies 
Studies  up  to  one  year  in  duration  were  conducted  in  rats  and  dogs  (daily  oral  administration). 
Peripheral  blood  was  a  target  organ  of  olanzapine.  Leukocytes  (lymphocytes  and  neutrophils)  were 
decreased  in  rats  given  ≥16  mg/kg  and  mice  given  ≥3  mg/kg.  Neutrophils,  thrombocytes,  or 
erythrocytes were decreased in individual dogs given ≥8 mg/kg. These changes were reversible. The 
positive Coomb’s test in a dog with anaemia and the lack of bone marrow involvement suggest that 
the cytopenias could be of immune origin, but a specific mechanism has not been defined. 
One-month subchronic toxicity study of daily i.m. injections of olanzapine was performed in dogs. All 
animals survived the treatment period. Signs of drug effect included miosis, hypoactivity, ataxia, head 
pressing, tremors and lethargy. These signs are similar to what was observed after oral administration 
of olanzapine. The onset of signs was earlier and the duration of signs shorter following i.m. dosing. 
I.m. injections of olanzapine increased heart rates in the mid- and high-dose groups; but there were no 
treatment-related  effects  on  cardiac  rhythm,  conduction  or  repolarization.  There  were  no  treatment-
related  changes  in  body  weight  or  organ  weights,  ophthalmic  findings,  or  haematology  and 
urinanalysis parameters. Histopathologic evaluation revealed no compound-related systemic changes. 
In  addition,  histopathologic  changes  in  injection  sites  were  generally  mild  and  no  clear  dose-related 
differences in injection site lesions occurred.  
Reproduction studies 
Olanzapine exhibited no relevant toxicity in the reproduction studies conducted. 
CPMP/0646/96 
5/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mutagenic potential.  
There was no evidence of mutagenic activity in the standard series of mutagenicity tests performed. 
Carcinogenic potential. 
Mammary tumours (adenomas, fibroadenomas as well as adenocarcinomas), were seen in females of 
both  Fischer  rats  at  doses  ≥2.5  mg/kg)  and  in  CD1  mice  (at  doses  of  8  to  30  mg/kg).  Mammary 
tumours are not an unexpected finding in rodents treated with prolactin-inducing compounds. 
Special studies 
Immunotoxicity  studies  were  carried  out  in  a  small  number  of  mice  at  doses  of  3  to  45  mg/kg. 
Lymphopenia  and  neutropenia  were  seen  at  high  doses.  Overall  immune  function  was  relatively 
unaltered although an increase in B lymphocyte count and decrease in NK activity in the spleen was 
shown. 
No dependency potential, as shown by evaluation of self-administration and physical dependence on 
olanzapine  was  found  in  rats  and  monkeys  at  doses  of  0.05  to  32  mg/kg  and  0.06  to  8  mg/kg 
respectively. 
Local  tolerance  of  olanzapine  solution  was  evaluated  both  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  studies.  Olanzapine 
solution  is  slightly  irritating  locally,  but  would  not  be  expected  to  cause  other  local  reactions 
clinically. 
Repeated  dose  toxicity  with  degradation  impurities  were  conducted  with  the  3  main  degradation 
products  (amide,  ketolactam,  ketothiolactam)  with  doses  of  about  100  times  the  expected  human 
exposure.  No  toxicity  was  shown.  Similarly,  no  mutagenic  properties  of  olanzapine  metabolites  or 
impurities were detected in the Ames test. 
The  primary  toxicology  marker  was  the  effect  on  peripheral  blood  cells.  This  therefore  required 
careful evaluation in the clinical studies to determine its relevance to the human safety profile. 
4. 
Overview of part IV of the dossier: Clinical aspects 
Clinical pharmacology 
Data  on  200  subjects  enrolled  in  24  clinical  pharmacology  studies  were  submitted  with  the  initial 
important  attributes  for  olanzapine 
application.  These  data  viewed  collectively  define 
pharmacokinetics,  although  some  individual  studies  had  methodological  drawbacks  (i.e.  poor 
sensitivity, limit of quantification, pharmacokinetic terms not corrected for fraction of drug absorbed) 
and  only  a  small  number  of  subjects.  Several  metabolic  pathways,  including  glucuronidation  and 
CYP450  oxidative  metabolism  were  defined.  Excretion  in  urine  as  unchanged  olanzapine  is  a  very 
minor  elimination  pathway.  Oral  bioavailability  is  high  and  consistent  across  individuals.  The 
pharmacokinetics are linear and dose proportional, approaching steady state within one week of daily 
oral administration. 
the 
Seven clinical pharmacology trials have been conducted with IM olanzapine in healthy subjects and in 
patients  with  acute  non-organic  psychosis.  Two  pharmacokinetic  (PK)  trials  in  healthy  subjects 
[LOAC (n=30) and LOAW (n=24)], two open label trials in patients with acute non-organic psychosis 
[LOAR  (n=26)  and  LOAT  (n=82)],  one  drug  interaction  study  in  healthy  subjects  [LOAV  (n=13)], 
one pharmacokinetic study comparing two IM olanzapine with oral olanzapine [HGIO (n=18) and one 
study evaluating the pharmacokinetics of up to three doses of IM olanzapine [HGJA (n=43)]. 
Pharmacodynamics 
CPMP/0646/96 
6/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dopamine receptor occupancy 
An  in  vivo  study  showed  that  after  a  single  oral  administration  in  healthy  volunteers  the  5-HT2 
receptor  occupancy  by  olanzapine  in  the  neocortex  was  74-92%.  The  D2  receptor  occupancy  in  the 
putamen ranged from 59% to 63%. There were no changes in pulse rate or blood pressure; the subjects 
were very sedated during the six hours following the administration. 
Cognition and psychomotor performance 
A  comparative  study  vs  haloperidol  was  carried  out  in  16  elderly  healthy  subjects,  who  were  given 
either  olanzapine  3  mg/day  or  haloperidol  3  mg/day.  Effects  on  both  cognitive  and  psychomotor 
performance were observed with both drugs. These effects tended to be more pronounced in females 
and  correlated  positively  with  age.  Somnolence,  dizziness  and  anticholinergic  effects  were  observed 
(dry mouth, miosis). 
IM  olanzapine  had  clear  effects  on  Critical  Flicker  Fusion  and  statistically  significant  effect  on 
sedation scores with an earlier onset of action compared to oral olanzapine. The tranquillisation scores 
were clearly higher (up to almost two-fold) following IM olanzapine compared with oral olanzapine. 
Pharmacokinetics 
Pharmacokinetic data have been analysed using the standard non-compartmental method of analysis. 
Traditional  pharmacokinetic  studies  in  healthy  volunteers  were  carried  out  as  well  as  extensive 
population pharmacokinetic studies in the treated patients. The results of both types of studies are in 
accordance and demonstrate that the pharmacokinetics of olanzapine is not altered in a time dependent 
fashion.  
Pharmacokinetic studies in healthy subjects showed that a single dose was consistent and predictive of 
the  pharmacokinetics  after  multiple  dose  administration  for  up  to  two  weeks  duration.  The  median 
half-life  of  olanzapine  was  31  hours,  suggesting  that  steady  state  would  be  achieved  within  7  to  12 
days. There were no substantial differences in plasma concentrations after the 7th or 14th daily dose. 
The linear dose proportionality was demonstrated adequately over the proposed dose range. 
The  primary  pharmacokinetic  difference  between  oral  and  IM  olanzapine  was  the  apparent  rate  of 
absorption.  IM  olanzapine  produces  a  maximum  plasma  concentration  Cmax  that  is  about  5  times 
higher than that after an equivalent oral dose of olanzapine. After IM administration, the Cmax occurs 
earlier (after 15 to 45 minutes) compared to 5 to 8 hours found after oral administration. As with oral 
use,  Cmax  and  area  under  the  curve  are  directly  proportional  to  the  dose  administered.  For  the  same 
dose of olanzapine administered IM and orally, the associated area under the curve, half-life, clearance 
and  volume  of  distribution  are  very  similar.  The  metabolic  profile  following  IM  and  oral  use  are 
qualitatively and quantitatively comparable. 
Absorption 
Two studies were performed using 14C olanzapine in healthy volunteers. Dry mouth, dizziness, taste 
perversion,  asthenia,  nausea,  arrhythmia,  elevated  heart  rate,  orthostatic  hypotension,  transient  ALT 
elevation  (in  all  subjects),  were  recorded  as  possibly  or  probably  related  events  occurring  after  the 
administration of olanzapine. The average Cmax for a single 12 to 12.5 mg dose was 10.5 +/-1.0 ng/ml 
(HPLC). At tmax (4.9 hours) olanzapine accounted for 28% of radioactivity, indicating substantial first 
pass metabolism. Radioactivity in plasma exceeded that in blood indicating no extensive distribution 
into  red  blood  cells.  The  mean  plasma  half-life  for  olanzapine  was  25.5  ±  1.6  hours  and  58.7  ±  7.1 
hours for total radioactivity (olanzapine + metabolites). 
Following repeated once daily 10mg dose, steady state levels were reached within 7 days with up to a 
3-fold accumulation (Cmax and AUC). 
CPMP/0646/96 
7/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution 
The apparent volume of distribution was 21.9 ± 3.2 l/kg. The plasma protein binding was about 93% 
over the therapeutic concentration range. Olanzapine is bound to albumin and alfa-1-glycoprotein. 
Metabolism 
Metabolism of olanzapine has been investigated in vitro, in human liver slices, and extensive studies 
have  been  carried  out  to  investigate  the  interaction  of  olanzapine  with  human  cytochromes. 
Olanzapine is extensively metabolised and probably undergoes first pass metabolism in humans. 
The  most  important  metabolic  pathways  for  olanzapine  are  via  glucuronidation  and  P450  CYP1A2  
(N-desmethyl  and  7-hydroxy  metabolites).  The  CYP2D6  (2-hydroxymethyl  metabolite)  and  flavin-
containing  monooxygenase  (FMO3)  (N-oxide)  pathways  are  minor  with  regard  to  circulating 
metabolites in humans. Theophylline, caffeine, imipramine fluoroquinolones and fluvoxamine are also 
metabolised by these isoenzymes. No metabolites derived via CYP3A have been identified in humans. 
Elimination 
In healthy subjects the median t1/2 was 31 hours, ranging from 14.5 to 79.5 hours. The variability is 
large  (4-5  fold)  and  within  subject  variability  is  smaller  than  between  subject  variability.  Urinary 
clearance is the major route of excretion for the metabolites of olanzapine, as most of the parent drug 
undergoes metabolism in the liver. Urinary excretion of unchanged olanzapine is a minor elimination 
pathway. However unchanged olanzapine and N-10 glucuronide conjugate have been found in human 
faeces, representing 2% and 8% of an oral dose respectively. 
Interactions: pharmacodynamic/pharmacokinetic interactions 
Imipramine:  No  interaction  leading  to  adverse  events  was  observed:  somnolence  and  postural 
hypotension  were  observed  with  both  medicines.  Following  co-administration  with  imipramine,  the 
pharmacokinetics  of  olanzapine  demonstrated  a statistically significant increase in Cmax (14%) and a 
noticeable,  but  not  significant  increase  in  AUC  (19%).  No  significant  changes  were observed in the 
pharmacokinetics of imipramine. 
Ethanol: An open-label, three arm, cross-over single and multiple dose olanzapine ethanol interaction 
trial was conducted in 15 non-alcoholic male subjects. Somnolence was reported most often with the 
combination of the two substances (81.8%) as compared with olanzapine alone (23.1%) and ethanol 
alone  (14.3%).  Dizziness,  amblyopia,  hypotension,  nausea,  pallor,  paresthesia,  speech  disorder  and 
asthenia  were  associated  with  the  combination.  Increased  ALT  activities,  possibly  associated  with 
olanzapine were observed in two subjects. A slight prolongation of QTc interval (mean increase: 10.7 
msec:  p=0.059).  was  seen  during  olanzapine  treatment.  Five  symptomatic  postural  hypotensive 
episodes occurred with the combination. 
Lorazepam:  IM  olanzapine  injection  was  given  one  hour  before  IM  lorazepam  injection. 
Pharmacokinetic  variables  of  olanzapine  as  well  as  total  and  unconjugated  lorazepam  demonstrated 
the absence of a pharmacokinetic interaction between the two drugs. The increase in somnolence was 
significantly  larger  with  the  combination  of  drugs  than  with  either  drug  alone.  The  duration  of 
somnolence  was  markedly  prolonged  in  women  and  in  smokers.  The  simultaneous  injection  of 
intramuscular  olanzapine  and  parenteral  benzodiazepine  has  not  been  studied  and  appropriate  warnings  are 
therefore  included  in  section  4.4  and  4.5  of  the  SPC.  If  the  patient  is  considered  to  need  parenteral 
benzodiazepine  treatment,  this  should  not  be  given  until  at  least  one  hour  after  IM  olanzapine  administration. 
Similarly,  if  the  patient  has  received  parenteral  benzodiazepine,  IM  olanzapine  administration  should  only  be 
considered  after  careful  evaluation  of  the  clinical  status  and  the  patient  should  be  closely  monitored  for 
excessive sedation and cardiorespiratory depression. 
Carbamazepine:  Cmax,  AUC  and  elimination  half  life  of  olanzapine  were  clearly  reduced  during 
carbamazepine administration demonstrating a metabolic interaction probably related to an interaction 
CPMP/0646/96 
8/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at  CYP1A2,  as  in  humans  no  CYP3A  metabolites  have  been  seen  with  olanzapine.  One  patient 
developed  grand  mal  seizures  (no  previous  history  of  epilepsy).  The  most  commonly  observed 
undesirable effects were drowsiness, increase in hepatic enzymes (gamma-GT, ALT, AST). 
Lithium: Interaction with lithium has been studied after single and repeated administration. AUC of 
lithium was slightly but statistically significantly elevated (about 7%) during olanzapine dosing. Renal 
clearance of lithium was reduced (10%) and the elimination half time increased. Such small changes 
are  likely  to  have  no  clinical  relevance.  Post  treatment  ALT  and  AST  values  were  elevated  and 
attributed to olanzapine dosing. 
Warfarin:  Average  olanzapine  Cmax  values  were  reduced  (-11%)  when  given  with  warfarin. 
Olanzapine had no evident effects on the pharmacokinetics of warfarin. In a single blind, three-arm, 
randomised  cross-over  study  in  19  healthy  male  subjects,  postural  hypotension  and  ALT  elevation 
were observed. 
Cimetidine, antacid, charcoal: Activated charcoal decreased olanzapine bioavailability, 63% Cmax and 
53%  AUC.  No  changes  were  observed  in  the  olanzapine  pharmacokinetic  parameters  with  the 
administration of cimetidine or antacid. 
Fluoxetine  (60  mg  single  dose  or  60  mg  daily  for  8  days)  causes  a  mean  16%  increase  in  the 
maximum  concentration  of  olanzapine  and  a  mean  16%  decrease  in  olanzapine  clearance.  The 
magnitude  of  the  impact  of  this  factor  is  small  in  comparison  to  the  overall  variability  between 
individuals and therefore dose modification is not routinely recommended. 
Valproate: In a study to determine pharmacokinetic and dynamic drug interaction, the PK interaction 
with valproate was studied by using single and multiple doses of olanzapine and assessing their effect 
on  steady-state  valproic  acid  concentrations.  Upon  multiple  dose  administration,  concentrations  of 
olanzapine  had  accumulated  approximately  two  or  three-fold  higher  than  the  single  dose 
concentrations. These data, based upon single dose steady-state concentrations obtained from patients 
on  stable  therapeutic  doses  of  valproate,  are  typical  of  the  results  from  other  olanzapine 
pharmacokinetic studies suggesting that divalproex has no substantive impact on the pharmacokinetics 
of  olanzapine.  The  adverse  events  on  olanzapine  were  generally  those  observed  in  prior  studies  and 
included asthenia, somnolence, dry mouth, and headache. 
Special populations 
Renal  impairment:  Only  limited  studies  were  conducted  in  patients  with  renal  impairment  (16 
patients) and cirrhosis (6 patients). Preliminary reports may suggest the possibility for an increase in 
blood  concentration  of  olanzapine  in  these  situations.  Definitive  conclusions  regarding  the  effect  of 
renal  or  hepatic  impairment  on  olanzapine  pharmacokinetics  cannot  be  drawn.  Thus,  no  specific 
dosage recommendations can be given for the present, but a lower starting dose should be considered. 
The additional information should be provided in the agreed timeframe. 
Elderly:  Olanzapine  half-life,  MRT  and  tmax  were  increased  in  elderly  compared  to  young  subjects. 
Moreover, additional analyses revealed an interaction between gender and age: dose-normalised AUC 
values  were  63%  higher  and  plasma  clearance  lower  (38%)  in  elderly  females  compared  to  young 
females,  but  no  differences  were  observed  between  males  of  different  ages.  Somnolence  and 
orthostatic hypotension were the most frequent adverse events. 
Post-authorisation clinical data in cirrhotic patients 
The  MAH  submitted  a  report  of  a  pharmacokinetic  study  in  normal  and  cirrhotic  subjects  (study 
HGAU). This study enrolled 4 normal and 8 cirrhotic subjects (Child-Pugh Class A or B). Single oral 
doses  of  2.5,  5  and  7.5  mg  of  olanzapine  were  given.  Olanzapine  Cmax  and  AUC  increased  linearly 
with  dose  in  both  normal  and  cirrhotic  subjects  with  no  statistically  significant  difference  in  mean 
pharmacokinetic variables. However t1/2 tended to be longer for cirrhotic subjects (range 23.4-86.1 h 
for  hepatically  impaired,  38.1-62.6  h  for  normal  subjects).  It  was  considered  that  the  dose 
CPMP/0646/96 
9/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
recommendations  for  subjects  with  hepatic  impairment  should  be  more  conservative  in  spite  of  the 
limited pharmacokinetic data which does not show any meaningful differences in single dose kinetics. 
It  was  also  considered  that  the  dosage  recommendation  should  more  clearly  define  the  degree  of 
hepatic impairment as the data was limited to cirrhotic patients with Child-Pugh Class A or B. These 
amendments  were  subsequently  introduced  into  the  SPC.  In  addition  a  reference  to  the  lack  of 
substantial  removal  of  olanzapine  by  hemodialysis  was  included  in  the  section  on  overdose  in  the 
SPC. 
Population pharmacokinetics 
An  extensive  population  pharmacokinetic  study  was  submitted.  This  analysis  was  carried  out  in 
subjects enrolled in two classic pharmacokinetic studies (34 subjects given single doses from 2.5 to 15 
mg)  and  in  four  major  clinical  studies  (1711  patients  analysed  according  to  the  Non-linear  Mixed 
Effect Modelling Method - NONMEM). 
According to the analysis of the healthy volunteer studies, smoking significantly affected olanzapine 
pharmacokinetics:  non-smokers  had  50%  lower  olanzapine  clearance  and  about  50%  longer 
elimination half-time (smoking induced CYP1A2 activity). Clearance in women was 30% lower than 
in men. Clearance decreased by 35% with increase in age from 20 to 79 years.  
According  to  the  analysis  of  the  combined  data  from  the  four  main  clinical  studies,  clearance  in 
women was 21% lower than in men and clearance decreased by approximately 25% with increase in 
age from 18 to 86 years. 
Bioequivalence studies 
Olanzapine  capsules  were  used  in  the  clinical  studies,  whereas  tablet  formulations  are  intended  for 
marketing.  The  different  strengths  of  tablets  vary  in  the  amount  of  lactose  they  contain  and  three 
different  granulations  were  used  for  the  1  2.5  5,  7.5  and  10  mg  tablets  respectively.  The  following 
formulations were found to be bioequivalent:  
2.5 mg and 5 mg tablets 
1 mg and 5 mg tablets and capsules 
5 mg tablets and 10 mg tablets and capsules 
15 mg capsules and 5 and 7.5 mg tablets. 
Clinical efficacy 
Oral olanzapine 
Clinical experience with olanzapine in the target population (patients suffering from schizophrenia or 
other  psychoses)  is  based  on  5  studies,  of  which  4  may  be  considered  major  (well  controlled, 
multicentre,  adequate  number  of  patients  and  well  diagnosed)  enrolling  more  than  3000  patients 
world-wide. The main studies have incorporated a short placebo run-in period (4-9 days). The acute 
double blind phases were of 6 weeks duration, which is standard for the acute phase of antipsychotic 
studies. The acute phases have been followed by an open (study HGAP) or a double blind extension 
(studies  E003,  HGAD,  HGAJ)  phase  of  up  to  one  year  or  more,  without  re-randomisation. 
Discontinuation  rates  during  the  acute  phase  were  very  high,  up  to  77%  at  the  lowest  investigated 
olanzapine dose (1 mg) and placebo. 
Efficacy has been assessed using various rating scales:  
• 
score 
BPRS, Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (primary efficacy measure except for study HGAO). The 
BPRS  positive 
includes  conceptual  disorganisation,  hallucinatory  behaviour, 
suspiciousness and unusual thought content. The BPRS negative score includes blunted affect, 
emotional withdrawal, motor retardation. 
PANSS, Positive and Negative Symptoms Scale 
SANS, Scale for Assessment on Negative Symptoms (used only in study HGAD) 
• 
• 
CPMP/0646/96 
10/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• 
• 
• 
• 
• 
CGI, Clinical Global Impression. CGI-S, Severity of Illness. CGI-I, Improvement of Illness. 
MADRS, Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale (used only in study HGAJ) 
QLS, Quality of Life Scale. 
ACES, Agitation-Calmness Evaluation Scale  
OAS, Overt Aggression Scale. 
For  the  studies  with  double-blind  extensions  relapse  during  the  one-year  period  was  the  end-point 
considered.  The  rating  scales  selection  is  clinically  relevant  because  it  takes  into  account  overall 
psychiatric  state,  positive  and  negative  symptoms,  clinical  global  impression,  depression  status  and 
quality of life. 
All  the  patients  enrolled  in  the  four  main  studies  were  diagnosed  according  to  the  criteria  of  
DSM-III-R  (Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of  Mental  Disorders,  Revised  APA  1987)  for 
schizophrenia and related psychotic disorders. It is important to consider that no general consensus is 
at present achieved on the definition of “responders” in clinical studies of schizophrenic patients. In 
the published literature a reduction of 25% to 30% of BPRS score is required. All analyses were done 
on  an  intent-to-treat  basis.  In  the  analysis  of  LOCF  (last-observation-carried-forward),  change  from 
baseline to endpoint, patients were included in the evaluation only if they had both a baseline and a 
post baseline assessment. Treatment groups were compared with regard to mean change from baseline 
to endpoint in the efficacy rating scale scores using analysis of variance (ANOVA). 
Kaplan-Meier  estimated  survival  curves  described  the  time  to  relapse  from  the  beginning  of  the 
double-blind extension phase: the curves were compared (log-rank test) between treatment groups for 
maintenance  of 
(lack  of  hospitalisation  because  of  exacerbation  of  psychotic 
psychopathology). 
response 
The aims of the four main studies were to assess the safety and efficacy of olanzapine in the treatment 
of  patients  with  schizophrenia,  both  in  acute  and  chronic  phases  of  treatment  and  to  evaluate  the 
incidence and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms. In addition the studies HGAP, HGAD and E003 
were  carried  out  to  determine  any  possible  relationship  between  dose,  plasma  concentration  of 
olanzapine and therapeutic effect. In all three studies the lowest effective dosage range of olanzapine 
was explored. 
Study FID-MC-HGAP  
Study  FID-MC-HGAP  was  designed  as  a  three-arm,  randomised,  parallel,  double-blind,  placebo-
controlled multicentre study. 152 schizophrenic patients were administered doses of lanzapine 1 and 
10  mg  and  placebo.  An  indefinite  open  label  extension  of  this  study,  including  124  patients  and  
5-10-15-20 mg/day doses is ongoing but data were not available for review at the time of submission.  
98% of the patients had a chronic course and 65% were experiencing an acute exacerbation. 38% of 
the patients treated with the 10-mg dose completed the six-week treatment as compared with 20% of 
placebo patients and 23% receiving 1 mg olanzapine. Patients with a decrease of at least 40% in BPRS 
total scores or an endpoint score of 18 or less were classified as responders. Response rates were 9.5% 
in  placebo  group,  11.9%  in  olanzapine  1-mg  group  and  27.9%  in  olanzapine  10-mg  group.  Mean 
change from baseline to endpoint in BPRS total scores within group was significant only for the dose 
of 10 mg (approx. -20.7%) and was significantly greater than placebo.  
With the PANSS positive score olanzapine 10 mg versus placebo showed significant mean change (-
16%) and also with PANSS negative score (-11%). The PANSS general psychopathology score was 
significantly improved only in the 10-mg olanzapine arm. Improvement was seen in the responders on 
average after two weeks. Olanzapine at the dose of 10 mg/day appears to be effective in the treatment 
of positive, negative and overall psychopathology when compared to placebo. 
Patients  treated  with  10  mg  olanzapine  showed  a  slight  mean  increase  of  alkaline  phosphatase  and 
gamma-glutamyl-transferase activities compared with placebo. Mean increases in AST and ALT were 
CPMP/0646/96 
11/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
transient.  The  patients  in  the  10  mg  olanzapine  group  gained  significantly  more  weight  than  the 
placebo group and also the proportion of patients in the 10 mg olanzapine group with elevated serum 
concentrations of prolactin was significantly higher than placebo. 
Study FID-EW-E003 
Study  FID-EW-E003  was  a  fixed  dose  range,  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind  study  of 
olanzapine  vs  haloperidol  in  the  treatment  of  schizophrenia.  57%  of  patients  were  of  the  paranoid 
subtype  and  74%  had  a  chronic  course.  The  initial  number  of  patients  was  431  diagnosed  with 
schizophrenia with acute exacerbation and the range of doses varied between 1-17.5 mg for olanzapine 
and 10-15-20 mg for haloperidol. It was carried out over six weeks with an indefinite extension: 
Efficacy  was  demonstrated  in  all  groups  in  both  primary  and  secondary  analyses.  Significant 
differences were only seen between the 1 and 15 mg olanzapine groups, thus no lowest effective dose 
range was established. With regard to efficacy results in the relapse rate at 1 year, the only statistically 
significant  pairwise  differences  was  between  olanzapine  low  dose  (2.5-7.5  mg)  versus  1  mg 
olanzapine.  
Study FID-MC-HGAD 
Study  FID-MC-HGAD  was  a  fixed  dose  range,  multicentre,  randomised,  double-blind  study  for 
comparison of haloperidol, olanzapine and placebo and initially included 335 patients with diagnosis 
of  schizophrenia  with  acute  exacerbation.  The  duration  of  the  initial  double  blind  period  was  six 
weeks and doses varied from 2.5 to 17.5 mg for olanzapine and from 10 to 20 mg for haloperidol.  
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  (BPRS  score)  showed  statistically  significant  improvement  in  the  
10 and 15 mg olanzapine groups and also the secondary analysis (CGI score) compared with placebo. 
The acute phase results indicated that olanzapine (2.5-17.5 mg/day) is an effective antipsychotic agent 
with  respect  to  overall  and  positive  score  psychopathology.  In  the  dose  range  between  12.5-17.5 
mg/day  olanzapine  was  more  effective  than  either  placebo  or  haloperidol  (10-20  mg/day)  against 
negative psychotic symptoms. The analysis of the relapse rates indicated that patients, who showed an 
acceptable  reduction  in  the  initial  symptoms  during  acute  therapy  and  continued  on  long-term 
olanzapine  therapy  15.0  ±  2.5  mg/day  (less  than  1/3  of  the  initial  population)  showed  statistically 
significantly fewer relapses than those who continued on placebo after the six week acute treatment. 
An  increase  of  AST/ALT  levels  was  seen  in  the  olanzapine  treated  groups.  A  lower  tendency  to 
extrapyramidal effects and weight gain were also shown 
Study FID-MC-HGAJ 
Study  FID-MC-HGAJ  was  a  double  blind,  randomised  two-arm  study which included 1996 patients 
comparing haloperidol (5-10-15-20 mg) and olanzapine (5-20 mg), in the treatment of schizophrenia, 
schizophreniform disorders and schizoaffective disorders.  
Significantly more olanzapine patients than haloperidol patients completed the six-week phase (66% 
vs 47%). Fewer patients with olanzapine discontinued the study for lack of efficacy (21% vs 32%) or 
for  adverse  events  occurrence  (4.5%  vs  7.3%)  in  the  acute  phase.  There  were  significantly  more 
responders with olanzapine 51.6% than with haloperidol 34.2%. In the acute phase, six week treatment 
after  wash-out,  olanzapine  showed  a  significantly  greater  mean  improvement  in  BPRS  total  score 
compared  with  the  haloperidol  treatment  (p=0.015).  Evaluation  of  PANSS  negative  score 
demonstrated  superior  improvement  in  the  olanzapine treatment group than in the haloperidol group 
(p=0.032).  The  same  holds  true  for  the  BPRS  negative  scores  (p=0.002).  Olanzapine  showed 
numerically  superior  improvement  in  PANSS  positive  score  and  significantly  greater  mean 
improvement  in  CGI  severity  (p=0.029)  compared  with  haloperidol.  Olanzapine  also  showed 
significantly  greater  improvement  compared  with  haloperidol  (p=0.001)  indicating  an  effect  on 
associated  depressive  symptoms.  Further,  olanzapine  treated  patients  showed  significantly  greater 
improvement in the Quality of Life Scale compared with haloperidol (p<0.05). The use of alcohol was 
higher in the olanzapine group, as well as that of anticholinergics in the haloperidol group. 
CPMP/0646/96 
12/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
However,  as  the  haloperidol doses were possibly too high (mean modal maintenance dose 11.8 mg) 
and could potentially induce depression mimicking negative symptoms it is difficult to conclude that 
olanzapine is undoubtedly more efficacious on negative scores than haloperidol. Moreover the patient 
population enrolled was of the mixed type, and therefore it is difficult to affirm that olanzapine has a 
specific effect on negative symptoms and thus independent from its effect on positive symptoms. The 
relapse analysis indicates that olanzapine provides greater long-term efficacy than haloperidol therapy. 
Study FID-MC-HGAO 
The objective of study FID-MC-HGAO was to study the short-term safety profile of olanzapine in a 
geriatric population and to evaluate the efficacy of olanzapine in the treatment of psychotic symptoms 
of  patients  with  primary  degenerative  dementia  of  the  Alzheimer  type  (diagnosed  according  to  the 
DSM-III-R  criteria).  The  study  randomised  238  patients  (>  65  years  old)  during  8  weeks  and  was 
double blind and placebo controlled. The doses used varied between 1 and 8 mg /day. There were no 
statistically  significant  changes  for  the  olanzapine  treated  group  for  the  specific  indexes  used 
(BEHAVE-AD, BPRS, CGI-S/I and MMSE). 
For  the  extension  of  the  indication  for  oral  olanzapine  to  include  treatment  of  moderate  to  severe 
manic episode, the studies described below were performed. 
Study HGEH: Olanzapine vs. placebo 
In this study, the patients (n=139) were predominantly bipolar manic, only 17% were bipolar mixed, 
32% were rapid cyclers and 53% were psychotic. According to change from baseline in Young-Mania 
Rating Scale (Y-MRS), olanzapine was superior to placebo in the control of acute manic symptoms. 
This effect was statistically significant in ITT LOCF analysis from baseline to endpoint (3 weeks), but 
not  in  the  visit  wise  analyses  before  the  3-week  endpoint.  However,  the  proportion  of  patients  who 
responded by 50% decrease from baseline in Y-MRS score was statistically and clinically significantly 
superior to placebo (48.6% vs. 24.2%). The results of the secondary efficacy variable analyses (CGI-
BP  severity  of  mania,  severity  of  depression,  overall  severity  of  bipolar  illness,  PANSS  negative, 
PANSS  positive  scores)  do  not  give  convincing  support;  the  only  noticeable  difference  in  favour  of 
olanzapine  was  observed  for  PANSS  total  score.  The  studied  patient  population  was  very 
heterogeneous;  the  efficacy  of  olanzapine  compared  to  placebo  was  not  consistent  across  subgroups 
(e.g. in non-rapid cyclers, patients with mixed type mania, patients who used benzodiazepines).  
Study HGGW: Olanzapine vs. placebo 
In this double-blind placebo-controlled study, patients with bipolar I disorder and an acute manic or 
mixed episode with or without psychotic features were enrolled. The study was stopped early due to 
slow recruitment and only 115 instead of planned 240 patients were randomised. The dropout rate was 
high,  leaving  only  34  patients  in  the  olanzapine  group  and  25  patients  in  the  placebo  group  who 
completed the 4-week acute phase. The proportion of patients with bipolar mixed episode was higher 
in  this  study  compared  to  HGEH  (42.6%)  and  55.7%  experienced  psychotic  features.  As  in  study 
HGEH,  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  was  Y-MRS  change  from  baseline  to  endpoint,  LOCF,  and 
olanzapine  was  statistically  significantly  superior  to  placebo.  The  magnitude  of  difference  in  the 
response to olanzapine (-6.65 points on the Y-MRS, 95% CI for the treatment difference -13.09, -3.66) 
was  similar  to  that  observed  in  study  HGEH.  In  a  visitwise  completers  analysis,  a  statistically 
significant improvement in the olanzapine group vs. placebo was observed at week 1, 2 and 3, but no 
longer at week 4. Visitwise observed case analyses generally supported the primary analysis.  
Changes in the secondary efficacy variables generally supported the efficacy of olanzapine compared 
to placebo. However, with regard to depressive symptoms (HAMD-21) and PANSS negative score no 
statistically  significant  difference  compared  to  placebo  was  shown.  The  responder  analysis  (at  least 
50%  decrease  from  baseline  in  Y-MRS)  also  supported  the  efficacy  of  olanzapine  (64.8%).  The 
placebo response rate in this study was high (42.9%). 
CPMP/0646/96 
13/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The proportion of patients who achieved remission of mania as defined in the protocol was statistically 
significantly higher in the olanzapine group (35.7% vs. 61.1%). The remission criteria of depression 
were not met in a statistically significantly higher proportion of olanzapine-treated patients compared 
to  placebo  (53.7%  vs.  42.9%,  respectively).  Worsening  of  depression  was  observed  in  24.1%  of 
patients  in  the  olanzapine  group  and  33.9%  in  the  placebo  group,  which  was  not  statistically 
significant. 
Study HGHQ: Olanzapine vs. valproate 
in 
The  primary  objective  of  the  study  was  to  assess  the  non-inferiority  in  efficacy  of  5–20  mg/day  of 
olanzapine  compared  with  500–2500  mg/day  of  valproate 
improving  overall  manic 
symptomatology,  as  measured  by  the  reduction  from  baseline  of  the  Y-MRS  total  score,  after  acute 
treatment  (up  to  3  weeks).  Long-term  therapy  was  also  examined  in  the  double-blind  (11  month) 
extension.  As  regards  efficacy,  the  acute  3-week  phase  demonstrated  statistical  superiority  of 
olanzapine  compared  to  valproate  in  the  change  from  baseline  of  Y-MRS.  The  mean  change  from 
baseline  to  3  weeks  was  -13.36  (SD  8.78)  in  the  olanzapine  group  and  -10.45  (SD  10.45)  in  the 
valproate group. The DB extension phase data suggest comparable efficacy as measured by primary 
and secondary efficacy variables. The response rates were not statistically significantly different after 
acute or long-term treatment, and were numerically in favour of olanzapine. However, the results of 
the  analysis  of  recurrence  of  symptoms  early  (weeks  5-11)  in  treatment,  may  suggest  that  a  higher 
initial  response  rate  during  olanzapine  treatment  could  be  offset  by  a  higher  rate  of  symptom 
recurrence  during  the  index  episode.  Compared  to  valproate,  olanzapine  showed  numerically  fewer 
recurrences (up to 44 weeks). 
A problem in this study was the heterogeneity of the patient population (manic, mixed, psychotic, non-
psychotic, rapid cyclers). Furthermore, enrolment in this study was prematurely terminated after 251 
patients  had  been  randomised  instead  of  the  planned  650.  The  decision  was  made  by  the  Data 
Monitoring  Board  who  were  unblinded  to  efficacy  data.  However,  the  interim  analysis  was  not 
planned  in  the  protocol.  The  possibility  of  unblinding  of  investigators  to  treatment  assignment  and 
introduction of bias cannot be totally excluded, although the results with regard to the primary efficacy 
variable were similar before and after the interim analysis. 
Due to many forms of severity of symptoms in the manic population, the issue on psychotic features 
as a marker of severity was discussed during the ad-hoc expert meeting. Notably, these subtypes do 
not represent co-morbid conditions, but rather differences in the pattern of symptoms, which may vary 
within patients from one episode to another, e.g. the presence of psychotic symptoms is a marker of 
severity  of  the  index  episode.  Olanzapine  was  also  significantly  more  effective  in  patients  without 
psychotic symptoms and it is therefore assumed that the treatment response to olanzapine in patients 
with acute bipolar mania is not based solely on its antipsychotic features. 
Study HGHD: Olanzapine vs. haloperidol 
The  primary  objective  of  this  study  was  to  assess  the  superiority  in  efficacy  of  flexible  dosing  of 
olanzapine  (5,  10,  15  or  20  mg/d)  compared  with  haloperidol  (3,  5,  10,  or  15  mg/d)  in  improving 
overall manic symptomatology, as measured by the proportion of patients who completed 6 weeks of 
double-blind acute therapy and met the criteria for symptomatic remission at Week 6. The remission 
criteria for mania were met in 52.1% of olanzapine-treated patients and 46.1% of haloperidol-treated 
patients (p=0.152). Y-MRS change from baseline to endpoint was a secondary efficacy measure in this 
study. The study continued for another 6 weeks in patients who, having completed the 6-week initial 
period had shown an improvement from baseline CGI-BP overall severity score. The second 6-week 
period  aimed  to  demonstrate  maintenance  of  effect.  The  patients  were  almost  exclusively  bipolar 
manic and the majority (57%) exhibited current psychotic features. The starting doses of both drugs 
were high (olanzapine 15 mg, haloperidol 10 mg).  
The CPMP considered that as there are no placebo-controlled studies of haloperidol and there was no 
placebo-arm in this study, confirmation of effect size of the comparator is lacking and maintenance of 
effect  during  a  single  acute  episode  is  poorly  supported.  In  addition,  olanzapine  failed  to  show 
CPMP/0646/96 
14/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
superiority  for  the  primary  endpoint    as  was  outlined  in  the  study  protocol. Nevertheless, an ad-hoc 
independent expert panel agreed upon a post-hoc non-inferiority margin of 12.5%, and non-inferiority 
was thus suggested for olanzapine compared to haloperidol. The results of the study were questioned 
due to the lack of a placebo-control and failed primary objective of showing superiority of olanzapine, 
but the response rates were high for both olanzapine and haloperidol and are consistent with response 
rates of other studies. Therefore, the study wasconsidered supportive, albeit not pivotal. 
Study HGFU: Olanzapine added to mood stabilisers 
This  study  was  designed  as  2  randomised,  double-blind,  parallel  studies  of  approximately  168 
inpatients or outpatients per study (yielding a total of 336 patients overall) meeting diagnostic criteria 
for bipolar I disorder, manic or mixed, with or without psychotic features. The primary objective was 
to  evaluate  the  efficacy  of  olanzapine  (5,  10,  15  or  20  mg)  compared  with  placebo  when  each  was 
added  to  the  patients’  current  mood  stabiliser  therapy  to  assess  acute  olanzapine  therapy.  Of 
importance, the starting dose was 10 mg in this study. This study is ongoing, and only 6-week acute 
phase data are available. Efficacy of acute therapy was to be evaluated using improvement in clinical 
symptomatology after up to 6 weeks of double-blind therapy as measured by reductions from baseline 
in the Y-MRS total score. At randomisation, 117 patients (34.1%) were being treated with lithium as a 
mood  stabiliser,  and  226  patients  (65.9%)  with  valproate.  Forty-eight%  of  the  patients  were  bipolar 
manic and 52.0% were bipolar mixed. Overall, 45.1% of the patients had a rapid cycling course, and 
33.1% were exhibiting psychotic features in their current episode of mania. 
The  olanzapine/mood  stabiliser  group  experienced  a  statistically  significantly  greater  mean 
improvement  in  Y-MRS  total  score  than  did  the  placebo/mood  stabiliser  group.  Several  of  the 
secondary  efficacy  variables  (PANSS  total,  CGI-BP  severity  of  overall  bipolar  disease,  CGI-BP 
the 
depression  and  HAMD-21)  showed  statistically  significant  differences 
olanzapine/mood stabiliser group. The analysis of responders (at least 50% decrease in Y-MRS total 
score  olanzapine/mood  67.7%,  placebo/mood  stabiliser  44.7%)  gives  further  reassurance  of  a 
clinically relevant difference between the groups. The time to response was significantly shorter in the 
olanzapine/mood stabiliser group. 
in  favour  of 
For  the  Y-MRS  score  change  from  baseline,  no  treatment-by-subgroup  interaction  was  observed 
depending  on  the  mood  stabiliser  (lithium  or  valproate).  Considering  time  to  statistically  significant 
effect  and  maintenance  of  effect,  the  visit  wise  analyses  offer  some  further  information.  The 
olanzapine  and  mood  stabiliser  group  demonstrated  statistically  significantly  greater  mean 
improvement in Y-MRS total scores at most of the visits up to and including week 6 and the time to 
response was 18 days for olanzapine and mood stabiliser and 28 days for placebo and mood stabiliser. 
The study could not answer the question whether the combination of olanzapine and mood stabiliser 
offers advantage over olanzapine monotherapy. 
For the extension of the indication for oral olanzapine to include prevention of recurrence in patients 
with  bipolar  disorder  in  patients  whose  manic  episode  has  responded  to  olanzapine  treatment,  the 
studies described below were performed. 
Study HGHL: Olanzapine vs. placebo in relapse prevention 
Study  HGHL  was  a  randomised,  double-blind  parallel  study  of  olanzapine  vs.  placebo  for  up  to  12 
months in patients who experienced a symptomatic remission of an index episode of mania or mixed 
episode in bipolar disorder after 6-12 weeks of open-label acute treatment with olanzapine. Altogether 
731  patients  entered  the  open-label  phase,  225  were  rerandomised  to  receive  olanzapine  and  136  to 
receive placebo during the double-blind study period. Over 50% were rapid cyclers, over 40% had a 
mixed episode and over 20% had psychotic features in the beginning of open-label treatment. These 
proportions remained similar for the patient population entering the double-blind phase. 
The  primary  efficacy  measure  was  time  to  symptomatic  relapse.  Olanzapine  was  statistically 
significantly  superior  to  placebo  in  time-to-event  for  symptomatic  relapse  of  bipolar  disorder  (174 
days in the olanzapine group, 22 days in the placebo group), manic relapse and depressive relapse. The 
CPMP/0646/96 
15/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences  in  the  proportions  of  patients  experiencing  bipolar  (either  manic  or  depressive)  relapse 
(olanzapine  46.7%,  placebo  80.1%),  depressive  relapse  (34.7%  vs.  47.8%,  respectively)  or  manic 
relapse (16.4% vs. 41.2%, respectively) were all statistically significant, and consistently lower in the 
olanzapine group. This effect was robust according to subgroup analyses and was seen in patients with 
a mixed index episode, in rapid cyclers and non-rapid cyclers and in patients with or without psychotic 
features.  Mixed  relapses  were  not  analysed  separately.  Nevertheless,  according  to  post  hoc  analyses 
using several definitions of depressive and manic relapses, the results are robust and support efficacy 
in the prevention of both types of episodes.  
The  study  showed  that  olanzapine  was  effective  in  preventing  recurrence  of  manic  and  depressive 
symptoms during 12 months, following olanzapine-induced remission of a manic episode. 
Study HGHT: Olanzapine vs. lithium in relapse prevention 
Study  HGHT  was  a  randomised,  double-blind  parallel  study  to  assess  the  efficacy  of  olanzapine 
compared with lithium for up to 12 months in patients who experienced a symptomatic remission of an 
index  manic  or  mixed  episode  after  6-12  weeks  of  acute  open-label  treatment  with  olanzapine  and 
lithium combination therapy. Altogether 543 patients entered the open-label treatment and 431 were 
rerandomised to double-blind treatment with either olanzapine or lithium. The other drug was tapered 
off  over  a  period  4  weeks  after  entering  the  double-blind  phase.  A  great  majority  of  patients in this 
study  had  a  manic  index  episode and approximately 27% had psychotic features. Few patients were 
rapid  cyclers  or  had  a  mixed  episode.  Prior  lithium  use  was  reported  by  74%  of  patients  and, 
importantly,  the  data  do  not  suggest  that  a  lithium-resistant  population  was  enrolled..  The  primary 
efficacy  measure  was  symptomatic  relapse  of  bipolar  disorder.  The  primary  objective  was  to  show 
non-inferiority  of  olanzapine  to  lithium.  This  objective  was  met,  since  the  percentage  of  bipolar 
relapses  was  30.0%  in  the  olanzapine  group  and  38.8%  in  the  lithium  group,  and  the upper limit of 
95% CI for the difference was less than the protocol-defined non-inferiority limit of 7.3%. This result 
was clearly driven by a lower percentage of patients relapsing to mania. There was no difference in the 
relapses to depression. These results were similar in the intention-to-treat and per protocol analyses. 
Symptomatic relapse at one year was similar in the two groups and non-inferiority was concluded at 
52  weeks  as  regards  bipolar,  depressive  and  manic  relapse.  For  relapse  into  mania,  olanzapine  was 
shown to be superior to lithium with an opposite trend earlier in treatment (up to 4.5 months) during 
which there were more symptomatic bipolar relapses in the olanzapine group. The first four weeks of 
the double-blind treatment entailed tapering off either olanzapine or lithium over the first four weeks, 
which is expected to result in a higher initial relapse rate in both groups, but as confirmed in further 
analyses (taper period alone and monotherapy period alone), tapering of lithium was associated with a 
higher initial relapse rate than tapering of olanzapine. Examination of the Kaplan-Meier curves clearly 
suggested that this initial difference up to 4.5 months was due to more frequent relapses to depression 
in  the  olanzapine  group  during  initial  months  of  monotherapy  compared  to  lithium  monotherapy. 
Looking  at  the  Kaplan-Meier  curves  of  relapse  to  depression,  the  difference  between  the  curves 
actually disappeared at approximately 6 months. Separate analysis of the taper period and subsequent 
treatment period showed that a major part of the difference was attributable to taper, but not limited to 
it. 
The  results  of  Study  HGHT  suggested  that  in  this  population  of  patients  with  only  mild  depressive 
symptoms  during  the  index  episode  of  mania,  tapering  off  lithium  may  result,  at  least  initially,  in  a 
higher risk of switch to depression than tapering off olanzapine. The risk of relapse to mania is lower 
during long-term monotherapy with olanzapine than with lithium. 
Study HGFU – Olanzapine added to mood stabilisers 
The results of the acute double-blind phase of this study was reviewed for the indication for treatment 
of manic episode. Patients who responded to acute treatment with either mood stabiliser + placebo or 
mood stabiliser + olanzapine were rerandomised to olanzapine + mood stabiliser or placebo + mood 
stabiliser  for  a  18  month  double-blind  treatment  extension  phase.  Mood  stabiliser  treatment  was 
carefully optimised and frequently monitored in both treatment groups. 
CPMP/0646/96 
16/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
In  the  99  patients  who  were  randomised  to  olanzapine  +  mood  stabiliser  in  the  acute  phase  and 
rerandomised  to  the  extension  phase,  the  majority  (64%)  continued  to  have  valproate  as  mood 
stabiliser  and  the  illness  characteristics  of  the  population  (manic/mixed,  psychotic  features,  rapid 
cyclers) were similar to the acute phase.  
The  primary  efficacy  analysis  in  the  extension  phase  was  time  to  syndromic  relapse  to  mania  or 
depression.  The  primary  analysis  population  was  patients  who  received  and  responded  to  the 
combination therapy in the acute phase. The rates of syndromic relapse to mania or depression during 
18 months were relatively low (approximately 30%). There were no statistically significant differences 
or even trends of differences between the two groups in the primary analysis.  
The results of the extension phase did not provide conclusive evidence of any added benefit in terms 
of  efficacy  to  continue  combination  of  olanzapine  and  mood  stabiliser  for  long-term  relapse 
prevention after remission has been achieved with such a combination and did not answer the question 
which drug would best be tapered off and discontinued. 
The Kaplan-Meier curves for time to syndromic and symptomatic relapse showed trends in favour or 
olanzapine  +  mood  stabiliser  over  placebo  and  mood  stabiliser,  but  no  statistical  significance  was 
shown. There is no compelling evidence that discontinuation of olanzapine treatment in patients who 
have  experienced  remission  during  combination  treatment  of  olanzapine  and  mood  stabiliser  would 
put patients at an unacceptable risk of symptom recurrence.  
IM olanzapine 
For  IM  olanzapine,  two  pivotal,  double-blind,  placebo  and  haloperidol  controlled  clinical  efficacy 
studies  [HGHV  (n=270)  and  HGHB  (n=311)]  were  carried  out  in  acutely  agitated  patients  with 
schizophrenia.  The  choice  of  IM  haloperidol  as  a  comparator  in  studies  HGHV  and  HGHB  was 
considered appropriate because (i) it was the IM antipsychotic drug that was most frequently used in 
the treatment of acute agitation in schizophrenic patients in Europe, (ii) it had been used in previous 
similar trials of IM typical (Chouinard et al. 1993; Battaglia et al. 1997) and IM atypical antipsychotic 
drugs (Brook et al. 1999), and (iii) it had approximately similar tmax and administration frequency to 
IM olanzapine. The choice of haloperidol was also consistent with Scientific Advice from the CPMP. 
The inclusion criteria in the two studies were: Male or female inpatients at least 18 years of age with a 
diagnosis  of  schizophrenia,  schizophreniform  disorder,  or  schizoaffective  disorder  (DSM-IV).  The 
illness  of  the  patient  had  to  be  considered  by  the  investigator  to  be  clinically  agitated  and  to  be 
clinically appropriate candidates for treatment with IM medication. Patients had to have a minimum 
total score of at least 14 on the five items of the PANSS Excited Component (poor impulse control, 
tension, hostility, uncooperativeness, and excitement), and at least one individual item score of at least 
4 using the 1-7 scoring system, prior to first IM injection of study drug. 
Study F1D-MC-HGHV 
This double-blind multicentre dose-response study compared IM olanzapine, IM haloperidol and IM 
placebo in patients with schizophrenia (n=270). The primary objective of the study was to determine if 
the  efficacy  of  IM  olanzapine  was  greater  than  IM  placebo  as  measured  by  the  PANSS  excited 
component. 
All olanzapine doses showed statistically significantly greater improvement than placebo, and the 5, 
7.5  and  10  mg  olanzapine  doses  were  superior  to  the  low  dose  (2.5  mg).  Haloperidol  (7.5  mg)  was 
superior to placebo and the low olanzapine dose, but there were no statistically significant differences 
between haloperidol and the other olanzapine groups. 
Response  rate  (included  as  a  secondary  analysis,  defined  a  priori  as  at  least  40%  reduction  in  the 
PANSS excited component at 2 hours compared to baseline) was 20.0% in the placebo group, 50.0%, 
62.2%, 73.9% and 80.4% in the olanzapine 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10 mg groups, respectively, and 60.0% in 
the  haloperidol  7.5  mg  group.  All  active  treatments  were  statistically  significantly  different  from 
placebo. No statistically significant differences were observed between the haloperidol and any of the 
olanzapine groups. 
CPMP/0646/96 
17/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Study F1D-MC-HGHB 
This  double-blind  phase  III  multicenter  randomized  comparison  of  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  IM 
olanzapine, IM haloperidol and IM placebo in patients with schizophrenia. The objectives of the study 
were  to  determine  the  efficacy  and  safety  of  IM  olanzapine  followed  by  oral  olanzapine  versus  IM 
haloperidol  followed  by  oral  haloperidol  and  IM  placebo  followed  by  oral  olanzapine  in  a  parallel 
group  design.  The  objective  was  to  demonstrate  non-inferiority  of  IM  olanzapine.  A  total  of  13 
countries  participated 
total  number  of  patients  was  311  (2:2:1 
olanzapine:haloperidol:placebo  randomisation).  The  duration  of  injectable  treatment  period  was  24 
hours  and  oral  treatment  period  4  days.  The  use  of  oral  benzodiazepines  was  permitted,  but 
discouraged, during the oral treatment phase of the study. 
the  study  and 
the 
in 
The  incidence  of  benzodiazepine  and/or  hypnotic  use  across  the  treatment  groups  during  injectable 
period of the study was statistically significantly different overall (p=0.004), with a greater incidence 
of use in IM placebo-treated patients compared to IM olanzapine-treated patients (38.9% vs. 16.0%, 
p=0.002) and compared to IM haloperidol-treated patients (38.9% vs. 19.8%, p=0.009). With regard to 
the primary efficacy analysis (PANSS excited component, LOCF change from baseline to endpoint for 
the  2-hour  post  first  IM  injection),  an  overall  statistically  significant  difference  between  treatment 
groups  was  found,  with  no  evidence  of  treatment-by-country  interaction.  IM  olanzapine  showed 
statistically significantly greater mean improvement in the PANSS Excited Component compared with 
IM  placebo  (p<0.001).  IM  haloperidol  also  showed  statistically  significantly  greater  mean 
improvement in the PANSS Excited Component compared with IM placebo (p<0.001). 
For  the  “non-inferiority”  hypothesis,  the  “non-inferiority”  of  IM  olanzapine  compared  to  IM 
haloperidol  can  be  concluded.  Both  IM  olanzapine  and  IM  haloperidol  showed  statistically 
significantly greater improvement than placebo in the secondary efficacy analyses during the initial 2 
hours  after  the  first  injection.  There  were  no  statistically  significant  differences  between  olanzapine 
and haloperidol. 
Timepoint  analysis  of  change  from  baseline  in  PANSS  excited  component  clearly  suggests  a  faster 
onset  of  action  with  10  mg  olanzapine  compared  to  haloperidol.  In  terms  of  responders  (same 
definition  as  in  study  HGHV),  both  active  treatments  were  significantly  different  from  placebo: 
olanzapine  73.3%,  haloperidol  69.0%,  placebo  33.3%.  The  secondary  analysis  (LOCF)  of  PANSS 
excited component for the injectable period (0-24 hours) also showed statistically significantly greater 
mean  improvement  in  both  active treatment groups compared to placebo, but no difference between 
the active treatment groups. For the Overt Aggression Scale (OAS), the results, however, appear to be 
in favour of haloperidol over olanzapine, although the difference between groups was not statistically 
significant. 
For the extension of indication of IM olanzapine to treatment of agitation in manic episodes, the below 
mentioned study was performed. 
Study HGHW: Olanzapine vs. placebo 
The  primary  objective  of  this  phase  III,  multicentre,  double-blind,  randomised  study  comparing  the 
efficacy and safety of IM olanzapine, IM lorazepam and IM placebo, was to determine the efficacy of 
IM  olanzapine  compared  with  IM  placebo  in  improving  severity  of  agitation  as  measured  by 
reductions (LOCF) from baseline to 2 hours post-first IM injection on the PANSS Excited Component 
in  agitated  patients  with  mania  associated  with  bipolar  disorder.  The  secondary  efficacy  measures 
included the following rating scales: BPRS, Corrigan Agitation Behaviour Scale, CGI-S, ACES, and 
Y-MRS. 
A total of 228 male or female inpatients at least 18 years of age with a diagnosis of bipolar I disorder 
and  currently  displaying  an  acute  manic  or  mixed  episode  (with  or  without  psychotic  features) 
according  to  DSM-IV  and  confirmed  through  the  SCID,  entered  the  screening  phase  of  this  study 
(Study  Period  I).  There  was  no  evidence  of  any  overall  statistically  significant  treatment  group 
CPMP/0646/96 
18/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
differences  at  baseline  as  regards  the  primary  and  secondary  efficacy  variables  (primary:  PANSS 
Excited  Component,  secondary:  PANSS-derived  BPRS  total  score,  PANSS-derived  BPRS  positive 
subscore,  Corrigan  Agitated  Behavior  Scale,  Y-MRS,  CGI-S,  and  ACES).  Generally,  the  patients 
presented with a severe degree of symptoms (baseline PANSS Excited Component mean 12.8, CGI-S 
mean 4.5, Y-MRS mean 26.0). One to three injections within 20 hours was allowed. Patients received 
IM injections of olanzapine, lorazepam, or placebo. The first and second IM injections of olanzapine 
were  10  mg/injection;  the  third  IM  injection  was  5  mg.  The  first  and  second  IM  injections  of 
lorazepam were 2 mg/injection; the third IM injection was 1 mg. The first and second IM injections 
were placebo; the third IM injection was olanzapine 10 mg. The duration of treatment was 24 hours.  
The first injection of olanzapine was clearly more efficacious than placebo and a relatively low dose 
of  IM  lorazepam  according  to  the  primary  efficacy  analysis  of  PANSS  Excited  Component  (ITT 
LOCF)  at  2  hours.  Also  the  active  comparator  was  superior  to  placebo.  The  PANSS  Excited 
Component has not been formally validated in patients with a manic episode. However, the secondary 
efficacy  variable  analyses  supported  the  primary  efficacy  analysis.  By  24  hours  the  differences 
between the treatment arms diminished, but the 24-h analysis was less relevant as the groups were no 
longer  comparable  as  regards  treatment  after  the  initial  2  hours  (more  injections  were  needed  in the 
lorazepam group). The responder analysis at 2 hours after the first injection and the time to response 
analysis  clearly  supported  the  efficacy  of  olanzapine  compared  to both placebo and a relatively low 
dose of lorazepam. 
General discussion on the efficacy data 
During the initial review, the CPMP convened an expert working group, to consider the clinical data 
requirements necessary to evaluate amedicinal products for treatment of schizophrenia. A number of 
recommendations  were  made  to  the  CPMP  regarding  criteria  to  be  considered  in  evaluating  such 
products.  During  the  CPMP  meeting  on  18-20  June  1996  the  main  issues  discussed  by  the  CPMP 
members related to the following:  
Long term efficacy: The majority of the controlled studies have a six week duration and those with a 
one  year  double  blind  extension  phase  had  a  high  discontinuation  rate.  However  a  statistically 
significant  higher  proportion  of  patients  on  olanzapine  maintained  a  response  for  one  year  than  on 
placebo or haloperidol.  
Indication on negative symptoms: The main studies showing statistically significant improved efficacy 
for these symptoms (HGAJ, HGAD) were not done prospectively with relief of negative symptoms as 
the  primary  end-point 
in  a  specific  population  of  patients  showing  persistent  negative 
symptomatology. 
Indication  on  depressive  symptoms  in  schizophrenia  and  schizoaffective  psychosis:  The  efficacy  on 
depressive symptoms associated with schizophrenia was observed in one comparative study in which 
it  was  not  the  primary  endpoint.  Moreover,  it  was  also  considered  that  it  is  possible  that  the 
comparator  chosen,  haloperidol,  can  induce  depression  affecting  the  MADRS  score.  However  a 
subgroup  analysis  suggested  a  possible  effect  on  depressive  symptoms  of  at  least  moderate  severity 
(MADRS score = 16). 
The CPMP considered that olanzapine coated tablets were effective in the treatment of schizophrenia 
and  in  maintaining  improvement  in  patients  showing  an  initial  treatment  response.  In  addition  the 
CPMP  considered  that  effects  on  depressive  symptoms,  as  well  as  negative  psychotic  symptoms, 
should be included in the SPC. 
For the extension of indication in 2002 the CPMP considered that favourable benefit/risk profile had 
been established for the indication “Olanzapine is indicated for the treatment of a moderate to severe 
manic episode; olanzapine has not been demonstrated to prevent recurrence of manic or depressive 
episodes”. Olanzapine compared to placebo showed convincing evidence for efficacy in the primary 
efficacy  parameters  in  two  short-term  studies.  Non-inferiority  of  olanzapine  was  shown  for  the 
primary  efficacy  parameters  according  to  the  study  protocol  in  the  comparator  study  with  valproate 
CPMP/0646/96 
19/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and  a  secondary  assessment  of  superiority  showed  that  olanzapine  could  be  considered  statistical 
superior  to  valproate  with  regard  to  reduction  of  manic  symptoms.  Olanzapine  failed  to  show 
superiority  to  haloperidol  for  the  primary  endpoint  as  was  outlined  in  the  study  HGHD  protocol; 
however, non-inferiority was suggested for olanzapine following a post-hoc interpretation. Olanzapine 
showed numerically fewer recurrences (up to 44 weeks) compared to valproate; no difference in the 
recurrence  rate  was  seen  in  comparison  to  haloperidol  (up  to  6  weeks)  and  no  statistical  significant 
differences between olanzapine and haloperidol and valproate were shown using time to recurrence to 
depression as an endpoint.  
For the extension of indication in 2003 the CPMP considered that a favourable benefit/risk profile had 
been  established  for  the  indication:  “in  patients  whose  manic  episode  has  responded  to  olanzapine 
treatment, olanzapine is indicated for the prevention of recurrence in patients with bipolar disorder”. 
This applies to patients whose manic index episode has responded to either olanzapine monotherapy 
or  combination  therapy  with  olanzapine  and  mood  stabiliser.  Olanzapine  monotherapy  up  to  12 
months was shown to be superior to placebo in bipolar relapse prevention after response of a manic 
episode to olanzapine treatment and to be non-inferior to lithium monotherapy in terms of recurrence 
of  bipolar  symptoms  in  patients  whose  index  episode  of  mania  had  responded  to  a  combination  of 
lithium  and  olanzapine.  However,  tapering  off  lithium  from  the  combination  over  a  relatively  short 
period of time (4 weeks) resulted in a higher risk of relapse to depression for several months compared 
to tapering off olanzapine. There was no difference at 12 months in the rate of relapse to depression. 
However,  olanzapine  monotherapy  in  this  situation  was  shown  to  be  superior  to  lithium  in  the 
prevention of recurrence of mania based on secondary analysis.  
The  benefit/risk  of  long-term  combination  of  olanzapine  with  mood  stabilisers  for  prevention  of 
recurrence  in  bipolar  I  disorder  was  considered  unfavourable,  as  the  study  did  not  meet  statistical 
significance for the primary endpoint of time to syndromic relapse and secondary efficacy evaluations 
were thus not considered. Moreover, the undesirable effects are more frequent than with monotherapy.  
Olanzapine  can  be  considered  to  an  acceptable  alternative  to  available  mood  stabilisers  for  the 
prevention of bipolar recurrence, but careful monitoring of the clinical condition, glycaemic control in 
patients  with  risk  factors  for  diabetes  or  pre-existing  diabetes,  and  extrapyramidal  symptoms  are 
required. 
When evaluating the application for IM olanzapine, the CPMP raised a major objection pertaining to a 
number of issues related to the study methods (, certain findings in the analysis of secondary efficacy 
variables  (OAS)  which  appeared  to  be  in  contradiction  with  the  primary  efficacy  variable  results, 
choice of doses for pivotal studiesand the clinical relevance of the observed effect. These issues were 
resolved  by  the  applicant  by  written  clarifications,  in  and  oral  explanation  to  the  CPMP,  and  by 
appropriate  changes  to  the  SPC.  .  The  CPMP  concluded  that  IM  olanzapine  was  effective  and  non-
inferior to IM haloperidol in the treatment of agitation in patients with schizophrenia. 
For  the  subsequent  extension  of  the  indication  for  IM  olanzapine  for  treatment  of  agitation  and 
disturbed patients with manic episodes, the CPMP concluded that a favourable benefit/risk profile had 
been  established,  but  that  the  safety  of  use  of  IM  Zyprexa  together  with  mood  stabilisers  should 
continue to be monitored. 
Clinical safety 
Oral olanzapine 
The initial overall safety assessment database for olanzapine tablets included 2500 patients who were 
exposed  to  olanzapine.  Patients  with  significant  somatic  baseline  illnesses  were  generally  excluded 
from the studies. Sixty four percent of the patients were male, 80% Caucasian and 56% less than 40 
years old. The percentage of patients over 65 years of age was 11%.  
The  incidence  of  somnolence,  dizziness,  constipation,  appeared  to  be  dose-related  and  remained 
within  reasonable  limits.  Significant  weight  gain  was  observed  consistently across all major studies. 
CPMP/0646/96 
20/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Significant  parkinsonism  and  akathisia  as  assessed  by  symptom  rating  scales  was  observed  to  occur 
less  frequently  during  olanzapine  treatment  than  haloperidol  treatment.  Extrapyramidal  symptoms 
were reported clinically and statistically significantly less often during olanzapine treatment in double 
blind  studies  and  the  need  for  anticholinergic  treatment  was  less  frequent  during  treatment  with 
olanzapine  than  haloperidol.  Comparisons  with  other  anticholinergic  neuroleptics  have  not  been 
performed.  Olanzapine  elevates  serum  prolactin  levels,  but  the  highest  levels  observed  are  less  than 
those with therapeutically equivalent doses of haloperidol. There was one report of gynecomastia and 
no  reports  of  galactorrhoea  in  olanzapine-treated  patients.  Convulsions  without  known  predisposing 
conditions have been described with low incidence in olanzapine-treated patients. 
An  elevation  of  creatine  phosphokinase  (CPK)  was  found  not  to  be  statistically  different  to  that 
observed with haloperidol. 
The  safety  profile  in  the  elderly  (>65  years)  patients  was  found  to  be  more  or  less  comparable  to 
younger patients. 
Cardiovascular  changes:  In  the  Overall  Integrated  Database,  olanzapine  tablets  were  shown  to 
increase both supine and standing diastolic and systolic blood pressure as well as standing and supine 
heart rate, as well as prolonged corrected QT-interval (an incidence of 8%, mean change 2.82 msecs). 
Although  the  mean  change  from  baseline  was  observed  to  be  slight  and  the  incidence  of  clinically 
significant treatment emergent arrhythmias was not different from that of haloperidol, caution should 
be exercised in patients who have prolonged baseline QT, in patients treated with other drugs known 
to affect QT interval and in patients with disturbed electrolyte balance. Olanzapine was also shown to 
prolong QT interval in rats. 
Hepatic  changes:  Moderate  asymptomatic  elevations  in  ALT  and/or  AST  levels  were  observed  in 
some  patients  usually  during  the  first  6  weeks  of  treatment.  In  most  cases,  the  elevated 
aminotransferase activities returned to normal during continued treatment. Cases of clinical hepatitis 
were  not  reported.  There  are  no  data  on  possible  morphological  changes  in  the  liver,  since  needle 
biopsies  were  not  obtained.  However,  in  view  of  these  elevated  liver  enzyme  levels  caution  is 
warranted  in  patients  at  risk  i.e.  patients  with  elevated  baseline  ALT  and/or  AST,  in  patients  who 
develop  elevated  ALT/AST  during  treatment,  in  patients  with  signs  or  symptoms  of  hepatic 
impairment, in patients with pre-existing conditions associated with limited hepatic functional reserve 
and in patients who are being treated with other potentially hepatotoxic drugs. In the event of elevated 
ALT  and/or  AST  in  an  asymptomatic  patient,  follow-up  should  be  organised  and  dose  reduction  or 
discontinuation should be considered. 
Haematological changes: In the Overall Integrated Database, mild-to-moderate transient eosinophilia 
(extreme values were up to approximately 27% of WBC)  were reported more often with olanzapine 
(n=7) than with haloperidol. Eosinophilia is a well-characterised clozapine treatment-emergent effect. 
This effect appeared to be dose-related in study E003. In most cases, the eosinophil counts returned to 
“normal”  despite  continued  exposure  to  olanzapine,  but  adequate  follow-up  data  were  missing.  One 
patient was reported to have severe dyspnoea and a treatment-emergent X-ray abnormality described 
as scleroemphysema and concomitant eosinophilia. There were statistically significant, but clinically 
insignificant  treatment-emergent  decreases  in  hematocrit  and  haemoglobin  values  during  olanzapine 
treatment.  Eight  cases  of  thrombocytopenia  have  been  reported  in  the  Overall  Integrated  Database. 
Leukopenia  and/or  neutropenia  has  been  infrequently  reported  in  both  olanzapine  and  haloperidol 
treated patients. Six patients were discontinued due to leukopenia in the Overall Integrated Database. 
There  were  no  clear  differences  in  the  incidence  of,  or  discontinuation  due  to  low  leukocyte  or 
neutrophil counts between haloperidol and olanzapine groups. Dose-dependent decreases in leukocyte 
counts  were  observed  in  chronic  toxicity  studies  and  these  changes  were  generally  accompanied  by 
myeloid  hyperplasia  of  the  bone  marrow.  However  the  risk  of  leukopenia  and  neutropenia  with 
olanzapine  observed  in  patients  was  found  not  to be  dose related and appeared to be relatively low. 
Thirty-two  patients  with  clozapine-related  neutropenia  or  agranulocytosis  histories  received 
olanzapine without decreases in baseline neutrophil counts. 
CPMP/0646/96 
21/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Drug  interactions:  Using  rank  transformed  data  an  increased  consumption  of  alcohol  has  been 
observed in 1 out of the 4 double blind studies. There does not appear to be an increased risk of drug 
abuse or drug dependency in olanzapine treated patients compared to haloperidol treated patients. 
The  overall  safety  profile  of  olanzapine  tablets  in  the  target  population  was  considered  to  be 
acceptable within the suggested dose-range. 
For the treatment of moderate to severe manic episode, the placebo- and active comparator-controlled 
studies provided a fairly extensive safety database. Limited long-term safety data was available from 
the  uncontrolled  extension  phase  of  study  HGHE.  Compared  to  the  safety  database  in  patients  with 
schizophrenia, the incidence of somnolence, weight gain, increased appetite, dry mouth and dizziness 
appear to be clearly more frequent in patients with bipolar disorder. Dizziness, asthenia, somnolence, 
dry  mouth  and  weight  gain  were  the  outstanding  adverse  events  in  the  placebo-controlled  studies; 
somnolence was reported in up to 38% of patients, dizziness in up to 13% of patients, weight gain in 
up  to  11%  of  patients.  These  adverse  events  could  adversely  affect  compliance  in  clinical  practice. 
Transient  increases  in  ALT  were  reported  very  frequently  (up  to  22%  of  patients)  without  signs  of 
hepatic dysfunction; this phenomenon is well known from previous clinical studies and is mainly seen 
during the initial weeks of treatment, and a potentially clinically significant effect is increase in uric 
acid (2% of patients).  
Compared  to  placebo,  no  statistically  significant  differences  were  observed  in  mean  change  from 
baseline  in  either  the  Simpson-Angus  or  Barnes  Akathisia  scales,  measuring  extrapyramidal 
symptoms. 
Compared  to  valproate  in  acute  (3  weeks)  treatment,  treatment-emergent  adverse  events  occurred 
statistically significantly more often during olanzapine treatment; somnolence (38.4% vs. 21.4%), dry 
mouth  (33.6%  vs.  6.3%),  increased  appetite  (12.0%  vs.  2.4%),  tremor  (9.6%  vs.  3.2%),  speech 
disorder  (8.0%  vs.  0.8%)  and  tongue  oedema;  tongue  oedema  could  be  related  to  extrapyramidal 
symptoms.  Only  nausea  occurred  significantly  more  often  during  valproate  treatment.  Euphoria  was 
reported  more  often  in  the  olanzapine  group,  although  the  difference  was  not  significant.  Severe 
adverse events were catatonic reaction, euphoria and extrapyramidal syndrome. Olanzapine treatment 
was  associated  with  an  increase  in  corrected  QT-interval.  The  mean  increase  was  small  especially 
when the appropriate Fredericia’s formula was used to calculate QTc. Although the difference was not 
statistically significant, the percentage of patients with QTc prolongation exceeding 30 ms was higher 
in  the  olanzapine  group  (8.8%)  compared  to  valproate  (4.1%).  The  frequency  of  clearly  significant 
increase in QTc (>60 ms) was low. Although the difference was not statistically significant (5.3% vs. 
1.8%),  treatment  emergent  Parkinsonism  appeared  to  be  more  frequent  during  olanzapine  treatment. 
Altogether,  the  safety  profile  of  olanzapine  cannot  be  considered  superior  to  valproate.  A  possible 
higher risk of neutropenia during combined olanzapine/valproate treatment is mentioned in the SPC. 
The limited data on co-administration with lithium and valproate, as well as the non-existing clinical 
data  on  the  combination  of  olanzapine  and  carbamazepine  (used  in  Europe  as  mood  stabiliser)  is 
addressed in section 4.4 of the SPC, with a cross-reference already present information in section 4.5 
on pharmacokinetic data. 
Compared to haloperidol, a number of adverse events, primarily extrapyramidal symptoms, occurred 
statistically significantly more frequently in the haloperidol group during the six-week acute phase of 
study  HGHD  than  in  the  olanzapine  group  -  akathisia  (26.0%  vs.  5.6%),  extrapyramidal  syndrome 
(22.4% vs. 2.1%), hypertonia (17.4% vs. 3.8%), tremor (14.2% vs. 4.7%), dystonia (6.4% vs. 1.3%), 
hypokinesia  (3.7%  vs.  0.4%)  and  dyskinesia  (2.7%  vs.  0.0%).  Haloperidol-treated  patients  also  had 
statistically  significantly  higher  rates  of  increased  salivation  (6.8%  vs.  0.4%,  p<.001).  The  only 
adverse  events  that  occurred  at  statistically  significantly  higher  rates  among  olanzapine-treated 
patients were weight gain (9.8% vs. 2.7%), infection (4.3% vs. 0.5%) and fever (3.4% vs. 0.0%). The 
most commonly reported treatment-emergent adverse events in olanzapine-treated patients (incidence 
>10%)  were  insomnia  (10.7%)  and  somnolence  (10.3%).  Among  haloperidol-treated  patients, 
common adverse events (incidence >10%) were akathisia (26.0%), extrapyramidal syndrome (22.4%), 
hypertonia  (17.4%),  tremor  (14.2%),  and  insomnia  (13.7%).  A  number  of  adverse  events,  primarily 
extrapyramidal symptoms, occurred significantly more frequently in the haloperidol group than in the 
CPMP/0646/96 
22/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
olanzapine group during the continuation phase. The incidence of tardive dyskinesia was statistically 
significantly  higher  in  the  haloperidol  group  (3.6%  vs.  0.0%,  p=.020).  The  only  adverse  event  that 
occurred at a significantly higher rate among olanzapine-treated patients was weight gain (14.4% vs. 
5.1%,  p=.011).  No  increase  in  corrected  QTc  was  observed,  but  potentially  significant  QTc 
prolongation  of  at  least  30  ms  (olanzapine  8.1%,  haloperidol  6.7%)  and  at  least  60  ms  (olanzapine 
0.6%,  haloperidol  0.7%)  were  reported  with  similar  frequency  in  both  groups.  No  patient  had  QTc 
exceeding  500  ms.  Altogether,  the  safety  profile  of  olanzapine  in  this  patient  population  is  clearly 
superior  to  haloperidol.  This  is  mainly  due  to  the  low  incidence  of  extrapyramidal  symptoms  and 
tardive dyskinesia.  
Combined with mood stabiliser (lithium or valproate) in study HGFU, anticholinergic/antihistaminic 
and  extrapyramidal  symptoms  (somnolence,  dry  mouth,  weight  gain,  increased  appetite,  tremor  and 
speech disorder) were substantially more frequent with olanzapine and mood stabiliser than with mood 
stabiliser  alone.  The  profile  of  adverse  effects  was  similar  compared  to  monotherapy  trials  and  no 
unexpected  adverse  events  were  observed.  However,  a  statistically  significantly  higher  incidence  of 
neutropenia was reported with the combination of olanzapine plus mood stabiliser compared to mood 
stabiliser  alone  (3.2%  vs.  1.1%).  This  increased  incidence  appears  to  be  associated  with  the 
combination of olanzapine and valproate, and high plasma valproate level can be a contributing factor 
in these cases. However, it is to be noted that no pharmacokinetic interaction has been observed. 
The safety profile of long-term olanzapine treatment in patients with bipolar I disorder is similar to 
that in patients with schizophrenia. Compared to lithium and valproate, the most frequently used mood 
stabilisers,  the  safety  concerns  with  olanzapine  monotherapy  focus  on  weight  gain.  The  results  of 
safety  analyses  did  not  suggest  any  specific  safety  hazards  related  to  the  concomitant  use  of  mood 
stabiliser (lithium or valproate) with olanzapine. The profile of adverse events associated with lithium 
or valproate plus olanzapine co-therapy was consistent with expected undesirable effects of olanzapine 
and  mood  stabilisers.  However,  the  interpretation  must  be  cautious,  since  the  sensitivity  of  the 
database to detect interactions was low. The data from the controlled clinical trials did not suggest a 
difference  in  the  risk  of  suicide  in  patients  who  had  received  long-term  olanzapine  treatment  vs. 
comparators.  In  the  overall  database,  suicidal  ideation  or  suicide  attempt  were  reported  as  SAEs  in 
1.6%  and  0.8%  of  patients  during  olanzapine  treatment,  respectively.  Suicidal  ideation  or  suicide 
attempt  were  the  reason  for  discontinuation  in  0.4%  of  patients,  including  patients  who  received 
combination treatment with olanzapine and mood stabiliser.Clinically significant weight gain was the 
outstanding safety concern with long-term olanzapine treatment. This risk is well known and appears 
to be of similar magnitude and frequency compared to patients with schizophrenia. Weight gain may 
have  adverse  long-term  metabolic  consequences  (hyperlipidaemia,  risk  of  diabetes  mellitus)  with  an 
eventual impact on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The current database clearly showed that 
abnormalities  of  glycaemic  control  were  more  frequent  during  olanzapine  than  lithium  or  valproate 
treatment. 
The  other,  less  common  risks  of  olanzapine  compared  to  available  mood  stabilisers  were  treatment-
emergent parkinsonism, akathisia and (tardive) dyskinesia.  
IM olanzapine 
The safety database for IM olanzapine consisted of the seven clinical pharmacology studies (LOAC, 
LOAW,  LOAV,  LOAR  and  LOAT)  enrolling  altogether  236  subjects  (including  169  patients  with 
acute non-organic psychosis), and two double-blind placebo and haloperidol-controlled trials (studies 
HGHV  and  HGHB)  enrolling  a  total  of  581  patients  with  schizophrenia.  Additional  safety  data  was 
presented  from  study  HGHW  (n=201),  a  trial  in  patients  with  acute  mania.  The  total  number  of 
healthy subjects and patients exposed to IM olanzapine was 491. Of these, 316 patients received IM 
olanzapine in the double-blind trials. Additional data on safety in elderly patients was presented from 
study HGHX, which was undertaken in 272 patients with dementia who had a mean age of 77 (range 
54 to 97) years. 
CPMP/0646/96 
23/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CPMP recognised the clear difference in the incidence of treatment-emergent parkinsonism and 
akathisia as well as dystonia, in favour of IM olanzapine over IM haloperidol (see section 4.4. of the 
SPC). 
As regards the cardiovascular safety of IM olanzapine, the CPMP concluded that clinically significant, 
transient  bradycardia  may  occur  following  olanzapine  injection,  but  this  phenomenon  appears  self-
limiting  and  benign  at  least  in  patients  who  do  not  have  significant  cardiovascular  disease.  A  likely 
mechanism  is  neurally  mediated  reflex  bradycardia.  Bradycardia  could  be  a  clinically  significant 
complication in patients who have bradycardia with or without hypotension at baseline, who have sick 
sinus syndrome or have atrioventricular block. Moroever, clinically significant decreases in standing 
systolic blood pressure are observed very commonly (11.9%) after olanzapine injection (10 mg) and 
clearly more frequently than after haloperidol (3.2% after 7.5 mg injection). No statistically significant 
linear trends were observed between olanzapine dose and frequency of clinically significant changes 
in vital signs. However, the results suggest that the frequency is similar with the 5 mg and the 10 mg 
dose with the possible exception of low standing diastolic blood pressure (4.4% and 8.7% at 5 mg and 
10  mg,  respectively)  and  low  orthostatic  systolic  BP  (4.4%  and  8.7%).  Although  none  of  the 
differences between treatment groups were statistically significant, adverse event reporting suggests, 
in line with the vital sign findings above, that dizziness is more common with olanzapine (5.4% at 10 
mg)  than  with  placebo  (2.7%).  In  the  haloperidol-controlled  dataset,  dizziness  appeared  to  be  more 
common with olanzapine (3.4% at 10 mg) than with haloperidol (1.8% at 7.5 mg). These differences 
are not substantial. The frequency of syncope was low after olanzapine injection (0.4%, all doses). No 
cases  of  syncope  were  reported  in  placebo  and  haloperidol  groups.  Despite  numerous  statistically 
significant differences in vital signs compared to placebo, the only statistically significant differences 
between  olanzapine  and  haloperidol  were  found  for  orthostatic  pulse  and  supine  pulse.  Considering 
the baseline values for both of these variables, the changes during treatment and differences between 
groups  are  unlikely  to  be  clinically  relevant,.  However,  compared  to  haloperidol,  the  decrease  in 
standing  systolic  blood  pressure  could  be  clinically  significant.  These  mean  changes  in  vital  signs 
should  be  considered  together  with  the  reported  incidence  of  dizziness  and  syncope.  In  the  clinical 
studies with over 700 patients treated with intramuscular olanzapine, no cases of acute dystonia were 
observed. 
The recommended dose for IM olanzapine was restricted to 2.5 – 5 mg for elderly patients. In study 
HGHX, no adverse events were reported significantly more often for IM olanzapine 2.5 or 5 mg than 
for either IM lorazepam 1 mg or placebo. There were no clinically significant changes seen in vital 
signs and no increased risk of QTc prolongation for IM olanzapine 2.5 or 5 mg when compared to 
placebo. 
IM  olanzapine  was  associated  with  a  lower  frequency  of  treatment-emergent  extrapyramidal 
symptoms such as parkinsonism, akathisia and dystonia than IM haloperidol. 
to 
that 
For the use of IM olanzapine in the treatment of manic episode, the safety profile of olanzapine is 
in  schizophrenic  patients.  The  same  cardiovascular  safety  concerns 
comparable 
(bradyarrhythmia,  syncope)  are  present.  Clinically  significant,  transient  bradycardia  may  occur 
following olanzapine injection. This phenomenon appears self-limiting and benign at least in patients 
who  do  not  have  significant  cardiovascular  disease.  A  likely  mechanism  is  neurally  mediated  reflex 
bradycardia.  Bradycardia  could  be  a  clinically  significant  complication  in  patients  who  have 
bradycardia  with  or  without  hypotension  at  baseline,  who  have  sick  sinus  syndrome  or  AV  block. 
Potentially  clinically  significant  decrease  in  standing  blood  pressure  (systolic  and/or  diastolic)  is 
common  after  olanzapine  injection.  Compared  to  a  relatively  low  dose  of  IM  lorazepam,  IM 
olanzapine  does  not  offer  any  safety  advantage.  Compared  to  conventional  neuroleptics,  such  as 
haloperidol, the advantage of olanzapine according to similar studies in patients with schizophrenia is 
the low risk of acute dystonia and other extrapyramidal undesirable effects. 
Other post-authorisation safety data updates 
CPMP/0646/96 
24/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Following the CPMP review of the 1st Periodic Safety Update Report (PSUR), the SPC was amended 
with  respect  to  the  occurrence  of  Neuroleptic  Malignant  Syndrome  (NMS),  haematologic  adverse 
events and adverse effects regarding skin and appendages.  
Following  the  CPMP  review  of  the  2nd    PSUR,  and  a  review  of  spontaneous  reports  for  seizures  in 
association  with  olanzapine,  sections  4.4.  and  4.8.  of  the  SPC  were  amended  with  respect  to  the 
occurrence  of  seizures,  and  section  4.8.with  information  that  rare  reports  of  hepatitis  have  been 
received 
Following the CPMP review of the 3rd PSUR, , the sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SPC were amended with 
respect  to  hyperglycaemia  and  exacerbation  of  pre-existing  diabetes  reported  in  very  rare  cases.  In 
addition,  a  special  warning  relevant  for  all  antipsychotics  was  added  to  section  4.4.  that  during 
antipsychotic treatment, improvement in the patient's clinical condition may take several days to some 
weeks and that patients should be closely monitored during this period.The section 4.8 was amended 
with information that rare reports of priapism have been received and the section 4.5 was updated with 
regard to the interaction with fluvoxamine, 
Following  the  CPMP  review  of  the  5th  PSUR,  section  4.5  was  updated  with  information  on  potent 
inhibitors of P450-1A2 activity, section 4.8 with information that abnormal gait has been observed in 
clinical  trials  in  patients  with  Alzheimer’s  disease,  that  bradycardia  with  or  without  hypotension  or 
syncope  has  been  reported.  Sections  4.4  and  4.8  were  amended  with  information  on  that 
hyperglycaemia or exacerbation of pre-existing diabetes occasionally associated with ketoacidosis or 
coma  has  been  reported  very  rarely,  including  some  fatal  cases  together  with  that  in  some  cases,  a 
prior  increase  in  body  weight  has  been  reported  which  may  be  a  predisposing  factor;  appropriate 
clinical  monitoring  is  advisable  in  diabetic  patients  and  in  patients  with  risk  factors  for  the 
development of diabetes mellitus. In addition, section 4.9 was amended with information on the signs, 
symptoms and management of overdose of olanzapine.  
Following  the  CPMP  review  of  the  6th  PSUR,,  the  section  4.8  of  the  SPC  was  amended  to  include 
additional information on hyperglycaemia/diabetes mellitus.  
Following the CPMP review of the 7th PSUR, the sections 4.4, 4.6 and 4.8 of the SPC were amended 
with  respect  to  allergic  reactions,  urinary  hesitation,  discontinuation  symptoms  (such  as  sweating, 
insomnia, tremor, anxiety, nausea, or vomiting), and neutropenia. Spontaneous reports have been very 
rarely  received  on  tremor,  hypertonia,  lethargy  and  sleepiness,  in  infants  born  to  mothers  who  had 
used  olanzapine  during  the  3rd  trimester.  In  addition,  following  results  in  studies  in  Parkinson’s 
disease,  it  was  added  that  the  use  of  olanzapine  in  the  treatment  of  dopamine-agonist-associated 
psychosis in patients with Parkinson’s disease is  not recommended since worsening of Parkinsonian 
symptomatology  and  hallucinations  were  very  commonly  and  more  frequently  reported  than  with 
placebo.. 
Following  the  CPMP  review  of  the  9th  PSUR,  the  sections  4.6  and  4.8  were  amended  to  include 
information on the infant exposure to olanzapine at breast-feeding, as well as the section 4.8 to include 
information  on  the  very  rare  occurrence  of  extrapyramidal  symptoms  (Parkinsonism,  dystonia  and 
tardive dyskinesia). 
In  March  2004,  the  EMEA  issued  a  Public  Statement  on  Cerebrovascular  adverse  events  and 
increased mortality in elderly patients with dementia, based on data from clinical trials that show an 
increased  risk  of  cerebrovascular  adverse  events  and  mortality  in  elderly  patients  with  dementia 
receiving  olanzapine.  This  Public  Statement  can  be 
the  EMEA  Website 
(http://www.emea.eu.int/htms/human/drugalert/drugalert.htm).  
It  is  to  be  noted  that  olanzapine  is  not  approved  for  the  treatment  of  dementia-related  psychosis 
and/or  behavioural  disturbances  and  is  not  recommended  for  use  in  this  particular  group  of 
patients. 
The MAH has simultaneously informed physicians throughout the European Union of these findings 
via a Dear Dr Letter.  
found  on 
CPMP/0646/96 
25/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  provisional  changes  introduced  to  the  information  for  prescribers  and  patients  can  be  found in 
the Module 3 and 4 of this EPAR. 
5. 
Conclusion 
Based on the CPMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CPMP considered by consensus 
that  the  benefit/risk  profile  of  Zyprexa  tablets  and  Zyprexa  Powder  for  solution  for  injection  in  the 
treatment  of  schizophrenia  was  favourable  and  therefore  recommended  the  granting  of  the  initial 
Community  Marketing  Authorisation,  the  5-year  renewal,  as  well  as  other  subsequent  post-
authorisation amendments. 
CPMP/0646/96 
26/26 
EMEA 2004 
 
 
 
