EMA/734994/2017 
EMEA/H/C/002321 
EPAR summary for the public 
Zytiga 
abiraterone acetate 
This is a summary of the European public assessment report (EPAR) for Zytiga. It explains how the 
Agency assessed the medicine to recommend its authorisation in the EU and its conditions of use. It is 
not intended to provide practical advice on how to use Zytiga. 
For practical information about using Zytiga, patients should read the package leaflet or contact their 
doctor or pharmacist. 
What is Zytiga and what is it used for? 
Zytiga is a medicine used to treat cancer of the prostate (a gland of the male reproductive system) in 
adult men when the cancer is metastatic (has spread to other parts of the body).  
Zytiga is used together with the medicines prednisone or prednisolone in the following situations: 
•  when the cancer is newly diagnosed, high risk and still sensitive to hormones; Zytiga is then used 
in combination with a treatment called androgen deprivation therapy; 
•  when medical castration (using medicines to stop the production of male hormones) with an 
androgen deprivation therapy has not worked or no longer works in men who have either no 
symptoms or only mild symptoms of the disease, and who do not yet need chemotherapy (cancer 
medicines);  
•  when medical or surgical castration and chemotherapy containing docetaxel have not worked or no 
longer work. 
Zytiga contains the active substance abiraterone acetate.  
How is Zytiga used? 
Zytiga is available as tablets (250 and 500 mg) and can only be obtained with a prescription. 
The recommended dose of Zytiga is 1,000 mg taken once a day at least two hours after eating and at 
least one hour before further food. If patients develop liver problems treatment should be stopped. 
Treatment may be resumed at a reduced dose if liver function returns to normal.  
30 Churchill Place ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 5EU ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 3660 6000  Facsimile +44 (0)20 3660 5555 
Send a question via our website www.ema.europa.eu/contact 
An agency of the European Union   
© European Medicines Agency, 2018. Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
For further information, see the package leaflet.  
How does Zytiga work? 
The active substance in Zytiga, abiraterone acetate, is changed in the body to abiraterone which stops 
the body producing testosterone, a male hormone. Abiraterone does this by blocking an enzyme called 
CYP17 found in the testes and elsewhere in the body. Because the cancer needs a supply of 
testosterone to survive and grow, by reducing the production of testosterone, Zytiga may slow the 
growth of the prostate cancer.  
What benefits of Zytiga have been shown in studies? 
Zytiga was compared with placebo (a dummy treatment) in three main studies. In the studies, patients 
were also treated with prednisone or prednisolone. 
One study involved 1,209 patients with newly diagnosed, high-risk, hormone-sensitive, metastatic 
prostate cancer. The main measure of effectiveness was how long patients lived without their disease 
getting worse. Patients treated with Zytiga lived for an average of 33 months without their disease 
getting worse, compared with around 15 months for patients given placebo.  
The second study involved 1,088 men with metastatic prostate cancer who had either no symptoms or 
only mild symptoms of the disease and for whom castration treatment had not worked or had stopped 
working. Patients treated with Zytiga lived for an average of around 16 months without their disease 
getting worse, compared with around 8 months in patients given placebo. 
In a third study involving 1,195 men with metastatic prostate cancer whose disease had got worse 
despite surgical or medical castration treatment and chemotherapy with docetaxel, the main measure 
of effectiveness was overall survival (how long the patients lived). Patients treated with Zytiga lived for 
just under 15 months from the start of treatment compared with just under 11 months for patients 
given placebo. 
What are the risks associated with Zytiga? 
The most common side effects with Zytiga (seen in more than 1 patient in 10) are urinary tract 
infection, hypokalaemia (low blood potassium levels), high blood pressure, peripheral oedema 
(swelling of the limbs due to fluid retention) and increases in liver enzymes. Other important side 
effects include heart problems, liver problems, fractures and allergic alveolitis (a lung reaction causing 
cough and shortness of breath). For the full list of all side effects reported with Zytiga, see the package 
leaflet. 
Zytiga must not be used in patients with severely reduced liver function. It is not for use in women and 
must not be given to women who are or who may be pregnant. For the full list of restrictions, see the 
package leaflet. 
Why is Zytiga approved? 
The European Medicines Agency decided that Zytiga’s benefits are greater than its risks and 
recommended that it be approved for use in the EU. The Agency noted that Zytiga in combination with 
prednisone or prednisolone has been shown to either delay progression of the disease or improve 
survival compared with placebo. Zytiga is well tolerated and its risks are considered manageable.  
Zytiga  
EMA/734994/2017  
Page 2/3 
 
 
 
 
 
What measures are being taken to ensure the safe and effective use of 
Zytiga? 
Recommendations and precautions to be followed by healthcare professionals and patients for the safe 
and effective use of Zytiga have been included in the summary of product characteristics and the 
package leaflet. 
Other information about Zytiga 
The European Commission granted a marketing authorisation valid throughout the European Union for 
Zytiga on 5 September 2011. 
The full EPAR for Zytiga can be found on the Agency’s website: ema.europa.eu/Find medicine/Human 
medicines/European Public Assessment Reports. For more information about treatment with Zytiga, 
read the package leaflet (also part of the EPAR) or contact your doctor or pharmacist. 
This summary was last updated in 11-2017.  
Zytiga  
EMA/734994/2017  
Page 3/3 
 
 
 
 
 
