21 July 2011 
EMA/CHMP/542871/2011 
Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) 
Assessment Report 
For 
Zytiga 
(abiraterone) 
Procedure No.: EMEA/H/C/002321 
Assessment Report as adopted by the CHMP with 
all information of a commercially confidential nature deleted 
7 Westferry Circus ● Canary Wharf ● London E14 4HB ● United Kingdom 
Telephone  +44 (0)20 7418 8400  Facsim(cid:31)le +44 (0)20 7523 7455 
E-mail  info@ema.europa.eu  Website  www.ema.europa.eu 
An agency of the European Union   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Background information on the procedure .............................................. 5 
1.1. Submission of the dossier .................................................................................... 5 
1.2. Steps taken for the assessment of the product........................................................ 5 
2. Scientific discussion ................................................................................ 6 
2.1. Introduction....................................................................................................... 6 
2.2. Quality aspects .................................................................................................. 8 
2.2.1. Introduction .................................................................................................... 8 
2.2.2. Active Substance ............................................................................................. 9 
2.2.3. Finished Medicinal Product .............................................................................. 10 
2.2.4. Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ............................. 12 
2.2.5. Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects ...................... 12 
2.3. Non-clinical aspects .......................................................................................... 12 
2.3.1. Introduction .................................................................................................. 12 
2.3.2. Pharmacology ............................................................................................... 13 
2.3.3. Pharmacokinetics........................................................................................... 17 
2.3.4. Toxicology .................................................................................................... 20 
2.3.5. Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment ........................................................ 23 
2.3.6. Discussion and conclusion on the non-clinical aspects ......................................... 25 
2.4. Clinical aspects ................................................................................................ 27 
2.4.1. Introduction .................................................................................................. 27 
2.4.2. Pharmacokinetics........................................................................................... 28 
2.4.3. Pharmacodynamics ........................................................................................ 31 
2.4.4. Discussion and conclusions on clinical pharmacology........................................... 34 
2.5. Clinical efficacy ................................................................................................ 36 
2.5.1. Dose response studies .................................................................................... 36 
2.5.2. Main study.................................................................................................... 37 
2.5.3. Discussion on clinical efficacy .......................................................................... 54 
2.5.4. Conclusions on the clinical efficacy ................................................................... 54 
2.6. Clinical safety .................................................................................................. 55 
2.6.1. Discussion on clinical safety ............................................................................ 67 
2.6.2. Conclusions on the clinical safety ..................................................................... 70 
2.7. Pharmacovigilance ............................................................................................ 70 
2.8. User consultation.............................................................................................. 74 
3. 
4. 
Benefit-Risk Balance
........................................................................... 74 
Recommendations
.............................................................................. 77 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 2/78
 
 
 
 
  
 
List of abbreviations 
AA 
AAS 
ACTH    
ADR  
ADT  
AE  
AIPC 
ALP  
ALT  
API 
AR  
AST  
AUC  
BCF 
BCS  
BPI-SF   
BSE 
CAS 
CI  
C max  
C min  
CMR 
CRF  
CRPC    
CSR  
CT 
CTC  
CYP17    
CYP  
DDI  
DHEA    
DHT 
DLT  
DT50 
ECG  
ECOG    
EC 50  
E max  
ERA 
ESRD    
EXT  
GC 
GCP 
GGT  
GLP 
GMP 
GnRH    
HDPE 
hERG 
HPLC    
HR  
HRPC 
IC 50  
ICH 
IDMC    
INN 
IR 
ISO 
ITT  
abiraterone acetate 
atomic absorption spectroscopy 
adrenocorticotrophic hormone 
adverse drug reaction 
androgen deprivation therapy 
adverse event 
androgen-independent prostate cancer 
alkaline phosphatase 
alanine aminotransferase 
active pharmaceutical ingredient 
androgen receptor 
aspartate aminotransferase 
area under the plasma concentration-time curve 
Bio-Concentration Factor 
Biopharmaceutics Classification System  
brief pain inventory-short form 
bovine spongiform encephalopathy 
Chemical Abstracts Service 
confidence interval 
maximum plasma concentration 
minimum plasma concentration 
carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction 
case report form 
castration-resistant prostate cancer  
clinical study report 
computer-assisted tomography 
circulating tumour cell 
cytochrome P450 17α-hydroxylase/C17,20-lyase 
cytochrome P450 
drug-drug interaction 
dehydroepiandrosterone 
dihydrotestosterone 
dose-limiting toxicity 
Degradation Time for 50% of substance to be degraded under laboratory conditions 
electrocardiogram 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
median (50%) effective concentration  
maximum effect 
Environmental Risk Assessment 
end-stage renal disease 
extension 
gas chromatography 
Good Clinical Practice 
gamma-glutamyl-transferase 
Good Laboratory Practices 
Good Manufacturing Practice 
gonadotropin-releasing hormone 
high density polyethylene 
human Ether-à-go-go Related Gene 
high-performance liquid chromatography 
hazard ratio 
hormone-refractory prostate cancer 
median (50%) inhibitory concentration 
International Conference for Harmonisation 
Independent Data Monitoring Committee 
International Non-proprietary Name 
infrared 
International Organisation for Standardization 
intent-to-treat 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 3/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ki 
K oc 
LC-MS/MS  
LDH  
LFT  
LH  
LHRH    
LLOQ    
mCRPC  
MedDRA  
MRI 
MS 
Msec 
MTD  
MUGA    
NADPH  
ND 
NE 
NMR 
NOAEL   
NOEC 
NOEL 
NPC 
NYHA 
OECD 
OS  
PBT 
PD 
PEC 
PEC surfacewater 
PFS  
P-gp  
PK  
PPK 
PRA  
PSA  
PSADT   
PSAWG  
P-Y  
QTc 
QTcF 
RECIST  
RH 
rPFS  
RR 
UGT  
U.S.  
SAE  
SD  
SmPC   
SMQ  
SOC  
SULT 
t1/2  
TEAE 
TGI  
tmax  
TNM 
TSE 
UV 
VPC 
XRD 
XRPD 
inhibition constant 
absorption coefficient 
liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry 
lactic acid dehydrogenase 
liver function test 
luteinizing hormone 
luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone 
lower limit of quantitation 
metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities 
Magnetic Resonance Imaging 
Mass Spectrometry 
millisecond 
maximum tolerated dose 
multiple gated acquisition 
reduced (hydrogenated) form of Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide Phosphate 
not determined 
non-estimable 
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance 
No Observable Adverse Event Level 
No Observed Effect Concentration 
No Observable Effect Level 
numerical predictive check 
New York Heart Association 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development 
overall survival 
Persistence, Bioaccumulation potential and Toxicity 
pharmacodynamic(s) 
Predicted Environmental Concentration 
local surface water concentration 
progression-free survival 
P-glycoprotein 
pharmacokinetic(s) 
population pharmacokinetic(s) 
Pharmaceutical Research Associates 
prostate-specific antigen 
PSA doubling time 
Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Working Group 
patient-years 
QT interval corrected for heart rate 
QT interval corrected for heart rate using Fridericia’s formula 
Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours 
relative humidity 
radiographic progression-free survival 
response rate 
UDP-glucuronosyl transferase 
United States 
serious adverse event 
stable disease 
Summary of Product Characteristics 
Standardized MedDRA Queries 
system organ class 
sulfotransferase 
half-life 
treatment-emergent adverse event 
tumour growth inhibition 
time to reach the maximum observed plasma concentration 
tumour-lymph nodes-metastasis classification system 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathy 
ultraviolet 
visual predictive check 
x-ray diffraction 
x-ray power diffraction 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 4/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Background information on the procedure 
1.1.  Submission of the dossier 
The  applicant  Janssen-Cilag  International  N.V.  submitted  on  17  December  2010  an  application  for 
Marketing Authorisation to the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Zytiga, through the centralised 
procedure falling within the Article 3(1) and point 3 of Annex of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The 
eligibility to the centralised procedure was agreed upon by the EMA/CHMP on 27 April 2010. 
The applicant applied for the following indication: Zytiga is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone 
for  the  treatment  of  metastatic  advanced  prostate  cancer  (castration  resistant  prostate  cancer)  in 
adult patients who have received prior chemotherapy containing a taxane. 
The legal basis for this application refers to:  
Article 8.3 of Directive 2001/83/EC 
The  application  submitted  is  composed  of  administrative  information,  complete  quality  data,  non-
clinical  and  clinical  data  based  on  applicants’  own  tests  and  studies  and/or  bibliographic  literature 
substituting/supporting certain tests or studies. 
Information on Paediatric requirements 
Pursuant  to  Article  7  of  Regulation  (EC)  No  1901/2006,  the  application  included  an  EMA  Decision 
P/63/2010 on the granting of a class waiver.  
Information relating to orphan market exclusivity 
Similarity 
Not applicable. 
Market Exclusivity 
Not applicable. 
New active Substance status 
The applicant requested the active substance abiraterone acetate contained in the above medicinal 
product to be considered as a new active substance in itself. 
Scientific Advice 
The applicant received Scientific Advice from the CHMP on 13 December 2007. The Scientific Advice 
pertained to non-clinical and clinical aspects of the dossier.  
Licensing status 
Zytiga has been given a Marketing Authorisation in the USA on 28 April 2011. 
1.2.  Steps taken for the assessment of the product 
The Rapporteur and Co-Rapporteur appointed by the CHMP and the evaluation teams were: 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 5/78
 
 
 
 
Rapporteur: Arantxa Sancho-Lopez   
Co-Rapporteur: Robert James Hemmings 
 
The application was received by the EMA on 17 December 2010. 
  Accelerated Assessment procedure was agreed-upon by CHMP on 16 December 2010. 
 
 
The procedure started on 19 January 2011. 
The Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 11 April 2011. 
The Co-Rapporteur's first Assessment Report was circulated to all CHMP members on 8 April 
2011. 
  During the meeting on 19 May 2011, the CHMP agreed on the consolidated List of Questions to 
be sent to the applicant. The final consolidated List of Questions was sent to the applicant on  
20 May 2011. 
 
The applicant submitted the responses to the CHMP consolidated List of Questions on 
17 June 2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated the Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to the List 
of Questions to all CHMP members on 5 July 2011. 
 
The Rapporteurs circulated an updated Joint Assessment Report on the applicant’s responses to 
the List of Questions to all CHMP members on 16 July 2011. 
  During the meeting on July 2011, the CHMP, in the light of the overall data submitted and the 
scientific discussion within the Committee, issued a positive opinion for granting a Marketing 
Authorisation to Zytiga on 21 July 2011. 
2.  Scientific discussion 
2.1.  Introduction 
Problem statement 
Prostate  cancer  is  the  second  most  frequent  cause  of  death  from  cancer  in  Western  societies  and 
affects one in six men. The median age at diagnosis is 72 years, so that many patients—especially 
those  with  localised  tumours—may  die  of  other  illnesses  without  ever  having  suffered  significant 
disability from the cancer. Prostate cancer may be cured when localised and it frequently responds to 
treatment  when  widespread.  The  rate  of  tumour  growth  varies  from  very  slow  to  moderately  rapid 
and  some  patients  may  have  prolonged  survival  even  after  the  cancer  has  metastasised  to  distant 
sites such as bone. The approach to treatment is influenced by age and coexisting medical problems. 
Side  effects  of  various  forms  of  treatment  should  be  considered  in  selecting  appropriate 
management. Different approaches exist with regard to the value of screening, the most appropriate 
staging evaluation, and the optimal treatment of each stage of the disease. 
Survival  of  the  patient  with  prostatic  carcinoma  is  related  to  the  extent  of  the  tumour.  When  the 
cancer  is  confined  to  the  prostate  gland,  median  survival  in  excess  of  5  years  can  be  anticipated. 
Locally  advanced  cancer  is  usually  not  curable  and  a  substantial  fraction  of  patients  will  eventually 
die  of  the  disease,  though  median  survival  may  be  as  long  as  5  years.  Metastatic  prostate  cancer 
cannot be cured by current therapy. Median survival is usually 1 to 3 years and most such patients 
will die of prostate cancer. However, even in this group of patients, indolent clinical courses lasting 
for many years may be observed.  
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 6/78
 
 
 
 
 
The 2010 TNM system specifies that the Gleason score be used to assess tumour grade. In addition, 
the  2010  TNM  system  has  incorporated  the  pre-treatment  serum  Prostate  Specific  Antigen  (PSA) 
level along with the Gleason score into anatomic stage/prognostic groups. 
In brief, these TNM groups include: 
  Group I-Low risk, localised tumours: anatomically T1 or T2a AND a serum PSA <10 ng/mL AND 
Gleason score ≤6 
  Group  IIA-Localised  tumours  with  at  least  one  feature  associated  with  an  intermediate  level  of 
risk: anatomically T2b OR serum PSA ≥10 and <20 ng/mL OR Gleason score of 7 
  Group IIB-Localised tumours with at least one feature associated with a high risk for recurrence: 
anatomically T2c OR serum PSA ≥20 ng/mL OR Gleason score ≥8 
  Group  III-Locally  advanced  tumours,  with  extracapsular  extension  (T3  disease),  regardless  of 
the serum PSA or Gleason score 
  Group IV-Any cancer with T4 spread OR positive lymph nodes (N1) OR distant metastases (M1) 
For  men  with  disseminated  disease,  bone  is  the  most  common  site  of  metastasis.  The  objective  of 
therapy  is  control  of  disease  while  maintaining  quality  of  life.  The  initial  approach  is  generally 
androgen deprivation therapy (ADT).  
Androgen  deprivation  therapy  has  been  the  mainstay  of  prostate  cancer  management.  It  is 
documented  that  the  proliferation  of  prostate  cancer  cells is  regulated  by  androgens  at  the  level  of 
the androgen receptor (AR). In humans, approximately 90 % to 95 % of circulating testosterone is 
produced  by  the  testes,  and  approximately  5  %  to  10  %  is  produced  by  the  adrenal  glands. 
According  to  current  practice  guidelines,  the  initial  treatment  for  advanced  prostate  cancer  is 
androgen  deprivation  with  medical  or  surgical  castration.  However,  because  these  therapies  only 
reduce  androgen  production  by  the  testes  and  do  not  interfere  with  androgen  production  by  the 
adrenals, approximately 5 % to 10% of baseline circulating testosterone remains. 
Recent studies indicate that when prostate cancer progresses after hormone deprivation, the cancer 
cells  continue  to  demonstrate  AR  mediated  signalling.  Furthermore,  in  metastatic  CRPC  (mCRPC), 
extratesticular  (i.e.,  adrenal  and  intratumoral)  testosterone  represents  an  important  source  of 
androgen.  At  castrate  concentrations  of  testosterone,  the  tissue  (e.g.,  intra-tumour)  levels  of 
dehydroepiandrosterone  (DHEA),  dihydrotestosterone  (DHT),  and  androstenedione  all  remain 
sufficient to activate the AR signalling pathways and promote prostate tumour growth. 
Patients  who  progress  on  ADT  in  the  face  of  castrate  levels  of  testosterone  are  considered  to  have 
‘castration-resistant’ prostate cancer. These patients have also been referred to as having hormone-
refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) or androgen-independent prostate cancer (AIPC). 
Nearly  all  men  with  metastatic  prostate  cancer  eventually  develop  progressive  disease  after 
treatment  with  ADT.  These  men  may  still  have  clinically  important  responses  to  other  hormonal 
interventions. Patients who have progressed on ADT and are not responsive to secondary hormonal 
therapies may benefit from chemotherapy. 
The activity of docetaxel in men with castration-resistant prostate cancer was initially suggested by 
multiple  phase  II  studies,  in  which  docetaxel,  with  or  without  prednisone,  was  given  on  either  a 
weekly or every three week schedule. These trials led to the evaluation of docetaxel in a number of 
combinations,  including  a  direct  comparison  with  mitoxantrone,  which  has  established  the 
combination  of  docetaxel  plus  prednisone  as  the  standard  of  care  for  men  with  castration-resistant 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 7/78
 
 
 
 
prostate  cancer.  Docetaxel-based  chemotherapy  is  the  only  treatment  that  has  demonstrated  an 
overall survival benefit in men with HRPC. 
Recently,  cabazitaxel  was  granted  a  marketing  authorisation  for  the  treatment  of  patients  with 
hormone  refractory  metastatic  prostate  cancer  previously  treated  with  a  docetaxel-containing 
regimen, as its combination with prednisone improved median OS compared to mitoxantrone. 
About the product 
Abiraterone acetate is 3β-acetoxy-17-(3-pyridyl)-androsta-5,16-diene that is administered orally and 
it is available as an immediate release 250 mg tablet. It is rapidly converted in vivo to abiraterone, a 
selective,  irreversible  inhibitor  of  cytochrome  P450  17α  (17α-hydroxylase/C17-20  lyase;  CYP17),  an 
enzyme  that  is  key  in  the  production  of  androgens  in  all  sites,  including  the  testes  and  adrenal 
glands. This enzyme catalyzes two reactions: 17α hydroxylation of C 21 steroids and cleavage of the 
C 17, 20 bond of C 21 steroids. The 17α hydroxylation activity is a required step in cortisol biosynthesis, 
whereas  the  C 17, 20  bond  side  chain  cleavage  is  essential  for  subsequent  biosynthesis  of androgens. 
This  enzyme  is  expressed  in  testicular  and  adrenal  tissues  and  catalyzes  the  conversion  of 
pregnenolone  or  progesterone 
into  dehydroepiandrosterone 
(DHEA)  or  androstenedione, 
respectively, two precursors of testosterone. Abiraterone causes reductions in testosterone levels by 
specifically  inhibiting  CYP17.  CYP17  inhibition  also  results  in  increased  mineralocorticoid  production 
by the adrenals. 
The Applicant applied for the indication: Abiraterone is indicated with prednisone or prednisolone for 
the treatment of metastatic advanced prostate cancer (castration resistant prostate cancer) in adult 
patients who have received prior chemotherapy containing a taxane. The finally approved indication 
was:  Zytiga  is  indicated  with  prednisone  or  prednisolone  for  the  treatment  of  metastatic  castration 
resistant prostate cancer in adult men whose disease has progressed on or after a docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy regimen. The recommended dose is 1000 mg (four 250 mg tablets) given once daily. 
Type of Application and aspects on development 
The Applicant requested accelerated assessment of their application which was granted.  
With regard to paediatric studies, no paediatric investigation plan has been agreed. The incidence of 
prostate  carcinoma  increases  with  age  and  the  disease  is  rarely  diagnosed  before  the  age  of  50 
years.  The  incidence  in  children  was  less  than  25  cases  between  1997  and  2001.  Abiraterone  is 
covered  by  a  class  waiver  for  prostate  carcinoma  which  excludes  rhabdomyosarcoma,  which  is  a 
paediatric malignancy that may occur in the prostate, but it is not a carcinoma. 
The  Applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  on  non-clinical  development,  paediatric 
requirements as well as on clinical efficacy and safety related to the pivotal study COU-AA-301.  
2.2.  Quality aspects 
2.2.1.  Introduction 
Zytiga  is  presented  as  250  mg  immediate  release  tablets  containing  abiraterone  acetate  as  active 
substance.  The  excipients  used 
in  the 
formulation  of  Zytiga  are 
lactose  monohydrate, 
microcrystalline  cellulose,  croscarmellose  sodium,  povidone,  sodium  lauryl  sulfate,  magnesium 
stearate and colloidal silicon dioxide. There are no novel excipients used in this formulation. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 8/78
 
 
 
 
 
Zytiga  is  administered  via  oral  route  and  is  packed  in  high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottles  of 
120 tablets with polypropylene child resistant closure and foil induction seal. 
2.2.2.  Active Substance 
Abiraterone  acetate  is  designated  chemically  as  (3)-17-(3-pyridinyl)  androsta-5,16-dien-3-yl 
acetate and its structure is as follows: 
Abiraterone acetate is a white to off-white powder practically insoluble in aqueous media (pH range 
2.0  to  12.9),  very  slightly  soluble  in  0.1N  HCl  solution  and  soluble  to  freely  soluble  in  organic 
solvents.  Abiraterone  acetate  is  classified  as  Class  IV  compound  (low  solubility  low  permeability) 
according to the biopharmaceutical classification system (BCS). 
Abiraterone  acetate  is  a  single  enantiomer  containing  8  stereochemical  elements:  6  chiral  centers 
and 2 centers of geometrical isomerism. Abiraterone acetate is produced as a single enantiomer with 
its stereochemical elements introduced via the synthesis starting material prasterone acetate which 
is  an  enantiomerically  pure  material.  The  diastereomeric  purity  does  not  alter  during  the  chemical 
synthesis process and this is confirmed by specific optical rotation results. 
The  synthetic  process  exclusively  produces  one  physical 
form  (polymorphic  Form  A). 
Characterization  data  obtained  was  consistent  with  crystalline  unsolvated  material.  Distinct  XRPD 
patterns,  derived  from  solvents/conditions  not  used  in  the  commercial  synthesis  process,  lead  to 
Unknown  B,  Unknown  C,  and  Unknown  D  forms.  Further  characterization  data  for  Unknown  B  and 
Unknown  C  suggested 
that 
they  are  unsolvated  materials  and  metastable 
forms  or 
thermodynamically  less  stable  than  Form  A.  This  has  been  confirmed  by  X-ray  powder  diffraction 
(XRPD) studies comparing XRD patterns of multiple abiraterone acetate batches which did not show 
any unknown diffraction peaks. 
Manufacture 
Abiraterone  acetate  is  manufactured  by  two  manufacturers  using  very  similar  processes,  and  it  is 
synthesized  in  4  steps  from  one  starting  material.  The  critical  steps  and  controls  in  the  drug 
substance  manufacture  have  been  identified  taking  into  account  critical  quality  attributes  of  the 
active  substance  and  a  pre-determined  set  of  principles.    Process  steps  1  to  3  were  identified  as 
being  critical  in  terms  of  the  impact  on  the  impurity  profile.  The  fate  of  the  impurities  has  been 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 9/78
 
 
 
 
 
extensively investigated using spiking studies and was supported with data from a large number of 
batches. Critical process parameters are adequately defined and justified.  
The  structural  elucidation  has  been  satisfactorily  demonstrated  by  means  of  IR,  NMR,  UV,  MS, 
elemental  analysis  and  optical  rotation.  All  measurements  were  performed  on  the  Reference 
Standard  of  the  active  substance.  The  analytical  techniques  were  adequately  described  and 
validated. 
Validation of the synthesis process has been performed on 3 consecutive full-scale batches. 
Specification 
The  specifications  of  the  active  substance  include  visual  inspection  of  the  appearance,  identity  (IR 
and HPLC), assay (HPLC), residual solvents (GC Headspace), particle size (Laser Diffraction), water 
content  (Ph.Eur.),  heavy  metals  (Ph.Eur.),  residue  on  ignition  (Ph.Eur.),  Palladium  (atomic 
absorption spectroscopy (AAS) or inductively coupled plasma spectroscopy), and impurities (HPLC). 
Stereo-isomeric  control  as  well  as  polymorphic  control  of  the  active  substance  was  found not  to  be 
necessary.  
The control of the drug substance is considered to be appropriate and generally well justified. 
The analytical methods described above have been adequately validated in accordance with available 
guidelines. 
Stability 
Stability studies were performed on abiraterone acetate stored in the proposed packaging, under ICH 
recommended  storage  conditions.  Stability  data  on  three  batches  stored  at  25oC/60%  RH    for  12 
months  (long  term  conditions)  and  four  batches  stored  at  40oC/75%RH  for  6  months  (accelerated 
conditions)  was  provided.  Additionally,  photostability  was  presented  for  one  batch  of  active 
substance manufactured at full scale. No significant changes were observed on storage. 
Batch  data  support  the  retest  period  as  proposed  by  the  Applicant.  The  active  substance  does  not 
require any special storage conditions. 
2.2.3.  Finished Medicinal Product 
Pharmaceutical Development 
Abiraterone  acetate  tablets  represent  an  immediate-release  formulation  for  oral  use  packaged  in 
high  density  polyethylene  (HDPE)  bottles  of  120  tablets  with  polypropylene  child  resistant  closure 
and foil induction seal.  
Abiraterone acetate is practically insoluble in aqueous media over a wide range of pH and sparingly 
soluble  to  freely  soluble  in  organic  solvents.    It  is  classified  as  BCS  class  IV.  It  is  manufactured 
exclusively  as  a  single  form,  Form  A  and  it  has  been  confirmed  by  XRPD  that  the  drug  product 
manufacturing process does not affect polymorphism. It has also been confirmed by XRPD that there 
is no change in physical form during the manufacturing process of the drug product. 
The  excipients  used  in  the  formulation  of  Zytiga  are  common  ingredients  for  a  solid  oral  dosage 
form.  The  excipients  have  been  chosen  based  on  preliminary  formulation  development  experience 
and  excipient  compatibility  studies.  They  are  the  same  excipients  and  quantities  used  for  the 
manufacture  of  Phase  III  clinical  and  registration  stability  batches.  Lactose  monohydrate  and 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 10/78
 
 
 
 
microcrystalline  cellulose  are  used  as  diluents,  croscarmellose  sodium  as  disintegrant,  povidone  as 
binder, magnesium stearate as lubricant and colloidal silicon dioxide as glidant. Sodium lauryl sulfate 
improves wetting of the active substance and therefore facilitates the granulation process. 
The  dissolution  method  has  been  adequately  developed  and  its  discriminating  capability 
demonstrated. The results of the investigation of solubility and dissolution of the drug product were 
adequately  summarised.  The  use  of  surfactant  and  the  dissolution  medium  was  justified.  Sink 
conditions were confirmed. Discriminatory power of the method is evident for the specified single pull 
point at 45 minutes as proposed. The effect on particle size on manufacturability and tablet hardness 
has  been  evaluated.  The  comparative  dissolution  of  tablets  manufactured  with  varying  API  particle 
sizes  demonstrate  that  tablet  hardness  was  found  to  decrease  with  increasing  drug  substance 
particle  size  and  for  API  D50  controlled  between  3-10  μm  little  effect  on  dissolution  performance 
could  be  observed.  This  is  within  the  range  of  D50  observed  for  batches  of  API  manufactured  to 
date. 
The formulation development from Phase I to Phase III clinical trials has been adequately described. 
The Phase I/II formulation is qualitatively the same as the Phase III formulation the only difference 
being  the  increase  in  magnesium  stearate  from  1.25%  to  1.5%  (with  corresponding  reduction  in 
microcrystalline cellulose content) in the Phase III tablet. Bioequivalence studies were performed to 
demonstrate  that  the  process  changes  from  Phase  II  to  Phase  III  did  not  impact  on  the  in  vivo 
performance  of  the  product.  It  was  concluded  that  tablets  manufactured  before  and  after  the 
manufacturing  process  changes  (clinical  to  commercial  scale)  and  site  transfer  are  bioequivalent.  
The  dissolution  profiles  obtained  by  the  proposed  dissolution  method  between  the  batches  used  in 
the studies are comparable. 
Adventitious agents 
Lactose  monohydrate  is  compliant  with  applicable  BSE/TSE  guidelines,  as  shown  in  the  statement 
provided. Magnesium stearate is vegetable-sourced. All excipients are of Ph. Eur. quality. 
Manufacture of the product 
The  manufacture  of  the  finished  product  involves  conventional  processes  including  (1)  mixing,  (2) 
granulation,  (3)    Wet  milling  (4)  drying,  (5)    Dry  milling,  (6)    Blending,  (7)    Lubrication  (8)  tablet 
compression  and  (9)  packaging.  Critical  steps  identified  and  evaluated  in  manufacturing  process 
development were wet granulation, drying and compression. The critical process parameters and the 
critical process controls. 
Product specification 
The  specification  for  abiraterone  acetate  tablets  include  tests  for  appearance  (visual  examination), 
identification of abiraterone acetate (IR), assay (HPLC), impurities (HPLC), uniformity of dosage unit 
(Ph.Eur.) and dissolution (HPLC). 
All  methods  have  been  satisfactorily  validated.  The  HPLC  method  was  validated  for  specificity, 
linearity,  accuracy,  range,  repeatability,  intermediate  precision  and  robustness.  The  IR  method  for 
identification  of  abiraterone  acetate  was  validated  for  specificity  and  repeatability.  Uniformity  of 
dosage  unit  method  is  described  in  the  PhEur  and  therefore  validation  was  deemed  to  be 
unnecessary. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 11/78
 
 
 
 
Batch data was provided on nine batches manufactured at full scale. The results demonstrated that 
the  process  was  consistent  and  reproducible  at  a  relevant  scale.  Satisfactory  reports  on  microbial 
contamination and water content have also been provided. 
Stability of the product 
The results of long term (up to 12 months at 25o C/60%RH), intermediate (up to 12 months at 30o C 
/75%RH) and accelerated stability studies (6 months at 40o C/75%RH) have been presented for nine 
batches stored in the proposed packaging.  There were no significant changes in any parameter.  
Three batches were tested under ICH light conditions. There were no notable changes to parameters 
during this study. 
The  proposed  shelf life  and  storage  conditions  as stated  in  the  SmPC  were found  to  be  acceptable. 
Based on the established stability data in-use stability testing of the drug product was not considered 
to be necessary. 
2.2.4.  Discussion on chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects 
Information on  development,  manufacture  and  control  of  the  drug  substance  and  drug  product  has 
been  presented  in  a  satisfactory  manner.  The  results  of  tests  carried  out  indicate  satisfactory 
consistency and uniformity of important product quality characteristics, and these in turn lead to the 
conclusion that the product should have a satisfactory and uniform performance in clinical practice. 
2.2.5.  Conclusions on the chemical, pharmaceutical and biological aspects  
The  quality  of  this  product  is  considered  to  be  acceptable  when  used  in  accordance  with  the 
conditions  defined  in  the  SmPC.  Physicochemical  and  biological  aspects  relevant  to  the  uniform 
clinical performance of the product have been investigated and are controlled in a satisfactory way. 
2.3.  Non-clinical aspects 
2.3.1.  Introduction 
Non-clinical  studies  were  conducted  in  mice,  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys.  In  accordance  with 
International  Conference  on  Harmonization  (ICH) S7A,  safety  pharmacology  studies  evaluating  the 
potential effects of oral administration of abiraterone acetate on the central nervous, cardiovascular, 
respiratory  and  gastrointestinal  systems  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  Good  Laboratory 
Practice  (GLP)  regulations.  The  pivotal  toxicology  studies  supporting  the  safety  of  abiraterone 
acetate  were  also  conducted  in  compliance  with  GLP  regulations  and  ICH  guidelines,  with  some 
exceptions. The exceptions were generally in the single and repeat-dose toxicity studies in mice and 
an in vitro genotoxicity study in human lymphocytes. Also, in vitro pharmacology studies and some 
pharmacokinetics  both in  vitro  and  in  vivo,  do  not  comply  with  GLP.  Any  portions  of  the toxicology 
studies  that  were  not  fully  GLP  compliant  were  conducted  in  accordance  with  accepted  scientific 
practice. 
The  Applicant  received  Scientific  Advice  from  the  CHMP  pertaining  to  non-clinical  aspects  of  the 
dossier  and  more  specifically  on  the  adequacy  of  the  non-clinical  data  package  to  support  the 
Marketing Authorisation Application. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 12/78
 
 
 
 
 
2.3.2.  Pharmacology 
Primary pharmacodynamic studies 
Potter et al. (1995) reported the synthesis and initial activity of abiraterone and abiraterone acetate. 
Abiraterone was reported to have an IC50 of 2.9 nM and 4 nM for inhibition of C17,20-lyase and 17α-
hydroxylase  respectively  in  human  testicular  microsomes.  Abiraterone  did  not  inhibit  aromatase  or 
5α-reductase  at  high  micromolar  concentrations.  Abiraterone  acetate  was  slightly  less  potent  with 
IC 50’s of 17 nM and 18 nM for inhibition of C17,20-lyase and 17α-hydroxylase respectively. 
Jarman  et  al.  (1998)  studied  the  in  vitro  inhibitory  effect  of  abiraterone  and  some  abiraterone 
analogues  on  human  cytochrome  CYP17.  The  study  was  designed  to  determine  the  contribution  of 
the  16,17-double  bond  in  the  molecular  structure  of  abiraterone  to  the  irreversible  nature  of  of 
CYP17  inhibition.  By  using  human  testicular  microsomes,  it  was  demonstrated  that  abiraterone 
inhibits CYP17 with an IC 50 of 4 nM. After a dialysis of 24 hours, no recovery of the enzyme activity 
was observed, indicating irreversible inhibition of the enzyme by abiraterone. Additional experiments 
using  abiraterone  analogues  showed  that  the  16,17-double  bond  was  necessary  for  irreversible 
binding of abiraterone to CYP17. 
Haidar  et  al.  (2001,  2003)  examined  the  effect  of  several  compounds  (including  abiraterone  and 
abiraterone acetate) on androgen biosynthesis in vitro. Microsomal fractions containing human or rat 
CYP17 were prepared from human or rat testes. In addition, E. coli coexpressing human CYP17 and 
NADPH-P450-reductase  assay  were  also  used  to  test  the  inhibitory  effect  of  abiraterone  and 
abiraterone acetate on these enzymes. The inhibitory potency of these compounds on these fractions 
was  evaluated:  IC 50  values  for  human  CYP17  of  73nM  and  110nM  were  found  for  abiraterone  and 
abiraterone acetate, respectively; 220nM and 1600nM were the abiraterone and abiraterone acetate 
IC 50  values  for  the  rat  enzyme;  and  finally  IC50s  of  54  and  >2500nM  were  reported  for  the  two 
compounds for the E.coli-expressed recombinant human CYP17. 
These  data  indicate  that  abiraterone  is  more  effective  than  the  prodrug  abiraterone  acetate  in 
inhibiting  CYP17.  In  addition,  reversibility  of  the  inhibitory  effect  was  evaluated.  After  a 
preincubation of abiraterone with the enzyme, the unbound inhibitor was removed with charcoal, and 
enzyme  activity  was  determined  after  various  time  intervals  (up  to  320  minutes).  It  was 
demonstrated  that  there  was  no  recovery  of  the  enzyme  activity  indicating irreversible inhibition  of 
the enzyme by abiraterone. 
Duc et al. (2003) examined the effects of abiraterone and other compounds on C17,20-lyase activity 
in vitro and in vivo. Abiraterone was tested in rat testis microsomes, wherein an IC50 of 5.8 nM was 
observed.  Abiraterone  acetate  was  also  tested  in  rat  testis  microsomes,  wherein  an  IC50  of  8.2  nM 
was observed.  
Abiraterone,  abiraterone  sulphate  and  the  N-oxide  abiraterone  sulphate  were  initially  screened  for 
receptor  binding  to  human  nuclear  receptors  at  a  single  concentration  of  1.0 µM.  Ligand 
displacement  assays  were  performed.  All  of  the  compounds  were  inactive  when  tested  for 
glucocorticoid  receptor  binding,  estrogen  receptor-α  binding,  estrogen  receptor-ß  binding  and 
androgen  receptor  binding.  Abiraterone  and  abiraterone  sulphate  produced  a  weak  inhibition, 
respectively,  of  the  binding  of  [3H]-progesterone  to  the  human  progesterone  receptor.  N-oxide 
abiraterone sulphate was essentially inactive.  
Abiraterone, abiraterone sulphate and the N-oxide abiraterone sulphate were tested for inhibition of 
steroidogenesis in the NCI-H295R human adrenal cortical tumour cells. Abiraterone showed maximal 
inhibition  of androstenedione  and  testosterone  production  at  the  lowest  tested  concentration  of  3.1 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 13/78
 
 
 
 
nM, which did not allow for calculation of an IC 50. Cortisol synthesis was also potently inhibited with 
an  IC 50  of  3.0  nM.  Aldosterone  was  elevated  by  low  concentrations  (3.1  to  10  nM)  of  abiraterone, 
probably reflecting the shunting of the accumulated pregnenolone and progesterone substrates into 
the mineralocorticoid pathway due to inhibition of CYP17. All of these effects were consistent with a 
potent  inhibition  of  the  CYP17  pathway.  At  higher  concentrations  (0.312  to  10  µM),  abiraterone 
suppressed  aldosterone  synthesis  producing  an  IC50  of  2.7  µM.  Abiraterone  sulphate  inhibited  the 
synthesis  of  androstenedione,  testosterone  and  cortisol  with  IC50’s  of  0.85,  0.73  and  2.8,  µM 
respectively.  N-oxide  abiraterone  sulphate  inhibited  the  synthesis  of  androstenedione,  testosterone 
and cortisol with IC50’s of 1.3, 1.9 and 6.2 µM, respectively. At concentrations ranging from 1 to 10 
µM, aldosterone synthesis was elevated above control values by both metabolites.  
The  in  vivo  effects  of  abiraterone  acetate  on  circulating  hormone  levels  and  organ  weights  were 
investigated in mice and were compared with the effects after surgical castration.  
Abiraterone  acetate  was  given  daily  by  intraperitoneal  injection  to  adult  male  mice  for  14 
consecutive days at different concentrations. On Day 15, animals were anesthetized and blood was 
collected for testosterone and LH measurements. Other groups of mice were castrated and sacrificed 
at  1,  2,  or  4  weeks  after  initiation  of  treatment,  and  selected  organs  were  weighed.  As  expected, 
castration markedly decreased the weight of ventral prostate, seminal vesicles, and kidneys 2 weeks 
after  surgery  (data  not  shown).  Treatment  with  abiraterone  acetate  also  caused  a  marked  weight 
reduction  of  several  androgen-sensitive  organs  in  a  dose-dependent  manner,  as  shown  in  the 
following  figure  1.  As  observed  in  castrated  animals,  reduction  of  seminal  vesicle  weights  by 
treatment with abiraterone acetate was more marked than that of the ventral prostate weights. No 
mortality or apparent signs of toxicity were observed in any animals. 
Figure 1: Dose-related effects of 14 days treatment with abiraterone acetate on the organ 
weights of mice 
Results  are  expressed  as  percent  of  untreated  controls  (n  =  20  per  group).  *p<0.01  from  vehicle 
controls. (adapted from Barrie et al., 1994). 
Plasma  testosterone  levels  were  markedly  decreased  in  a  dose-dependent  manner  by  abiraterone 
acetate  treatment  and  the  testosterone  reductions  were  maintained  despite  the  compensatory 
increases in LH levels.  
Table 1: Levels of plasma testosterone and LH after abiraterone acetate treatment 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 14/78
 
 
 
 
 
Treatment 
Testosterone (nM) 
LH (ng/ml) 
Untreated 
Vehicle 
9.8 ± 5.6 
2.5 ± 1.2 
7.8 mg/kg/day 
2.7 ± 0.5 
0.63 ± 0.16 
0.8 ± 0.09 
3.4 ± 0.5 
39.2 mg/kg/day 
0.2 ± 0.1* 
2.55 ± 0.45* 
196 mg/kg/dday 
0.1 ± 0.0* 
2.55 ± 0.67* 
LH = luteinizing hormone, * p < 0.05 vs. the vehicle group (extracted from Barrie et al., 1994) 
Other  studies  have  shown  similar  effects  on  organ  weights  and  circulating  hormone  levels  in  rats. 
Duc et al. (2003) reported a reduction of ventral prostate weights and seminal vesicle weights (but 
no  effect  on  testes  weights)  and  decreased  testosterone  levels  when  abiraterone  acetate  was 
administered orally at 50 mg/kg/d (300 mg/m2/d) for 3 consecutive days. In another study (Haidar 
et al., 2003), markedly decreased ventral prostate, complete prostate, seminal vesicles, and testes 
weights  have  been  observed  after  a  14-day  treatment  period  at  39.2  mg/kg/d  (0.1  mmol/kg/day). 
In the same study, abiraterone acetate decreased testosterone levels from approximately 2.2 ng/ml 
(control) to 0.1 ng/ml. 
Castration  resistant  prostate  cancer  (CRPC)  may  synthesize  androgens  de novo  from  cholesterol  or 
metabolize  adrenal  androgens  to  maintain  tissue  androgen  levels  and  support  growth  despite 
anorchid  serum  testosterone.  It  has  previously  been  shown  that  the  CRPC  xenograft  LuCaP  35V 
maintains  tumoral  androgen  levels  in  castrate  mice.  Montgomery  et  al.  (2009)  further  investigated 
the  effects  of  abiraterone  acetate  on  the  growth  of  human  CRPC  xenograft  LuCaP  35V  in  castrated 
male  mice.  These  mice  lack  measurable  serum  adrenal  androgens  and  are  an  excellent  model  for 
autonomous  androgen  production  by  tumor  xenograft  tissue.  Treatment  of  mice  bearing  the  LuCaP 
35V xenograft with abiraterone acetate at a dose of 196 mg/kg (0.5 mmol/kg) intraperitoneally for 5 
days every week for 21 days reduced androgen production in the tumor xenografts and significantly 
slowed tumor growth compared to control animals, as shown in the following figures 2 and 3. 
Figure 2: Abiraterone acetate suppresses LuCaP35V xenograft tissue levels of androgens 
in the absence of circulating androgens or DHEA 
DIHYDROTESTOSTERONE
TESTOSTERONE
/
)
g
m
g
p
(
n
e
g
o
r
d
n
A
7.00 
6.00 
5.00 
4.00 
3.00 
2.00 
1.00 
0.00 
0
7 
21 End of
study
7
21 End of
study
Control
Abiraterone
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 15/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Abiraterone acetate treatment suppresses LuCaP35V growth 
Median  survival  of  abiraterone  treated  animals  was  44  days  compared  to  21 days  for  controls  (p = 
0.0001).  Prostate  Specific  Antigen  (PSA)  doubling  times  were  also  significantly  better  in  the 
abiraterone acetate treated animals compared to controls (24.2 ± 2.2 days vs. 11.9 ± 1.8 days, p = 
0.0005).  Both  PSA  doubling  time  and  tumor  growth  became  more  rapid  at  discontinuation  of 
abiraterone. From this it can be concluded that the effect of the CYP17 inhibitor abiraterone in this 
model  of  human  CRPC  is  independent  of  adrenal  androgens  and  likely  related  to  suppression  of 
tissue androgen synthesis. 
Secondary pharmacodynamic studies 
No studies were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
Safety pharmacology programme 
The possible effects of abiraterone acetate on behaviour and neurologic and autonomic function was 
evaluated in a repeated dose oral toxicity study wherein abiraterone acetate was administered orally 
via  gavage  to  male  rats  at  a  single  dose  of  40  or  400  mg/kg  with  a  vehicle  group.  No  test  article-
related  mortality  was  noted  throughout  the  study period.  Behavioural  assessment  revealed  a  slight 
decrease  in  alertness  and  a  decreased  pinna  reflex  at  40  and  400  mg/kg.  Peak  observations  were 
observed  at  3  hours  post-dosing  on  Day  0  and  absent  at  the  24-h  post-dosing  observation.  Also  a 
slight increase in incidence for reacting to touch escape was noticed at 400 mg/kg at 24 hours post-
dosing  in  3  animals.  There  were  no  neurologic  or  autonomic  abnormalities  and  no  signs  of  general 
toxicity at any dose tested. 
The cardiovascular safety profile was evaluated in two studies, one in vitro and one in vivo. 
Abiraterone and abiraterone acetate, in the presence of 1% bovine serum albumin, were tested for 
their in vitro effects on the membrane currents in a HEK293 cell line expressing the hERG channel. 
The  data  are  expressed  as  mean  values  (n  =  3  or  4).  Abiraterone  inhibited  the  hERG  potassium 
current at 10 and 27 μM by 2% and 6%, respectively. Due to this modest level of inhibition at the 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 16/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
highest  concentration,  which  was  close  to  the  limits  of  solubility  for  the  compound,  the  IC50  for 
abiraterone  could  not  be  determined.  Abiraterone  acetate  inhibited  the  hERG  potassium  current  at 
1.3,  3,  10  and  27  μM  by  2,  10,  38  and  84%,  respectively.    The  IC50  for  the  inhibitory  effect  of 
abiraterone  acetate  on  hERG  potassium  current  was  12.2  μM.  The  inhibition  observed  with  the 
vehicle alone was 0.3%, while the inhibition found with cisapride (90 nM), the positive control, was 
92%.. 
The  pharmacological  effects  of  orally  administered  abiraterone  acetate  on  the  haemodynamic  and 
electrocardiographic  parameters  were  evaluated  in  male  telemetered  cynomolgus  monkeys.  There 
were no deaths noted in this study. The clinical signs observed were noted in one out of four animals 
administered 250 and 750 mg/kg and consisted of pale faeces the day following the treatment. One 
animal  dosed  with  2000  mg/kg  presented  soft  and  pale  white  faeces  and  liquid,  the  morning 
following treatment and two days following the dose administration, respectively. The administration 
of abiraterone acetate at dose levels up to 2,000 mg/kg had no effect on the hemodynamic and the 
electrocardiographic intervals (RR, PR, QRS, QT and QTc) in male cynomolgus monkeys following a 
24-hour monitoring period. In addition, no overt arrhythmias/abnormalities were found on inspection 
of the ECG tracings over the 24-hour recording period. 
The  effect  of  orally  administered  abiraterone  acetate  on  respiratory  function  was  evaluated  in  rats. 
No  test  article-related  clinical  signs  or  mortality  were  observed  in  animals  given  any  dose  of 
abiraterone  acetate.  The  tidal  volume  for  animals  given  750  mg/kg  was  significantly  lower  (-16%) 
than  that  of  animals  given  vehicle  control  article.  Changes  in  tidal  volume  did  not  occur  in  a  dose-
dependent  manner.  No  other  significant  changes  in  respiration  rate  and  minute  volume  were 
observed. 
In  a  GLP  gastric  irritation  toxicity  study,  male  mice  (10/group)  were  administered  with  single  oral 
(gavage)  dose  of  abiraterone  acetate  at  0  and  800  mg/kg,  with  a  control  group.  At  scheduled 
necropsy, no effects due to treatment with the control or abiraterone acetate were observed in the 
gastrointestinal  tract  and  no  abnormalities  of  the  internal  viscera  or  general  condition  of  the  mice 
were recorded. 
Pharmacodynamic drug interactions 
No relevant studies were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
2.3.3.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  nonclinical  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  acetate  and  abiraterone  was  characterised  in  both 
in vitro  and  in  vivo  test  systems.  Almost  all  in  vivo  studies  were  part  of  the  nonclinical  toxicology 
studies  in  Albino  Swiss  mice,  Sprague-Dawley  (S-D)  rats  and  cynomolgus  monkeys  in  which 
abiraterone acetate was orally administered. Abiraterone acetate was dosed intravenously only once 
in  cynomolgus  monkeys  and  in  male  WHT  mice  due  to  its  low  solubility  and  no  intravenous  or  oral 
dosing was performed with abiraterone.  
Plasma  levels  of  abiraterone  acetate  were  generally  below  or  scarcely  above  the  limit  of 
quantification  after  oral  administration  of  abiraterone  acetate  and  peak  plasma  concentrations  of 
abiraterone were rapidly reached, in most cases within 1 to 2 h after dosing, in all species evaluated. 
The  C max  in  the  different  species  was  between  4.7  ng/ml  in  monkeys  to  9,797  ng/ml  in  mice  after 
oral  administration  and  19,783 ng/ml  in  monkeys  after  intravenous  administration.  Abiraterone 
acetate and abiraterone plasma concentrations were markedly higher after intravenous dosing than 
after oral dosing. The half-life was 2 h in mice, 1.29 to 3.82 h in rats and 2.6 to 11.8 h in monkeys. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 17/78
 
 
 
 
No gender differences in mice and monkeys were reported, whereas in rats exposure to abiraterone 
in males was markedly higher than in females. 
Plasma  levels  of  abiraterone  increased  with  increasing  dose  levels  of  abiraterone  acetate  but  less 
than dose proportionally, both in single and repeat-dose studies. 
14C-abiraterone  was  detected  in  the  tissues  at  0.5  h  after  dosing  in  S-D  rats  and  maximum 
concentrations  were  observed  at  4  h  post-dose.  The  highest  14C-abiraterone  concentrations  were 
found in the liver at approximately 48 times the corresponding blood AUC. In adrenal gland, kidney 
(cortex)  and  gastrointestinal  tract,  the  14C-abiraterone  concentrations  were  15-35  times  the 
corresponding  blood  concentration,  while  in  fat,  brain,  large  intestine  tissue,  spinal  cord  and 
pancreas,  the  concentrations  were  5  to  9  times  the  concentration  in  blood.  Concentrations  in 
prostate  gland,  lung,  skin,  myocardium,  thyroid,  pituitary  gland  and  spleen  were  2-5  times  and  in 
bone  marrow,  lymph  nodes,  seminal  vesicles  and  uveal  tract  2  times  the  corresponding  blood 
concentration. In muscle, testis and eye, concentrations were lower than those in blood. Also, there 
were high concentrations of 14C-abiraterone in bile. 
Abiraterone was able to cross the blood brain barrier since 14C-abiraterone had been measured in the 
cerebellum,  cerebrum,  medulla  and  spinal  cord.  14C-abiraterone  was  not  retained  in  red  blood  cells 
because the blood/plasma concentration was 0.7.  
At 24 h after dosing,  14C-abiraterone was only detectable in a few tissues, i.e. adrenal gland (3.6% 
of  radioactivity)  and  stomach  (15.7%  of  radioactivity).  In  kidney,  liver  and  preputial  gland,  14C-
abiraterone  concentrations  were  still  measurable  in  at  least  one  out  of  the  three  animals,  but  just 
above  the  limit  of  quantitation.  These  data  indicated  that  upon  repeated  daily  dosing  only  limited 
accumulation  could  be  expected.  The  longest  retention  of  14C-abiraterone  was  observed  in  the 
stomach. 
14C-abiraterone  was  selectively  associated  with  melanin-containing  tissues,  in  particular  the  uveal 
tract in which 14C-abiraterone was detectable at 168 h after dosing, but it was not irreversibly bound 
to melanin, as has been reported in the pigmented LE rats. 
In  vitro,  in  Caco-2  cell  monolayers,  abiraterone  and  abiraterone  acetate  had  a  low  apparent 
permeability and were not substrates of P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Abiraterone showed little inhibition of 
P-gp  mediated  transport  of  digoxin  whereas  abiraterone  acetate  inhibited  P-gp  significantly  at  high 
concentrations  with  a  50  %  inhibitory  concentration  (IC50)  of  10.8  µM.  So,  although  abiraterone 
acetate  might  increase  the  exposure  of  co-administered  drugs  which  are  substrates  for  P-gp,  as 
abiraterone acetate is rapidly converted to abiraterone, no systemic inhibition of P-gp is expected. 
Abiraterone  was  highly  bound  to  plasma  proteins  (97.4%  to  99.1%  in  rat,  monkey  and  human) 
irrespective  of  the  concentration  of  abiraterone  tested.  Indeed,  in  human  plasma,  abiraterone  is 
primarily bound to serum albumin (95.6% to 97.6%) and human alpha-acid glycoprotein (94.3% to 
95.7%).  Other  results  from  in  vitro  studies  indicate  that  binding  of  14C-abiraterone  to  plasma 
proteins  ranged  from  99.81%  to  99.92%  in  mouse,  rat,  rabbit,  and  in  man. Binding  was  mainly  to 
albumin (99.88 %) and to alpha-acid glycoprotein (89.4-94.4 %). Also in plasma from male patients 
with mild or moderate hepatic impairment the protein binding of abiraterone was 99.8 %.  
No placental transfer studies were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
Abiraterone  acetate  is  rapidly  hydrolyzed  to  abiraterone,  followed  by  sulphate  or  glucuronic  acid 
conjugation  or  both,  alone  or  in  combination  with  oxidation,  or  followed  by  mono-,  di-  and  tri-
oxidation of abiraterone, as reported in in vitro (in liver microsomes and cryopreserved hepatocytes 
from  rat,  monkey  and  man)  and  in  vivo  (in  rats  and  monkeys)  studies.  The  steroid  and  pyridine 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 18/78
 
 
 
 
moieties  were  both  likely  targets  for  enzymatic  oxidative  reactions  as  well  as  Phase  II  conjugation 
reactions. 
The major in vitro metabolic pathway of abiraterone acetate in man was ester hydrolysis producing 
abiraterone  followed  by  O-sulphate  or  O-glucuronic  acid  conjugation  or  followed  by  mono-  and  di-
oxidation  which  could  include  hydroxylation  as  well  as  N-oxidation.  From  the  in-vitro  data  it  could 
further  be  concluded  that  the  metabolism  of  abiraterone  acetate  in  rat,  monkey  and  man  was 
qualitatively and quantitatively similar, with the exception of N-glucuronidated abiraterone sulphate, 
one minor human metabolite, which was not observed in the rat but it was found in monkey plasma. 
In  vivo,  the  metabolism  of  abiraterone  acetate  was  initiated  with  hydrolysis  of  the  acetate  ester  to 
abiraterone, followed by multiple hydroxylations and direct sulphation of the free hydroxyl group of 
abiraterone.  Also  combinations  of  hydrogenations,  hydroxylation,  and  Phase  II  conjugation 
(sulphation and glucuronidation) have been observed. 
The  main  circulating  metabolite  in  rat  is  abiraterone  sulphate.  Other  notable  metabolites  for  both 
genders were several mono-oxy-abiraterone sulphate isomers and abiraterone. Notable metabolites 
for  the  male  rats  also  included  the  hydrogenated-mono-oxy-abiraterone  and  mono-oxy-abiraterone 
sulphate.  In  plasma  of  females  a  mono-oxy-abiraterone  sulphate  isomer  was  noted.  All  other 
identified metabolites appeared to be very minor. 
Abiraterone  acetate  was  rapidly  and  mainly  (89.9  to  93.4%  of  the  administered  dose)  excreted  in 
the  faeces.  The  excretion  of  the  product  in  urine  was  limited,  accounting  for  less  than  2  %  of  the 
administered  dose.  There  were  no  differences  in  routes  and  rates  of  excretion  between  male  and 
female rats. 
No  studies  have  been  performed  to  evaluate  the  excretion  of  abiraterone  acetate  into  milk  (see 
discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
In the ex vivo studies, abiraterone acetate and abiraterone did not inhibit CYP2A6, while CYP2C9 and 
CYP3A4/5  were  moderately  inhibited.  Abiraterone  acetate  had  a  moderate  inhibitory  effect  on 
CYP2E1 and a strong inhibitory effect on CYP2C19. On other hand, abiraterone did not inhibit CYP2E1 
but moderately inhibited CYP2C19. Both had a strong inhibitory effect on CYP1A2 and CYP2D6, with 
K i 0.32 and 0.16 μM, respectively, for abiraterone acetate and K i 0.44 and 0.39 μM, respectively, for 
abiraterone.  
After  the  administration  of  40  and  400  mg/kg/day  of  abiraterone  acetate  to  male  and  female  rats, 
the  microsomal  protein content  in  liver  was  the  same,  while  cytochrome  p450  content  increased  in 
males.  In  females,  abiraterone  acetate  had  no  effect  on  CYP1A1,2  and  CYP2B  enzymatic  activities, 
while  in  males  these  activities  were  significantly  increased  and  decreased,  respectively.  In  both 
genders,  at  400  mg/kg/day,  there  was  significant  increase  in  relative  liver  weight  and  induction  of 
CYP4A1  activity.  UGT,  on  other  hand,  was  increased  at  both  doses  in  females  but  only  at  400 
mg/kg/day in males. The activity of CYP2E1 decreased in both genders while CYP3A1,2 decreased in 
males  and  increased  in  females  at  400  mg/kg/day.  Also  in  male  rats,  DHEA  sulphotransferase 
activity  (SULT2A1)  and  in  SULT2A1  activity  towards  abiraterone  oxide  (leading  to  formation  of  N-
oxide abiraterone sulphate) increased significantly 40 and 400 mg/kg/day. In female rats, there was 
a statistically significant decrease in SULT2A1 activity towards DHEA at the highest dose and a dose-
dependent  decrease  in  SULT2A1  activity  towards  oxidized  abiraterone  (resulting  in  N-oxide 
abiraterone sulphate). 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 19/78
 
 
 
 
2.3.4.  Toxicology 
Single dose toxicity 
The  single-dose  toxicity  of  abiraterone  acetate  was  examined  following  oral  administration  in  mice 
and rats. 
In  a  non-GLP  single  dose  toxicity  study,  male  and  female  mice  (5/sex/group)  were  administered  a 
single oral (gavage) dose of abiraterone acetate at levels of 0, 125, 500 and 2,000 mg/kg. Additional 
mice  were  added  for  toxicokinetic  evaluation  (9/sex/group).  There  were  no  test  article-related 
findings. 
In a GLP single dose toxicity study, male rats (10/group) were  administered a single oral (gavage) 
dose  of  abiraterone  acetate  at  levels  of  0  and  400  mg/kg.  No  deaths  or  treatment-related  adverse 
effects  were  seen  during  the  14-day  observation  period.  Body  weight  was  not  affected.  Some 
changes  in  hematology  and  clinical  chemistry  were  observed  particularly  a  decrease  in  serum  urea 
(90% of control). No gross findings were noted at necropsy.  
Repeat dose toxicity 
The toxicity of abiraterone acetate after repeated p.o. administration was studied in pivotal toxicity 
studies in rats (over 28 days, 13 and 26 weeks) and cynomolgus monkeys (over 28 days, 13 and 39 
weeks)  followed  by  a  4-week  recovery  period.  A  non-pivotal  15-day  repeated  dose  study  was 
performed  in  mice  in  support  of  a  future  carcinogenicity  program  for  other  clinical  indications. 
Results of repeat-dose toxicity studies are summarised in the following table. 
Table 2: Repeat-dose toxicity studies performed with abiraterone acetate 
Study 
Species/Sex/ 
Dose/Route 
Duration, 
NOEL/ NOAEL 
ID 
Number/Group 
Albino Swiss (CD1) mice/  
0, 125, 500 and 2,000 mg/kg/day/ 
Both/ 40/ 4 
Oral 
(recovery) 
(mg/kg/day) 
15 days 
125/ND 
TOX 
9586 
Major Findings: Deaths: 2 female died after 5 and 13 doses, respectively, at 2,000 mg/kg/day, Female 
genital tract: atrophy of uterus in 2/5 females at 2,000 mg/kg/day, Liver: hypertrophy of a very slight to 
moderate degree at 500 and 2,000 mg/kg/day, Male genital tract: atrophy of testes, epididymides, prostate, 
seminal vesicles and coagulating glands, in 3/5 males at 500 and 2,000 mg/kg/day. Minimal atrophy in one 
male at 125mg/kg/day, Spleen: slight to moderate of extramedullary haematopoiesis at 2,000 mg/kg/day, 
and increased reticulocyte count., Lung: aggregates of intra-alveolar macrophages in 1 male and 3 females at 
2,000 mg/kg/day, Eyes:  
Wistar rats /  
Male/ 80/ 4 
0, 40, 126 and 400 mg/kg/day/ Oral 
28 days,  
(28 days)  
ND 
BIBRA  
1632-1 
Major Findings: One rat from each of the 40 and 126 mg/kg treatment groups taken for unscheduled 
necropsy, Liver: panlobular hypertrophy and periportal vacuolation in 9/10 rats at 400 mg/kg/day, Male 
genital tract: dark testes, interstitial cell hyperplasia and reduction in spermatogenesis, atrophy of seminal 
vesicles and prostate at 400 mg/kg/day, Spleen: reduced lymphocytes in mantle zone, a slight in crease in 
compact cells in reticularis zona of adrenal cortex at 400 mg/kg/day, Lung: small red foci in7/10, 
inflammatory cell infiltrates, haemorrhage, foamy and pigmented macrophages male at 400 mg/kg/day 
ITR 
S-D rats/ Male/ 80 / 4 
0, 40, 126 and 400 mg/kg/day/ Oral 
28 days,  
(28 days)  
ND 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 20/78
 
 
 
 
7565  Major Findings: Male genital tract: small, soft and dark testes, small prostate and epididymides at 40, 126 
and 400 mg/kg/day. Minimal to moderate Leyding cell hyperplasia at all dose groups. Focal tubular atrophy 
with hypospermia/ aspermia of the testes at the end of testing.  Mononuclear cell infiltrate in the interstitium 
of the prostate in 2/10, 3/10 and 3/10 rats at 40, 126 and 400 mg/kg/day, respectively at the end of 
recovery., focal tubular atrophy, hypospermia/aspermia of the epididymides with degenerative germ cells and 
decreased secretion of the prostate with glandular atrophy in 1/10 and 1/10 rats at 40 and 400 mg/kg/day, 
respectively, at the end of recovery, Mammary glands: atrophy in 1/9 rats at 40 mg/kg/day and in 6/9 rats at 
400 mg/kg/day during recovery, Pituitary: minimal to moderate hyperplasia of chromophobe cells in pars 
distalis at all dose groups 
Crl:CD (S-D) rats/  
0, 250/50, 750/250 and 2000/750 
13 weeks,  
Both/ 160/ 4 
mg/kg/day/ Oral 
(4 weeks) 
Can not be established 
Major Findings: From day 9 to 12 onwards, due to toxicity dose levels were reduced  from 2000, 750, 250, 
mg/kg to 750, 250 and 50 mg/kg, respectively Deaths: 2 males and 4 females in 2000/750 mg/kg/day group 
sacrificed in a moribund condition and considered test-related, Female genital tract: atrophy of uterus and 
cervix at  all doses and at  2000/750 mg/kg/day after recovery,  Liver: increased weight in 750/250 
7777-
100 
mg/kg/day  in both sexes at the end of dosing and high weight in males of all dose groups and females at 
750/250 mg/kg/day after recovery. Bile hyperplasia adverse and not reversible in 2 males and 2 females at 
750/250 mg/kg/day and in the most animals at 2000/750 mg/kg/day, Male genital tract: low weight of testes, 
epididymides, prostate and seminal vesicles in all doses groups. Discoloured or soft testes in males at all 
doses during dosing period and at 750/250 mg/kg/day after recovery. Atrophy of seminal vesicle, prostate 
and epididymis and/or hypospermia at all dose groups, Mammary glands: atrophy at all dose groups, 
Pituitary: hyperplasia/hypertrophy at all dose groups, Lung: alveolar macrophages at all dose groups, Heart: 
subacute inflammation in males given 2000/750 mg/kg/day 
Crl:CD (S-D) rats/  
Both/ 240/ 4 
0, 50, 150 and 400 mg/kg/day/ Oral 
26 weeks, 
NOAEL <50 (m)  
(4 weeks) 
NOAEL=50 (fem) 
Major Findings: Deaths: 1 male and 3 females were found dead on Days 56, 131, 145 and 98, respectively, 
and 7 males and 4 females were sacrificed in moribund conditions, all animals in 400 mg/kg/day group. 
Additionally, 1 male was found dead and 1 male and 4females were sacrificed at 400 mg/kg/day in TK group, 
Male genital tract: discoloured or soft testes, and small epididymis in all doses groups. Seminiferous tubule 
degeneration in all animals at the end of dosing and  in 4/10 , 6/10, 10/10 animals at 50, 150 and 400 
mg/kg/day at the end of recovery, respectively. Decreases in mean organ weight parameters for testis, 
prostate, epididymis, and seminal vesicle at all dose levels at the end of dosing as well as the end of recovery, 
except for  for prostate only at at 150 and 400 mg/kg/day, Pituitary: increased weight at all dose levels, 
Female genital tract: increased weight of ovary at all dose levels (end of dosing) and at 150 and 400 
mg/kg/day (end of recovery), correlated with hypertrophy/hyperplasia of ovarian interstitial cells, Lung: 
minimal inflammation, Liver: minimal to marked bile duct/oval cell hyperplasia in 5/12 male and 5/13 female 
rats at the end of dosing at 400 mg/kg/day, minimal to moderate bile duct/oval cell hyperplasia in 6/9 male 
and 5/10 female at 400 mg/kg/day (end of recovery). Minimal or slight capsular fibrosis in 2/9 males and 
1/10 female at 400 mg/kg/day, Eyes: Discoloration. Cataracts in males at all doses and in females at 150 and 
400 mg/kg/day 
777-
105 
Cynomolgus monkeys/ Both/ 
0, 2, 10, 50, 250 and 1,000 
28 days, 
NOEL <2  
1818- 
60/ 6 
mg/kg/day/ Oral 
(4 weeks) 
NOAEL =1000  
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 21/78
 
 
 
 
001 
Major Findings: Mammary glands: oedema with fibrosis and epithelial hyperplasia of the male mammary 
ducts, Female genital tract: cystic follicles in the ovaries of all animals from 50 mg/kg/day onwards at the end 
of dosing  and of 1 female at 50 mg/kg/day and 1 female at 250 mg/kg/day, at the end of recovery Epithelial 
plaque, decidual reaction and endometrial hyperplasia were still present in uterus in single animals of various 
dose groups. 
Cynomolgus monkeys/ Both/ 
0, 250, 750 and 2,000 mg/kg/day/ 
13 weeks  
NOEL =ND 
44/ 4 
Oral 
(4 weeks) 
NOAEL <250 
7777- 
101 
Major Findings: Clinical chemistry and hormone levels: increased triglycerides and total bilirubin, decreased 
cortisol, dehydroepiandrosterone and high aldosterone and progesterone levels. ACTH levels increased in all 
groups at end of dosing and were slightly higher in animals at 2,000 mg/kg/day at the end of recovery, Liver: 
increased weight and slight bile duct hyperplasia in male and female at 250, 750 and 2,000 mg/kg/day at the 
end of dosing and at 2,000 mg/kg/day at the end of recovery., Mammary gland: minimal to slight hyperplasia 
in all dose groups at the end of dosing and minimal  hyperplasia in 1 control male and 1 male at 2000 
mg/kg/day at end of recovery. 
Cynomolgus monkeys/ Both/ 
0, 250, 500 and  1,000 mg/kg/day/ 
39 weeks 
NOAEL =ND 
44/ 4 
Oral 
(4 weeks) 
7777- 
103 
Major Findings: Male genital tract: Moderate unilateral seminiferous tubule degeneration in 1 male at 1000 
mg/kg/day at end of recovery. Slight atrophy of prostate, moderate increased of mineralization of seminal 
vesicle, atrophy/hyperplasia of testes at all doses at end of dosing, Female genital tract: Moderate to marked 
pseudodecidual changes in females at all doses at the end of dosing and minimal uterine pseudodecidual 
changes in 2 females after recovery, Liver: Increased weight. Minimal bile duct/oval cell hyperplasia in all 
male groups and 500 and 1000 mg/kg.day groups at the end of  dosing and  in 1 female previously at 1000 
mg/kg/day, Adrenal cortex: Increased weight. Minimal to slight hypertrophy at all dose groups. 
Genotoxicity 
Abiraterone acetate and abiraterone were investigated for their potential to induce point and/or gene 
mutations  and  chromosome  aberrations  in  several  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  test  systems,  including  the 
Ames  reverse  mutation  assay,  the  in  vitro  chromosome  aberration  test,  and  the  in  vivo  rat 
micronucleus test. In all studies, abiraterone acetate and abiraterone were not mutagenic in either in 
vitro or in vivo test systems (data not shown). 
Carcinogenicity 
No studies were submitted (see discussion on non-clinical aspects). 
Reproduction Toxicity 
No relevant studies were submitted (see discussion on non clinical aspects). The general toxicology 
studies  provide  relevant  information  to  assess  the  effect  on  reproductive  organs.  In  these  studies, 
circulating testosterone levels were reduced significantly. As such, reproductive organ changes were 
observed,  including  reduction  in  organ  weight,  morphological  and/or  histopathological  changes.  All 
changes showed complete or partial reversibility. The reproductive organ changes are consistent with 
the pharmacology of abiraterone acetate/ abiraterone. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 22/78
 
 
 
 
 
Toxicokinetic data 
The toxicokinetics of abiraterone acetate were evaluated in the single and repeated-dose studies in 
mice,  rats  and  monkeys.  A  comparison  of  interspecies  toxicokinetic  parameters  is  shown  in  the 
following table. 
Table 3: Abiraterone exposure in male animals relative to man 
Species 
Rat (26-week) 
Rat-MTD (13-week) 
Monkeys (39-week) 
Monkeysa 
Manb 
Dose 
(mg/kg) 
50 
150 
400 
250 
250 
500 
1000 
2000 
1 g 
AUC 
(ng.h/ml) 
1.132 
2.220 
5.586 
1.770 
610 
1.139 
2.095 
1.604 
993 
Exposure ratio 
1.14 
2.24 
5.63 
1.78 
0.61 
1.15 
2.11 
1.62 
a Data at highest dose in 13-week toxicity study in the male monkey. MTD in monkey exceeded 2,000 mg/kg/day    
b 
Exposure ratio calculated based on total drug AUC values and a human AUC 0-24h of 993 ng.h/ml (Day 1 of Cycle 
2) at an abiraterone acetate dose of 1 g/day plus prednisone at 5 mg twice daily (N=33, Study COU-AA-006). 
Local Tolerance 
The oral route is the intended route of abiraterone acetate administration in patients with advanced 
metastatic prostate cancer. A gastric irritation study was performed in the mouse after a single oral 
dose  (see  safety  pharmacology).  No  other  local  tolerance  studies  were  submitted.  All  toxicology 
studies with abiraterone acetate were performed via oral (gavage) administration and no toxicity in 
the gastrointestinal tract was observed. 
Other toxicity studies 
Several impurities were present at low concentrations in one or more of the drug substance batches 
tested  in  the  single-  and  repeat-dose  toxicity  studies  and  in  genotoxicity  studies.  Specific  studies 
were  submitted  which  aimed  to  evaluate  the  potential  toxicity  of  abiraterone  acetate  when  spiked 
with these impurities, i.e. a 28-day repeated dose oral toxicity study in the rat, an in vitro bacterial 
reverse mutation (Ames) test and an in vitro chromosome aberration test. In addition, an Ames test 
was  conducted  with  (pure)  impurities  having  a  structural  alert.  The  repeat-dose  toxicity  showed 
similar findings as seen at the same dose without impurities. Genotoxicity assays were negative with 
the  exception  of  one.  The  relevant  impurity  is  monitored  throughout  the  synthesis  process  and 
specified below the threshold of toxicological concern (data not shown). 
2.3.5.  Ecotoxicity/environmental risk assessment 
Results  of  submitted  studies  to  evaluate  the  environmental  risk  from  abiraterone  acetate  are 
summarised in the following table. 
Table 4: Summary of main study results 
Substance (INN/Invented Name): To be assigned 
CAS-number (if available): 154229-19-3 
PBT screening 
Result 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Conclusion 
Page 23/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bioaccumulation potential- log 
K ow 
PBT-assessment 
Parameter 
Bioaccumulation 
Persistence 
OECD107 or … 
5.12 
Result relevant for
conclusion 
log K ow  
BCF 
5.12 
625 (for low conc, 0,13 
microg/L) 
576 (for high conc, 1,3 
microg/L 
DT50,  freshwater= 2.3 days 
DT50 or ready 
biodegradability 
NOEC or CMR 
The compound is considered as T 
NOEC = 0,47 microg/L 
Potential PBT 
YES 
Conclusion 
B 
not B 
not P 
T 
Toxicity 
PBT-statement : 
Phase I  
Calculation 
PEC  surfacewater , default or 
refined (e.g. prevalence, 
literature) 
Other concerns (e.g. chemical 
class) 
Phase II Physical-chemical properties and fate 
Study type 
Adsorption-Desorption 
Test protocol 
OECD 121… 
Value 
0,018 
Ready Biodegradability Test 
OECD 301 
Aerobic and Anaerobic 
Transformation in Aquatic 
Sediment systems 
OECD 308 
Phase IIa Effect studies  
Study type  
Test protocol 
Endpoint 
value 
Unit 
Remarks 
Algae, Growth Inhibition 
Test/Species  
OECD 201 
NOEC 
1000 
µg/L 
Daphnia sp. Reproduction Test   OECD 211 
OECD 210 
Fish, Early Life Stage Toxicity 
Test/Species  
Activated Sludge, Respiration 
Inhibition Test  
Phase IIb Studies 
Bioaccumulation 
OECD 209 
OECD 305 
NOEC 
NOEC 
EC 
BCF 
0,47 
1.1 
µg/L 
µg/L 
> 106 
µg/L 
Unit 
g/L 
Conclusion 
> 0.01 threshold (Y) 
Results 
K oc > 22,387 Kg/L (log Koc  > 
4,35) 
12,56 % 
DT50, water = 2.3 days 
DT50, sediment = ND 
DT50, whole system = 4.9 and 3.3 
days 
% shifting to sediment = 
sediment-bound residue 
28.2% and 22.1% 
(Y/N) 
Remarks 
List all values 
Not readily 
biodegradable 
Evidence of primary 
biodegradation was 
observed for 
[14C]abiraterone 
acetate in the aerobic
water/sediment test 
samples. 
Pseudokirchneriella 
subcapitata. NOEC 
value is the same for 
both measures of 
growth (biomass and 
growth rate)  
Pimephales promelas 
(Fathead Minnow) 
NOEC > 1000 mg/L 
625 (for 
low conc, 
0,13 
microg/L)
576 (for 
high 
conc, 1,3 
microg/L 
L/kg  %lipids: Percent 
lipids at steady state 
(wet weight tissue 
basis) low = 3.46% 
and high 3.76 % 
Percent lipids at 
steady state (dry 
weight tissue basis) 
low = 19.65 % and 
high 22.74 % 
Aerobic and anaerobic 
transformation in soil 
Soil Micro organisms: Nitrogen  OECD 216 
OECD 307 
DT50 
%CO2 
%effect 
18 
55,1 % 
250 
Days 
See comments in 
conclusion section 
mg/kg  The nitrate 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 24/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transformation Test 
Terrestrial Plants, Growth 
Test/Species 
OECD 208 
NOEC 
100 for 
all 
species 
Earthworm, Acute Toxicity 
Tests 
Collembola, Reproduction Test  ISO 11267 
OECD 207 
NOEC 
63 
NOEC 
production was 
inhibited by 3,9% on 
day 28. The empirical
EC 10, EC 25 and EC 50 
values for nitrogen 
transformation were 
estimated to be > 
250 mg/kg dry soil 
mg/kg  Bean (Phaseolus 
vulgaris) 
Oat (Avena sativa) 
Tomato (Lycopersicon
esculentum) 
mg/kg  See comments in 
conclusion section 
mg/kg 
mg/kg  Chironomus riparius 
1000 for 
mortality;
500 for 
reproduct
ion 
100 
Sediment dwelling organism   OECD 218 
NOEC 
In the context of the obligation of the MAH to take due account of technical and scientific progress, 
the CHMP recommends the following points for further investigation: 
The Applicant should submit the results of the proposed extended partial life cycle study with fathead 
minnow  (Pimephales  promelas)  to  assess  the  specific  mode  of  action  of  abiraterone  acetate 
according to  the OECD recommendations for endocrine disrupting substances as soon as available. 
2.3.6.  Discussion and conclusion on the non-clinical aspects 
In vitro data demonstrate that abiraterone selectively and irreversibly inhibits CYP17, a key enzyme 
in  androgen  biosynthesis.  At  doses  of  39.2-196  mg/kg/day  that  are  well  tolerated  in  rodents, 
abiraterone  acetate  was  shown  to  suppress  circulating  androgen  levels,  decrease  the  growth  of 
androgen dependent organs and inhibit the growth of human mCRPC xenograft tumors in castrated 
mice. Abiraterone sulphate and N-oxide abiraterone sulphate exhibited weak pharmacological activity 
(CYP17  inhibition) in  human  adrenocortical  carcinoma  cell  lines,  but  the  relevance  of  this  finding  in 
vivo is uncertain as sulphates are generally excluded by cell membranes. 
No  studies  were  performed  to  investigate  the  secondary  pharmacodynamics  of  abiraterone  acetate 
as, due to the selectivity and mechanism of action of abiraterone acetate in inhibiting CYP17, no off-
target  effects  were  observed  in  nonclinical  studies.  Most  effects  observed  for  abiraterone  acetate 
appear  to  be  related  to  androgen  deprivation.  These  effects  are  well  characterized  by  extensive 
literature  on  androgen  physiology  in  nonclinical  studies.  Pharmacodynamic  drug-drug  interaction 
(DDI) studies have not been submitted. However, human DDI (PK) studies were part of the clinical 
development plan. 
In  in  vitro  and  in  vivo  safety  pharmacology  studies,  abiraterone  acetate  and  abiraterone  (in  vitro 
hERG) had no relevant effects on CNS and cardiovascular systems and produced no gastric irritation 
at  exposures  exceeding  the  therapeutic  exposure.  Regarding  the  respiratory  system,  only  non-
specific changes in tidal volume were observed which did not occur in a dose-dependent manner. 
Regarding  pharmacokinetics,  after  oral  dosing  abiraterone  acetate  was  rapidly  converted  to 
abiraterone in all species studied. Peak plasma concentrations of abiraterone were rapidly reached in 
all species after single and repeated dosing and plasma concentrations of abiraterone increased with 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 25/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
increasing  dose  levels  of  abiraterone  acetate,  but  less  than  dose-proportional.  Abiraterone  acetate 
related RA was rapidly and widely distributed to almost all investigated tissues. Abiraterone sulphate 
exceeded  human  exposure  in  both  rat  and  dog  and  N-oxide  abiraterone  sulphate  approximated 
human  exposure  in  the  (male)  monkey  and  was  about  20%  of  the  human  exposure  in  rats. 
Abiraterone (acetate) strongly inhibited CYP1A2 and CYP2D6 in vitro.  
One  target  organ  of  toxicity  after  repeated  treatment  with  abiraterone  acetate  was  the  liver,  as 
evidenced  by  increased  liver  weight, hepatocellular  hypertrophy,  bile  duct/oval  cell  hyperplasia  and 
associated  increases  in  ALP,  total  bilirubin  and  to  a  lesser  extent  GGT  (rat  only).  Biliary  changes 
were  not  consistently  observed  in  all  studies  and  changes  were  partially  to  fully  reversible.  The 
mechanism underlying the hepatic changes reported in the rat and monkey repeated dose studies is 
currently being investigated in a 2-year rat carcinogenicity study, initiated in July 2010, and will be 
investigated in a 6-month carcinogenicity study in the transgenic Tg.rasH2 mouse both of which are 
being/will be conducted as an additional Pharmacovigilance activity (see Table 27). 
In  rats,  cataracts  were  seen  ophthalmologically  in  a  dose-dependent  manner  at  the  end  of  the  26-
week  treatment  period  without  evidence  of  reversibility.  The  mechanism  was  unclear,  although  a 
species-specific effect cannot be excluded since cataract was not observed in monkeys. The issue of 
cataract  formation  in  the  rat  will  also  be  followed  up  in  the  2-year  rat  and  the  6-month 
carcinogenicity studies mentioned above. 
Carcinogenicity,  developmental  or  reproductive  toxicology  studies  were  not  conducted  with 
abiraterone  acetate  in  line  with  available  guidance  [ICH  S9  (EMEA/CHMP/ICH/646107/2008)] 
stipulating  that  such  studies  are  generally  not  required,  with  the  exception of  embryofoetal  toxicity 
studies  which  are  specifically  not  required  for  substances  belonging  to  a  class  that  has  been  well 
characterized as causing developmental toxicity which is the case for abiraterone. Thus, in all animal 
toxicity  studies,  circulating  testosterone  levels  were  significantly  reduced.  As  a  result,  reduction  in 
organ  weights  and  morphological  and/or  histopathological  changes  in  the  reproductive  organs,  and 
the adrenal, pituitary and mammary glands were observed. All changes showed complete or partial 
reversibility.  The  changes  in  the  reproductive  organs  and  androgen-sensitive  organs  are  consistent 
with  the  pharmacology  of  abiraterone.  All  treatment-related  hormonal  changes  reversed  or  were 
shown to be resolving after a 4-week recovery period. Abiraterone is contraindicated in pregnancy. 
Aside from reproductive organ changes seen in all animal toxicology studies, non-clinical data reveal 
no special hazard for humans based on conventional studies of safety pharmacology, repeated dose 
toxicity and genotoxicity. Carcinogenicity studies were not conducted. 
The  Environmental  Risk  of  Abiraterone  acetate  has  been  assessed  and  it  is  concluded  that 
abiraterone acetate is not a PB substance but it is T substance. 
The CHMP considers the following measures necessary to address the non clinical issues: 
The Applicant should submit the results of the ongoing 2-year rat carcinogenicity study and of a 6-
month carcinogenicity study in the transgenic Tg.rasH2 mouse, accompanied by an expert report if 
any evidence of hepatic neoplasia and/or eye toxicity is reported (see Pharmacovigilance section).  
The Applicant should submit the results of the proposed extended partial life cycle study with fathead 
minnow  (Pimephales  promelas)  to  assess  the  specific  mode  of  action  of  abiraterone  acetate 
according to  the OECD recommendations for endocrine disrupting substances as soon as available. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 26/78
 
 
 
 
2.4.  Clinical aspects 
2.4.1.  Introduction 
The  application  underwent  accelerated  assessment  as  it  was  considered  of  major  interest  from  the 
point  of  view  of  public  health  and  in  particular  from  the  view  point  of  therapeutic  innovation.  The 
CHMP  accepted  the  Applicant’s  request  for  accelerated  assessment  on  the  grounds  of  the  poor 
prognosis of the target population and the high unmet medical need, the novel mechanism of action 
of  the  medicinal  product  which  has  the  potential  to  offer  an  alternative  therapeutic  option  and, 
finally, the adequacy/ completeness of the proposed data package which could allow the application 
to be assessed under an accelerated timetable.  
The  population  included  in  the  pivotal  trial  COU-AA-301  comprised  metastatic  prostate  cancer 
patients  resistant  to  castration  therapy  whose  disease  had  progressed  on  or  after  docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy.  As  a  result,  although  the  Applicant  sought  an  indication  in  relevant  patients  having 
received chemotherapy containing a(ny) taxane, claiming that docetaxel is the standard of care and 
that  abiraterone  is  expected  to  provide  analogous  clinical  benefit  irrespective  of  the  type  of  prior 
taxane-based  chemotherapy,  the  finally  approved  indication  reflected  the  patient  population  of  the 
pivotal trial and it was restricted to men whose disease had progressed on or after docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy. 
In  a  Scientific  Advice  procedure  pertaining  to  clinical  efficacy  and  safety  related  to  study  COU-AA-
301,  the  CHMP  concurred  that  the  primary  and  secondary  endpoints  were  appropriate  and  in 
accordance with available guidance, that the proposed statistical analysis plan, target population and 
choice of comparator were acceptable and that the safety database would be adequate to support a 
Marketing Authorisation Application but safety follow-up might be requested.  
 
Tabular overview of clinical studies  
Figure 4: Clinical studies supporting the Zytiga MAA 
aCapsules were used 
bPatients enrolled in studies COU-AA-001 and COU-AA-003 had the opportunity to enrol in extension studies 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 27/78
 
 
 
 
 
GCP 
The Clinical trials were performed in accordance with GCP as claimed by the applicant. Moreover, the 
applicant has provided a statement to the effect that clinical trials conducted outside the community 
were carried out in accordance with the ethical standards of Directive 2001/20/EC.  
Certain sites of the pivotal trial have undergone inspections by EU regulatory authorities prior to the 
start of the assessment of the Marketing Authorisation Application for Zytiga. There were no critical 
findings. No non-compliance issues or specific GCP triggers have been raised during the assessment 
of  the  submitted  dossier  and  further  GCP  inspections  were  not  considered  necessary  for  this 
Application. 
2.4.2.  Pharmacokinetics 
The  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  was  evaluated  in  9  Phase  I  studies  in  healthy  male  subjects 
(COU-AA-010; COU-AA-005; COU-AA-008;  COU-AA-016; COU-AA-009; COU-AA-007; COU-AA-014; 
COU-AA-011; COU-AA-012); 2 Phase I studies in patients with mCRPC (COU-AA-015; COU-AA-006), 
and in 1 phase III study  (COU- AA-001) in patients with mCRPC. Moreover, a population PK model 
was developed based on data from 256 patients from 3 Phase I studies (Studies COU-AA-008, COU-
AA-009,  and  COU-AA-014),  1  Phase  IB  study  (Study  COU-AA-006)  and  1  Phase  III  study  (Study 
COU-AA-301). 
Plasma  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  calculated  based  on  actual  pharmacokinetic  blood 
sampling times, relative to dosing, using log-transformed data and conventional non-compartmental 
methods. Subjects that had sufficient data for pharmacokinetic parameter estimations were included 
in  the  pharmacokinetic  analysis.  The  exception  is  the  population  analysis  which  used  a  nonlinear 
mixed-effects approach to estimate the pharmacokinetic parameters based on sparse sampling data. 
Bioanalytical methods used for clinical studies with pharmacokinetic measurements included different 
liquid  chromatography-tandem  mass  spectrometry  (LC-MS/MS)  methods  intended  to  measure 
abiraterone and its pro-drug, abiraterone acetate, in plasma. Non-chiral bioanalytical methods were 
developed as inter-conversion is not expected. Abiraterone acetate was detected in only a fraction of 
the total number of collected samples. Therefore all PK analysis has been carried out on abiraterone. 
Absorption 
Abiraterone  is  rapidly  absorbed.  The  absolutely  bioavailability  is  not  known,  although  the 
bioavailability  from  the  commercial  tablet  in  the  fasted  state  is  unlikely  to  be  higher  than  10%,  as 
the  bioavailability  can  be  increased  by  10-fold  in  the  fed  state.  Bioequivalence  has  been 
demonstrated between the formulation used in the  clinical studies and the  commercial formulation. 
Abiraterone  acetate  tablets  intended  for  commercial  process  were  shown  to  be  bioequivalent  to 
abiraterone acetate tablets used in clinical trials.  
Across all studies, the mean Cmax, AUC, and t1/2 after a single 1 g dose of abiraterone acetate under 
fasting  conditions  in  healthy  male  subjects  were  approximately  93.5  ng/ml,  503  ng*h/ml,  and  15 
hours,  respectively.  The  peak  concentration  of  abiraterone  was  generally  reached  at  2  hours  after 
dosing. Systemic exposure to abiraterone generally increased linearly with dose following single-dose 
administration  of  abiraterone  acetate  tablets  at  250  mg,  500  mg,  750  mg,  and  1  g  doses  under 
fasting  conditions  to  healthy  male  subjects.  The  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  was  dose-
proportional for the 750 mg and 1 g dose levels. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 28/78
 
 
 
 
In patients with mCRPC, the mean Cmax and AUC of abiraterone after a single dose of 1 g abiraterone 
acetate  under  fasting  conditions  was  approximately  182  ng/ml  and  675  ng*h/ml,  respectively.  In 
these  patients,  after  28  days  of  continuous  daily  dosing,  mean  Cmax  and  AUC  were  increased 
approximately 2.0- and 2.2-fold to 226 ng/ml and 993 ng*h/ml, respectively. 
The estimated accumulation ratio (2.0 for Cmax, 2.2 for AUC) is compatible with an effective half-life 
in  a  multiple-dose  setting  of  24  to  28  hours,  higher  than  that  estimated  from  single-dose  studies 
under  fasting  conditions  in  healthy  subjects.  Overall,  the  exposure  to  abiraterone  in  patients  with 
mCRPC was higher than in healthy male subjects. 
A standardized high fat meal increased abiraterone systemic exposure by approximately 17- and 10- 
fold  for  C max  and  AUC0-∞,  while  a  low-fat  meal  increased  abiraterone  systemic  exposure  by 
approximately 7- and 5-fold for AUC0-∞ and C max when compared to fasting subjects. 
Distribution 
The plasma protein binding of abiraterone at therapeutic concentrations was high and in the order of 
98.8% to 99.9%. The apparent central volume of distribution was approximately 5630 L. The mean 
C max, AUC 0-t, and AUC 0-∞ values for total radioactivity in plasma were higher than those observed for 
total  radioactivity  in  whole  blood.  The  mean  whole  blood  to  plasma  AUC 0-∞  ratio  was  0.523.  This 
value indicates that the radioactivity associated with abiraterone and its metabolites is preferentially 
retained in the plasma component of blood. 
Metabolism 
Hydrolysis of abiraterone acetate to abiraterone is mediated by non-identified esterases, is not CYP-
mediated,  and  is  thought  to  occur  mainly  in  the  liver.  Cleavage  of  the  ester  within  gastrointestinal 
tissue during the absorption process cannot be excluded. 
Abiraterone,  the  active  metabolite  responsible  for  the  primary  pharmacodynamic  effect,  is 
subsequently  extensively  metabolized.  The  primary  metabolic  pathways  for  abiraterone  include 
sulfation and N-oxidation, as well as hydroxylation, dehydration, and glucuronidation pathways. 
Direct  sulfation  of  abiraterone  and  the  formation  of  an  N-oxide  sulphate  are  the  most  prominent 
pathways  of  metabolism.  The  systemic  exposure  to  metabolites  is  far  greater  than  that  to 
abiraterone. Following a single dose of radioactive abiraterone acetate under fasting conditions, the 
plasma AUC inf of total radioactivity was approximately 400-fold higher than that of abiraterone. The 
2  predominant  metabolites  in  plasma,  abiraterone  sulphate  and  N-oxide  of  abiraterone  sulphate, 
were both present at exposure concentrations at least 100 times higher than abiraterone based on a 
comparison of AUC0-8h of the metabolites to AUClast of abiraterone. The systemic exposure to 9 other 
quantified metabolites was similar or up to 4-fold higher than that of abiraterone. 
Metabolism via SULT2A1 is the major pathway in vitro. However, based on excretion data, it cannot 
be  concluded  that  the  SULT2A  pathway  is  the  major  pathway  in  vivo.  In  vivo  abiraterone  is  a 
substrate  of  CYP3A4  and  CYP3A4  is  inhibited  in  vitro  by  abiraterone  with  moderate  potency.  It  is 
unclear  whether  the  observed  metabolites  are  formed  via  CYP3A4.  Additionally,  Phase  II 
glucuronidated metabolites are formed mainly by UDP-glucuronosyl transferase (UGT) 1A4 and to a 
lesser extent by UGT1A3. 
In  vitro,  abiraterone  was  shown  to  inhibit  the  hepatic  drug-metabolizing  enzymes  CYP1A2  and 
CYP2D6.  From in vitro studies, clinically relevant effects on compounds transported by P-gp are not 
expected.  The  effects  of abiraterone  acetate  on  a  single  dose  of  the  CYP1A2  substrate  theophylline 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 29/78
 
 
 
 
 
showed  no  increase  in  systemic  exposure  of  theophylline.  The  effect  of  abiraterone  acetate  on  a 
single  dose  of  the  CYP2D6  substrate  dextromethorphan  showed  that  the  systemic  exposure  of 
dextromethorphan increased.  
Elimination 
Following oral administration of 14C-abiraterone acetate, approximately 88% of the radioactive dose 
is  recovered in  faeces  and  approximately  5% in urine.  The  major  compounds  present  in faeces  are 
unchanged  abiraterone  acetate  and  abiraterone  (approximately  55%  and  22%  of  the  administered 
dose,  respectively).  After  oral  administration  of  abiraterone  acetate,  with  or  without  food,  systemic 
concentrations of abiraterone acetate were very low, generally below 0.2 ng/mL. 
Dose proportionality and time dependencies 
Systemic  exposure  to  abiraterone  generally increased  with increase  in  doses  of  abiraterone  acetate 
from  250  mg  to  1,000  mg.  Abiraterone  mean  t1/2  and  median  tmax  values  appeared  to  be 
independent of dose.  
The  results  of  the  PPK  analysis  indicated  that  the  abiraterone  PK  parameters  were  time  invariant 
over  the  period  for  which  the  PK  data  were  available.  No  trend  in  the  population  or  individual 
weighted residuals versus time (up to 3000 h) was seen in the structural model. 
Although  the  mean  pharmacokinetic  parameters  were  fairly  consistent  across  studies,  the  inter-
individual  variability  in  disposition  of  abiraterone  was  high.  In  healthy  subjects,  between-subject 
variability ranged from 32.7% to 119.8% for Cmax and from 40.5% to 140.6% for AUC0-. 
Special populations 
Systemic  exposure  to  abiraterone  after  a  single  oral  1  g  dose  did  not  increase  in  8  non-cancer 
patients with end-stage renal disease on dialysis. In these patients, clearance was comparable to the 
clearance in 8 normal renal function healthy subjects. Based on the results from the end-stage renal 
disease cohort, patients with mild or moderate renal were not studied. 
In  subjects  without  cancer  and  with  mild  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  A)  no  relevant  change  in 
systemic exposure to abiraterone was observed compared to healthy matched control subjects (11% 
of  AUC  increase  in  mild  pre-existing  hepatic  impairment).  The  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  to 
abiraterone  following  a  single  1  g  dose  of  abiraterone  acetate  in  the  fasting  state  increased  by 
approximately 260% in subjects without cancer and with pre-existing moderate hepatic impairment 
(Child-Pugh B). The mean half-life of abiraterone was prolonged to approximately 17.7 h in subjects 
with  mild  hepatic  impairment  and  to  approximately  18.6  h  in  subjects  with  moderate  hepatic 
impairment.  
All clinical study information thus far is derived from male subjects. The subjects in the index dataset 
of the PPK analysis had a median age of 42 years, with a range of 19 to 85 years. No formal clinical 
studies have evaluated the effect of age on the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone acetate. Abiraterone 
acetate has not been tested in paediatric subjects. 
The  potential  effects  of  race/ethnicity  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  were  not  formally 
investigated. The vast majority of subjects enrolled in the clinical studies were white males (>75%). 
The subjects in the index dataset of the PPK analysis had a median weight of 81 kg, and ranged from 
56 to 135 kg. Weight was not a significant covariate in the PPK analysis and thus, it does not justify 
a dose adjustment. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 30/78
 
 
 
 
Pharmacokinetic interaction studies 
The Applicant submitted the results of an in vivo drug-drug interaction study of abiraterone acetate 
plus  prednisone  with  dextromethorphan  (substrate  of  CYP2D6  metabolism)  and  theophylline 
(substrate of CYP1A2 metabolism). This was based on the results of the in vitro studies which could 
not preclude interaction based on the potent inhibitory effect of abiraterone on the two CYP isoforms. 
Mean  systemic  exposure  to  dextromethorphan  was  approximately  double  when  dextromethorphan 
was  co-administered  with  abiraterone  acetate  compared  to  when  dextromethorphan  was 
administered alone. Mean systemic exposure to theophylline was comparable when theophylline was 
co-administered with abiraterone acetate compared to when theophylline was given alone (data not 
shown). 
Pharmacokinetics using human biomaterials 
The  major  findings  of  in  vitro  interaction  studies  using  human  biomaterials  have  been  described  in 
the non-clinical section together with results of similar studies using biomaterials of animal origin. 
2.4.3.  Pharmacodynamics 
Mechanism of action 
The  inhibitory  effect  of  abiraterone  on  human  CYP17  activity  has  been  demonstrated  by  several 
investigators.  Using  human  testicular  microsomes,  Jarman  et  al.  (1998)  demonstrated  that  the 
concentration  of  abiraterone  needed  to  irreversibly  inhibit  50%  of  CYP17  activity  (IC50)  was  4  nM. 
This  observation  was  confirmed  by  other  investigators  who  determined  an  approximate  IC50  of  73 
nM  in  human  testicular  microsomes  (Haidar  et  al.,  2001,  2003).  They  also  demonstrated  that  the 
prodrug,  abiraterone  acetate,  can  inhibit  human  CYP17  but  was  less  potent  than  abiraterone 
producing an IC50 of 110 nM. 
Primary and Secondary pharmacology 
In terms of biomarkers for pharmacodynamic activity, the use of Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) as a 
biomarker in determining activity of anti-cancer agents in prostate cancer patients is well recognised. 
Total  testosterone  and  other  androgens  were  also  assessed  as  indirect  pharmacodynamic  markers 
and were regularly monitored as part of clinical laboratory assessments in healthy subject studies. In 
addition, 2 steroids upstream of CYP17 (deoxycorticosterone and corticosterone) increased following 
administration of abiraterone. Treatment with abiraterone acetate resulted in significant suppression 
of testosterone, DHEA, and androstenedione. At every time point on treatment and at every dose of 
abiraterone  acetate,  concentrations  of  testosterone  and  androstenedione  in  all  subjects  were  less 
than the LLOQ of the assay used (androstenedione: 2 ng/dl, testosterone: 1 ng/dl). 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 31/78
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Suppression of androgens and increase in mineralocorticoids by abiraterone 
Reproduced from Attard, 2008 
With regard to PK/PD relationship, a sequential joint PK-PSA-survival modeling approach was used to 
describe the relationship between drug exposure and survival following intake of the study drug with 
PSA  pharmacodynamics  as  an  intermediate  marker.  This  joint  exposure-PSA-outcome  model  was 
factored as 2 sequential models:  
(1) an exposure-PSA model was used to describe the relationship between abiraterone exposure and 
PSA levels;  
(2)  a  second  model  was  used  to  describe  the  association  between  PSA  dynamics  and  clinical 
outcome, overall survival. 
The models were developed using the data from the Phase 3 Study COU-AA-301 only. Analyses were 
based on patients who received at least 1 dose of abiraterone acetate or placebo, and a minimum of 
1 PSA measurement per patient was available (N=1,184). The primary efficacy variable in the study, 
overall  survival,  namely  time  to  death  and  longitudinal  profiles  of  PSA  in  COU-AA-301,  were 
modeled.  
Exposure to abiraterone significantly increased the rate of PSA reduction, and the exposure-response 
in  PSA  dynamics  was  best  described  by  an  Emax  function  of  steady-state  Cmin  with  an  EC 50  of  4.75 
ng/mL  and  a  maximum  effect  of  2.72  times  that  of  placebo  effect  after  adjusting  for  baseline  LDH 
and  testosterone  levels.  The  individual  parameters  from  this  model  were  used  for  the  subsequent 
PSA-Survival modeling. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 32/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Simulated Post-treatment PSA Doubling Time (PSADT) from Baseline at Different 
Steady-state Cmin Concentrations 
The  main  objective  of  the  PSA-Survival  modeling  was  to  explore  the  relationship  between  PSA 
dynamics  and  overall  survival  (relative  risk  of  death),  and  to  link  overall  survival  to  drug  exposure 
through PSA dynamics following treatment. 
The  survival  model  demonstrated  that  PSA  dynamics  was  an  intermediate  biomarker  of  overall 
survival in the study  population. The predicted  post-treatment  PSADT could explain 20% variability 
in  survival  time  alone  in a  univariate  analysis  and  13%  survival  variability  after  adjusting  for  other 
baseline covariates in the final multivariate model. 
Figure 7: Predicted Probability of Overall Survival at Different Exposure (C min) Levels and 
Corresponding Post-treatment PSA Doubling Times Based on the TGI Model  
In addition to model-predicted post-treatment PSADT, low baseline body weight, high baseline ECOG 
score,  low  baseline  albumin,  high  baseline  lactate  dehydrogenase,  short  time  since  prior 
chemotherapy,  and  low  baseline  DHEA  levels  were  also  identified  as  statistically  significant 
prognostic factors.  
A  conventional  sequential  PK/PD  approach  was  used  to  build  the  PPK/PD  model  (post-hoc  PK  data 
from the PPK + longitudinal PSA dynamics model + PSA survival model). The first two models were 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 33/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
developed  in  NONMEM  VI.  The  last  one  is  a  statistical  model  based  on  Cox  PH  models.  A  tumour 
growth  inhibition  model  (TGI)  was  used  to  link  the  drug  exposure  to  tumor  inhibition,  in  this  case 
PSA reduction. No biases on the execution of the development of the PPK/PD study were detected. 
Inspection of the ranges and correlations between covariates showed the suitability of these data to 
be evaluated in the study.  
Later on, the final PPK/PD model was validated (internal validation: visual predictive check (VPC) and 
numerical  predictive  check  (NPC))  to  confirm  the  internal  robustness  of  the  model.  Finally,  Monte 
Carlo simulations were performed to validate the sequential exposure-PSA-survival model. However, 
an external validation with new individuals was not performed. 
Finally,  in  terms  of  secondary  pharmacology,  a  QT/QTc  study  was  submitted  which  employed  an 
intensive  QT  design  in  patients,  as  opposed  to  a  through  design  in  healthy  volunteers.  Patients 
received  1000  mg  abiraterone  acetate  and  underwent 
time-matched  12-lead  ECG  and 
pharmacokinetic sample collection. The primary endpoint was the mean maximal change in QTc from 
baseline. ECG parameters were evaluated in conjunction with the Pharmacokinetic-Pharmacodynamic 
findings.  Linear  mixed  models  were  applied  to  explore  the  relationship  between  plasma 
concentrations  and  change  in  QTcF.  The  average  values  from  the  3  readings  were  used  in  the 
analysis. 
Thirty  three  evaluable  patients  were  enrolled,  treated  and  analyzed  for  QTc,  safety,  and 
pharmacokinetics.  Heart  rate  did  not  show  evidence  of  any  clinically  significant  change  post 
abiraterone acetate administration. The mean QTcF change ranged from -3.4 to 2.3 msecs on Cycle 
1  Day  1  to  -10.1  to  -1.7  msecs  on  Cycle  2  Day  1.  The  upper  limit  of  the  90%  CI  of  the  mean 
baseline corrected QTcF change at each post-dose time point was below 10 msecs for both Cycle 1 
Day 1 (maximum of upper limits = 5.4 msecs) and Cycle 2 Day 1 (maximum of upper limits = 2.4 
msecs).  The  number  and  percentage  of  patients  with  at  least  1  QTcF  value  >  450  msecs  were  9 
(28.2%) and 7 (21.2%) on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1 respectively compared to 11 (33.3%) 
on  baseline.  2  patients    experienced  one  instance  each  of  a  QTcF  increase  of  >30  msecs  but  <60 
msecs post-dose (35.7 msecs & 34.0 msecs). None of the patients experienced an increase in QTcF 
of >60 msecs. No patient had any instances of a QTcF of >480 msecs or 500msecs.  
2.4.4.  Discussion and conclusions on clinical pharmacology 
Following administration of abiraterone acetate, the pharmacokinetics of abiraterone and abiraterone 
acetate  have  been  studied  in  healthy  subjects,  patients  with  metastatic  advanced  prostate  cancer 
and  subjects  without  cancer  with  hepatic  or  renal  impairment.  Abiraterone  acetate  is  rapidly 
converted in vivo to abiraterone, an androgen biosynthesis inhibitor. 
Following oral administration of abiraterone acetate in the fasting state, the time to reach maximum 
plasma  abiraterone  concentration  is  approximately  2 hours.Administration  of  abiraterone  acetate 
with food, compared with administration in a fasted state, results in up to a 10-fold (AUC) and up to 
a 17-fold (C max) increase in mean systemic exposure of abiraterone, depending on the fat content of 
the  meal.  Given  the  normal  variation  in  the  content  and  composition  of  meals,  taking  ZYTIGA  with 
meals has the potential to result in highly variable exposures. Therefore, ZYTIGA must not be taken 
with food. It should be taken at least two hours after eating and no food should be eaten for at least 
one hour after taking ZYTIGA. The tablets should be swallowed whole with water.  
The  plasma  protein  binding  of  14C-abiraterone  in  human  plasma  is  99.8%.  The  apparent  volume  of 
distribution  is  approximately  5,630 L,  suggesting  that  abiraterone  extensively  distributes  to 
peripheral  tissues.  Surprisingly  for  a  drug  with  such  a  high  plasma  protein  binding,  values  of 
apparent  volume  of  distribution  were  extremely  large.  The  low  bioavailability  and  high  variability 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 34/78
 
 
 
 
might partially explain this finding. Moreover, drug binding at the tissue level may play a role in this 
finding as well. 
Following  oral  administration  of  14C-abiraterone  acetate  as  capsules,  abiraterone  acetate  is 
hydrolysed to abiraterone, which then undergoes metabolism including sulphation, hydroxylation and 
oxidation primarily in the liver. The majority of circulating radioactivity (approximately 92%) is found 
in  the  form  of  metabolites  of  abiraterone.  Of  15  detectable  metabolites,  2  main  metabolites, 
abiraterone sulphate and N-oxide abiraterone sulphate, each represents approximately 43% of total 
radioactivity. 
The  mean  half-life  of  abiraterone  in  plasma  is  approximately  15 hours  based  on  data  from  healthy 
subjects.  Following  oral  administration  of  14C-abiraterone  acetate  1000  mg,  approximately  88%  of 
the  radioactive  dose  is  recovered  in  faeces  and  approximately  5%  in  urine.  The  major  compounds 
present in faeces are unchanged abiraterone acetate and abiraterone (approximately 55% and 22% 
of the administered dose, respectively).  
The  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  acetate  was  examined  in  subjects  with  pre-existing  mild  or 
moderate  hepatic  impairment  (Child-Pugh  class  A  and  B,  respectively)  and  in  healthy  control 
subjects.  Systemic  exposure  to  abiraterone  after  a  single  oral  1000  mg  dose  increased  by 
approximately 11% and 260% in subjects with mild and moderate pre-existing hepatic impairment, 
respectively.  The  mean  half-life  of  abiraterone  is  prolonged  to  approximately  18 hours  in  subjects 
with  mild  hepatic  impairment  and  to  approximately  19 hours  in  subjects  with  moderate  hepatic 
impairmentThe  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  acetate  was  compared  in  patients  with  end-stage 
renal disease on a stable haemodialysis schedule versus matched control subjects with normal renal 
function.  Systemic  exposure  to  abiraterone  after  a  single  oral  1000  mg  dose  did  not  increase  in 
subjects with end-stage renal disease on dialysis.  
In a study to determine the effects of abiraterone acetate (plus prednisone) on a single dose of the 
CYP2D6  substrate  dextromethorphan,  the  systemic  exposure  (AUC)  of  dextromethorphan  was 
increased  approximately  2.9 
fold.  The  AUC 24 
for  dextrorphan,  the  active  metabolite  of 
dextromethorphan, increased approximately 33%. 
Caution is advised when Zytiga is administered with medicinal products activated by or metabolised 
by  CYP2D6,  particularly  with  medicinal  productss  that  have  a  narrow  therapeutic  index.  Dose 
reduction  of  medicinal  products  with  a  narrow  therapeutic  index  that  are  metabolised  by  CYP2D6 
should  be  considered.  Examples  of  medicinal  products  metabolised  by  CYP2D6  include  metoprolol, 
propranolol,  desipramine,  venlafaxine,  haloperidol,  risperidone,  propafenone,  flecanide,  codeine, 
oxycodone  and  tramadol  (the  latter  three  products  requiring  CYP2D6  to  form  their  active  analgesic 
metabolites). 
Based on in vitro data, Zytiga is a substrate of CYP3A4. The effects of strong CYP3A4 inhibitors (e.g., 
ketoconazole,  itraconazole,  clarithromycin,  atazanavir,  nefazodone,  saquinavir,  telithromycin, 
ritonavir,  indinavir,  nelfinavir,  voriconazole)  or  inducers  (e.g.,  phenytoin,  carbamazepine,  rifampin, 
rifabutin,  rifapentine,  phenobarbital)  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  have  not  been 
evaluated,  in  vivo.  Avoid,  or  use  with  caution,  strong  inhibitors  and  inducers  of  CYP3A4  during 
treatment.  Moreover,  an  interaction  study  aimed  to  assess  the  effect  of  potent  inducers  and 
inhibitors of CYP3A4 on abiraterone pharmacokinetics is underway. 
As  no  Dose  Limiting  Toxicities  (DLTs)  were  observed  in  early  dose-finding  studies  even  at  the 
2000 mg/day dose (see Dose-response studies below), the choice of the 1000 mg/day dose that was 
taken  forward  in  clinical  development  was  questioned.  However,  in  the  early  clinical  development 
phase,  no  significant  difference  in  concentrations  of  corticosterone  and  deoxycorticosterone  were 
observed at doses higher than 750 mg (e.g. see panel F, Figure 5), suggesting a maximum inhibition 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 35/78
 
 
 
 
of  CYP17  enzyme  activity  at  this  dose.  PK/PD  modelling  demonstrates  that  90%  of  patients  in  the 
Phase  3  study  would  have  achieved  steady-state  Cmin  greater  than  the  estimated  EC50  value  (see 
Figure 6). Therefore, the selection of the 1000 mg dose was endorsed. 
Finally, the lack of an external validation set for the population PK/PD model was considered to limit 
the validity of the model which should only be considered for descriptive purposes. The implications 
of the model for the interpretation of the results into clinically relevant information are limited. 
2.5.  Clinical efficacy  
Three studies were submitted in support of the use of abiraterone acetate in the claimed indication, 
i.e.  in  men  with  metastatic  advanced  castration-resistant  prostate  cancer  (mCRPC)  whose  disease 
has progressed on or after docetaxel-based chemotherapy:  
•  Pivotal  Study  COU-AA-301:  Phase  3  double-blind  randomised  trial  (2:1)  of  abiraterone  acetate 
(tablets) plus low-dose prednisone or prednisolone versus placebo plus low-dose glucocorticoids 
in  patients  with  mCRPC  whose  disease  had  progressed  on  or  after  docetaxel-based 
chemotherapy (ITT population=1,195 patients); primary  endpoint : overall survival; 
•  Study  COU-AA-003  and  COU-AA-003EXT:  Phase  2  studies  of  abiraterone  acetate  (capsules)  in 
patients  with  mCRPC  whose  disease  had  progressed  on  or  after  taxane-based  chemotherapy 
(n=47  and  6  patients,  respectively);  primary  endpoint:  antitumour  effect  as  measured  by  PSA 
response according to PSA WG criteria; 
•  Study COU-AA-004: Phase 2 study of abiraterone acetate (tablets) plus low-dose glucocorticoids 
in  patients  with  mCRPC  whose  disease  had  progressed  on  or  after  taxane-based  chemotherapy 
(n=58  patients);  primary  endpoint:  antitumour  effect  (not  otherwise  specified  in  study  design) 
and safety; 
Further  evidence  of  the  efficacy  of  abiraterone  acetate  in  mCRPC  is  derived  from  four  additional 
Phase 1/2 studies testing abiraterone acetate in chemotherapy-naïve patients (Studies COU-AA-001, 
COU-AA-001EXT,  and  COU-AA-002)  or  evaluating  the  effect  of  food  on  abiraterone  (tablets  and 
capsules) pharmacokinetics in patients with or without prior chemotherapy (COU-AA-BE).  
2.5.1.  Dose response studies 
Two  Phase  I  dose-finding  studies  (COU-AA-001/EXT  and  COU-AA-002),  both  conducted  in 
chemotherapy  naïve  mCRPC  patients,  investigated  the  pharmacokinetics,  safety  and  tolerability  of 
abiraterone acetate. 
COU-AA-001/EXT 
Study  COU-AA-001  was  an  open  label  single  arm  Phase  I/II  study  designed  to  evaluate  the  safety 
and  efficacy  of  abiraterone  acetate  in  chemotherapy-naïve  hormone  refractory  prostate  cancer 
patients who had failed LHRH analogue and/or antiandrogen therapy. The primary objectives of the 
study were to evaluate the safety, tolerability and recommended dose of abiraterone acetate and to 
evaluate the activity of abiraterone acetate at the recommended dose. 
The starting dose for the dose escalation phase was 250 mg. The doses tested were 250, 500, 750, 
1000  and  2000  mg/day.  If  <33%  of  patients  (e.g.  0  of  3)  experienced  a  Dose  Limiting  Toxicity 
(DLT), then the dose was defined as tolerable and dose escalation continued. If a DLT was observed 
in 33%-50% (e.g. 1 of 3) of patients in the first cycle, then the cohort was expanded to include at 
least 3 more patients (6 patients in total). If a DLT was observed in >50% (e.g. 2 of 3) of patients in 
the first cycle, this dose was considered above the MTD and dose escalation was stopped. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 36/78
 
 
 
 
In  the  Phase  II,  the  primary  efficacy  endpoint  was  confirmed  objective  PSA  response,  evaluated 
according  to  the  PSAWG  guidelines.  Secondary  endpoints  were  objective  response  (RECIST), 
duration of response for PSA and RECIST responses and time to disease progression. 
18  patients  were  enrolled  in  Phase  I  and  36  patients  were  enrolled  in  Phase  II.  No  DLTs  were 
observed in patients in any of the dose cohorts in Phase I. In terms of efficacy, 60% of the patients 
had  confirmed  response  (decline  of  ≥50%  from  baseline)  with  a  median  330  days  (95%  CI:  197, 
530) to PSA progression. 8 (19.0%) patients showed partial tumour response, 28 (66.7%) patients 
had stable disease and 2 (4.8%) patients had progressive disease.  
COU-AA-002 
Study COU-AA-002 was a Phase I/II, multicentre, open-label study investigating abiraterone acetate 
treatment  in  patients  with  CRPC  who  had  had  no  previous  chemotherapy  for  prostate  cancer.  The 
primary objectives were to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of abiraterone acetate and 
to assess the proportion of patients achieving a ≥50% prostate specific antigen (PSA) decline during 
therapy.  
In  the  Phase  I,  dose  escalation  aimed  to  determine  the  maximum  tolerated  dose  (MTD)  and  to 
determine the need for supplementation with corticosteroids. Planned doses were 250 mg, 500 mg, 
750  mg,  1  g  and  2000  mg/day.  The  Phase  II  evaluated  the  antitumour  activity.  Patients  were  to 
receive  1000  mg  abiraterone  acetate  daily  for  up  to  12  cycles,  until  disease  progression  or 
unacceptable toxicity was observed.  
The planned dose for Phase II was the MTD from Phase I. However, the dose was determined to be 
1000 mg/day as per Amendment 5. 
Following  Protocol  Amendment  7  (6  October  2008),  all  patients  were  required  to  receive  low-dose 
glucocorticoids such as prednisone (5 mg twice daily) or dexamethasone (0.5 mg once daily), in an 
effort to ameliorate mineralocorticoid side effects. 
33  patients  were  enrolled  in  Phase  I  (dose  escalation  stage  and  pharmacokinetics)  and  33  patients 
were  enrolled  in  Phase  II.  No  DLTs  observed  in  patients  in  all  dose  cohorts  in  Phase  I.  No  patients 
were  treated  at  the  2000  mg/day  dose  level.  In  terms  of  efficacy,  58%  of  patients  showed  a 
confirmed  PSA  decline  of  ≥50%  in  the  Phase  I  and  in  the  Phase  II  57.6%  of  patients  achieved  a 
confirmed  maximal  PSA  decline  of  ≥50%.  The  median  time  to  PSA  progression  was  15.9  months 
(477  days).  In  terms  of  tumour  response,  9  (35%)  patients  achieved  a  partial  response.  Stable 
disease was seen in 12 patients (46%). 
2.5.2.  Main study 
COU-AA-301 
This  was  a  phase  3,  randomised,  double-blind,  placebo-controlled  study  of  abiraterone  acetate 
(CB7630)  plus  prednisone  in  patients  with  metastatic  castration-resistant  prostate  cancer  who  had 
failed  docetaxel-based  chemotherapy.  The  study  was  conducted  at  147  sites  in  the  United  States 
(U.S.), Europe, Australia, and Canada. 
Methods 
Study Participants 
Main inclusion criteria: 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 37/78
 
 
 
 
  Men of at least 18 years of age 
  Histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate without neuroendocrine 
differentiation or small cell histology and medically or surgically castrated 
  1 but not more than 2 different cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens for mCRPC (one of which must 
have contained docetaxel) 
 
Investigator documented prostate cancer progression (PSA progression according to PSAWG 
criteria or radiographic progression in soft tissue or bone with or without PSA progression) 
  Ongoing androgen deprivation with serum testosterone <50 ng/dl (<2.0 nM) 
  ECOG performance status score of 2 or less 
Main exclusion criteria 
  Serious or uncontrolled coexistent non-malignant disease, including active and uncontrolled 
infection 
  Abnormal liver transaminase test concentrations 
  Uncontrolled hypertension, viral hepatitis or chronic liver disease, history of pituitary or adrenal 
dysfunction, clinically significant heart disease, other malignancy, known brain metastasis 
 
Prior therapy with abiraterone, other CYP17 inhibitors, or investigational agents targeting the AR 
for metastatic prostate cancer or prior therapy with ketoconazole 
Treatments 
Eligible patients received either abiraterone acetate 1000 mg (administered as 4 x 250 mg tablets) 
once  daily  continuously  or  4  placebo  tablets  orally  once  daily.  Patients  were  dosed  at  least  1  hour 
before  or  2  hours  after  a  meal,  any  time  up  to  10  pm  each  day  continuously.  5  mg  of  either 
prednisone  or  prednisolone  was  administered  orally  twice  daily.  Luteinizing  hormone-releasing 
hormone  (LHRH)  agonists  were  mandatory  for  patients  who  did  not  undergo  orchiectomy. 
Bisphosphonate  usage  was  allowed  if  patients  were  receiving  them  prior  to  Day  1.  Concurrent 
administration of other anticancer therapy, including cytotoxic, hormonal (except LHRH agonists) or 
immunotherapy  was  prohibited  during  the  study  treatment  phase.  Palliative  radiation  (1  course  of 
involved field radiation (single or multi-fraction) to a single site was permitted. 
Treatment  was  to  be  continued  until  disease  progression,  unacceptable  toxicity  or  patient´s  non-
compliance  or  withdrawal.    After  discontinuation  of  treatment,  patients  were  followed  for  disease 
progression and survival for up to 5 years. 
Objectives 
The  primary  objective  was  to  demonstrate  that  treatment  with  abiraterone  acetate  and  prednisone 
improves  survival  in  patients  with  mCRPC  whose  disease  had  progressed  on  or  after  1  or  2 
chemotherapy regimens (including docetaxel). 
Secondary  objectives  included  evaluation  of  safety,  functional  status  and  symptomatology,  further 
characterisation of the pharmacokinetics and assessment of the potential utility of circulating tumour 
cells (CTCs) as a surrogate for clinical benefit. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 38/78
 
 
 
 
Outcomes/endpoints 
The  primary  endpoint  was  Overall  Survival  (OS)  defined  as  the  interval  from  the  date  of 
randomization  to  the  date  of  death  from  any  cause.  Survival  follow  up  was  to  continue  every  3 
months for up to 60 months (5 years) after the patient’s entry into the study. 
The key secondary endpoints were the following: 
-  Time  to  PSA  progression:  The  time  interval  from  the  date  of  randomization  to  the  date  of  PSA 
progression as defined in the PSAWG criteria. 
-  Radiographic  PFS:  Progression-free  survival  based  on  imaging  studies,  i.e.  the  time  interval  from 
the  date  of  randomisation  to  the  date  of  the  event  as  assessed  by  the  investigator  (radiographic 
disease  progression  or  death).  Radiographic  progression  was  defined  as  soft  tissue  disease 
progression  by  modified  RECIST  (baseline  lymph  node  size  must  be  ≥2.0  cm  to  be  considered  a 
target  lesion),  or  progression  on  bone  scans  with  ≥2  new  lesions  not  consistent  with  tumour  flare, 
confirmed on a second scan ≥6 weeks later that shows ≥1 additional new lesion. 
Non-target  abnormality  was  to  be  recorded  as  present  at  baseline  followed-by  present/absent  or 
increased/decreased.  If  no  event  existed,  then  PFS  was  to  be  censored  at  the  last  disease 
assessment  on  study.  Progression-free  survival  of  living  patients  with  no  assessment  on-study  and 
PFS of patients with no baseline assessment was to be censored at randomisation. 
CT/MRI/other imaging procedures and bone scan were scheduled during screening and day 1, cycle 
4, 7, 10 day 1. 
-  PSA  Response  Rate:  Proportion  of  patients  achieving  a  PSA  decline  of  at  least  50%  according  to 
PSAWG Criteria. PSA measurements were scheduled during screening, cycle 1 day 1, cycle 4, 7, 10 
day 1, every 3 cycles beyond cycle 10 & end of study. 
Other  secondary  endpoints  included:  objective  response  rate,  pain  palliation  rate,  time  to  pain 
progression, time to first skeletal related event, modified PFS, circulating tumour cell (CTC) response 
rate and functional status. 
Sample size 
The  planned  sample  size  of  approximately  1,158  patients  (772  patients:  abiraterone  acetate,  386 
patients:  placebo)  provided  85%  power  to  detect  a  20%  decrease  in  the  risk  of  death  for  the 
abiraterone  acetate-treated  group  (hazard  ratio  [HR]=0.80).  This  sample  size  was  calculated  by 
assuming  the  following:  a  median  survival  of  15  months  for  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  a 
median  survival  of  12  months  for  the  placebo  group;  a  2-tailed  significance  level  of  0.05;  an 
enrollment period of approximately 13 months; and a study duration of approximately 30 months to 
observe the required 797 total events.   
One interim analysis and 1 final analysis were to be conducted after approximately 67% and 100% 
of  the  total  797  OS  events  had  occurred,  respectively.  The  purpose  of  the  interim  analysis  was  to 
terminate the study early if superiority was demonstrated for the abiraterone acetate group for the 
primary efficacy endpoint, OS. 
Randomisation 
The patients were randomly assigned to receive abiraterone acetate and prednisone/prednisolone or 
placebo  and  prednisone/prednisolone  in  a  2:1  ratio.  They  were  stratified  by  the  following  baseline 
factors: Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status score (0-1 versus 2), worst 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 39/78
 
 
 
 
pain over the past 24 hours on the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) (0-3 [absent] versus 
4-10  [present]),  prior  chemotherapy  regimens  (1  versus  2),  and  type  of  progression  prior  to  study 
entry (PSA progression only versus radiographic progression with or without PSA progression). 
Blinding (masking) 
This  was  a  double-blind  study  and  in  order  to  maintain  the  study  blind,  placebo  was  supplied  as  a 
tablet formulation matching abiraterone acetate tablets in size, color, and shape. All patients, family 
members,  study  personnel  (at  the  study  site,  the  Sponsor,  or  participating  Clinical  Research 
Organization), and members of the Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) were to remain 
blinded to treatment assignment until completion of the study, with certain well-justified exceptions. 
Statistical methods 
The primary endpoint (and all other time-to-event data) were analysed using the stratified log-rank 
test, stratified for the randomisation factors. 
For the measurement of the primary endpoint, survival time of living patients was to be censored at 
the last date a patient was known to be alive or lost to follow up.  
One  interim  analysis  was  to  be  conducted  using  group  sequential  design  with  the  O’Brien-Fleming 
boundary  after  approximately  534  death  events  had been  observed  (67%  of  797  total  events)  and 
the planned final analysis was to occur after 797 total deaths 
Results 
Participant flow 
t
n
e
m
o
r
n
E
l
n
o
i
t
a
c
o
l
l
A
p
u
-
w
o
l
l
o
F
Assessed for Eligibility 
Screen failures (n=347) 
(n=1542)  
Randomised (n=1195) 
Allocated to intervention  (n=797) 
Received allocated intervention (n=791) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons (n=6) 
Allocated to intervention (n=398) 
Received allocated intervention (n=394) 
Did not receive Allocated intervention; 
give reasons (n=4) 
Discontinued intervention (n=569) 
- disease progression 219 (27.7%) 
- new treatment 107 (13.5%) 
- AE 98 (12.4%) 
- withdrawal of consent 70 (8.8%) 
- other reasons 75 (9.6%) 
Analysed (n=797)  
Excluded from analysis (n=0) 
s
i
s
y
l
a
n
A
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Discontinued intervention (n=340) 
- disease progression 112 (28.4%) 
- new treatment 64 (16.2%) 
- AE 70 (17.8%) 
- withdrawal of consent 40 (10.2%) 
- other reasons 54 (13.8%) 
Analysed (n=398) 
Excluded from analysis (n=0) 
Page 40/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recruitment 
The first patient was enrolled on 8 May 2008 and the last one was enrolled on 28 July 2009. At the 
time  of  clinical  cut-off  (22  January  2010),  blinded  treatment  was  ongoing  for  276  patients  (222 
patients (28%) in the abiraterone group and 54 (13,7%) in the placebo group).   
Conduct of the study 
There were three major protocol amendments after study initiation: 
  Amendment  1  -  text  removed  regarding  congenital  CYP17  deficiency,  clarification  of  safety 
reporting,  clarification  of  dose  related  event  management  and  clarification  of  bone  scan 
collection/ additional time points collection for prothrombin/thromoboplastin. 
  Amendment  2  -  text  for  guidance  on  dose  reduction  and  patient  management  for  drug  related 
events,  liver  function  tests  (LFT),  non-mineralocorticoid  side  effects,  add  section  on  routine 
monitoring of LFTs and imaging procedure revision for consistency 
  Amendment  3  -  recommendations  made  by  the  IDMC  and  provision  of  information  to 
investigators allowing patients in the placebo group to receive abiraterone acetate 
Protocol deviations were captured on tracking forms separate from the Clinical Report Forms (CRFs) 
and they were reviewed by the medical monitor.  
  15%  of  patients  in  both  groups  were  identified  as  having  major  protocol  deviations  during  the 
study 
 
The most common major protocol deviation was enrolment and entry criteria deviations (meeting 
eligibility criteria, prior use of ketoconazole), 8% of patients in the abiraterone acetate group and 
9% of patients in the placebo group 
 
The  second  most  common  major  protocol  deviation  was  use  of  prohibited  concurrent 
medications,  5%  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  4%  of  patients  in  the  placebo 
group  
  1  patient  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  received  a  mixture  of  both  abiraterone  acetate  and 
placebo during the study due to pharmacy error (assigned to abiraterone arm) 
During  the  study,  the  Applicant  found that  the  reasons  for  discontinuation  of  study  treatment  were 
not  recorded  consistently  across  study  centres,  particularly  with  respect  to  disease  progression.  To 
improve consistency and provide a more accurate representation of the study data, blinded data for 
each patient were medically reviewed and re-categorized the reasons for discontinuation accordingly. 
Baseline data 
Baseline  demographics,  baseline  disease  characteristics  and  prior  therapy  information  are 
summarised in the following tables. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 41/78
 
 
 
 
Table 5: Baseline demographics  
Table 6: Baseline disease characteristics and prior therapy 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 42/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 43/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numbers analysed 
Efficacy  analyses  were  performed  using  the  ITT  population,  which  included  all  randomized  patients 
(797 patients in the abiraterone acetate group and 398 patients in the placebo group).  Ten patients 
did not receive study treatment (6 from the AA arm; 4 from the Placebo arm); they were however 
included  in  the  allocated  treatment  arm  for  efficacy  analyses  although  excluded  from  the  safety 
population analyses. 
Outcomes and estimation 
Primary endpoint 
The efficacy results in terms of the primary endpoint of Overall Survival and for the primary analysis 
of 22 January 2010 are summarised in the following table and figure. 
Table 7: Overall Survival - Stratified Analysis, study COU-AA-301, ITT Population, cut-off 
22 Jan 2010 
Patients randomised 
Death  
Censored 
Overall Survival (days) 
Abiraterone 
797 
Placebo 
398 
333 (41.8%) 
219 (55.0%) 
464 (58.2%) 
179 (45.0%) 
Median (95% CI) 
450 (430, 470) 
332 (310, 366) 
Log-rank p-value (stratified) 
< 0.0001 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)  
0.646 (0.543, 0.768) 
Figure 8: Overall Survival, study COU-AA-301, ITT population, cut-off 22 Jan 2010 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 44/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The  Applicant  also  submitted  the  results  of  an  updated  OS  analysis  with  a  cut-off  date  of 
20 September 2010, which are summarised in the following table and figure. 
Table 8: Overall Survival, study COU-AA-301, ITT Population, cut-off 20 Sept 2010 
Patients randomised 
Death 
Censored 
Overall Survival (days) 
Abiraterone 
797 
Placebo 
398 
501 (62.9%) 
274 (68.8%) 
296 (37.1%) 
124 (31.2%) 
Median (95% CI) 
482.0 (451.0, 518.0) 
341.0 (317.0, 400.0) 
Log-rank p-value (stratified) 
< 0.0001 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)  
0.740 (0.638, 0.859) 
Figure 9: Overall Survival, study COU-AA-301, ITT population, cut-off 20 Sept 2010 
Key secondary endpoints 
Results in terms of the key secondary endpoints of time to PSA progression, radiographic Progression 
Free Survival (rPFS) and PSA response rate are summarised in the following tables and figures. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 45/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 9: Time to PSA progression, study COU-AA-301, ITT population 
PSA progressed  
Censored  
Time to PSA progression (days) 
Abiraterone 
254 (31.9%) 
Placebo 
120 (30.2%) 
543 (68.1%) 
278 (69.8%) 
Median (95% CI)  
309.0 (255.0, 421.0) 
200.0 (170.0, 254.0) 
log-rank p-value (stratified) 
< 0.0001 
Hazard Ratio (95% CI) 
0.580 (0.462, 0.728) 
NE=Not Estimable 
Figure 10: Time to PSA progression, study COU-AA-301, ITT population 
Table 10: Radiographic PFS – Stratified analysis, study COU-AA-301, ITT population 
Progressive disease or died 
Censored 
Radiographic progression-free survival (days) 
Abiraterone 
577 (72.4%) 
220 (27.6%) 
Placebo 
327 (82.2%) 
71 (17.8%) 
Median  (95% CI) 
log-rank p-value (stratified) 
Hazard ratio (95% CI)  
NE=Not Estimable 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
171.0 (169.0, 192.0) 
110.0 (88.0, 168.0) 
< 0.0001 
0.673 (0.585, 0.776) 
Page 46/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Radiographic Progression, Study COU-AA-301, ITT population 
Table 11: PSA response rate – Nonstratified analysis, study COU-AA-301, ITT population 
Patients with PSA response  
Confirmed   
Unconfirmed 
Relative risk (95% CI) 
p value (p value is from a Chi-squared test) 
Other secondary endpoints 
Abiraterone 
Placebo 
303 (38.0%) 
40 (10.1%) 
232 (29.1%) 
22 (5.5%) 
71 (8.9%) 
18 (4.5%) 
5.266 (3.459, 8.018) 
< 0.0001 
The proportion of patients with pain palliation was statistically significantly higher in the abiraterone 
acetate  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (44%  versus  27%,  p=0.0002).  A  responder  for  pain 
palliation  was  defined  as  a  patient  who  experienced  at  least  a  30%  reduction  from  baseline  in  the 
BPI-SF  worst  pain  intensity  score  over  the  last  24 hours  without  any  increase  in  analgesic  usage 
score observed at two consecutive evaluations four weeks apart. Only patients with a baseline pain 
score of ≥ 4 and at least one post-baseline pain score were analysed (N=512) for pain palliation. 
A  lower  proportion  of  patients  treated  with  abiraterone  acetate  had  pain  progression  compared  to 
patients taking placebo at 6 (22% versus 28%), 12 (30% versus 38%) and 18 months (35% versus 
46%). Pain progression was defined as an increase from baseline of ≥ 30% in the BPI-SF worst pain 
intensity score over the previous 24 hours without a decrease in analgesic usage score observed at 
two  consecutive  visits,  or  an  increase  of  ≥ 30%  in  analgesic  usage  score  observed  at  two 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 47/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consecutive visits. The time to pain progression at the 25th percentile was 7.4 months in the active 
treatment group, versus 4.7 months in the placebo group. 
A lower proportion of patients in the abiraterone acetate group had skeletal-related events compared 
with  the  placebo  group  at  6 months  (18%  versus  28%),  12 months  (30%  versus  40%),  and 
18 months  (35%  versus  40%).  The  time  to  first  skeletal-related  event  at  the  25th percentile  in  the 
active  treatment  group  was  twice  that  of  the  control  group  at  9.9 months  versus  4.9 months.  A 
skeletal-related  event  was  defined  as  a  pathological  fracture,  spinal  cord  compression,  palliative 
radiation to bone, or surgery to bone.  
Finally,  results  in  terms  of  modified  PFS  and  CTCs also  showed  differences  in  favour  of  abiraterone 
acetate  and  measures  of  functional  status  generally  showed  improvement  in  the  abiraterone  group 
compared to the placebo group (data not shown).  
Ancillary analyses 
Subgroup analyses for OS are shown in the following figure. 
Figure 12: OS by subgroup -Nonstratified analysis, study COU-AA-301, ITT population 
The  treatment  effect  on  OS  was  similar  after  adjustment  for  stratification  factors  in  a  multivariate 
analysis (HR=0.657; 95% CI: 0.554, 0.780; p<0.0001).  
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 48/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of main study 
The  following  tables  summarise  the  efficacy  results  from  the  main  study  supporting  the  present 
application.  This  summary  should  be  read  in  conjunction  with  the  discussion  on  clinical  efficacy  as 
well as the benefit risk assessment (see later sections). 
Table 12: Summary of Efficacy for trial COU-AA-301 
Title: A Phase 3, Randomised, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Study of Abiraterone Acetate (CB7630) Plus 
Prednisone in Patients with Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer Who Have Failed Docetaxel-Based 
Chemotherapy 
Study identifier 
COU-AA-301, NCT-00638690, 2007-005837-13 
Design 
multinational, multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
Duration of main phase: 
Until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity  
Duration of Run-in phase: 
 not applicable 
Duration of Extension phase: 
 not applicable 
Hypothesis 
Superiority 
Treatments groups 
Abiraterone acetate 
Placebo 
Endpoints and 
definitions 
Primary 
endpoint 
Overall survival 
(OS) 
1 g (administered as 4 x 250-mg tablets) orally 
once daily continuously at least 1 hour before or 2 
hours after a meal + prednisone/ prednisolone 5 mg 
orally twice daily (N=797) 
4 matching placebo tablets orally once daily 
continuously at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after 
a meal + prednisone/ prednisolone 5 mg orally 
twice daily (N=398) 
Time from randomisation to death from any cause 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Secondary 
endpoint 
Time to prostate-
specific antigen 
(PSA) 
progression 
Radiographic 
progression-free 
survival (PFS) 
PSA response 
rate (RR) 
Time from randomisation to the date of PSA 
progression as defined in the PSAWG criteria 
Time from randomisation to radiographic 
progression (modified RECIST criteria, see details in 
the text) as assessed by the investigator or death 
Proportion of patients achieving a PSA decline of at 
least 50% according to PSAWG 
criteria 
Database lock 
22/01/2010  
Results and Analysis  
Analysis description 
Primary Analysis 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Intent to treat, 22/01/2010 (534 events of death observed) 
Treatment group 
Abiraterone acetate  
Placebo 
Number of patient 
treated 
OS 
(median, in days) 
791 
394 
450 
(14.8 months) 
332 
(10.9 months) 
95% CI  
(430, 470) 
(310, 366) 
Time to PSA 
progression 
(median, in days) 
95% CI  
309 
(10.2 months) 
200 
(6.6 months) 
(255, 421) 
(170, 254) 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 49/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Radiographic PFS 
(median, in days) 
95% CI 
171 
(5.6 months) 
(169, 192) 
110 
(3.6 months) 
(88, 168) 
PSA RR 
[Number of patients 
(%)] 
95% CI 
Confirmed PSA RR 
[Number of patients 
(%)] 
95% CI 
303 (38.0%) 
40 (10.1%) 
(34.6%, 41.5%) 
(7.3%, 13.4%) 
232 (29.1%) 
22 (5.5%) 
(26.0%, 32.4%) 
(3.5%, 8.2%) 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(OS) 
Comparison groups 
Abiraterone acetate vs placebo  
HR from stratified 
proportional hazards model  
95% CI  
0.646  
(0.543, 0.768) 
Stratified log-rank p-value  
<0.0001 
Secondary endpoint  
(time to PSA 
progression) 
Secondary endpoint 
(radiographic PFS) 
Secondary endpoint 
(confirmed PSA RR) 
Comparison groups 
Abiraterone acetate vs placebo 
HR from stratified 
proportional hazards model  
95% CI  
Stratified log-rank p-value 
0.580  
(0.462, 0.728) 
<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
Abiraterone acetate vs placebo  
HR from stratified 
proportional hazards model  
95% CI  
Stratified log-rank p-value 
0.673  
(0.585, 0.776) 
<0.0001 
Comparison groups 
Abiraterone acetate vs placebo  
Relative risk  
5.266  
95% CI  
(3.459, 8.018) 
Chi-squared p-value  
<0.0001 
Stratification factors for the primary analysis (logrank): ECOG performance status 
score (0-1, 2), pain score (absent, present), number of prior chemotherapy regimens 
(1, 2), and type of progression (PSA only, radiographic 
Updated OS Analysis  
Intent to treat, 20/09/2010 (775 events of death observed) 
Treatment group 
Abiraterone acetate  
Placebo 
Number of patient 
OS 
(median, in days)  
797 
482 
398 
341 
95% CI  
(451, 518) 
(317, 400) 
Notes 
Analysis description 
Analysis population and 
time point description 
Descriptive statistics and 
estimate variability 
Effect estimate per 
comparison 
Primary endpoint 
(OS) 
Comparison groups 
Abiraterone acetate vs placebo  
HR from stratified 
proportional hazards model  
95% CI  
0.740  
(0.638, 0.859) 
Log-rank p-value  
<0.0001 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 50/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Analysis performed across trials (pooled analyses and meta-analysis) 
A comparison of main efficacy results between the studies supporting the efficacy of abiraterone 
acetate is shown in the following table. 
Table 13: Comparison of eficacy results across studies in patients with previous taxane-
based chemotherapy for prostate cancer 
Study Number 
Treatment Number 
of Patients 
(Analysis 
Population) 
COU-AA-301 
Abiraterone Acetate 
N=797 (ITT) 
Placebo 
N=398 (ITT) 
COU-AA-004 
Abiraterone Acetate 
N=58 (All Treated) 
COU-AA-003/EXT 
Abiraterone Acetate 
N=47 (ITT) 
Median 
Overall 
Survival 
(Months) 
Median Time to 
PSA Progression 
(Months) 
Median 
Radiographic 
PFS 
(Months) 
% of Patients 
with 
Confirmed PSA 
Response 
14.8 
10.2 
10.9 
6.6 
16.2 
5.6 
5.6 
3.6 
4.1 
29 
6 
38 
12.5 
5.6 
15.0 
Week 12: 36 
Maximal: 45 
Clinical studies in special populations 
Pharmacokinetic  studies  in  non-cancer  adult  patients  with  renal  and  liver  dysfunction  have  been 
submitted. These are described under the clinical pharmacology and clinical safety sections.   
Supportive studies 
Two supportive phase II Studies (COU-AA-004 and COU-AA-003/EXT) were submitted. 
Study COU-AA-004 
Study  COU-AA-004  was  a  phase  II,  multicentre,  open-label,  single-arm  study  that  evaluated  the 
safety and efficacy of abiraterone acetate in patients with CRPC whose disease had progressed on or 
after docetaxel-based chemotherapy. The study was carried out between the 06/06/07 and 22/01/10 
in the USA. Patients received combination abiraterone acetate and prednisone from the beginning of 
the  study  in  order  to  lower  the  incidence  and  severity  of  mineralocorticoid-related  adverse  events 
that are attributed to the pharmacologic mechanism of CYP17 inhibition. The Applicant claimed that 
the study was conducted in compliance with GCP. 
Eligible  patients  received  abiraterone  acetate  1000  mg  (administered  as  4  x  250  mg  tablets)  orally 
once daily after an overnight fast, and prednisone 5 mg orally twice daily. Abiraterone acetate was 
administered  on  a  continuous  schedule,  but  each  cycle  of  treatment  was  defined  as  28  ±  2  days. 
Treatment  was  to  continue  through  12  cycles  or  until  documented  disease  progression  or 
unacceptable toxicity. Survival data was to be collected for up to 5 years after study entry.  
Results 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 51/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fifty  eight  patients  were  enrolled  and  treated  in  the  study.  All  patients  received  prior  docetaxel 
chemotherapy  and  had  undergone  androgen  deprivation  with  medical/surgical  castration.  Seventy 
six percent of patients had 1 line of prior chemotherapy and 24% had ≥2 lines. Ninety eight percent 
of patients received prior GnRH analogues and 5% of patients had undergone prior orchiectomy (3% 
had both). 
The median age at baseline was 70 years and 26% of patients were 75 years of age or older. 93% of 
patients  were  white.  ECOG  performance  status  score  was  0  for  42%  of  patients,  1  for  54%  of 
patients and 2 for 4% of patients. The median baseline PSA concentration was 189.6 ng/ml. 
At  the  time  of  data  cut-off  (22  January  2010),  most  patients  (93%)  had  discontinued  treatment; 
disease  progression  was  the  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation  and  was  seen  in  76%  of  the 
study  population.  The  median  duration  of  treatment  was  12  weeks  (range:  2  to  121  weeks).  Two 
patients required dose reductions of abiraterone acetate due to adverse events.  
Table 14: Key efficacy endpoints and results, study COU-AA-004  
Endpoint 
Outcome 
PSA response rate (PSA response was defined as 
38% 
a decline in PSA concentration of >50% from 
baseline per PSAWG criteria) 
Duration of PSA response 
At the time of clinical cut-off - median duration 
of PSA response was not reached 
Time to PSA progression 
Median time to PSA progression was 169 days 
(5.6 months; 95% CI: 99, 225 days) 
Objective radiographic response rate 
6% of patients achieved a Partial Response (PR) 
46% of patients achieved Stable Disease (SD) 
Time to radiographic progression 
Median time to radiographic progression was 88 
rPFS 
OS 
days (2.9 months; 95% CI: 82, 333 days) 
Median rPFS was 126 days (4.1 months; 95% 
CI: 82, 333 days) 
Median OS was 492 days (16.2 months; 95% CI: 
373, 647 days), estimated 1-year survival rate of 
63% (95% CI: 49, 74) 
Clinical benefit response rate (defined as at least 
Clinical benefit response rate was 60% 
1 of the following: PSA response by PSAWG 
criteria, radiographic response by modified 
RECIST criteria, stable disease by RECIST criteria 
lasting 6 months, or improvement by at least 1 
unit in ECOG performance status score) 
Study COU-AA-003/EXT  
Study  COU-AA-003  was  a  Phase  II,  multicentre,  open-label,  single-arm  study  that  evaluated  the 
antitumour effects of abiraterone acetate in patients with CRPC whose disease had progressed on or 
after  taxane-based  chemotherapy,  including  docetaxel  or  paclitaxel.  The  study  was  carried  out 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 52/78
 
 
 
 
 
between  the  20/11/06  -  22/01/10  in  the  USA  and  the  UK.  Eligible  patients  received  abiraterone 
acetate 1000 mg (administered as 4 x 250 mg capsules) orally once daily after an overnight fast. As 
of Amendment 2 of the study protocol (24 April 2008), all ongoing patients also received a low-dose 
corticosteroid,  such  as  prednisone  (5  mg  twice  daily)  or  dexamethasone  (0.5  mg  once  daily). 
Abiraterone  acetate  was  administered  on  a  continuous  schedule,  but  each  cycle  of  treatment  was 
defined as 28 ± 2 days. Treatment was to continue through to 12 cycles or until documented disease 
progression, lack of disease response after 6 evaluable cycles of treatment, or unacceptable toxicity. 
The Applicant claimed that the study was conducted in compliance with GCP. 
Study COU-AA-003 EXT was an extension of Study COU-AA-003 that allowed responding patients to 
continue receiving abiraterone acetate after 12 cycles. Patients received the same dose and regimen 
of  abiraterone  acetate  administered  during  Study  COU-AA-003  along  with  a  concurrent 
corticosteroid.  Treatment  was  to  continue  until  death,  loss  to  follow-up,  withdrawal  of  informed 
consent, sustained toxicity, disease progression or the Sponsor’s decision to terminate the study. 
Results 
Forty seven patients were enrolled and treated in the study. All patients received prior taxane-based 
chemotherapy  as  mandated  by  the  protocol  and  all  patients  had  undergone  androgen  deprivation 
with medical or surgical castration. Moreover, 100% of patients received prior GnRH analogues. 
The  median  age  at  baseline  was  67  years  and  19%  of  patients  were  75  years  of  age  or  older.  The 
majority of patients 98% were white. At baseline, the ECOG performance status score was 0 for 34% 
of patients, 1 for 57% of patients, and 2 for 9% of patients. The median baseline PSA concentration 
was 403.0 ng/ml. 
At  the  time  of  data  cut-off  (22  January  2010),  41  (87%)  patients  had  discontinued  from  the  study 
and  6  (13%)  patients  were  still  receiving  treatment.  The  most  common  reason  for  discontinuation 
was disease progression (49%) followed by adverse event (23%). The median duration of treatment 
was 23 weeks (range: 2 to 148 weeks). Two patients had their doses of abiraterone acetate reduced 
due to adverse events; neither of these patients was discontinued from the study due to toxicity. 
Table 15: Key efficacy endpoints and results, study COU-AA-003/EXT  
Endpoint 
Outcome 
Week 12 PSA response rates (PSA response 
PSA response rate at Week 12 was 36% 
defined as a decline in PSA concentration of 
>50% from baseline per PSAWG criteria) 
Maximal PSA response rates (based on all PSA 
The maximal confirmed PSA response rate was 
assessments throughout the entire study) 
45% 
Duration of PSA response 
Median duration of PSA response of 169 days 
(5.6 months; 95% CI: 141,,262 days) 
Time to PSA progression 
Median time to PSA progression was 169 days 
(5.6 months; 95% CI: 113, 281 days) 
Objective response rate by RECIST criteria 
Objective response rate (CR or PR) was achieved 
by 6 (26%) patients (95% CI: 10, 48) (n = 23, 
measureable disease at baseline) 
OS 
Median OS was 380 days (12.5 months; 95% CI: 
311, 457 days) 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 53/78
 
 
 
 
 
2.5.3.  Discussion on clinical efficacy 
Design and conduct of clinical studies 
In the pivotal study COU-AA-301, patients having received prior ketoconazole therapy were excluded 
from  the  study.    This  is  a  relevant  issue  as  ketoconazole,  an  antifungal  drug  not  approved  for  this 
indication, is however widely used in mCRPC patients in many countries prior to initiation of any kind 
of  chemotherapy.    Lower  response  rates  were  observed  in  earlier  studies  of  abiraterone  acetate  in 
mCRPC patients that had been previously treated with ketoconazole, although some activity was still 
observed  in  this  setting  (e.g.  in  study  COU-AA-004,  a  PSA  response  rate  of  26%  was  observed  in 
patients having received prior ketoconazole treatment and 48% in those with no prior ketoconazole 
therapy).    Therefore,  although  some  activity  following  ketoconazole  treatment  may  exist,  it  is 
expected  to  be  lower  and  this  has  not  been  properly  assessed  in  a  controlled  clinical  trial.  This 
information has been adequately addressed in sections 4.4 and 5.1 of the SmPC).      
Demographics  and  baseline  disease  characteristics  were  well  balanced  between  the  2  groups.  
Overall, characteristics of the study population properly reflect those of the target population for the 
intended  indication  with  two  possible  exceptions:  ECOG  performance  status  score  and  race.    As  in 
many clinical trials, ECOG performance status score is on average far better than that encountered in 
the target population.  Although it is true that poor PS patients are generally not suitable candidates 
for chemotherapy and often managed with best supportive care only, this would not be so much the 
case  in  the  context  of  an  oral  drug  with  a  favourable  safety  profile  such  as  abiraterone.    However, 
more of an issue is the fact that the black race was certainly underrepresented in this trial (<4%).  
The  patient  population  of  the  pivotal  trial  is  reflected  in  section  5.1  of  the  SmPC  and  use  in  non-
white patients is reflected as important missing information in the Risk Management Plan.  
Efficacy data and additional analyses 
Results from the study revealed a median overall survival of 14.8 months for the abiraterone group 
and 10.9 months for the placebo group. The benefit in survival was confirmed in an updated analysis 
(cut-off of 20 September 2010), showing a median survival of 15.8 months for the abiraterone group 
versus 11.2 months for the placebo group.  Treatment effect on OS was robust after adjustment for 
stratification  factors  in  multivariate  analysis  and  was  consistently  favourable  across  all  subgroups 
(ECOG, pain score, prior lines of chemotherapy, type of progression, age, visceral disease, baseline 
PSA, LDH or alkaline phosphatase, and geographical region). 
Secondary  efficacy  endpoints  also  consistently  showed  antitumoral  activity  of  clinical  relevance  of 
this drug in this patient population.  Finally, symptom-related endpoints, such as pain palliation, time 
to  pain  progression,  skeletal-related  events,  and  quality  of  life  scores  also  tended  to  favour 
abiraterone-treated patients over placebo-control ones. 
2.5.4.  Conclusions on the clinical efficacy 
In  conclusion,  the  overall  efficacy  results  of  the  study  are  considered  mature  enough  and  clearly 
positive.    The  primary  endpoint,  overall  survival,  is  very  relevant  to  the  patient  with  advanced 
mCRPC  with  docetaxel-refractory  disease  and  the  magnitude  of  the  observed  effect  (HR=0.646 
interim analysis; HR=0.740 updated analysis) is considered clinically significant.  In addition, all the 
other efficacy endpoints show very consistent results in favour of abiraterone acetate. Although the 
application  relies  on  a  single  pivotal  trial,  the  number  of  patients  included,  the  design  of  the  study 
(placebo-controlled trial with stratification for the most relevant prognostic factors, the robustness of 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 54/78
 
 
 
 
the  primary  endpoint,  the  relevance  of  the  secondary  endpoints  for  this  clinical  setting)  and  the 
outstanding results are considered compelling enough to support an overall favourable conclusion. 
2.6.  Clinical safety 
The  safety  of  abiraterone  acetate  administered  as  monotherapy  with  or  without  prednisone/ 
prednisolone has been evaluated in 1,873 patients included in 20 clinical studies (Figure 4).  Eleven 
of  them  (n=1,564  patients)  were  performed  in  patients  with  advanced  or  metastatic  castration-
resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) as follows: 
 
 
 
 
Phase 3 Study: COU-AA-301 
Phase 2 Studies: COU-AA-004, COU-AA-003/EXT, COU-AA-BMA 
Phase 1/2 Studies: COU-AA-001/EXT, COU-AA-002 
Phase  1  Studies:  COU-AA-BE,  COU-AA-006  (modified  QT/QTc  study  [not  a  thorough  QT 
design]), COU-AA-015 (drug-drug interaction [DDI] study) 
In  addition,  9  phase  1  pharmacokinetic  studies  with  abiraterone  acetate  have  been  completed  in 
non-cancer  subjects  (7  in  adult  healthy  male  volunteers  and  2  in  special  populations  with  hepatic 
and renal impairment). 
The  integrated  safety  population  consisted  of  1,070  patients  with  CRPC  who  were  treated  with 
abiraterone  acetate  1  g  administered  as  a  continuous  daily  dose  with  or  without  prednisone  5  mg 
twice  daily  and  394  patients  treated  with  placebo  and  prednisone,  totalling  1,464  patients  in  the 
following  studies:  COU-AA-301,  COU-AA-004,  COU-AA-003/EXT,  COU-AA-BMA,  COU-AA-001/EXT, 
COU-AA-002, and COU-AA-BE.  Abiraterone acetate was administered orally as an immediate release 
250 mg tablet, an immediate release 250 mg capsule, or a liquid. More than 90% of study patients 
received tablets. 
Data  from  100  patients  with  CRPC  were  provided  separately  from  the  integrated  safety  population 
data. This number included 12 patients in Study COU-AA-001 and 21 patients in Study COU-AA-002 
who were treated with doses other than 1 g abiraterone acetate as well as 33 patients in the phase 1 
pharmacokinetic Study COU-AA-006, and 34 patients in the phase 1 pharmacokinetic Study COU-AA-
015  for  whom  extended  dosing  and  safety  data  were  not  available  by  the  clinical  cut-off  date  (22 
January 2010). Data from 309 non-cancer subjects  who were treated in 9 Phase 1 pharmacokinetic 
studies were also provided separately from the integrated safety population data. 
The integrated safety population data were presented in 4-column tables as follows: 
  Study COU-AA-301 placebo group (n=394) 
  Study COU-AA-301 abiraterone acetate group (n=791) 
 
Pooled data from Phase 1/2 studies (Studies COU-AA-004, COU-AA-003/EXT, COU-AA-BMA, 
COU-AA-001/EXT,  COU-AA-002  and  COU-AA-BE)  in  patients  treated  with  1  g  abiraterone 
acetate continuous daily dose (n=279) 
  Overall abiraterone acetate group (1 g continuous daily dose) (n=1,070) 
Patient exposure 
Information regarding extent of exposure, baseline demographic and disease characteristics as well 
as prior therapies is summarised in the following tables. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 55/78
 
 
 
 
Table 16: Extent of exposure, Integrated Safety population 
Table 17: Baseline demographics, Integrated Safety population 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 56/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 18: Baseline disease characteristics, Integrated Safety population 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 57/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 19: Prior therapies, Integrated Safety population 
Adverse events  
An overview of adverse events (AEs) is shown in the following table. 
Table 20: Overall safety profile 
a  Does  not  include  Grade  5  events.  b  Adverse  events  reported  to  be  either  related  to  abiraterone 
acetate/placebo  or  prednisone  are  classified  as  drug-related.  TEAEs=  Treatment-emergent  AEs  are 
those  occurring  or  worsening  in  toxicity  on  or  after  the  first  dose  and  within  30  days  after  the  last 
dose  of  study  agent.  Treatment-emergent  AEs  are  included  regardless  of  toxicity  grade  or 
relationship to study medication 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 58/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
The most frequently reported AEs in the pivotal trial COU-AA-301 were fatigue (44% and 43% in the 
abiraterone and placebo arms, respectively), back pain (30% and 33%, respectively), nausea (30% 
and 32%, respectively), and constipation (26% and 31%, respectively), consistent with the natural 
history  of  advanced  mCRPC.  Most  events  were  Grade  1  or  2.  In  the  overall  abiraterone  acetate 
group, the most frequently reported AEs were fatigue (44%), nausea (28%), back pain (27%), and 
arthralgia and edema peripheral (26%). Grade 3 and 4 AEs are summarised in the following table. 
Table 21: Grade 3 and 4 TEAEs reported in at least 1% of patients in any group 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 59/78
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse  drug  reactions  (ADRs)  in  the  integrated  safety  population  are  summarised  in  the  following 
table.  The  most  common  ADRs  observed  with  abiraterone  acetate  were  oedema  peripheral, 
hypokalemia, urinary tract infection, and hypertension. The ADR, adrenal insufficiency, occurred in at 
a  rate  <1%.  The  most  common  ADRs  that  resulted  in  drug  discontinuation  in  Study  COU-AA-301 
were alanine aminotransferase increased and cardiac failure (each in <1% of patients). 
Table 22: Adverse drug reactions observed in abiraterone acetate treated patients  
Infections and infestations 
very common: urinary tract infection 
Endocrine disorders 
uncommon: adrenal insufficiency 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders 
very common: hypokalaemia 
Cardiac disorders 
common: hypertriglyceridaemia 
common: cardiac failure*, angina pectoris, 
arrhythmia, atrial fibrillation, tachycardia 
Vascular disorders 
very common: hypertension 
Hepatobiliary disorders 
common: alanine aminotransferase increased 
General disorders and administration site 
very common: oedema peripheral 
conditions 
* Cardiac failure also includes congestive heart failure, left ventricular dysfunction and ejection fraction decreased 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 60/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Adverse events of special interest in the pivotal study COU-AA-301, which include events related to 
mineralocorticoid excess (hypertension, hypokalemia, and fluid retention/edema), cardiac disorders, 
hepatotoxicity and urinary tract infections, are described in some detail below. In terms of incidence 
and  in  order  to  account  for  the  longer  duration  of  exposure  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group 
compared  to  the  placebo  group  of  the  study  (8  cycles  versus  4  cycles,  respectively)  an  analysis 
standardising  for  the  difference  in  treatment  duration  was  performed  based  on  the  event  rate  per 
100 patient-years (P-Y) of exposure (time on treatment). The event rate was the total frequency for 
the reported AE standardised to 100 P-Y of exposure. 
Fluid Retention/Oedema 
Fluid  retention/oedema  was  reported  in  31%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  group  and  22%  of 
patients  in  the  placebo  group.  The  incidence  of  Grade  3  or  4  peripheral  oedema  was  reported  in 
1.5%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  0.8%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  No 
Grade 5 events were reported; no patient discontinued study medication or had oedema peripheral 
events  with  an  outcome  of  death.  After  standardising  for  the  difference  in  duration  of  treatment 
exposure, a difference of 6 fluid retention/oedema events/100 P-Y was observed between the groups 
(71 events in the abiraterone acetate group and 65 events in the placebo group).  
Hypokalaemia 
Hypokalaemia was reported in 17% of patients in the abiraterone acetate group and 8% of patients 
in the placebo group. The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 hypokalaemia was reported in 3.8% of patients 
in the abiraterone acetate group and 0.8% of patients in the placebo group. There were no Grade 5 
events  and  no  hypokalaemia  AEs  with  an  outcome  of  death  were  reported.  After  standardising  for 
the  difference  in  duration  of  treatment  exposure,  a  difference  of  18  hypokalaemia  events/100  P-Y 
was  observed  between  the  2  groups  (47  events  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  29  events  in 
the placebo group). 
Hypertension 
Hypertension was reported in 10% of patients in the abiraterone acetate group and 8% of patients in 
the  placebo  group.  The  incidence  of  Grade  3  hypertension  was  reported  in  1.3%  of  patients  in  the 
abiraterone  acetate  group  and  0.3%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  There  were  no  Grade  4  or  5 
events and no patient discontinued study medication. No hypertension AEs with an outcome of death 
was recorded. After standardising for the difference in duration of treatment exposure, a difference 
of  1  hypertension  SMQ  event/100  P-Y  was  observed  between  the  2  groups  (19  events  in  the 
abiraterone acetate group and 20 events in the placebo group). 
Cardiac Disorders 
Cardiac  disorders  were  reported  in  13%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  11%  of 
patients in the placebo group. The most frequently reported cardiac events were tachycardia (3% in 
the abiraterone acetate and 2% in the placebo groups) and atrial fibrillation (2% in the abiraterone 
acetate  and  1%  in  the  placebo  groups).  Cardiac  failure  was  reported  in  2%  of  patients  in  the 
abiraterone  acetate  group  versus  1%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  Myocardial  infarction  was 
reported in 0.8% of patients in each group. No Grade 3, 4, or 5 tachycardia events were reported in 
either  group.  Grade  3  atrial  fibrillation  events  were  reported  in  0.6%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone 
acetate  and  in  0.5%  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  No  patient  had  a  Grade  4  or  5  event.  After 
standardising for the difference in duration of treatment exposure, a difference of 5 cardiac disorders 
events/100 P-Y was observed between the 2 groups (33 events in the abiraterone acetate group and 
28  events  in  the  placebo  group).  A  difference  of  2  events/100  P-Y  for  atrial  fibrillation  and 
tachycardia were observed between the 2 groups (5 events in the abiraterone acetate group and 3 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 61/78
 
 
 
 
events  in  the  placebo  group)  for  each  event.  Based  on  a  limited  number  of  MUGA  scan  or 
echocardiogram  results,  the  percentage  of  patients  who  had  a  decrease  in  left  ventricular  ejection 
fraction from baseline of at ≥15% at any time during the study was 6% in the abiraterone acetate 
group and 5% the placebo group. There were no pre-clinical safety signals identified to indicate that 
treatment  with  abiraterone  acetate  prolongs  QT/QTc  interval.  However,  the  proportion  of  patients 
with  QTc  interval  prolongation  of  either  >30  ms  or  >60  ms  was  higher  in  the  abiraterone  acetate 
group when compared to the placebo group. The potential cardiotoxic effects of abiraterone acetate 
on  the  QT/QTc  interval  duration  were  assessed  in  patients  with  mCRPC  using  time-matched  ECGs 
and  pharmacokinetic  analyses  (COU-AA-006).  In  this  study,  the  upper  limit  of  the  90%  CI  of  the 
mean  baseline  corrected  QTcF  change  at  each  post-dose  time  point  was  <10  msecs  and  no 
significant  increase  or  decrease  in  mean  QTc  values  was  observed  at  any  of  the  measured  time 
points. Overall, there was no relationship between change in QTcF and abiraterone concentrations. 
Hepatotoxicity 
Hepatotoxicity  adverse  events  were  observed  in  10%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group 
and  8%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  and  increases  in  ALT  were  observed  in  3%  of  abiraterone 
patients and 1% of placebo patients. The incidence of Grade 3 or 4 ALP increase was reported in 1% 
of patients in the abiraterone acetate group and 2% of patients in the placebo group. Grade 3 or 4 
AST increase occurred in 1% of patients in each group. No Grade 5 ALP increase, AST increase, ALT 
increase,  or  hyperbilirubinaemia  was  reported  in  either  group.  There  were  a  small  number  of 
treatment  discontinuations  due  to  ALP  increase, AST  increase,  ALT  increase,  or  hyperbilirubinaemia 
in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group.  No AEs  with  an outcome  of  death  were  reported  for  any  of  these 
events.  After  standardising  for  the  difference  in  duration  of  treatment  exposure,  a  difference  of  9 
hepatotoxicity  events/100  P-Y  was  observed  between  the  2  groups  (33  events  in  the  abiraterone 
acetate  group  and  42  events  in  the  placebo  group).  A  difference  of  1  ALT  event/100  P-Y  was 
observed  between  the  2  groups  (5  events  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  4  events  in  the 
placebo  group).  Hy's  Law  criteria  were  applied  across  all  studies  in  patients  with  mCRPC  to  assess 
the incidence of severe hepatotoxicity and 2 patients (1 patient in the pivotal Study COU-AA-301 and 
1 patient in Phase 2 Study COU-AA-003) were identified as potentially having met Hy’s Law criteria.  
Urinary tract infections 
The  preferred  term,  urinary  tract  infection,  was  reported  in  12%  of  patients  in  the  Study  COU-AA-
301  abiraterone  acetate  group  compared  with  7%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group;  these  were 
primarily  Grade  1  or  2  events.  After  the  standardisation  the  following  results  were  found  for  the 
incidence  of  unrinary  tract  infections: 24  events/100  P-Y  and  18  events/100  P-Y  in  the  abiraterone 
and placebo arms, respectively. 
Serious adverse event/deaths/other significant events 
Deaths 
As  of  the  clinical  cutoff  date  (22  January  2010),  11%  of  patients  in  the  Study  COU-AA-301 
abiraterone acetate group and 13% of patients in the placebo group died during treatment or within 
30  days  of  the  last  dose  of  study  medication  (abiraterone  acetate  or  placebo),  primarily  due  to 
progression  of  prostate  cancer  (8%  and  10%  of  patients,  respectively).  In  the  overall  abiraterone 
acetate group, 9% of patients died during treatment or within 30 days of the last dose. In the pooled 
Phase 1/2 studies group , 4% of patients died during treatment or within 30 days of the last dose. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 62/78
 
 
 
 
Table 23: All deaths, Integrated Safety population 
Cause of Death 
Abiraterone 
COU-AA-301 
(N=791) 
Placebo     
COU-AA-301 
(N=394) 
AA Pooled 
Phase 1/2 
(N=279) 
Overall AA 
(N=1070) 
Total number of patients who died on 
84 (10.6%) 
52 (13.2%) 
11 (3.9%0  95 (8.9%0 
treatment or within 30 days of last dose 
Progressive disease 
60 (7.6%) 
39 (9.9%) 
3 (1.1%) 
63 (5.9%) 
Other  
Unknown 
23 (2.9%) 
13 (3.3%) 
5 (1.8%) 
28 (2.6%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
3 (1.1%) 
4 (0.4%) 
Patients who died of ‘other’ causes in Study COU-AA-301 within 30 days of last dose most frequently 
had witnessed events that were generically described as ‘cardiopulmonary arrest’. Additional causes 
of death within 30 days were myocardial infarction, pulmonary embolism and infection.  
The incidence of AEs with an outcome of death that occurred at any time during the study or during 
survival followup, through the clinical cutoff date, is summarised in the following table. 
Table 24: Causes of deaths and Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events leading to death 
Abiraterone 
Placebo     
AA Pooled 
Overall AA 
COU-AA-301 
COU-AA-301 
Phase 1/2 
(N=1070) 
(N=791) 
(N=394) 
(N=279) 
Number of patients with a TEAE 
92 (11.6%) 
58 (14.7%) 
14 (5.0%) 
106 (9.9%) 
leading to death 
General disorders and administration 
73 (9.2%) 
40 (10.2%) 
4 (1.4%) 
77 (7.2%) 
site conditions 
Cardiac disorders     
9 (1.1%) 
5 (1.3%) 
3 (1.1%) 
12 (1.1%) 
Infections and infestations 
4 (0.5%) 
3 (0.8%) 
2 (0.7%) 
6 (0.6%) 
Respiratory, thoracic and mediastinal 
4 (0.5%) 
4 (1.0%) 
1 (0.4%) 
5 (0.5%) 
disorders    
Neoplasms benign, malignant and 
1 (0.1%) 
2 (0.5%) 
2 (0.7%) 
3 (0.3%) 
unspecified (incl cysts and polyps) 
Renal and urinary disorders 
2 (0.3%) 
2 (0.5%) 
1 (0.4%) 
3 (0.3%) 
Gastrointestinal disorders   
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.3%) 
1 (0.4%) 
2 (0.2%) 
Metabolism and nutrition disorders     
0 
Vascular disorders 
0 
Musculoskeletal and connective tissue 
0 
disorders 
0 
0 
0 
Nervous system disorders    
1 (0.1%) 
1 (0.3%) 
Injury, poisoning and procedural 
0 
2 (0.5%) 
2 (0.7%) 
2 (0.2%) 
2 (0.7%) 
2 (0.2%) 
1 (0.4%) 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
0 
1 (0.1%) 
0 
complications 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 63/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Serious adverse events 
The  incidence  of  SAEs  reported  in  at  least  1%  of  patients  in  any  group  of  the  integrated  safety 
population is summarised in the following table.  
Table 25: Serious TEAEs reported in at least 1% of patients, Integrated Safety population 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 64/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laboratory findings 
The  proportion  of  patients  who  had  Grade  3  or  4  hematologic  abnormalities  during  treatment  was 
identical  (26%)  in  each  group  of  study  COU-AA-301.  Lymphocytes  abnormalities  were  the  most 
common  Grade  3  or  4  hematologic  abnormality  in  each  group,  occurring  in  21%  of  patients  in  the 
abiraterone  acetate  group  and  23%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  No  other  hematologic 
abnormality occurred in greater than 5% of patients in the abiraterone acetate group or greater than 
3% of patients in the placebo group. In the overall abiraterone acetate group, 22% of patients had 
Grade 3 or 4 hematologic abnormalities during treatment. Lymphocytes abnormalities were the most 
frequently  occurring  Grade  3  or  4  haematologic  abnormality  and  they  were  reported  in  18%  of 
patients. 
In study COU-AA-301, shifts from Grade 0 or 1 to Grade 3 or 4 for lymphocytes abnormalities were 
reported  in  12%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  10%  of  patients  in  the  placebo 
group;  shifts  in  hemoglobin  were  reported  in  4%  and  2%  of  patients,  respectively.  In  the  overall 
abiraterone  acetate  group,  shifts  from  Grade  0  or  1  to  Grade  3  or  4  for  lymphocytes  abnormalities 
were reported in 10% of patients, and for hemoglobin were reported in 3% of patients. 
Grade  3  or  4  serum  chemistry  abnormalities  during  treatment  were  reported  in  33%  of  patients  in 
the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  25%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group  in  study  COU-AA-301.  As 
previously  noted,  AEs  reported  in  the  hepatotoxicity  SMQ  were  reported  in  10%  of  patients  in  the 
COU-AA-301  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  8%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  The  most 
frequently  reported  Grade  3  or  4  serum  chemistry  abnormality  in  each  group  was  ALP  occurring  in 
18%  of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  13%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group. 
Elevations in ALP were attributed to progressive disease in the bone. No other Grade  3 or 4 serum 
chemistry  abnormality  (including  low  potassium)  occurred  in  greater  than  7%  of  patients  in  the 
abiraterone acetate group or greater than 6% of patients in the placebo group. 
In study COU-AA-301, shifts from Grade 0 or 1 or Grade 3 or 4 for low potassium occurred in 3.0% 
of  patients  in  the  abiraterone  acetate  group  and  0.3%  of  patients  in  the  placebo  group.  In  the 
abiraterone acetate group, shifts from Grade 0 or 1 to Grade 3 or 4 occurred in 5.9% of patients for 
ALP,  0.9%  of  patients  for  ALT,  and  1.0%  of  patients  for  AST.  In  the  placebo  group,  such  shifts 
occurred  in  4.3%  of  patients  for  ALP,  0.3%  of  patients  for  ALT,  and  0  patients  for  AST.  Patients 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 65/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
beginning  Study  COU-AA-301  with  normal  transaminase  concentrations  infrequently  experienced 
shifts to Grade 3 or 4. However, patients in both groups who began the study with Grade 1 or 2 liver 
transaminase concentrations (both AST and ALT) appeared to be at higher risk for a shift to higher 
grade. In the overall abiraterone acetate group, shifts from Grade 0 or 1 to Grade 3 or 4 occurred in 
3%  of  patients  for  low  potassium.  Shifts  from  Grade  0  or  1  to  Grade  3  or  4  occurred  in  6%  of 
patients for ALP, 1% of patients for ALT, and 1% of patients for AST. 
Safety in special populations 
Although  higher  incidences  of  AEs  were  observed  in  patients  who  were  >  75  years,  the  rates  of 
Grade 3  or  4  AEs,  SAEs,  and  AEs  with  an  outcome  of  death  was  lower  in  the  abiraterone  acetate 
group compared with the placebo group. 
The small proportion of non-white patients prevented any formal comparisons in the AE profile with 
respect to race. 
In  non-cancer  patients  with  mild,  moderate  hepatic  impairment  compared  to  matched  control 
patients,  adverse  events  were  reported  in  8  (33%)  patients  (2    patients  in  the  mild  hepatic 
impairment  cohort  had  AEs,  3  patients  in  the  moderate  impairment  cohort  and  3  patients  in  the 
normal hepatic function cohorts). However, limited safety conclusions can be drawn from this single 
dose study.  
In  non-cancer  patients  with  end-stage  renal  disease  (ESRD)  and  in  matched  control  patients  with 
normal  renal  function,  1  of  8  patients  (13%)  in  the  normal  renal  cohort  had  an  AE  (Grade  1 
rhinorrhea).  No  patients  in  the  ESRD  cohort  had  an  AE.  Limited  safety  conclusions  can  be  drawn 
from this single dose study. 
Safety related to drug-drug interactions and other interactions 
A  phase  I  study  was  submitted  in  which  the  effect  of  food  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone 
acetate  in  healthy  male  subjects  was  studied.  Although  food  did  not  substantially  change  the  t max 
(rate  of  absorption),  systemic  exposure  to  abiraterone,  as  assessed  by  C max,  AUC 0-t,  and  AUC0-8, 
increased  with  the  administration  of  food  compared  to  the  fasted  state.  Compared  to  the  fasted 
state, the geometric mean values for abiraterone Cmax and AUC increased by approximately 7- and 
5-fold, respectively, when administered with a low-fat meal, and by approximately 17- and 10-fold, 
respectively,  when  administered  with  a  high-fat  meal.  The  t1/2  of  abiraterone  was  comparable 
between  all  treatments.  The  90%  CI  for  C max,  AUC 0-∞,  and  AUC0-t  ratio  estimates  (high-fat 
meal/fasted,  low-fat  meal/fasted)  were  all  outside  the  80%  to  125%  equivalence  range,  indicating 
that food increased the relative bioavailability of abiraterone (data not shown). 
Moreover,  the  results  of  a  drug-drug  interaction  study  of  abiraterone  acetate  plus  prednisone  with 
dextromethorphan  (substrate  of  CYP2D6  metbolism)  and  theophylline  (substrate  of  CYP1A2 
metabolism) were submitted (see Clinical Pharmacology section). No deaths, serious adverse events 
or adverse events leading to treatment discontinuation were reported in this study (data not shown). 
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
As  noted  under  Participant  flow  in  the  pivotal  study  COU-AA-301,  12.4%  of  patients  in  the 
abiraterone arm and 17.8% of patients in the placebo arm discontinued treatment primarily due to 
adverse events. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 66/78
 
 
 
 
Post marketing experience 
Post-marketing experience is limited. 
2.6.1.  Discussion on clinical safety 
The safety population baseline demographics and disease characteristics were well balanced between 
study arms in the pivotal Study COU-AA-301, which can overall be considered representative of the 
intended  target  population  (mCRPC  following  docetaxel  failure),  although  patients  with  poor 
performance status (ECOG 2-3) and non-white population is underrepresented.   
Both in the abiraterone arm of the pivotal trial and in the overall abiraterone acetate group, the most 
frequently  reported  AEs  were  fatigue,  back  pain,  nausea,  and  constipation,  consistent  with  the 
natural history of mCRPC. In the overall abiraterone acetate group, the most frequently reported AEs 
were fatigue, nausea, back pain, arthralgia and peripheral oedema. 
Compared  with  placebo  and  prednisone  in  Study  COU-AA-301,  treatment  with  abiraterone  acetate 
and prednisone did not increase the incidence of Grade 3 or 4 AEs, SAEs, AEs leading to treatment 
discontinuation, or AEs with an outcome of death, indicating that these events were likely related to 
the patients' prostate cancer.  Treatment-emergent SAEs more commonly reported in the AA group 
than in the placebo group of Study COU-AA-301 included cardiac disorders, vascular disorders, and 
infections  and  infestations  (primarily  due  to  an  increase  of  urinary  tract  infections).    The  most 
common AEs with an outcome of death were disease progression events.  The incidence of Grade 3 
or 4 AEs, AEs leading to treatment discontinuation, and AEs leading to death was higher in the Study 
COU-AA-301 abiraterone acetate group compared with the pooled Phase 1/2 studies, possibly due to 
the more advanced stage of prostate cancer in the patient population of the pivotal study. 
The  most  common  adverse  drug  reactions  observed  in  the  overall  abiraterone  acetate  group 
(n=1,070)  were  peripheral  oedema,  hypokalemia,  urinary  tract  infection,  and  hypertension.  
Consistent  with  the  pharmacologic  mechanism  of  action  of  abiraterone,  mineralocorticoid-related 
toxicities  (based  on  the  SMQ  grouping),  such  as  fluid  retention/edema  (31%  versus  22%), 
hypokalemia (17% versus 8%), and hypertension (10% versus 8%) were observed more frequently 
for  patients  treated  with  abiraterone  acetate  and  prednisone  compared  with  those  treated  with 
placebo and prednisone, respectively, in Study COU-AA-301. However, when standardized for longer 
exposure  time,  only  hypokalemia  (47  events/100  P-Y  versus  29  events/100  P-Y,  respectively)  and 
fluid  retention/edema  (71  events/100  P-Y  versus  65  events/100  P-Y,  respectively)  were  found  to 
occur  more  frequently  in  the  abiraterone  group  than  in  the  placebo  group  (not  hypertension).  
Urinary tract infection exposure-adjusted rate was also higher in abiraterone than in placebo-treated 
patients (24 events/100 P-Y and 18 events/100 P-Y, respectively).  The mechanism involved in the 
higher observed incidence of urinary infections in the abiraterone group is unclear. 
From  the  safety  database  all  the  adverse  reactions  reported  in  clinical  trials  have  been  included  in 
the Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC). 
Co-administration of prednisone from the beginning of treatment and frequent electrolyte monitoring 
in  Study  COU-AA-301  appeared  to  decrease  the  incidence  and  severity  of  the  AEs  related  to 
mineralocorticoid  excess  compared  with  some  of  the  early  stage  studies  which  did  not  include  the 
uniform  administration  of 
low-dose  glucocorticosteroids.  Consequently,  the  rates  of 
fluid 
retention/edema,  hypertension,  and  hypokalemia  were  all  higher  in  pooled  Phase  1/2  studies 
compared  with  Study  COU-AA-301.  Across  all  studies  in  patients  with  mCRPC,  hypertension, 
hypokalemia,  and  peripheral  oedema  were  most  often  Grade  1  or  2  non-SAEs,  and  they  only 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 67/78
 
 
 
 
infrequently  interfered  with  abiraterone  acetate  treatment,  as  evidenced  by  low  rates  of  dose 
modifications/reductions, treatment discontinuations or deaths due to any of the 3 terms. 
The incidence of cardiac events was slightly higher in the abiraterone acetate and prednisone group 
compared with the placebo and prednisone group (13% versus 11%, respectively) in Study COU-AA-
301.  The  standardised  (in  P-Y)  rates  were  also  higher  for  the  abiraterone  acetate  group.  However, 
the  rates  of  cardiac-related  death  were  low  and  balanced  in  the  2  groups  (1%  of  patients  in  each 
group) in Study COU-AA-301 and were similar to that of the early stage studies (1%). In addition, 
death  due  to  myocardial  infarction  was  infrequent  in  the  2  groups  in  Study COU-AA-301  (1  patient 
each) or in the pooled Phase ½ studies (2 [0.7%] patients). 
Safety in patients with left ventricular ejection fraction < 50% or NYHA Class III or IV heart failure 
has  not  been  established.  Zytiga  should  be  used  with  caution  in  patients  with  a  history  of 
cardiovascular  disease.  Before  treatment  hypertension  must  be  controlled  and  hypokalaemia  must 
be corrected. Caution is also required in treating patients whose underlying medical conditions might 
be compromised by increases in blood pressure, hypokalaemia, e.g., those on cardiac glycosides,  or 
fluid retention, e.g., those with heart failure, severe or unstable angina pectoris, recent myocardial 
infarction or ventricular arrhythmia and those with severe renal impairment. Blood pressure, serum 
potassium and fluid retention should be monitored before treatment and at least monthly thereafter. 
This information is reflected in sections 4.4 and 4.8 of the SmPC. 
As data from several randomised Phase 3 studies suggest that chronic ADTs are associated with QT 
interval  prolongation,  which  may  lead  to  the  development  of  cardiac  arrhythmias  (Garnick,  2004), 
there were some concerns regarding the potential risk of AA in this regard.  AA did not seem to have 
a  major  effect  on  the  QT/QTc  interval  or  to  affect  the  ventricular  repolarization  to  an  extent  that 
would  require  substantial  risk-benefit  considerations  in  patients  with  mCRPC.    In  addition,  the  trial 
COU-AA-006  was  designed  to  specifically  assess  this  issue.  There  were  no  notable  differences 
between  the  MAA  and  the  updated  safety  analysis  in  the  overall  AE  profile  in  Study  COU-AA-006. 
Cardiac AEs were rare (atrial fibrillation in 1 patient), and did not result in treatment discontinuation 
or  abiraterone  acetate  dose  modification  or  reduction.  In  addition,  no  patient  had  a  maximum 
individual  change  in  QTcF  from  baseline  exceeding  30  msecs  at  post-dose  time  points,  and  only  1 
patient had a maximum individual change in QTcB from baseline exceeding 30 msecs at a later time 
post-dose point. 
Overall, there was a mild increase of AEs reported in the hepatotoxicity (LFT abnormalities) SMQ in 
the  abiraterone  group  (10%)  as  compared  to  the  placebo  group  (8%)  in  Study  COU-AA-301, 
basically  due  to  an  increase  of  ALT  (any  grade:  3%  versus  1%).    However,  after  standardizing  for 
the  difference  in  duration  of  treatment  exposure,  a  higher  number  of  SMQ  events/100  P-Y  was  in 
fact observed in the placebo group (33 events in the abiraterone acetate group and 42 events in the 
placebo  group).    Moreover,  the  incidence  of  clinically  relevant  elevations  of  liver  transaminases  or 
bilirubin  (SAEs,  grade  3-4  or  AEs  leading  to  treatment  discontinuation)  were  not  significantly 
different among study arms (Study COU-AA-301) and very low in any case (<1%).  No AEs with an 
outcome  of  death  were  reported.    Increases  in  hepatic  enzymes  occurring  during  treatment  were 
managed  with  careful  laboratory  monitoring,  treatment  interruptions  and  retreatment  only  after 
return  of  the  LFTs  to  baseline  or  Grade  1.    Although  no  patients  treated  with  abiraterone  acetate 
were  identified  as  having  met  all  Hy’s  Law  criteria,  2  cases  of  drug-induced  liver  injury  were 
identified  by  the  Applicant;  1  in  the  pivotal  study  and  1  in  the  early  stage  study,  COU-AA-003. 
Hepatotoxicity is being managed as an identified risk in the Risk Management Plan.  
Moreover,  serum  transaminase  levels  should  be  measured  prior  to  starting  treatment,  every  two 
weeks for the first three months of treatment, and monthly thereafter. If clinical symptoms or signs 
suggestive  of  hepatotoxicity  develop,  serum  transaminases,  in  particular  serum  ALT,  should  be 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 68/78
 
 
 
 
measured  immediately.  If  at  any  time  the  ALT  rises  above  5 times  the  upper  limit  of  normal 
treatment should be interrupted immediately and liver function closely monitored. Re-treatment may 
take  place  only  after  return  of  liver  function  tests  to  the  patient’s  baseline  and  at  a  reduced  dose 
level. 
If patients develop severe hepatotoxicity (ALT 20 times the upper limit of normal) anytime while on 
therapy, treatment should be discontinued and patients should not be re-treated. 
Patients with active or symptomatic viral hepatitis were excluded from clinical trials; thus, there are 
no data to support the use of Zytiga in this population. 
Zytiga  is  contraindicated  in  patients  with  hypersensitivity  to  the  active  substance  or  to  any  of  the 
excipients  and  in  women  who  are  or  may  potentially  be  pregnant.  Abiraterone  is  not  for  use  in 
women.  There  are  no  human  data  on  the  use  of  the  medicine  in  pregnancy  and  this  medicinal 
product  is  not  for  use  in  women  of  childbearing  potential.  Maternal  use  of  a  CYP17  inhibitor  is 
expected  to  produce  changes  in  hormone  levels  that  could  affect  development  of  the  foetus. 
Moreover, it is not known whether abiraterone or its metabolites are present in semen. A condom is 
required if the patient is engaged in sexual activity with a pregnant woman. If the patient is engaged 
in  sex  with  a  woman  of  childbearing  potential,  a  condom  is  required  along  with  another  effective 
contraceptive  method.  Furthermore,  it  is  not  known  if  either  abiraterone  acetate  or  its  metabolites 
are  excreted  in  human  milk.  Finally,  reproductive  toxicology  studies  were  not  conducted  with 
abiraterone acetate and no fertility data are available. 
Caution  is  advised  and  monitoring  for  adrenocortical  insufficiency  should  occur  if  patients  are 
withdrawn  from  prednisone  or  prednisolone.  If  ZYTIGA  is  continued  after  corticosteroids  are 
withdrawn,  patients  should  be  monitored  for  symptoms  of  mineralocorticoid  excess.  In  patients  on 
prednisone or prednisolone who are subjected to unusual stress, an increased dose of corticosteroids 
may be indicated before, during and after the stressful situation. 
Decreased  bone  density  may  occur  in  men  who  are  treated  with  Zytiga.  The  use  of  abiraterone  in 
combination with glucocorticoid could increase this effect. 
Zytiga  contains  lactose.  Patients  with  rare  hereditary  problems  of  galactose  intolerance,  the  Lapp 
lactase  deficiency  or  glucose-galactose  malabsorption  should  not  take  this  medicine.  The  sodium 
content of this medicinal product is to be taken into consideration for patients on a controlled sodium 
diet. 
There have been no reports of overdose during clinical studies. There is no specific antidote. In the 
event  of  an  overdose,  administration  should  be  withheld  and  general  supportive  measures 
undertaken, including monitoring for arrhythmias, hypokalaemia and for signs and symptoms of fluid 
retention. Liver function should also be assessed. 
The potential risk for drug-drug interactions is not fully elucidated. In particular, the possible effect 
of  CYP3A4  inducers  leading  to  a  possible  decrease  of  effect  of  abiraterone  due  to  enhanced 
elimination is possible. As a consequence, the Applicant is conducting a drug-drug interaction study 
to  evaluate  the  effect  of  a  strong  CYP3A4  inducer  (ie,  rifampicin)  or  a  strong  CYP3A4  inhibitor  (ie, 
ketoconazole)  on  the  pharmacokinetics  of  abiraterone  after  oral  administration  of  abiraterone 
acetate. A relevant precaution was included in section 4.5 of the SmPC. 
Caution is advised when ZYTIGA is administered with medicinal products activated by or metabolised 
by  CYP2D6,  particularly  with  medicinal  products  that  have  a  narrow  therapeutic  index.  Dose 
reduction  of  medicinal  products  with  a  narrow  therapeutic  index  that  are  metabolised  by  CYP2D6 
should  be  considered.  Examples  of  medicinal  products  metabolised  by  CYP2D6  include  metoprolol, 
propranolol,  desipramine,  venlafaxine,  haloperidol,  risperidone,  propafenone,  flecanide,  codeine, 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 69/78
 
 
 
 
oxycodone  and  tramadol  (the  latter  three  products  requiring  CYP2D6  to  form  their  active  analgesic 
metabolites). 
2.6.2.  Conclusions on the clinical safety 
The  safety  profile  of  abiraterone  acetate  is  considered  acceptable  and  generally  manageable  with 
basic medical interventions (oral potassium supplements, diuretics and antihypertensive medication).  
Toxicities  were  generally  mild,  and  resulted  in  infrequent  dose  reductions,  dose  interruptions,  or 
discontinuations.    In  this  regard  it  should  be  noted  that  the  safety  profile  of  abiraterone  acetate  is 
distinct from that typically induced by conventional cytotoxic agents, frequently associated with AEs 
that are potentially dose-limiting, debilitating, cumulative, or life-threatening.  Indeed, AEs such as 
hypertension  or  hypokalemia  are  generally  asymptomatic,  and  although  fluid  retention/oedema  or 
urinary tract infections may be more disturbing to the patient, abiraterone does not induce toxicities 
such  as  myelosuppression,  diarrhoea,  mucositis,  asthenia,  alopecia,  etc,  which  not  only  may  be 
associated with higher risks of severe medical complications including death, but often have a major 
impact  on  the  patient’s  quality  of  life  which  is  particularly  relevant  in  the  context  of  non-curative 
therapy for an end-stage disease.   
2.7.  Pharmacovigilance  
Detailed description of the pharmacovigilance system 
The  CHMP  considered  that  the  Pharmacovigilance  system  as  described  by  the  applicant  fulfils  the 
legislative requirements.    
Risk Management Plan 
The applicant submitted a risk management plan. 
Table 26: Summary of the risk management plan 
Safety Concern 
Agreed 
Pharmacovigilance Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Agreed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Important identified risks: 
1)  Hypertension 
2)  Hypokalaemia 
3)  Fluid retention/ 
oedema 
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP.  
Additional   
None 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Routine 
As noted in the SmPC (Sections 
4.4, 4.8, and 5.1), these adverse 
reactions are anticipated from the 
pharmacodynamic consequence 
of increased mineralocorticoid 
levels resulting from CYP17 
inhibition, and are reduced in 
incidence and severity by co- 
administration of low-dose 
prednisone or prednisolone (10 
mg daily); co-administration of a 
corticosteroid suppresses ACTH 
drive.  Additional guidance for the 
physician is also provided in 
Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8 of the 
SmPC. 
Additional 
None 
Page 70/78
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
4)  Hepatotoxicity 
5) Cardiac Disorders 
Agreed 
Pharmacovigilance Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
Targeted follow-up with 
reporter through a guided 
questionnaire to collect 
additional information 
related to this risk. 
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP. 
Additional 
None.  
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP.  
Additional  
None 
Important potential risks: 
1) Osteoporosis 
2) Cataract  
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP.  
Additional  
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP.   
Additional: The mechanism 
of cataract formation in the 
rat will be further 
investigated in nonclinical 
studies. 
Agreed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
The SmPC (Sections 4.2 and 4.4) 
has precautions for patients who 
develop hepatotoxicity during 
treatment, including guidance for, 
dose reduction, retreatment, and 
appropriate monitoring 
(measuring serum transaminases 
before and during treatment). In 
addition, patients who develop 
severe hepatotoxicity (ALT 20 
times the ULN) anytime while on 
therapy should be discontinued 
and patients should not be 
retreated (SmPC Section 4.2). 
SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.4, and 4.8 
provide guidance for the 
physician. 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
The SmPC (Section 4.4) has 
precautions for treating patients 
at risk for cardiac issues and 
Section 4.8 has additional 
information for the physician on 
the cardiovascular effects. 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
The SmPC (Section 4.4) and 
Package Leaflet provide 
information to the prescriber and 
patient about the potential for 
decreased bone density that may 
occur in men with mCRPC and 
that the use of abiraterone 
acetate in combination with a 
glucocorticoid could increase this 
effect. 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
None 
Additional 
None 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 71/78
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Safety Concern 
3) Drug-drug interaction 
(CYP2D6) 
4)  Increased exposure 
with food 
Agreed 
Pharmacovigilance Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
Relevant clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP.   
Agreed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
The SmPC (Section 4.5) provides 
recommendations about the use 
of abiraterone acetate with 
medicinal products activated by 
or metabolised by CYP2D6. 
Additional 
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP.   
Additional 
Study 212082PCR2008: A 
Phase 2 open-label study to 
determine short-term safety 
of abiraterone acetate in 
fasting and fed states in 
subjects with mCRPC. 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
The SmPC provide directions for 
taking abiraterone acetate with 
food (SmPC Sections 4.2, 4.5, 
and 5.2).  Additional guidance for 
the patient is provided for in the 
Package Leaflet. The secondary 
packaging provides instructions 
for correct administration. 
Additional 
None 
Important missing information: 
1) Use in patients with 
active or symptomatic 
viral hepatitis 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Additional 
None 
2) Use in patients with 
moderate/severe hepatic 
impairment and chronic 
liver disease 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Additional 
Study 212082PCR1004: A 
single-dose, pharmacokinetic 
trial in non-cancer subjects 
with severe hepatic 
impairment (Child-Pugh 
Class C). 
Routine 
The SmPC states that in clinical 
trials, patients with active or 
symptomatic hepatitis were 
excluded (SmPC Section 4.4) and 
advises that there are no data to 
support use in this patient 
population. 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
The SmPC advises that there are 
no data on the clinical safety of 
abiraterone acetate in patients 
with pre-existing moderate or 
severe hepatic impairment (Child-
Pugh Class B or C) and that no 
dose adjustment can be 
predicted, so abiraterone acetate 
should be avoided in these 
patients (SmPC Section 4.2).  
Therefore, there are no data to 
support use in this patient 
population. 
Additional 
None 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 72/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
Agreed Risk Minimisation 
Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine 
The SmPC states that there is no 
clinical experience in patients with 
prostate cancer and severe renal 
impairment and that caution is 
advised in these patients (SmPC 
Section 4.2). 
Therefore, there are no data to 
support use in this patient 
population. 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
The SmPC contains precautions 
for use in patients with a history 
of cardiovascular disease, as the 
safety of abiraterone acetate in 
patients with left ventricular 
ejection fraction < 50% or NYHA 
Class III or IV heart failure has 
not been established.  Before 
treatment, hypertension must be 
controlled and hypokalaemia 
must be corrected (SmPC 
Section 4.4). 
Additional 
None 
Routine 
The SmPC presents the baseline 
demographics of the COU-AA-301 
trial population (SmPC Section 
5.1). 
Additional 
None 
Safety Concern 
3) Use in patients with 
severe renal impairment 
Agreed 
Pharmacovigilance Activities 
(routine and additional) 
Routine pharmacovigilance.  
Additional 
None 
4) Use in patients with 
heart disease as 
evidenced by myocardial 
infarction, or arterial 
thrombotic events in the 
past 6 months, severe or 
unstable angina, or New 
York Heart Association 
Class III or IV heart 
disease or cardiac 
ejection fraction 
measurement of < 50% 
5) Use in non-white 
patients 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
Additional 
None 
Routine pharmacovigilance. 
All ongoing clinical trial data 
are part of the 
Pharmacovigilance Plan, 
including long-term trial 
extensions and the EAP (with 
a focus on trials enrolling 
non-white subjects such as 
the trials in Asia).   
Additional 
COU-AA-301; COU-00-302 
and 212082PCR3001: An 
integrated analysis of the 
safety data from these trials 
will be performed. 
The  CHMP,  having  considered  the  data  submitted,  was  of  the  opinion  that  the  below 
pharmacovigilance  activities  in  addition  to  the  use  of  routine  pharmacovigilance  are  needed  to 
investigate further some of the safety concerns:  
Table 27: Additional pharmacovigilance activities 
Description 
Due date 
The mechanism of cataract formation in the rat will be further investigated in the 
2Q 2013 (rat) 
ongoing 2-year rat carcinogenicity study and in a 6-month carcinogenicity study 
3Q/4Q 2012 
in the transgenic Tg.rasH2 mouse. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
(mouse) 
Page 73/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Description 
Due date 
Study 212082PCR2008; A Phase 2 open-label study to determine short-term 
28/02/2014 
safety of abiraterone acetate in fasting and fed states in subjects with mCRPC 
Study 212082PCR1004: A single-dose, pharmacokinetic trial in non-cancer 
30/04/2014 
subjects with severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Class C). 
COU-AA-301; COU-00-302 and 212082PCR3001: An integrated analysis of the 
3Q/2012 
safety data from these trials will be performed. 
No  additional  risk  minimisation  activities  were  required  beyond  those  included  in  the  product 
information. 
2.8.  User consultation 
The results of the user consultation with target  patient groups  on the package leaflet submitted by 
the  applicant  show  that  the  package  leaflet  meets  the  criteria  for  readability  as  set  out  in  the 
Guideline on the readability of the label and package leaflet of medicinal products for human use. 
3.  Benefit-Risk Balance  
Benefits 
Beneficial effects 
One pivotal trial was submitted in support of the efficacy of abiraterone acetate in combination with 
concomitant low dose glucocorticoid therapy in patients with advanced metastatic castrate refractory 
prostate  cancer  (mCRPC)  in  a  population  that  had  previously  failed  to  1  or  2  docetaxel-based 
regimens.  Median overall survival was 14.8 months in the abiraterone group and 10.9 months in the 
placebo  group.    There  was  a  33%  relative  improvement  in  12-month  survival  rate  (60%  in  the 
abiraterone  acetate  group  versus  45%  in  the  placebo  group).    The  study  met  therefore  its  primary 
endpoint at the pre-specified significance level (0.0141) required to cross the efficacy boundary for 
the  interim  analysis  at  the  clinical  cut-off  (22  January  2010).  Treatment  with  abiraterone  acetate 
decreased  the  risk  of  death  by  35%  compared  with  placebo  (HR=0.646;  95%  CI:  0.543,  0.768; 
p<0.0001).    The  benefit  in  survival  was  confirmed  in  an  updated  analysis  (cutoff  of  20  September 
2010, HR=0.740; 95%CI: 0.638, 0.859; p<0.0001), showing a median survival of 15.8 months for 
the AA group versus 11.2 months for the placebo  group.  Treatment effect  on OS was robust after 
adjustment  for  stratification  factors  in  multivariate  analysis  and  was  consistently  favourable  across 
all  subgroups  (ECOG,  pain  score,  prior  lines  of  chemotherapy,  type  of  progression,  age,  visceral 
disease, baseline PSA, LDH or alkaline phosphatase, and geographical region).  
This  effect  was  further  substantiated  by  results  in  the  pre-specified  secondary  efficacy  endpoints: 
time  to  biochemical  or  radiological  disease  progression  was  significantly  increased,  such  as  time  to 
PSA progression [10.2 months versus  6.6 months in controls, HR=0.58, p<0.0001] or radiographic 
progression-free  survival  [5.6  months  versus  3.6  months  in  controls,  HR=0.673,  p<0.0001].    PSA 
response  rate  was  significantly  greater  in  abiraterone  treated  patients  compared  to  the  placebo 
group  (38%  versus  10%,  p<0.0001),  also  when  only  confirmed  PSA  responses  were  considered 
(29% versus 6%, p<0.0001), as was objective response rate in the subset of patients with baseline 
measurable disease (14% versus 3%, p<0.0001).  Finally, symptom-related endpoints, such as pain 
palliation, time to pain progression, skeletal-related events, and quality of life scores also tended to 
favour abiraterone-treated patients over placebo-control ones. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 74/78
 
 
 
 
 
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the beneficial effects 
One limitation is the limited number of non-Caucasian patients in the pivotal clinical trial. Moreover, 
patients  having  received  prior  ketoconazol  therapy were  excluded  from  the  study.    Both  issues  are 
considered relevant information for prescribers which was reflected in the SmPC. Moreover, the lack 
of data in non-white patients is important missing information reflected in the RMP. 
Risks 
Unfavourable effects 
The  most  frequently  reported  AEs  reported  in  the  pivotal  trial  were  fatigue  (44%  and  43%  in  the 
abiraterone  acetate  and  placebo  groups,  respectively),  back  pain  (30%  and  33%,  respectively), 
nausea  (30%  and  32%,  respectively),  and  constipation  (26%  and  31%,  respectively),  consistent 
with  the  natural  history  of  mCRPC.  In  the  overall  abiraterone  acetate  group,  the  most  frequently 
reported  AEs  were  fatigue  (44%),  nausea  (28%),  back  pain  (27%),  and  arthralgia  and  edema 
peripheral (26%). 
The  most  common  adverse  drug  reactions  observed  in  the  overall  abiraterone  acetate  group 
(n=1,070)  were  peripheral  edema,  hypokalemia,  urinary  tract  infection,  and  hypertension.  
Consistent  with  the  pharmacologic  mechanism  of  action  of  abiraterone,  mineralocorticoid-related 
toxicities  (based  on  the  SMQ  grouping)  such  as  fluid  retention/edema  (31%  versus  22%), 
hypokalemia (17% versus 8%), and hypertension (10% versus 8%) were observed more frequently 
for patients treated with abiraterone acetate. Co-administration of prednisone from the beginning of 
treatment  and  frequent  electrolyte  monitoring  in  Study  COU-AA-301  appeared  to  decrease  the 
incidence  and  severity  of  the  AEs  related  to  mineralocorticoid  excess  compared  with  some  of  the 
early stage studies which did not include the uniform administration of low-dose glucocorticosteroids. 
Most  of  these  events  were  Grade  1  or  2,  non-SAEs  (1%  or  less  for  each  term,  respectively),  and 
infrequently  interfered  with  abiraterone  acetate  treatment,  as  evidenced  by  low  rates  of  dose 
modifications/reductions, treatment discontinuations or deaths due to any of the 3 terms (1% or less 
for each term, respectively).  
In addition to the expected AEs due to increased mineralocorticoid activity, the following key safety 
risks have been identified:  
The incidence of cardiac events was slightly higher in the abiraterone acetate and prednisone group 
with no differences in the rates of cardiac-related death (<1% of patients in each group).  
There is a risk for increased urinary infections. 
Finally, there was an increase for hepatotoxic events in relation to treatment with abiraterone (10% 
vs 8% in AA and placebo, respectively).  Increments in hepatic enzymes occurring during treatment 
were  managed  with  careful  laboratory  monitoring,  treatment  interruptions  and  retreatment  only 
after  return  of  the  LFTs  to  baseline  or  Grade  1.    Although  no  patients  treated  with  abiraterone 
acetate were identified as having met all Hy’s Law criteria, 2 cases of drug-induced liver injury were 
identified;  1  in  the  pivotal  study  and  1  in  the  early  stage  study,  COU-AA-003.  Hepatotoxicity  is 
considered an identified risk for abiraterone therapy.  
Uncertainty in the knowledge about the unfavourable effects 
Overall  the  unfavourable  effects  were  predictable  and  in  keeping  with  the  mechanism  of  action  of 
abiraterone (mineralocorticoid excess) or the nature of the disease. However, the role of abiraterone 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 75/78
 
 
 
 
in  hepatotoxicity  is  not  fully  understood.  Increases  in  hepatic  enzymes  were  observed  during 
treatment with abiraterone and 2 patients (1 patient in the pivotal Study COU-AA-301 and 1 patient 
in  Phase  2  Study  COU-AA-003)  were  identified  as  potentially  having  met  Hy’s  Law  criteria.  Routine 
and  additional  pharmacovigilance  activities  (see  Table  27  above)  are  expected  to  provide  further 
insight into the role of abiraterone in hepatotoxicity.  
The potential risk for drug-drug interactions is not fully elucidated. In particular, the possible effect 
of  CYP3A4  inducers  leading  to  a  possible  decrease  of  effect  of  abiraterone  due  to  enhanced 
elimination  is  possible.  Ongoing  interaction  studies  with  inducers  and  inhibitors  of  CYP3A4  will 
elucidate the effect of CYP3A4 inhibition and especially of CYP3A4 induction on the pharmacokinetics 
of abiraterone. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Importance of favourable and unfavourable effects  
Treatment  with  abiraterone  showed  an  improvement  in  the  median  overall  survival  in  a  population 
with  very  few  therapeutic  alternatives.  Results  in  key  secondary  endpoints  supported  the  observed 
improvement  in  overall  survival  and  measures  of  functional  status  and  symptom-related  endpoints 
also tended to favour abiraterone-treated patients over placebo-control ones. Abiraterone showed a 
clear  antitumour  effect  in  patients  with  advanced  mCRPC  that  have  failed  prior  docetaxel  therapy.  
The results are considered to be mature, robust, consistent, and of clinical relevance.  
The  safety  profile  is  considered  acceptable  and  generally  manageable  with  basic  medical 
interventions  (oral  potassium  supplements,  diuretics  and  antihypertensive  medication).    Toxicities 
were  generally  mild,  and  resulted  in  infrequent  discontinuations.  In  this  regard  it  should  be  noted 
that  the  safety  profile  of  abiraterone  acetate  is  distinct  from  that  typically  induced  by  conventional 
cytotoxic  agents,  frequently  associated  with  AEs  that  are  potentially  dose-limiting,  debilitating, 
cumulative,  or  life-threatening.    Indeed,  AEs  such  as  hypertension  or  hypokalemia  are  generally 
asymptomatic,  and  although  fluid  retention/edema  or  urinary  tract  infections  may  be  more 
disturbing to the patient, abiraterone does not induce toxicities such as myelosuppression, diarrhoea, 
mucositis,  asthenia,  alopecia,  etc,  which  may  not  only  be  associated  with  higher  risks  of  severe 
medical complications including death, but often have a major impact on the patient’s quality of life, 
which is particularly relevant in the context of non-curative therapy for an end-stage disease. 
Benefit-risk balance 
Overall,  the  efficacy  of  abiraterone  has  been  demonstrated.  The  fact  that  this  is  an  orally 
administered  medicine  is  considered  an  additional  advantage  for  this  clinical  setting.  The  adverse 
event  profile  is  expected  according  to  the  mechanism  of  action  of  abiraterone  and  generally 
manageable with basic medical interventions.  
Discussion on the benefit-risk balance 
The  benefit-risk  balance  for  abiraterone  in  combination  with  prednisone  or  prednisolone  for  the 
treatment  of  metastatic  advanced  prostate  cancer  (castration  resistant  prostate  cancer)  in  adult 
patients  whose  disease  has  progressed  on  or  after  a  docetaxel-based  chemotherapy  regimen  is 
considered  positive.  The  favourable  effects  outweigh  the  negative  effects  and  Zytiga  is  expected  to 
be of major public health interest due to the poor prognosis of the target population that represents 
a  high  unmet  medical  need,  while  the  novel  mechanism  of  abiraterone  may  offer  an  alternative 
therapeutic option for this patient population. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 76/78
 
 
 
 
4.  Recommendations 
Outcome 
Based on the CHMP review of data on quality, safety and efficacy, the CHMP considers by consensus 
that the risk-benefit balance of Zytiga in combination prednisone or prednisolone in the treatment of 
metastatic  castration  resistant  prostate  cancer  in  adult  men  whose  disease  has  progressed  on  or 
after  a  docetaxel-based  chemotherapy  regimen  is  favourable  and  therefore  recommends  the 
granting of the marketing authorisation subject to the following conditions: 
Conditions or restrictions regarding supply and use 
Medicinal product subject to medical prescription 
Conditions and requirements of the Marketing Authorisation  
Risk Management System 
The MAH must ensure that the system of pharmacovigilance, presented in Module 1.8.1 of the 
marketing authorisation, is in place and functioning before and whilst the product is on the market. 
The MAH shall perform the pharmacovigilance activities detailed in the Pharmacovigilance Plan, as 
agreed in version 1.4 of the Risk Management Plan (RMP) presented in Module 1.8.2 of the 
marketing authorisation and any subsequent updates of the RMP agreed by the CHMP. 
As per the CHMP Guideline on Risk Management Systems for medicinal products for human use, the 
updated RMP should be submitted at the same time as the next Periodic Safety Update Report 
(PSUR). 
In addition, an updated RMP should be submitted: 
  When new information is received that may impact on the current Safety Specification, 
Pharmacovigilance Plan or risk minimisation activities 
  Within 60 days of an important (pharmacovigilance or risk minimisation) milestone being reached  
  at the request of the EMA 
New Active Substance Status 
Based on the CHMP review of data on the quality, non-clinical and clinical properties of the active 
substance and the fact that it is not authorised as a medicinal product within the European Union nor 
is it a salt, complex, isomer or mixture of isomers, or a derivative of an authorised substance, the 
CHMP considers that abiraterone acetate is to be qualified as a new active substance.  
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 77/78
 
 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
Attard  G  (2008),  Reid  AHM,  Yap  TA,  et  al.  Phase  I  clinical  trial  of  a  selective  inhibitor  of  CYP17, 
abiraterone acetate, confirms that castration-resistant prostate cancer commonly remains hormone 
driven. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:4563-4571 
Attard G (2009), Reid AHM, A’Hern R, et al. Selective inhibition of CYP17 with abiraterone acetate is 
highly active in the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol. 2009. 27:3742-
3748. 
Barrie  SE,  Potter  GA,  Goddard  PM,  Haynes  BP,  Dowsett  M,  Jarman  M.  Pharmacology  of  novel 
steroidal  inhibitors  of  cytochrome  P450  17(cid:31)(17(cid:31)-hydroxylase/C17-20  lyase).  J  Steroid  Biochem 
Mol Biol, 1994. 50: 267-273. 
Duc I, Bonnet P, Duranti V, Cardinali S, Riviere A, De Giovanni A, et al.. In vitro and in vivo models 
for the evaluation of potent inhibitors of male rat 17α-hydroxylase/C17,20-lyase. J Steroid Biochem 
Mol Biol, 2003. 84(5): 537-542. 
Haidar  S,  Ehmer  PB,  Barassin  S,  Batzl-Hartmann  C,  Hartmann  RW.  Effects  of  novel  17α-
hydroxylase/C17,  20-lyase  (P450  17,  CYP  17)  inhibitors  on  androgen  biosynthesis  in  vitro  and  in 
vivo. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol, 2003. 84(5): 555-562. 
Haidar  S,  Ehmer  PB,  Hartmann  RW.  Novel  steroidal  pyrimidyl  inhibitors  of  P450  17  (17α-
hydroxylase/C17-20-lyase). Arch Pharm (Weinheim), 2001. 334(12): 373-374. 
Jarman M, Barrie SE, Llera JM, The 16,17-double bond is needed for irreversible inhibition of human 
cytochrome  p45017  by  abiraterone  (17-(3-pyridyl)androsta-5,  16-dien-3beta-ol)  and  related 
steroidal inhibitors. J Med Chem, 1998. 41(27): 5375-5381. 
Montgomery  RB,  Mostaghel  E,  Nelson  P,  Nguyen  H,  Vessella  R.  Abiraterone  suppresses  castration 
resistant  human  prostate  cancer  growth  in  the  absence  of  testicular  and  adrenal  androgens. 
Advances in Prostate Cancer Research, San Diego, California (Jan 21-24, 2009). 
Potter  GA,  Barrie  SE,  Jarman  M,  Rowlands  MG  Novel  steroidal  inhibitors  of  human  cytochrome 
P45017α  (17α-hydroxylase-C17,20-lyase):  potential  agents  for  the  treatment  of  prosatic  cancer.  J. 
Med. Chem. 1995. 38: 2463-2471. 
Zytiga 
CHMP assessment report  
Page 78/78
 
 
 
 
 
